this is news.
these are the latest headlines in the and around the world.
british tourists are to be banned from france.
from saturday, only french citizens or british people who live there will be allowed to enter the country and they’ll have to isolate for at least 48 hours.
but hauliers are exempt.
the prime minister calls for people to "socialise carefully" this christmas, due to the threat from the new omicron variant, after covid cases hit a record high yesterday.
if you think about getting a year’s worth of rain over a month, then you’re going to get flooding and potentially severe flooding, no matter how much you’ve shored up your defences, and that’s the concern here.
as the virus continues to spread, business groups ask for more government help as customers cancel bookings.
five children have died and four others are injured after falling from a bouncy castle that was blown into the air in australia.
and, in the ashes, england under pressure as australia start well in the second test.
or around the world.
british tourists are being banned from france as the country tries to slow the spread of omicron.
from saturday, only french citizens, british people who live in france — or those visiting family — will be allowed to enter if they’re coming from the .
they will have to provide a negative covid test which is less than 2a hours old.
it comes as the prime minister and england’s chief medical officer warn people to think carefully before going to pubs and restaurants this christmas.
the warnings come as the recorded more than 78,000 new infections yesterday — the highest figure since the start of the pandemic.
the hospitality and entertainment industries are calling on the treasury for fresh financial support, with many businesses saying the advice is extremely worrying because they rely on revenue from the festive period to cover quieter spells in the new year.
many schools across the have said they are prepared to switch to online learning if they have to next term, as more children stay at home because of covid.
we’ll have more on those stories throughout the next hour and we’ll be hearing from england’s chief medical officer professor chris whitty — who will be giving evidence to in the next half an hour.
but, first, on those new measures introduced by france.
here’s hugh schofield, our paris correspondent, on what the new restrictions for travellers mean.
there are going to be much tighter restrictions from saturday, first thing saturday, midnight friday into saturday and they cover two things.
one, restrictions on who can come into france and there is a long list, which we have seen before, of what constitutes an essential travel and nonessential travel.
basically, if you are going just for fun, to see the sights, you can’t, and not for work either, unless it is very compelling and if you are a french national, you can come, if you are resident in france, you can come but you will have to prove all of this with the authorities, you have to register on a website before you come over.
so that is one side.
the other side is then that the testing is being ramped up.
you will have to have a test done within 2a hours, or less than 2a hours before you come.
that can be a lateral flow test or a test.
and, then, when you come, you will have to self isolate at an address that you give to the authorities on this
but you can test yourself after 48 hours and, if you are negative, you are free to move about, otherwise you will have to stay isolating for seven days.
and it looks like the french are going to be quite strict about enforcing that quarantine because, in the past, they have often said it is a sort of voluntary quarantine, implying they won’t really check up on it but it looks like they will check up on this one so in a way a mirror on what is happening in britain, if you’re going from britain to france, it is quite similar, you have to isolate for 48 hours and if you test negative, you can move so a big ramping up of the restrictions.
our paris correspondent with the latest on those restrictions.
let’s bout the situation here in the with iain watson.
we were hearing subtly different messages esterday from the prime minister from england ‘s chief medical rofessor chris whitty.
we were, you subtle
and i think it was said subtla
and i think it was stark, to be honest, in terms of .
the prime minister was talking the national with boosters, hris whitty was saying don’t mix ess you ave to before christmas, talking about people having to oritise they socialise with.
i guess it is not a matter of icial government guidance, tainly no official restrictions is making people think, if want to your family for example, over christmas, do you alise with your friends first or it put you at risk of catching virus that is rampaging through untry, doubling every couple days.
we have already had a ord number of covid cases, he alked about one pandemic above the r, deltas still in circulation, on over and above that, so the message was pretty bleak from chris y, he aid everything he knew about micron was bad.
the prime ister suggesting caution but not gesting people had to cancel all their plans, was the tale of their plans, so it was the talc of two press conferences last night.
ing is now people are having to deal the real—life consequences, so i ran into an empty way into westminster this orning he was telling me one pany in his constituency have ncelled, or had had 70% of its ookings elled in the run—up to bookings ancellad in the mn-up to christmas, s, businesses are crying out pport.
the hospitality ndustry, the group representing uggesting takings could be down by as much as 40% and in about an hour, are going to half an hour, labour are going to to, if you like, reflect that in commons, they have asked mood in the commons, they have asked for an urgent question, a device to overnment minister to answer any given topic and they are king about increasing business ort.
that said, the treasury are aying, look, there is support in for business.
for example, in ospitality and tourism, they play a -- they ay a lower rate of lower -- they pay a lower rate of until next spring, some are ibla for business rates relief as well, so they are suggesting they abandoning the field and there are some things in place at oment
but, nonetheless, there re going to be demands to ratchet up and labour of course hoping tart ositioning themselves as a arty business and hoping to ploit the fact that the chancellor of the country, in alifornia, perhaps a legitimate for him to do but if the dvice is coming in on people to be utious up to istmas, if it has cautious up to christmas, if it has a knock-on effect on hospitality in cular, abour re going to be mnning a particular, labour are going to be running a campaign i think on the few days ling on the next few days calling on the chancellor to come home and come up ore cash.
and if omicron with more rash.
and if omicron surges, as everyone is predicting it to do, there is likely to more pressure on the prime ister for more strictions and, vet.
—— ad more estrictions.
that’s ight, it was a big and broad bellion and people feel not only prime minister lost some authority, but also he is reluctant in any other restrictions and risk another rebellion and her spectacle of a divided another spectada of a divided party- .
he has said he will recall iament if re restrictions are partiament if more restrictions are needed and certainly circulating in hall, there are some pretty scary projections about the number ple who could end up in of peopla who could end up in hospital early in january and chris was lking about, as whitty was talking about, as infections continue to tumble, aps the real pressure is coming ust after christmas so the question ecall can’t be entirely ruled out but ere are other weapons and government’s armoury and boris hnson ouldn’t even go there sterday, he could, for xample, do what nicola sturgeon, minister of scotland has done, issue guidance about how salt example, which is a bit stronger just advice -- guidance than just advice -- my guidance about household mixing.
iain watson, litical correspondent.
andrew hayward is a professor of infectious disease epidemiology and inclusion health research at university college london.
he explained what yesterday’s record—breaking case numbers could mean for people over the next few weeks.
if you think about 75,000 positive tests yesterday, that’s probably only about half, or maybe even fewer people who do have covid ever get tested, so maybe that’s about 150,000 people or more with the infection and we know that that’s doubling approximately every two days, so, in two days’ time, it would be 150,000.
four days, 300,000.
1.
2 million, if it carries on doubling at that same rate, so you can see from that maths that this is an extraordinary number of cases on our way, because the strain is so highly transmissible and it escapes, certainly, immunity related to just the two doses, much better with three doses, so that’s going to lead to a huge wave of infection and the way i think of it is like, really, if you think about getting a year’s worth of rain over a month, then you are going to get flooding and potentially severe flooding, no matter how much you’ve shored up your defences and that’s the concern here, that that huge wave is going to cause lots of people to be off work, having to isolate, which is going to cause disruption and it’s also going to cause, it’s going to spillover into people going into hospital.
now, the rate at which it spills over is uncertain because we don’t know exactly how severe it is yet, but we’ve no particular reason to think it’s less severe than previous strains.
we know that covid is always going to be less severe if you’ve been immunised, but it may be that, rather than the strain itself, that’s making a lot of cases look less severe.
in a moment, we are going to be speaking to professor tim spector from king’s college london, who helped found the covid app which helps gather research on the spread of the virus as well as its symptoms, but first let’s take a quick look at the latest data from .
the covid data team estimated there are currently 87,131 new cases of covid in the .
meanwhile, in the official government data, a further 78,610 new cases were confirmed in the latest data.
currently have covid.
and we can speak to professor tim spector now.
well, what is your view and your insight on what omicron in ticular is doing at the moment.
ll, to look at what omicron is ng, it is best to look regionally and the people reporting on the app in london and the south—east been iving us fascinating nformation and if anyone out there downloaded the app, please do so now and help us look, like we did first wave, to see what is oing on but we now know the jority of cases in london are now icron and so, by looking at the ptoms of people in london of peopla in london compared to other regions, we get an what is happening and what are seeing is not only the rates up very fast and people going up very fast and peopla getting infected generally two days a contact, rather than, after a contact, rather than, previously with delta, four or five we are seeing predominately days, we are seeing predominately cold like in people who een vaccinated or triple accinated.
so the majority of pla who are testing positive only ave cold like symptoms, so adaches, sore throats, runny nose, neezing and gue and a minority now have the old classic symptoms.
people we are seeing are tting cold ike mptoms which can be mild an actually be quite evere
but no one has actually had far reporting to us lasting ore than about five days, although not seeing older people, we are not seeing people who haven’t by vaccinated, because they are minority of people reporting on pp.
but it a really our app.
but it is a really infectious blood, we ask people to reports of big outbreaks or parties they have been too and we’ve veral of these where people attended parties of 20 or 30 people, aving lateral flow tests all having done lateral ﬂow tests before hand and three quarters of have ended up with proven icron afterwards, so it is really to control this.
so i think hat we need to have is a new way of ling with this, the time scale at it happens, we don’t have much warning, test and trace doesn’t , we knew —— do need to get the word out out symptoms, avoiding yone who has cold like symptoms, is highly likely to be omicron depending on where you live and you are and make sure the where you are and make sure the lateral flow test is really close to you are ting people, because when you are meeting people, because you may well have caught it in the erim that is what is causing ese problems.
and it sounds like our data bears out what we have heard from south africa, which incredibly transmissible but the tend to be milder.
hearing from chris whitty esterday, , the are ild but don’t be complacent because are going to be so many more ases that at will still mean lots hospitalisations.
yes, it means ews for the individual and bad news for the country and that is, in you know, it is too early to a way, you know, it is too earty to know the exact percentage of people re going to go to hospital that are going to go to hospital potentially have a long covert as , which we mustn’t forget, we on’t talk about that much —— long id, but hese are all problems of having a spread infection, it is not just like a because that all proportion will get severe lness but so far, of the reports have been getting, we haven’t any hospitalisations based on a housand of our early reporters, few thousand of our earty reporters, but we will know much more about next week.
there has been a lot talk throughout this pandemic , as it goes on, coronavirus becomes milder, we learn to live it, it becomes more like a cold.
and, as it mutates.
do you this omicron is perhaps part of that pattern, part of that ess?
i think it probably is
and i think we have seen a very slow t, because it was looking like elta was behaving a bit like this way, so we are not seeing dramatic shifts from delta
but i don’t think many people had an app ours at was recording in such like ours that was recording in such detail the of most people re vaccinated, so given that the majority of the population ccinated, this milder reaction to it is quite logical, so we are all hoping that it continues to get milder
and we just buy ourselves time until it ets into an equilibrium and, you w, relatively few people are affected by it.
tim, it is ways good to get your insights, ank you so much for giving us your e.
tracker which is live now and will help you find out how your local services are coping on the website.
the tracker will run throughout winter and will show you the latest data on waits for emergency treatment where you live.
business groups in the are increasing pressure on the government to help firms suffering from the rise in covid cases — which has led to cancelled bookings.
the , which represents british businesses, urged ministers to provide support "in lockstep with future restrictions", and hospitality has called for business rates to be deferred and discounts extended.
the government has so far declined to offer further support for business.
joining me now is rain newton—smith, chief economist at the .
thank you very much indeed for being with us and i suppose the fear for businesses, whether it is a ub, a restaurant, theatres, there a lockdown but people are just isn’t a lockdown but peopla are just cancelling, so almost the effect is me?
yes, there has been a huge mpact on businesses so far, from ellad bookings in restaurants oo, of course, the aviation sector, been hit by some of the really been hit by some of the restrictions on flying and, then, it an portant time for is such an important time for gymnasiums and leisure centres, when re looking for people to renew heir annual memberships and so many are working from home now, so here is a real impact on businesses moment
and i think what we at the moment
and i think what we are falling on the government to do now, to get some of the money they have already set aside to businesses through the risis, really get that money at the but also be clear now that, if these restrictions continue beyond ry, that hey will stand ready january, that they will stand ready to support cash flow in some of the eally cted businesses and really affected businesses and sectors.
i suppose that is the t, which are the business point, which are the business sectors?
because it is going to be hy.
isn’t it?
it is not like a lockdown where all businesses are ted in exactly the same way.
hat’s right
and i think one of the they ran that is to really have ways they can do that is to really have that open communication with businesses across sectors
and i think we do have to recognise, and in a really different space where we have been previously this crisis, we are not looking same widespread support that we saw in the past that had been so rtant in keeping people in a injobs and eping businesses open.
what sinesses are saying is let’s use of the tools at our disposal, testing, the boosters, to keep ings as open as possible.
that is and foremost, they want to be to trade their way through the test crisis we are facing.
but, condly, be ready to support cash in ome of the really hard hit ctors.
some of the big loan chemes, companies have to start ing those back in march, but we ow, in aviation, in hospitality, me of these sectors are going to reeling still from this crisis.
will emerge from it
but they need have the safety valve that they n’t have to repay some of those ans right away and look to extend of the business rates relief, ust to provide more breathing space hose businesses that are really hard-hit what we are seeing now what might see in the coming eks.
it must have been a real cker punch, omicron, for many sinesses, who thought perhaps they starting to see the back of the ndemic, starting to see a ecovery, starting to see their inesses return to something like ormality and, then, it has all come ing down again.
yes, it has been sort of heartbreaking for some esses and, you know, you see it from, you know, iwas shop yesterday and people serving you re so sperate to be out there ewing rving customers and spreading good in he christmas period
but, cheer in the christmas period but, understandably, they are just not the footfall at the moment i was speaking to a tour operator who said last summer was really difficult, ere able to start bringing in some revenue but there were still a lot of restrictions, so they ere really looking forward to this stmas period, the all—important uary oment where people look head to summer and start booking their mmer holidays and so think it eally important as well, and this builds on what tim ter was saying, we need to learn to live with this virus and we need derstand that the economy will able to reopen and businesses recover but we need to make ure that we have to support to that bridge to the other side that we give individuals the fidence that we are facing a eriod where we need to be more tious, but it is important we ave the businesses there to support we emerge from this latest us as we emerge from this latest wave and we learn to live with the being around us and use the tools from boosters and testing to make it practical for us to really make it practical for us to do that.
thank you very much indeed lking to up.
us and we are just getting some breaking news, actually, from ula one, which is that mercedes not appeal against the outcome of last sunday’s season—ending abu grand prix.
max verstappen, red bull, is formula one world ampion officially, there is no ubt about it because mercedes are appealing inst what happened.
not appealing against what happened.
24-year-old max verstappen of course he itle last weekend after took the title last weekend after overtaking the mercedes seven times champion lewis hamilton, now world champion lewis hamilton, now sir lewis hamilton, on the last of the race up to the safety period.
the driver max erstappen is ing to collect his verstappen is going to collact his trophy in paris on thursday, so edes announcing that they are withdrawing their appeal against a rstappen’s title.
five children have died and five others are injured after falling from a bouncy castle that was blown more than 30 feet into the air in australia.
police said two girls and two boys died at the scene and another died in hospital later, with five others in a critical condition following the incident, which took place during an end—of—year party in devonport, in tasmania.
the australian prime minister, scott morrison, said it was "heartbreaking".
the events that have occurred today in devonport, in tasmania, are just ering.
they are just unthinkably heartbreaking and young ren, on a fun day out together children, on a fun day out together with their families, and it turns to orrific tragedy, at this time of year.
it just eaks your heart.
ott morrison, the australian prime ister.
our correspondent shaima khalil is in sydney.
she has more on the investigation that will now follow.
really, questions are being asked, of course, about how this happened, what was anchoring that bouncy castle to the ground, it was lifted as high it has?
also the weather conditions of the day, we haven’t heard that they were extraordinary conditions or dangerous conditions, they were fine until that gust of wind lifted the bouncy castle in the air.
we also heard from the tasmanian authorities, of course, who say, with that happening, the focus is going to be on the families of course of those children, on the school community and on the first responders who were first on the scene and had seen this tragedy happen in the primary school.
president biden has been visiting kentucky to see the damage caused by a series of deadly tornadoes.
7a—people were killed and more than 120 people are still missing.
some communities hit by the storms will need to be completely rebuilt, as nomia iqbal reports.
this is one of the poorest towns in the state.
it has been left in apocalyptic ruins.
many people are now wondering what’s next.
officials say 75% of the town has been destroyed.
president biden came to see the damage for himself.
the scope and scale of this destruction is almost beyond belief.
when you look around here, it’s just almost beyond belief.
these tornadoes devour everything in their path.
president biden has signed signed an emergency declaration for the state.
it will provide funds for the emergency management agency, known as fema, to help with search and rescue, and provide food, water and generators.
but many in this town have been relying on strangers for support.
sally has managed to find her wedding ring and pictures of her children.
she’s trying to clear up as much as she can ahead of another storm that’s being forecast.
we’ve recovered more, i think, than we first thought, because at first, itjust looked like a big pile of rubble.
but as you dig through you are able to find some things, and we have found some things that are very important to us, which makes me happier.
when you think everything is gone it’s quite heartbreaking.
some people say they want more than just their neighbours helping.
i went to a shelter earlier, and some volunteers there, who didn’t want to speak to me on camera, claimed the government response by fema has been really slow.
they also say they hope the president isn’t just here for a photo op.
the president has also visited the town of mayfield, an hour away.
kentucky is a republican state.
how he and his democratic administration respond to the disaster will be scrutinised by conservatives, the very people he is trying to reach.
nomia iqbal, news, kentucky.
tens of thousands of people in the philippines are sheltering from super—typhoon rai, which has begun battering the southern island of siargo.
winds of more than 165kph are expected, along with heavy rain.
90,000 people have headed for emergency shelters, and schools in the storm’s expected path have been closed.
the red cross says it’s threatening to hit coastal communities like "a freight train".
let’s return new to omicron and the concern caused by the rise in cases.
in response, england’s chief medical officer professor chris whitty has urged people to be cautious when socialising.
he’s due to answer questions from shortly.
our health correspondent nick triggle is here.
m: we heard from chris whitty yesterday, england’s chief medical er, a warning to people over the holiday to be very the holiday period to be very careful and to prioritise who they lise with.
indeed, that was in response to the rising number of s, nearty 9,000 infections cases, nearly 79,000 infections confirmed yesterday, that is the est since the pandemic began, though i must say we didn’t have, lly, any testing in place during at first wave so it is unclear how cases got then.
but the message clear, ause we are facing, he was quite honest, we are going to he numbers rise and rise in the oming days and, of course, people do me into contact and test positive, they will then have to ate over the christmas period if hey test positive for no one so the sage was think about the social tacts you have an prioritise those that are important.
and i think we are going to hear a lot of messaging we have heard in otland, nicola sturgeon saying mit your contacts to three seholds and it is all about trying to educe some of the spread micron so people can enjoy christmas and also relieve some of essure on the that this coming wave is bound to bring.
we will hear more about the coming way hris whitty
but we were just from chris whitty
but we were just talking about this to professor tim or from ing’s ollege, spector from king’s collage, who the app, and he was saying do seem generally, as uth africa showed, relatively d.
but chris whitty’s point terday downing street was, yes, are mild but there is to be such a huge wave that it is still going to mean a lot of italisations.
indeed, there is till a lot of uncertainty over her
it is causing milder illness.
there is a certain degree in this, because of logic in this, because infections, re—infections and ctions after vaccination, are ikely to be milder, but i think is whitty lus my point yesterday as ven if you have a virus, the verity of which is halved, as soon get more than a doubling of es, cases, than the pressure increases.
’s go to the alth and social rare let’s go to the health and social care committee, jeremy hunt is the ir, the mer health secretary chair, the former health secretary and he will be hearing from chris ty.
thank you very much for joining us at a busy period.
let’s start right ith chris whitty.
i want to away with chris whitty.
i want to give you a chance to elaborate on you said yesterday.
you said we ould prioritise social events that and de—prioritise more ivial nes.
in practical terms, uld you explain what you meant it comes to people thinking bout about their plans for christmas?
i hope what i said was reasonably
but i will phrase it differently and see if that helps.
i think everybody can see this is ing very and is highly moving very fast and is highly transmissible and the rates are to continue to go up.
it is a period of the year when lots of have got things that really atter to them family —wise and parts of eir life, my point other parts of their life, my point was, and i hope i can reiterate s, people to protect the time that is most important to them at does therefore mean in ractice it is sensible for people down on work or other nteractions with people, tentially social ones that are portant to them, they reduce their chances of catching covid—19 ssing it n.
iwould not and passing it on.
iwould not want to say to people to do a particular ng, they uld do this or that, thing, they should do this or that, it is about saying that this is a to prioritise.
that was also he message from the prime minister.
more specific, the doctor sterday advised people not to go football matches if it was to football.
do you agree with t?
she was saying that if you to a stadium it is an opportunity to have a booster.
that ssage we want to get out to is a message we want to get out to people.
obviously, we want to back to a tuation where we are on a more normal track, the life through the booster rogramme.
she was saying we are ning up stadiums over this ekend for booster, that there is a tive message from someone eavily embedded in the booster gramme, if that means going to a adium, that should be the iority.
you are not advising opla not to go to football matches?
i am advising people to oritise, if tball is the most prioritise, if football is the most important thing, that is a priority em, that is the point i was eting.
prioritise what matters to - , if you wish to do those things, wish to do so and not end self isolating or not well at a time don’t want to be, you would want to do fewer other things.
if you are planning in the next week to our or five social functions, our advice would be not to go he two or three that matter to you.
that depends anyone who mething that really matters to hem, concentrate on that thing and out from there rather than
ust accepting every invitation i’m ing to bit of work in going to every bit of work in person.
this applies to work ations too.
our team are way down in terms of the numbers coming at is quite right.
most other eams that i know
and that is very ible.
work from home if you tan government guidance and remain .
to be morse’s sapphic on omething at is going along at the oment —— something that is pening a lot the moment, christmas parties, if it is not ntial as compared to spending ime with your mily, or example, then that would be a good thing not to.
i’m trying to avoid and are trying to meet me, i am rying to avoid making people’s ices for them
but i would go on say dearty choices for them
but i would go on to say clearly that people need to ioritise matters to them and prioritise what matters to them and cut down on the things that don’t.
ome person it may be important go to the office party, it is for to make those choices.
that is very dear and helpful.
thank u.
“an i move to more questions bout omicron itself and what we do and what we don’t know.
one of things you talked about that we not yet really have hard data on the extent to which vaccines stop you getting seriously ill.
so far, as i understand it, the studies show quite a lot of vaccine is given after two doses but much lass after a third dose.
“an i ask if those figures elate to antibody rioration and cell deterioration or only antibodies?
are two lines of evidence, the lab site and the clinical.
for all ese, i know you know this, i am oing out for people watching, there hree things we are interested , the ability of the vaccine to people getting infected, the lity to stop people getting evere disease and ending up in pital and the ability to stop eopla dying.
in general, they get ffective as you go up the line.
at the moment on the lab site, different looking a lot of different labs are looking at the antibody data, half of the system, that suggests immune system, that suggests antibody response is much less ctive against this variant than elta and the original wuhan strain.
that does not necessarily is likely to translate into reduced ity to reduce infection and that is what we are seeing.
the clinical are showing that lots of peopla are getting reinfected with ron who previously had been accinated or had a combination of vaccines and natural infection.
it definitely is likely to bypass some ability to reduce infection.
what we do not have is very good cell studies in the same way as they onger to do from the lab site, do not have clinical studies, her rom south africa or the or anywhere that say with confidence what the level of ection of two doses, one dose, doses and a booster dose our own pitalisation and death.
i think people think on the positive de, we also think there will be preserved immunity, particularly on the non—antibody e, cell other site, site, cell and other site, therefore it is likely that someone had one or two vaccines who has had one or two vaccines already will have some protection a booster considerably more protection against hospitalisation ath, even though the protection against infection is less .
inally, on the booster, it good.
finally, on the booster, it looks as though they restore some of ility to actually reduce the ability to actually reduce infection, probably quite a lot of ually, at least for a period time, and so there are multiple ons to get the booster.
it will educe a risk of severity, it will uce the risk of mortality and lmost certainly reduce the risk of mitting and getting sease.
we really want to push the that booster is critical to heirs.
when will we get good on hospitalisation rates and risk ere illness and death?
we will reasonable data from south frica ore the , but that will be for two doses because they n’t got a booster programme in way we have yet.
they will go on the clinical side but there data coming here and i will ask doctor hopkins to talk about because they say they are ading on this.
in terms of the ster that would take longer cause as of two weeks ago, almost ody had a booster and now we have really good levels in the older pulation.
but we haven’t got all way down to the group which is tually being infected by omicron.
susan, do you want to add to what i have said?
we have a series of ies we have planned and the nalysis is ready to run.
what we is eed about know is we need about 250 individuals in hospital before we a severity assessment ran make a severity assessment compared to delta.
also vaccine ctiveness assessment.
we start nning that ssessment when we art having ough cases who had start having enough rases who had been admitted to hospitals and we daily until we have enough arity to determine that the results ffective to allow us to are effective to allow us to basically make assessments to ase.
how many omicron patients do we have in hospital as of today sterday?
15, however, we are nstantly working on data linkage improve that, and we will release numbers this afternoon.
sign the real number will be much gger than that, that is the number are proven.
to give us all a that are proven.
to give us all a timescale, are you to have some able data before christmas or is going to be january before we know he answer to that question?
the earliest for reliable is he week between christmas and new year and probably early uary.
other question, about transmissibility.
there has been a discussion about the doubling lot of discussion about the doubling rate being two days or less.
ously, mathematically, that would mean with an two or three the entire population would be ected.
is that what you expect to appen?
would you expect the bung ling rate to slow down as the nfection progresses?
the doubling will slow down for two reasons, the first is that people are taking ble precautions.
it is clear they are taking sensible precautions at will slow down the doubling rate.
the points we made about ritising, interactions, matter most to you, advise to work from e, all designed to slow it down, he beginning to buy us time to through the booster.
the number ople who have already been nfected and have got immunity from ooster or from icron itself the booster or from omicron itself will mean that the group of people an infect is getting smaller it ran now infect is getting smaller and that will also slow it down and reaches a peak.
what we will with his
and we are seeing it south africa, is that it will credibly fast, even if people are more conscious actions, that ill help slow it down but it is to be very fast and will peak ally fast, my anticipation as it come down faster than previous aks but i can’t say that for sure, is a possibility.
in terms of ere we are going over the next uple of weeks, the rate of ncrease is going to be fairly ressive.
lets talk about the ak.
the london school of medicine ropical medicine expect over he winter months 20 to 30 million ish people will be infected with omicron, ill peak at 600,000 nfections per day around the end of ary, hospitalisations between hree 7000 per day.
is that your ectation as well?
i have to admit am extremely cautious of forward ctions on exponential models.
if the london school, if the problem even a very small change is that even a very small change in the inputs reach to a very big erence in what you get out at he other end, and there are some critical things that we do know.
we obviously do not know level it is going to peak, we not yet know what the effects in of hospitalisations of two of vaccine, prior infection of the booster dose are, and re is still debate about could this be a milder version?
i do not think it is to the point iviality, but all of these are important.
i am very careful, all the way through the not all the way through the pandemic i resisted reaching for ection numbers except a short ime period when it is more reliable ublic domain because i do not think they are reliable and you put enough caveats on them.
look at the numbers we do know, terday was the highest ever daily eported level of infections.
you thought we might end up ecause of the time—lag to spitalisations and deaths, we end up with a record number of ospitalisations at the daily rate ll, we don’t know, but we could that.
the general view is that starts to really struggle if have to cope with more than 000 per day, and the previous peak anuary was 00.
do we have to injanuary was 4500.
do we have to confront the realistic possibility, ikelihood that a500 previous maximum will be exceeded?
there are different parts to theirs.
are talking about huge ncertainty.
i do not want this to as i am saying this will happen, there are a range of ibilities.
the peak of over possibilities.
the peak ofjust over 4500, 4583 to be exact people tted at the absolute peak, it is possible, because it is going to be oncentrated, even if it is milder, because it is concentrated short period of time we could ave a higher number of that going hospital on a single day.
it is ssible, be less, but certainly possible, maybe less, but certainly possible.
it is going to be really entrated in a short period of time very possibly.
there are two ats to that, one of the things at matters to the is how long stay.
people stay in peopla stay.
if peopla stay in hospital for a shorter period use they are protected by prior accination, that means the total ber could still be lower even if he peak number per day is higher.
total number, peak total number patients was just under 40,000, 39,254 to be xact, it could be a her daily 39,251; to be exact, it could be a higher daily rate, but ill or tient rate if there is short ospitalisation.
it could go the way as well.
the number going be lower in i see you, could be lower in i see you, vaccines provide additional ection against severe disease.
should not assume that if we got same number going in the front or, that necessarily translate the same number in intensive e.
we had the previous peak in anuary, what did then was re—controlled by locking down the and brought that number country and that brought that number down.
have you advised the ernment that we need to be doing ore now than we are currently doing to reduce the spread of omicron?
i am going to give a formal answer and more helpful one.
michael the formal advice is what is lished from sage, published from sage, and it is important, there will be a enquiry, the convention is not the secretary of state you would xpected the advice to have expected the advice to ministers as confidential.
what the nment as said, and i think government has said, and i think what we have all said, to make tough economic and social ecisions, there are some really key of information we do not have.
there is a very wide range of ibilities as to where that could °- o, and some of these are very ficult for the indeed and ome are much less so.
we are etting your ormation the whole time.
this has been reviewed by the nment the whole time.
they’ve government the whole time.
therve got a dear plan an of action, which .
which got a clear plan of action, which is which has two strands, working ome all the things to slow from home and all the things to slow things down at the initial stage of swing and the other really ritically is the booster programme.
facts change and it becomes dearer things are heading the wrong ministers are always going to take constant reviews of this.
i really nted to understand in terms of setting expectations, i appreciate you cannot tell as every led conversation you have with detailad conversation you have with the prime minister, in terms of ssing expectations, at the oment, theatre performances, istmas parties, football matches going ahead, but if things tinue to take a turn for the rse, we need to be prepared for to change.
is that what you are aying?
if it looked as if the cine was less effective than we ere expecting, that would be a rial change to arab ministers of iew of the rest going forward.
can add which will happen i add brisk which will happen irrespective, because of the pness of theirs, even if this up in a situation where booster olders to a large degree for a lot eople, this is not an point, lot of peopla simultaneously all ill and be unwell, isolating raring for hers across the our raring for others across the whola economy, so that side of we need to take seriously.
hank you very much.
you have been dear ear that covid—19 will be with us or a long time, if not for r.
in the event of more variants concern, is that your view that ill have to continue to live reduced social contact, the ioritisation for years to come?
way i see this over a long time riod, five years, that is a critical question you have asked.
if i project forward, i would icipate in a number of years, ossibly 8 months, possibly less or ore, that ill have polyvalent more, that we will have polyvalant vaccines that cover a wider range will have several antivirals, ad two reasonable ones, and the ariety of other countermeasures mean that the great majority probably almost all of the heavy ing when you get a new variant unless it is extremely different, made by medical means because he the vaccines have a coverage and the antivirus recovers the slack.
we have come from a place where we had ing so everything had to be done social distancing and all the that went with that at the inning.
where we are at the ment is a transition period, a rge amount of it can be done and is is the mac is essential, we are not in the safe haven i expect we will have in a couple of s.
ido see —— the booster is essential.
is is something ich will happen in this ansition, how we are responding to variant is very different to we would have responded before ad the vaccine.
that is an xample of how things are going to nge and that change will continue.
the transition period last several years?
know, the isks will decrease over time, it is emental, it is not a sudden hing, each six months will be ter than the last.
how fast it be, dangerous to protect ience, but from a scientific point ew, my expectations of being rprised on the upside on the way rough on the science so far.
vaccines, faster clinical trials, faster new drugs than i would have predicted at the beginning of the epidemic and that i did predict at the beginning.
myjob and ive it a cautious is to and give it a cautious central view.
it could be slower, could be faster.
i see a
but it could be faster.
i see a future which is less risky than it the ment
and it is less is at the moment
and it is lass risky now than it was six months or ago.
you foresee a situation where we will be learning to live covid—19 as we do with influenza and that is the longer plan?
at is how we have dealt ith every single major infectious ase.
historically, one of the ings medical science has been most tive act is every time it has effective act is every time it has been fazed by a major infectious at, we have found a counter easure, including ones came from the last big pandemic, was different, we have countermeasures to that.
the future long run, it is not going to away as a problem, some years it be a big will be a big problam, the way i would see this with covid—19 at the t, this is like a hairpin bend that has been put on our way.
we were cruising along and that got right down
and we had to go ent it
and now we have to get back rack with the booster.
we can celerate out again.
we hope it get less and less necessary medical countermeasures mount up.
i want to ask some questions about sures on social care given the pressures on social rare given the link to capacity.
amanda hard wrote to leaders to encourage discharge from hospital by ing the need for social care avoiding the need for social rare support with personal budgets and beds.
the report of whole hotel beds.
the report of whole hotels being turned into temporary ave horrified groups.
hotels not configured to deliver care question safety and well—being of residents if they need medical assistance.
do you hink people can be cared for safely tels assess the in hotels and assess the proportionate measure to take in the xt?
i want to start by saying at i am not responsible for the erational side
and i do not want tart making out policy.
you a situation where as with all ergencies, you are doing the least thing that you can do which are till going to from perfect.
many of the decisions we have taken health service and care in the health service and rare system had been way things we never want to do under ordinary circumstances.
but they are ad than the alternative and if the lternative is a situation where are stuck in hospitals and exposed to and the hospitals a result with people who could be ically charged, people are medically discharged, peopla are cute in ambulances outside with life vable —— life threatening conditions, that is clearly even rse any of the alternatives.
worse than any of the alternatives.
no one would see this a perfect tion.
it is a situation there are some peopla can be cared for hotel setting re it is a any hotel setting where it is a matter of waiting for them to have a ment.
for ome eople, is placement.
for some peopla, it is fine.
the colour clinician has to sure as best they can that the people who are at risk are the nes who end up going into hotels imilar kinds of things and the who are more at risk stay in pital until such time as they have a placement to which they can to.
is is a matter of the move to.
this is a matter of the perfect being the enemy of the good.
to accept it is a very we have to accept it is a very difficult period and was always to be difficult and omicron has made it more difficult, and we end up with some compromises hich are not things we would mally wish to do.
you are atching the chief medical officer.
going to say goodbye to iewers on world.
we said at the of the enquiry there were a of things we had learnt and we none of us would look back and the ideal advice was given.
how you think the mistakes of last r’s discharge policy can be oided this time around and who is ising ministers on the care are sector save the charge because advice was not very good last two i need to draw a istinction between the discharge which was more complicated than was portrayed in was not what i was talking about.
the discharge was in many situations a policy was in many situations a safe policy, but i’ll have to come back to that.
it is an old debate.
i think we are looking forward to a of threats.
not repeating the mistakes made before.
there were mistakes that we made, i’ll it a couple of examples which re not doing now.
the first stake was i do not think we were enough on cutting down on peopla working between care settings her an staying in one rather than staying in one particular one, that was essential, not spot the effects of we did not spot the effects of people not having adequate sick pay, as an obvious point, when you which was an obvious point, when you see it, we had not seen how much was driving things.
there were everal others which we need to come to.
in my view, we have not repeated those mistakes this time .
we have learnt a lot from round.
we have learnt a lot from pugh previous events.
the most icult situation with omicron is how to balance the needs to allow lies and very close friends to people in care, particularly in elderty rare, to the risk of elderty rare, to reduce the risk of the infectious infection getting an ticular before people had a oster and their immune system sponding.
it is a trade—off.
we do ant people over the christmas period ing left alone but we do want outbreaks we can avoid and are vigating a route between those two clear needs.
that is the fficult decision at this point in time.
talking about city, i do not know how you are ware of the workforce crisis, but relies on staff being using relies on staff being avoided as personal assistance to the care.
the current take on the rare.
the current situation is being described as the recruitment crisis and biggest recmitment crisis and social care that anyone can mber.
not only that, care remember.
not only that, rare providers are reporting that rnment funding allocated for the cruitment crisis is not making its ast oral authorities to them.
take any way past local authorities to them.
take any temperature on that and it difficult.
do you think the limited capacity and workforce will limit how many patients ran can leave hospital beds and go into mmunity and do we need to think about what measures need to be to deal with that if it is the ase because it seems to me that week, hat is the case.
i have be reful.
myjob is to answer uestions that only a doctor can swer, at is not a doctor uestion.
i will give an answer as important to manage the situation.
there is a very serious with recruitment and social rare, that is dely accepted.
the fficulties with the social care ystem are —standing, over many system are long-standing, over many 79575- system are long-standing, over many years, this goes back over several istrations, this is not a administrations, this is not a problem for now, it is a long—term e.
here have been several issue.
there have been several reasons, serious attempts to look at can do to improve the what we ran do to improve the situation and social care.
i am not right person review on the right person to give review on that, but am acknowledging the estion is a sible question, but question is a sensible question, but i am not the right to answer it.
you know this week there has been a debate about the introduction of measures.
many people voted, yself included, based on data and ights and predictions given by yourself and other colleagues.
“an i ask you a few uestions on some of data and some of the questions have heard since that time.
one is could share the positive if you could share the positive rases and the trend is becoming more ic?
on positive test versus test reported, this is a issue.
we put atistics under regular regular asis, the mber of tests positive.
testing channel versus on—site ing versus dult social care and lateral w.
we can see there is a variation in ose.
walk and esting has highest test positivity use these people are because these people are symptomatic.
adult social care has ositivity cause we are low positivity because we are testing people who are well gularty repeatedly to avoid infection is coming in.
that data is ekly basis and forms part of the traditional test and trace stics.
we report the number of est erformed on a daily basis on coronavirus one of the comments i have heard it one of the comments i have heard it is because we are now addressing dren age to age five, the chances of having a higher rate of ctions is going to go up because sample data is higher.
is that a thing to say it skewing fair thing to say or is it skewing the data?
we release on our weekly age testing rate and also ther liberty rates by children of groups.
we have always all age groups.
we have always tested young children who have had omatic disease.
the only change disease.
the only change in the advice that has come out this a daily testing if you are in contact will go down to children as five to reduce as young as five to reduce transmissions in schools.
in terms of one of the other comments i have heard is that people are erned that we are prioritising covid—19 over other things, cially ith the omicron variant.
covid-19 cancer, covid—19 over serious issues.
what would you to that?
i think this is ometimes said by people who have no understanding of help at all
but i don’t think it is serious.
when they , it is sually because they say it, it is usually because they want to make a political point.
the is, if you ask any doctor any part of the system they will say what is threatening our this, what is threatening our ability to do cancer, all these is the fact that so much of effort, so many beds are ing to be put over to covid—19 we are having to work in a less ficient way because covid—19 is .
the inding a way to manage it hich minimises the impact is ential to what we’re trying to i completely agree there are tiple other things in addition to ovid-19, when we have big waves we have w, we can do huge as we have now, we ran do huge damage elsewhere.
it is a complete sion of reality.
we have not had the lock downs, the whole system have been in deep trouble and would have been in deep trouble and the impact on things like heart and strokes must still come rward for would have been even than it was.
i want to make it bsolutely dear that is an inversion of reality.
last question.
one of the concerns is about micron and the impact on children.
got any more evidence about what impact they could be that is erent from the delta variant?
hat is important.
initially, some south african data did imply hat there might be a slight crease in the number of children ting it compared to previous ys.
still nothing like many of the her infections.
as data has gone outh africa and, for what it worth, in the , we not that lop.
sol see at the moment my develop.
so i see at the moment my view is that it is too early to be
but i don’t think anything is aying we should change our advice of relative risks for children.
the total number of people ted will go up, so a lot of infected will go up, so a lot of children will get it and a very number, hopefully, we’ll get nto trouble because of it.
it is a rivial disease but we still tick to the view it is much milder ildren than in older adults.
’ve got two topics.
one is pregnant new variants.
i will get started.
in august only 22.
2% of egnant were vaccinated, yet pregnant women were vaccinated, yet one in six of the most critically atients are unvaccinated gnant women.
what should the vernment doing to increase the ake-up and what it mistake to on the first one, i completely agree he uptake of vaccination in regnant women is depressingly low.
say, significant numbers of men come to serious harm.
almost of the women in hospital where see you with this are people a who have been vaccinated.
so vaccination protects pregnant women.
should have made that oint even clearer earlier on.
it is medical ession point.
people a medical profession point.
people like me have said it, obstetricians aid it.
i’ve said it several times publicly.
i have heard we have all tried to fade very ongly.
there are a lot of myths.
need to say that it is not true there are reased risks with this accine
but it is true that covid—19 pregnancy dangerous and pregnancy is a dangerous combination we should encourage yone who is pregnant to get accinated because that helps tect them and that in the long is in the interest of the baby their future.
i absolutely gree it is a serious problem and everybody should be doing it.
in terms of change of emphasis, i think they are looking at this
and i hope they will give an answer on really soon.
thank you it is quite king given the statistics on what you just said about the portance of women getting accinated, pregnant women, that had a prioritised pregnant sooner.
ijust ted to break women sooner.
ijust wanted to break down a little bit further, the 22% shockingly even lower is shockingly low and even lower when you look at ethnicity.
is there ans to prioritise an education any plans to prioritise an education programme and what is going to be to increase at low accination rate for pregnant women as a whole?
ere any plans in the pipeline?
there is a really strong munications push.
i have seen a of activity on this.
there are things intersecting on this.
ere is a strong communications to make sure that we are much ore focused in making sure we get off messages on vaccination hrough to people from every munity the , including community in the , including ethnic minority communities, and essential.
it is getting better overall, but it is nowhere as good as it should be.
there separate thing and pregnancy.
ithin hat, there is a separate ing on regnancy in ethnic inority groups.
i know individual titioners as well as particular laces where there are high ncentrations of an ethnic minority ups are doing everything they can get this sage home that to get this message home that vaccination in pregnancy is really tant, that the safety of mum important, that the safety of mum and for the long—term safety and fits of baby as well.
with the read of micron, do you think regnant women should be better ported to work from home all tay-at-home financially upported they cannot work from me?
i think i will revert back to int i made earlier, that is not edical estion that i have a medical question that i have particular expertise to say, except neral point that i want the general point that i want pregnant women to be supported cally very strongly, and the important thing is vaccination.
i will move on to new variants.
it is time to move on from focusing on our national vaccine statistics and towards a global vaccination rates, regarding the think i very strongly believe and i am very confident that everybody, fellow panellists and the ommittee believes, that we should ximising the number of be maximising the number of vaccinations available in lower me countries.
that is a humanitarian need, a need as fellow citizens and it is in our elf—interest as well because it is lem for verybody.
there is a problem for everybody.
there is absolutely nothing to be lost and ything to be gained.
let me put a boat on that.
the biggest but is in africa and parts of asia ere i worked in my early career, here are good cination system is vaccinating children under five here is a system designed for accinating older adults who are the biggest priority in the ld.
and that is something that we an’t just say, re is a crate of accines ome off you go, we have to ok at the delivery system.
we need this as a whole system to see this as a whola system problam, not just of a product lem.
but i do basically agree what you are saying.
i don’t hink that’s controversial.
i think body would agree.
a couple of everybody would agree.
a couple of context setting questions.
what are the current value.
the overall value reported last week is between 1.
2.
however, it should be oticed that there are two current iants, delta which is relatively ble, and omicron which is increasing very rapidly.
and with a ing time of every two days for doubling time of every two days for omicron is estimated to be much er.
very broad estimates between ree and five at the moment.
what bsolute risk to those vaccinated unvaccinated of the delta iant?
what do you mean?
what is a of mortality those who have delta versus the vaccinated risk is reduces that risk of of delta is reduces that risk of death by 1990 95%.
the absolute sk.
if you nder the age of a0 risk.
if you are under the age of 40 it is extremely low.
lesson one in 00.
50 the risk varies with age 10,000.
so the risk varies with age and vaccine is the key to reducing .
very important to get vaccinated.
do we know the relative omicron with regards to risk of omicron with regards to vaccinated and unvaccinated people.
or verity of mortality.
we do not for severity of mortality.
we do know that the vaccine effectiveness for omicron than it is for delta stop after two doses of five ccine, for example, at eight eks, more than eight weeks i take vaccine effectiveness is about 01: and once you’ve got boosters, hat goes up to 75% for that goes up to about 75% for omicron.
really helpful to get the and their boosters are important.
you talked at the in the very first pandemic out how the whole plan is a population reduction.
washing our hands is easy to implement.
wearing a cynic stubble.
do you a strategy on each of those plementations regarding how much isk it uces?
do we know hand risk it reduces?
do we know hand washing reduces by, say, 10%, mask 5%?
no
and the problem is wearing 596?
no
and the problem is there are ots of numbers bandied ut.
the problem is what you have different combinations of things an do, ach one interact you ran do, each one interact differently with the others.
if you ake it in isolation, you would never say randomise one group to a face mask, another group what would ay in reality is due the hole lot because they build each other.
hand washing is about you might pick up by touching ecause someone is coughed on a le.
where is opening windows is articularty portant for anything at is at
is aerosol.
what we would all is all of ese are more impact of things incrementally, but if you all together, much larger.
but do all of them because they help tect you against different elements of the risk which rounding you.
aerosols, etc.
you are beating me to wait, because i know it is for the ministers and the minister to decide what to do, but how is a data presented over combination you put in place?
for example, we could have chosen to he rule of six return, we have the ml; of six return, we could have gone into tears again, we have actually closed clubs of could have actually dosed clubs of pubs.
how was it decided which constellation comes together?
i think, in a sense, i will simplify thing very complicated for ministers, but the first layer is ran we do that have no obvious downside socially and economically.
wash your hands, put on a acemask, open the windows has no nsides.
can we get through this just with then there are some just with those?
then there are some things which have a bit more impact and economically and we ave to take a view on that.
the level up is clearly things like vising working from home as the vernment has done.
it is not in but it is in guidance.
and hings like you must wear a facemask than we would really like you oo.
and then obviously you go up a der of intervention, each step up ladder adds some protection but go up the impact on society the economy gets greater.
the ficult decision for ministers is far up that letter should they decide to go.
and that is the way i would now we have the context vaccines are so important, the ay in which you can deal with it the general ulation.
one of for the general population.
one of the biggest problems facing us in uture is a fact that there are about 10% of the population currently cinated in the currently unvaccinated in the current first vaccine rate is about 0, 22,000 over a seven day 20,000, 22,000 over a seven day average.
so we have a problem in ety.
how do average.
50 we have a problem in society.
how do we deal with the 10% 596 or atever it turns out to be a peopla who or 5% or whatever it turns out to be a people who won’t get vaccinated, all the contacts you given to all the other questions and now we about the importance of the cine.
but for those five or 10%, 6, medically is your response of we can deal with them?
what are options he present in the options he would present in front of government?
i think there small number of people and is a very small number of peopla and very noisy, but very small, who have conspiracy theories who say not to get vaccinated.
except where ork where there are a lot of lnerable people, the view of vernment is fine, you have to ept that.
but the 10%, a large accept that.
but the 1096, a large proportion ust haven’t got round to that is the people you are addressing.
ave to make sure it culturally relevant as well.
not thnically, but every bit in society feel we are talking directly in a comfortable way and to them in a comfortable way and trusting of.
they want to note that sease is a big enough threat is worth doing anything at all.
ondly, they want to know that the accines actually work and on both hose we have incredibly good dence.
we know this is a big threat and we’d know that vaccines k.
the third thing is they do work.
the third thing is they would want to know that the e—effects out within, proportionate to the benefit that ccine is giving them.
that we have to keep on coming up on sarah huge numbers of out here.
these are not people who are waxes, the people who anti-waxes, but the people who believe them, they have read thing on the internet and they re worried
and they need serious ormation put it in.
we need to it convenient.
it makes a big fference.
ifound it very king king when i was last there, on the wards, he people who had not that the peopla who had not vaccines, an awful lot of them said i haven’t got round to it yet.
it wasn’t that they weren’t believed of nonsense.
but the great all sorts of nonsense.
but the great majority was, i haven’t got round to .
and it is a combination of making sure are corrected politely ientifically addressed and and scientifically addressed and make it convenient, and i hope this ooster campaign also gives people an opportunity to come back get their cine and now is a and get their vaccine and now is a really good time to get my first vaccine.
my final question s, one thing we have agreed is to end a 15 minute wait post fighter vaccine for business.
are any other things you are oking at, given how important it be convenient?
what is a ernment oing practically from the opposition that may well make a rence to making the booster programme as successful as possible?
ave uched on one of the key you have touched on one of the key thing is that which is that by ending the 15 minute wait, we ran get an awful lot more patience given clinic.
that applies just of the very vaccine not just of the very large vaccine centres, but also i had the vilege of working some community pharmacies makes a real pharmacies and it makes a real difference there because there is limited number of places only a limited number of places where people can sit to wait.
not on operational but there are the operational side, but there are two key things.
the first is opening extra very large booster centres.
i know wembley will be open this end and chelsea stadium.
those will help to get numbers up to hrough.
but next, and this is quite tant for the point that could chris whitty making, much aller convenient centres, places and peopla tmst.
i work with a in west london who opened a vaccine in a community centre as part a mosque, ing to places that eopla trust and seen people who are mmunity aders being part of the lanning of the vaccine programme at community but also it helps to ncrease the number of slots and the ity of people to be able to get ability of peopla to be able to get to a centre that feels relevant to .
professor itty, iwant go them.
professor whitty, i want to go into some more detail about the link case numbers and between case numbers and hospitalisations.
obviously, with ccines we are broken that link a large extent to cases and italisations, so can you take a three way you we are in terms the percentage of ospitalisations we expect from cron and how that differs from ta?
the very short version of hat is that we don’t yet know, ortunately.
and i’m going to make ssumption which i think is safe that naturally omicron is not re dangerous than delta.
it may be er, it may be the same, we don’t know.
this is before vaccination.
if we compare where we were, let’s say he last big wave, not the with the last big wave, not the delta but the one before that, the ction hospitalisation rate of eopla 65 or over, for that way or to the vaccination programme as about 22%.
22% of older people was about 2296.
2296 of older peopla who got fected but end up in hospital.
two doses and a big accination programme, that drops to 6% of people who were infected ended up in hospital over lower in younger people, to 65.
much lower in younger peopla, to be clear.
the question with omicron is is it intrinsically milder?
i don’t think there is clear evidence ays it is at this point in that says it is at this point in time.
there are reports that lower talisations in south africa in the last wait, but i’m not sure.
it may be, but we don’t know.
and the question is, after you have ad two doses of a vaccine and then doses with a booster, at what centage does it reduce its severity compared to what it would een?
and if that is good as have been?
and if that is good as delta?
it is unlikely it will be than delta because it is less matched, but if it is as good elta, and reduction in that ity?
and that it is a key severity?
and that it is a key question with what is going to for the health service over the next period.
50
i think it is ally critical we wait for really critical that we wait for those data before we jump into saint what is going to happen, but worst that would happen would be we were back in the alpha wave artier this r.
ear.
and i think the end of expectations would obably be for two vaccines to be
ere
we are with a 6% for delta, but it is sible that with a boost we are tter off with omicron than are with two vaccines with delta severe disease.
it is possible.
we honestly don’t know.
the of possibilities is really uite wide and that is it is difficult to make definitive iews about where the is going next four weeks.
in this we a significant change in terms ospitalisation rates, with a ype of numbers we are talking about ith omicron infections, we are here with omicron infections, we are looking at some very serious ital admissions.
it fair to say?
yes, ithink less things things we know about, most them so far have not fallen our way.
antibody changes, at least one of the drugs we have lost.
we know that it was less effective on ction.
but some critical things on’t know, severity, we don’t now for sure.
and on the effects of booster vaccines.
we don’t know.
if they all fall our way, the numbers be less concerning.
if they will be lass concerning.
if they don’t, and so far we have not been in covid-19, i think lucky in covid-19, so i think planning on the basis they will, the out in hospital over a short period could be very high indeed.
issue here is that they will come at a very concentrated e.
it is back to the original set questions.
the same number spread three months might be something is much easier to the to dle than the numbers we mighty of short period of time.
so that is a very big issue and if i can add ditional point, people have to ise hat this will also be realise that this will also be happening at a time when a very ificant number of staff will be off ill, isolating caring.
so you a reduction in and will have a reduction in and increasing demand in the health ice over a very short time service over a very short time period and that is really the reason taking this extremely seriously.
in terms of hospital ired infections, which we know as been significant throughout the ess of this disease, what more ran we do on that front?
because it viously ven more what seems to be, even more infectious and previous ways?
we have a problem.
we have learnt a lot
and i think ontrol is much better than it was.
two things are going to go against us.
this is more infectious revious ones.
it seems to have an extraordinary intrinsic ability ect and that will make it to infect and that will make it harder.
and the mainstays of our oach was vaccination.
vaccination will probably reduce mission, but it is not going to transmission, but it is not going to take it right down to where it would een with booster vaccination have been with booster vaccination against delta.
50
i think we will do erything we the everything we ran in the health service
but i think we can’t claim get away scott free, even ith really good, rigorous proaches, there will be hospital tbreaks and other health and cial outbreaks.
we will do verything we can to minimise him i don’t to set people up to
but i don’t want to set peopla up to fail by saying we won’t, because because of these two factors.
ank you.
professor whitty, reﬂect on thank you.
professor whitty, if we reflect on the last 20 months we aken different approaches, nderstandably, to trying to suppress the spread of the vims.
we have had very significant lock s, regional ars, detailed downs, regional tears, detailad specific restrictions.
in the last a 3 prime minister has urged eople to get sted and we seek use around the block.
you have said repeated it today that you have repeated it today that people should prioritise their ial ntact and we know that they social contact
and we know that they are already doing that.
people are rawing from some events.
have withdrawing from some events.
have we reached and are we in a phase in broad advice rather than tailed, because you put it should is, shouldn’t do that, restrictions on people, is that re are?
is that the right way to be thinking about this now?
is where we are now, but if we we were ituation where it looked as if the boosters were not going to be as tive against the disease and transmission and we were facing the situation that we were kind of situation that we were talking about in the last exchange, inisters are clearly going to then ministers are dearty going to have to consider what else needs to e, and i will go back to this ncept, the ladder of intervention.
you go up that, the further go the more damage you will in other areas.
and ministers to balance this.
but balancing ose, the bigger the threat, the rther up you probably will have go.
so what we are is ministers make sion what we know at the moment.
if the information comes in is reassuring, that will tend to one direction and if it comes in not reassuring, that will empt to another.
and that it is much the way the prime minister and ministers are looking at this.
let us consider the optimistic side of this, we get through omicron ker than we might have thought the spike comes down quickly.
at would trigger the exit from the rrent of restrictions on the advice you and others are giving?
i think we have seen before and most in the summer of this year, a very dear de—escalation of ice even though here was still some idual risk, we accepted that and me people criticise that.
but that as the ision of ministers and was perfectly acceptable as logic hat a reasonable thing to do.
made that a reasonable thing to do.
so ministers are always in a tion where they can go up and own as facts change.
that very is the way of the approach nisters have sensibly taken.
as we n, lam i am cautious about making olicy on the basis that everything go right.
that is not a ensible basis on which to make sions.
we have to look at a range of possibilities rather than ing everything will fall .
that is not the implication we will be back to professor chris in just moment
but it has witty injust a moment
but it has been reported that the queen has elled her traditional pre—christmas family month which was take place next week.
it is due to take place next week.
it is understood the decision was made as aution, suggesting it could too many people’s christmas angements at risk if that lunch ahead so very much in line with falls were hearing from the me minister to socialise carefully this christmas and with ssor chris witty who we heard professor chris witty who we heard moments ago, england’s chief medical saying we should prioritise social events we attend.
50 the queen sing to cancel her traditional pre—christmas family next week.
let us return to the commons health select committee professor chris witty is nswering uestions about the spread micron.
there is a longer exit, the situation where it is not an omicron fic vaccine based on what the manufacturers say and that is the strategy.
but i think there are many unknowns at the moment i am confident as you implied there be an exit strategy when it will be an exit strategy when it will be on how quickly we reach it on a lot of factors we depends on a lot of factors we currently don’t now fundamentally is we are at the moment in time.
where we are at the moment in time.
will you have the agility to scalate if the results of the de-esralate if the results of the various factors that you mentioned the right direction?
will you able intervene and stand down advice to minimise social tacts for example to advise that plan restrictions should be down before the time that they xpire at the end of ry?
are expire at the end of january?
are you set up to do that?
well, to be really clear, you know this
but i want to be clear of the record, sions on anything that involves decisions are up to ministers, to me.
i will give advice, sage give advice formally and we data, ministers take decisions.
erms of my own advice, if i put stringent advice to the general ub“: because of omicron, we have stringent advice before omicron ved.
the public one as to keep hem safe
and they want us not to at same time over regulate to point where things are getting back to more normal situation.
of course we will turn up the dial and it down as necessary and there re people in government guing for very strong economic arguing for the very strong economic implications for doing anything more need to do and it is always than we need to do
and it is always about balance, all the way through all about balance in terms of advice on social directions.
you are advice directly to the public giving advice directly to the public and i don’t criticise that, yet rested in your views and respect views on udgment on s.
you your views on judgment on this.
you have sage advice people to oritise their social contacts.
is is advice you’re giving ectly but generally in the past, made the point to my committee at you advise on the medical ects and then ministers have to it in the balance the consequences ociety, for the economy and ome up with recommendations that medical advice bringing the consequences further together.
if you’re giving that advice direct to blic then that process is not taking place, is it?
therefore how ensure it is not one—sided dvice, will you the agility to djust your advice that is out there we hope eventually it will be appropriate to do so?
i am extremely on what i think the role of an clear on what i think the rola of an adviser is, an independent adviser, at i consider the paramount and what i consider the paramount rola of ministers.
but from the very nning, since the 18505, chief edical officers have always given to the general public but inisters reserved to themselves thing to do with the law and balancing against the economy.
this ice any chief medical officer ould have given and i do not think minister thinks i am treading on eir dose on this one, this is my
but i also consider questions out things like further measures, are very much the minister’s it is drawing the line between two, the expectations between edical officers and medical isers, they can talk as a doctor dependently and give advice as as they do not stray into the which is specifically for isters.
very final question from about that advice you have been in the last day on the issue of with it.
isn’t the fundamental lem that people personally feel safer now if they have had two or jobs but the is actually more at isk because of the nature micron and that we have for million or so unvaccinated?
how do rsuade people who have had three you persuade peopla who have had three jobs to be more cautious?
—— 4 on.
i started the whole million.
i started the whole pandemic with high confidence in the to see risk and make ability to see risk and make sensible political judgments and as only strengthened over time actually my experience has been the way through and what people do onstrate this in the polling emonstrates this, people take these very seriously.
they accept they have had three doses and a oster they are at lower risk but ople will still take sensible ecautions and i am very confident the ability of people to say for enefit of everyone around me, the old people i come into contact h, iwill ore cautious over a with, i will be more cautious over a period.
these numbers are clearly ing up very fast.
in answer going up very very fast.
in answer to both of your questions, it would odd to reduce that advice be very odd to reduce that advice when numbers are spiralling up, the consider reducing is when umbers are consistently coming .
if people look at the data and ink i want to reduce the risk my family and myself and i will sensible precautions at this oint in time.
thank you, professor and octors, you have been whitty and doctors, you have been very generous your time.
we wish all a safe and happy christmas.
you very much indeed.
point of rder.
thank you very much.
jeremy the chair the select committee wrapping things up.
we have been hearing professor chris giving evidence to mp5 since alf past ten is morning about the pread of omicron.
at a news nference at downing street sterday he urged people to be tious about socialising before hristmas.
professor whitty said the uld surpass the peak of people admitted to hospital.
he told the ittee it is possible because it is going to be very concentrated, if it is milder because it is oncentrated over a short period of .
asked about socialising, he aid it was sensible to cut down on ial events that might be less mportant you.
he underlined the importance of ting a booster and arned that even if the boosters a lot of people will fall do hold a lot of peopla will fall ill simultaneously.
the doubling ill slow down for two reasons, rate will slow down for two reasons, the first is people are taking ible precautions, it is clear hey are taking sensible precautions hat will help slow the double ate down.
the point we were making prioritising busy interactions, the government advice working from home, they are about working from home, they are all designed to slow this down, to his time to get this through he system.
a second point, the ber of people already infected have immunity either posting or omicron itself will an hat the group of people it can mean that the group of peopla it ran no infect is getting smaller and will also slow down until the oint at reaches its peak.
susan hopkins is an adviser.
the release numbers that were released yesterday are 15 but we are antly working on data numbers constantly working on data numbers to release that and we will release umbers this afternoon.
the real numbers will be bigger than , just to be clear.
to give us embers of the public and idea of mescale, do you expect to have liable data before christmas, in a or it will it be january before we really now the answer to that stion?
i think the earliest we will reliable data is the week tween christmas and new year and bably early january.
or susan probably eartyjanuary.
doctor susan hopkins.
earlier in the house of mons, glen gave this commons, john glen gave this response to the situation for the itality sector in the amid a ise in coronavirus cases.
last year we put in place the bounce back oans, it was the shadow chancellor time who specifically engaged constructively with the chancellor the basis for those loans.
have continued to work nstructively throughout on a range terventions for multiple ectors.
we put in a package of sures at the budget offering ditional support and just esterday the covid additional ief fund provides an additional .
5 billion those that are in the chain to deal with some of additional challenges.
but of ourse vernment recognises the course the government recognises the additional pressures that these ures and this strength the virus ngs.
of course we will be ngaging carefully and listen fully to those business representatives this afternoon.
is introducing tight france is introducing tight restrictions to travellers to the schofield reports from paris.
there will be much tighter rictions from midnight friday nto saturday.
they cover two gs, restrictions on who can come into france there is a long list hich we have seen before of what stitutes nonessential travel and ential travel.
basically, you’re oming just for fun to see sights, you cannot.
not for work unless it is very compelling.
if you are a national, you can come, are resident ance, you if you are resident in france, you ran come
but you will have to prove this with the authorities.
have to register on a website ore you come over so that is one e.
the other side as testing has ramped up, you will have to a test done within 21 hours or than 1 hours before you come.
hat ran be less than 21 hours before you come.
that can be a lateral flow test or a test when you come you have test and when you come you have to self—isolate at an address you to the uthorities on this give to the authorities on this website you can test yourself after and if you are negative 48 hours and if you are negative than you’re free to move about.
erwise she would have to stay in lation for several days.
it looks the french will be strict about enforcing quarantine this time.
in the past they have often said it is ntary quarantine, implying they will not check up on you but it like they will check up on looks like they will check up on this one
so it is a mirror on what ppening in britain.
if you me to britain from france it is lar, you have to isolate for 48 urs, test yourself.
so they are ping up on the restrictions.
hugh aris.
five children have died and five others are injured after falling from a bouncy castle that was blown more than 30 feet into the air in australia.
police said two girls and two boys died at the scene and another died in hospital later, with five others in a critical condition following the incident, which took place during an end—of—year party in devonport, in tasmania.
the australian prime minister, scott morrison, said it was "heart breaking".
the events that have occurred today in devonport, in tasmania, are just shattering.
they are just unthinkably heartbreaking.
and young children, on a fun day out together with their families and it five children have died and five others are injured after falling and young children, on a fun day out together with their families and it turns to such horrific tragedy.
at this time of year.
itjust breaks your heart.
our correspondent shyma khalil is in sydney.
she has more on the investigation that will now follow really, questions are being asked about how this happened exactly, what was anchoring that bouncy castle to the ground?
it was lifted as high as it had?
also, the weather conditions of that day.
we haven’t heard that they were extraordinary conditions of dangerous conditions.
they were fine until that gust of wind lifted the bouncy castle in the air.
we also heard from the tasmanian authorities say that with that happening, the focus is going to be on the families, of course, of those children, on the school community and on the first responders who were first at the scene and have seen this tragedy happen in that primary school.
european union leaders are holding their last summit of the year in brussels.
coronavirus and energy prices are on the agenda.
but, proceedings are likely to be dominated by the increasing fear that russia may be preparing to invade ukraine , something which russia has denied.
the president of lithuania has said the has to do "everything" to prevent a possible russian invasion of ukraine.
i think we have to do everything that is in our hands to prevent the worst scenario, which, and unfortunately we cannot exclude.
this scenario is possible.
military intervention into the territory of ukraine.
i think we have enough tools in order to stop russia from its aggressive behaviour.
first of all, we have to talk about sectorial and also economic sanctions which are possible.
m: we have been hearing professor chris whitty answer questions from the ons health and social care this orning about spread of omicron and of course the government has to introduce some estrictions again.
borisjohnson denied he was imposing a lockdown by stealth.
speaking to broadcasters, the prime minister said the situation was "very different" from last year.
borisjohnson denied he was imposing what we are saying and we are all saying the same thing is that ron are spreading very fast and we have got to be very cautious and is we are implementing plan b.
what chris whitty dire saying, what are saying, we don’t want to your choices for you about your life.
we are not closing social life.
we are not dosing things but we are saying people uld cautious and they should think about their activities in the to to christmas.
nobody wants to get omicron and nwell and be orced to isolate but the fastest back to normality is for everybody to get boosted now.
have ncelled any events in the last few days?
i will be working ﬂat out ran imagine
but what we are ying is we are closing things own, we not asking people to cancel things.
we are saying is hat peopla ill understandably not ant to catch covid in the next few or ever.
the sensible thing to is get boosted now and exercise tion, that is all we are saying.
have to understand some people ill be essed about christmas gatherings, hospitality are laining about mass complaining about mass cancellations, is this lockdown by th?
no, because what we are stealth?
no, because what we are seeing as this is very different last year, we have is the additional protection of the ines and the ability to test so if you want to do something, you to go to an event or a party wanttogotoan eventora party then the sensible thing to do as if is a priority, the sensible hing to do is get a test to make you are being cautious but are not saying we want to cancel f.
we are not looking stuff down and the fastest route back to ality is get boosted.
yesterday saw the highest ever number of id tests yet we still have inimal restrictions in place, what happen for you to integrate ther restrictions?
we are doing things at once, we are mplementing plan which has some nsible trictions, it is balanced and proportionate and it the balance of risk and reﬂects the balance of risk and uncertainty that we currently have omicron but we are adding to that this incredibly fast booster out.
here in ramsgate, just in the centre, they gone up four imes in the number of vaccines they elivering every day, they have elivered just over 1000, almost 0 a day.
that is incredible, ou’re thing up and down the untry, you’re seeing people derstanding the importance the otection can give you and they are oming forward boosted coming forward to get boosted knives.
can you see you will be king the approach if your own taking the same approach if your own party is not on—site?
i will do all to to rotect the public, i have to to protect the public, that is always clear.
we have talked site and advisers and we are to our site and advisers and we are in a very difficult position as to the vaccination programme where we were last year and we are saying to people as ere is a lot of omicron around, he areful, exercise caution if you to avoid isolation and getting well over christmas.
implement but get boosted now as the astest route back to normality ause the booster does give you an xcellent level of protection and an is to offer everybody in the plan is to offer everybody in the country who is eligible booster end of the year and the speed which this is happening here in ramsgate is absolutely amazing
and i really pay tribute to all the nteers, the doctors, everybody e.
it is an amazing spirit and nergy that they are showing.
just a of regional questions.
there go.
britain’s oldest brewery has said the hospitality ctor is a zombie economy, because current government advice, what nancial support will be offering?
ave
kept businesses going with ore than 412 in pounds worth of port and we will continue to upport business with the covid like very loan, with business rate eductions.
with reductions.
the hing we an do is make sure best thing we ran do is make sure we get back to normality as fast as ibla by getting boosted now but are asking for more support.
best thing, we are offering a ckage, we already have measures in supporting businesses through business rate relief, through reductions, the loans i have ribed, all that is there but hat we are also saying is we want eep businesses going, keep them as we have done for a long time through the vaccination programme.
the best way to get back mality is to get boosted now.
you will have seen the news of banning visitors from aturday, not a good look suggesting unsafe right now.
lots of we had unsafe right now.
lots of families now unable to travel and heir loved ones for christmas.
said christmas would be vastly ferent share, it does not look ike that now?
i effectively gree with you because we have a situation now which is totally erent.
we have got the economy open.
we have businesses open, or we ying to people as exercise aution, think about all the steps take minimise your own you ran take to minimise your own risk.
and get boosted now.
the prime ter speaking a short time ago in ramsgate.
it’s little more than a week until christmas — and the usual excitement is mounting.
many children have sent their lists to santa.
and the grown ups are shopping for that perfect present.
let’s hope they are anyway.
covid has obviously had an impact — but there is one place where the festive spirit can never be extinguished — the ’s tim allman explains.
it’s beginning to look a lot like christmas everywhere you go in this part of finland it really is christmas every day.
this place in lapland calls itself the official home town of santa claus and he really is honestly, truly the real thing.
notjust a man in a fake beard.
father christmas, hoping this year of all years, he can bring some joy to the world.
i have been hearing worrying news around the globe about the well—being and coping of children and young people.
now it’s time to turn these worries into plenty of goodwill.
visitor numbers obviously took a big hit in the last two years as the pandemic took hold, santa’s business representative says people are coming back
but they have to take precautions.
: the guests are required to have corona passports when they arrive in finland.
we ask all our guests to show their corona passport at the reception desk and after that, they are free to take part in all the activities.
but, of course, the most important people here are the children.
do you like santa?
gusta santa claus?
si!
in a few days’ time, after the run, father christmas will be back on his travels and a much bigger sleigh.
his ambition, he says, to make this christmas a happy and unforgettable one.
tim allman, news.
now it’s time for a look at the weather with matt taylor.
hello there.
i hope you like the colour grey because it is going to be the dominant colour as we go through the next few days across the .
lots of cloud in place, stubbornly remaining all the way into the weekend for most.
it will be largely although over the next few hours we continue to see a bit of rain and driule across the north west of scotland, particularly lewis, sutherland, orkney and shetland.
where we saw the frost this morning and the sunshine, well, that continues for some, eastern scotland and eastern counties of england.
for some, where you started with sunshine, the cloud amounts will build.
reasonably bright too compared with yesterday across some parts of west cornwall as well.
a mild day for all.
temperatures still in double figures.
into this evening and overnight, the cloud is going to barely shift for most.
maybe a few breaks in the english channel, eastern scotland, north—east england and it’s here where you are most likely to see the return of the touch of frost into the morning, one or two pockets of mist or fog.
most will have a mild start to friday morning.
but friday, high pressure is in charge, and just notice as we go through into the weekend, the high pressure remains in charge.
essentially a story of what you have got, you will largely keep.
plenty of cloud in place for friday making for a rather dull day.
best of the breaks down through the english channel, channel islands particularly, maybe parts of cornwall.
also north—east of scotland and some in north—east england could see the sunshine come through.
after a chilly start, it may be a little bit cooler than we will see through today.
elsewhere, temperatures, nine to 11 celsius.
a touch above where we should be for the time of year.
you’ll notice this weekend, as well as sticking with the cloud, a largely story, things will turn that little bit cooler.
a cloudy day for most again on saturday, the best of the sunshine will be towards the far south west, also across the north east of scotland, particularly over the hills.
it might even be warmer in the grampians than it will be at lower level sites.
temperature starting to drop away a little bit
and they will drop further as we go into sunday.
more of a breeze on that eastern coast, 3 lot more cloud in place.
not a huge amount of sunshine, best of which probably across orkney and shetland later in the day and more of us in single figure temperatures.
but it does turn colder as we head into christmas week.
an interesting week ahead.
if you are looking for something white for your christmas run—up, the cold air mayjust bring one or two wintry showers in eastern parts.
but we could see a fightback of mild air from the atlantic, and where those two clash, it depends where it is, you could see a mixture of rain, sleet and snow.
of course, we’ll keep you updated.
this is news.
the headlines the country’s chief medical officer says the could surpass previous records of people admitted to hospital with covid—19.
what we shouldn’t assume is that if we got the same number going in the front door, that necessarily translates into the same numbers in hospital in an at some point in the new year.
it will be the new year before we have reliable data on the spread of the omicron variant, according to a leading health official.
with the earliest that we will have reliable data is the week between stmas and new year and probably earty january.
the queen has cancelled her traditional pre—christmas family party next week.
it is understood the decision was a precaution, in case it put too many people’s christmas arrangements at risk.
tourists are to be banned from france — from saturday only french citizens or brits who live there will be allowed to enter the country.
but this time hauliers are exempt.
as the virus continues to spread — business groups ask for more government help as customers cancel bookings.
and can you see it?
well, this is a brand new picture of a polar bear cub has been born at at the highland wildlife park in scotland.
england’s chief medical officer has warned that the previous maximum daily number of people admitted to hospital — 4,500, seen injanuary — could be exceeded.
speaking to a committee of mps, chris whitty also said that omicron could peak quite quickly, and that there is still a debate about whether omicron could could inflict a milder version of coronavirus.
we’ll hear more from chris whitty in a moment, but let’s take a look at today’s developments.
the queen has cancelled her traditional pre—christmas family lunch next week.
it is understood the decision was a precaution with a source suggesting it could put too many people’s christmas arrangements at risk if it went ahead.
france puts new restrictions on travellers, effectively banning tourists.
business leaders have called for support for struggling firms as omicron’s spread hits consumer confidence.
cases of omicron have been doubling every two to three days.
addressing the health committee, professor whitty explained how the numbers will start decreasing.
the doubling rate will slow down for two reasons.
the first is that people are taking sensible precautions.
it’s very clear they are taking very sensible precautions, and that itself will help to slow the doubling rate down.
and the points we were making about prioritising the interactions that matter most to you, the man’s advice of working from home, they are all designed to help slow this down particularly at the beginning.
to buy us time to get through the boosting.
and then at a certain point the number of people who have already been infected and have got immunity, either from the boosting orfrom omicron itself will mean that the group of people it can now infect is getting smaller, and that will also slow it down, and at a certain point that reaches a peak.
professor chris whitty.
we will be hearing more from him very shortly.
the bank of england is due to announce its latest decision on interest rates.
with inflation soaring to its highest level in a decade, it had been widely expected to raise rates from their historic low of 0.
1%.
that historic low has been there for quite some time, andy.
rates went to back in march 2009 and they ate that those emergency levels.
wrote a little bit before the andemic
and then they drop to a new ord low of 0.
1%.
although it has been ected that the bank of england would raise interest rates point soon, it wasn’t xpected at this meeting.
in the they were giving odds of about to one against the bank gland raising interest rates, but just had this news they are we have just had this news they are going ahead to raise them to not as of today.
and that is a 2596 as of today.
and that is a surprise and it is a response to inflationary pressure that upward inﬂationary pressure that has been building.
we had the est consumer prices index rising years that was reported this
and we know that this nflationary pressure coming down line global increases, the line from global increases, commodity prices, owing to the ening of the global economy this ear, there has been lots of demand, activity and supply of lots of activity and supply of things like petrol has been keeping at is you have got a up.
that is you have got a record petrol price.
one point 45.
8 as to look at what it thinks it is going to happen to inflation he two years and it is making a judgment whether to turn back to something more like ormal, which before the financial is was round about three or 4%.
this move today expected.
most this move today was unexpected.
most in the city expected the bank of and to wait until next year, erhaps february or march before started raising interest rates use we still don’t know how the micron variant has affected the market, the economy, and it seems like the economy at the same as we are getting inflation is lowing .
in the seven they slowing down.
in the seven they called stagﬂation.
that, bined with the inflation we have right now some people think that the of england would wait.
dearty that the bank of england would wait.
but clearly they have decided today at they not wait.
how much that they should not wait.
how much alarm will this cause generally, not or businesses but for general members of the public, people with ages, credit card debt?
it is interesting you say that.
there is a a that goes around about how interest rate rises are for with mortgages.
in fact, a hird of population don’t own eir own home, they rent.
and
ther third, although they own own home don’t have a mortgage.
it is mostly older people aid off eir mortgages long ago.
the remaining third, less than rter have riable rate a quarter have variable rate mortgages.
50 overall it is less han the mortgages.
so overall it is less than 10% of the population who are posed to an rest rate rise exposed to an interest rate rise right now.
those people are rtunate and are particularly unfortunate if they took out a huge age recently to pay these very nflated house prices that kept on sing, even ough the pandemic.
rising, even through the pandemic.
so it will affect some people badly ink on the other side about the people who have had savings re he interest rates are less than inflation, so they have been nking in terms for most of drinking in real terms for most of the last 13 years.
a surprise, not cted just yet.
we will have more that throughout the day.
thank our health correspondent nick is here.
it is spreading fast, but so is really known about this.
hey don’t know what they are ing with.
that’s right, chris whitty is kept stressing that.
if you look at their ling of hospital admissions they show that the peak from the ron wave could be approaching uble what was seen previously, the 0 figure, it also could be 4500 figure, but it also could be half that level.
in the show set is a large uncertainty about at will happen.
we have heard ggestions that the omicron variant be causing more milder illness, there is logic in that in terms einfection saw infections stvaccination are likely to be der.
but we know cases are going up and they are going up quickly.
so that is there is that ertainty and those admissions ill make a big difference.
another rtant point he made is that dmissions this time round are very rent to last winter.
the different to last winter.
the vaccination, and improvement in tment means patients who are dmitted spend less time in ital.
50 the overall numbers in hospital.
so the overall numbers in hospital could be very different, ith the same level of dmissions.
if omicron turns out to infectious and there are a lot of people who are catching it, if are mild, by even if the are mild, by virtue of the fact that so many might get it, people might get it, then hospitalisations would rise, is at ing?
indeed.
sate the omicron variant is causing half the rate of us illness.
for every 100 fections, half of them end up riously ill.
but they increase rfold, you have double the number admissions, so that is a fast eading variant, even if it is lder, is still the problem.
arly, and this was appointed ofessor, is whitty made this professor, chris whitty made this morning, it is about trying to nce that harms between more restrictions and the hands of the could cause.
and he described it virus could rause.
and he described it as it as approaching a hairpin bend.
we were accelerating away from the a variant and suddenly we were onfronted with this sharp bend.
and n’t know what the threat is on he other side.
so we have to slow and that is he talks about ioritising their contact in the ad up to christmas.
just slow n, take tock and as we get loser to the bend we will be able what is round the other side.
this is where he talks about ding out about how much serious llness will be caused, and when we know that we ran adjust to that.
we will be able to accelerate away n.
thank you very much.
the queen has cancelled her traditional pre christmas family lunch.
it’s understood the decision is a precaution with a source suggesting it could put too many people’s christmas arrangements at risk if it went ahead.
let’s speak to our royal correspondent, nicholas witchell.
everyone always twitches when the queen cancel something.
yes, but no surprise i would have to say.
i think this decision was vitable.
it is important to ess that this is their christmas for the extended family that queen would normally have at ingham palace, this year it would have been at windsor castle would have been at windsor “35th earty would have been at windsor castle earty next week.
this is the tended family which includes all ousins, the klosters and the ent and the others who don’t get ited up to sandringham.
so for hem, for the extended family, and mally 40 eople would normally attend his, that is at the event has been cancelled.
it is scribed by buckingham palace as a autionary measure.
it is found be putting too many people plasma stmas is at risk if it went christmas is at risk if it went ahead.
i think there is a feeling it is the right thing to do for all concerned and the queen will be to be seen to be setting an xample.
goodness knows how many ferent households would have been ming together for this lunch for extended royal family.
are re quite a few of them.
but it is rtant to say that at the time of riting, the arrangements for the ediate family to go to sandringham for their christmas e, those are still in place.
but learly the queen and her advisers be ching the situation will be watching the situation closely.
thank you very much.
let’s urther about the spread of omicron.
joining me now is athony costello, professor of global health at university college london and a member of independent .
believe omicron is spreading?
we used to talk a lot about the art with other variants, the production rate.
well, it is loding.
we only really knew about his three weeks ago and it is ady catching up with delta in this country.
and the art value is ous reports, but all seem to it at four or above.
it is doubung ing every two days right now so there are only ten days, nine to christmas.
there could be or five doubling is over the ten days which is incredibly t.
the health security agency aid it is three times more ansmissible within households than a and five times more likely to -infect ople than delta.
we know re-infect peopla than delta.
we know from three studies published a of days ago that waning couple of days ago that waning immunity means that after a second particularly in elderly dose, particularty in elderty peopla, the immunity wears off after six six months or declines very sharply.
so, as chris whitty said erday, erything we know about this virus is bad.
the remaining rtainty is, is it milder and hat would be the impact on spitalisations and deaths?
50 we eed to hospital figures need to watch hospital figures incredibly carefully over the next to ten days to see exactly hat is happening.
it is a very eresting point that professor hris whitty was making, encouraging nant omen to get vaccinated and to prioritise our social events we attend.
we will talk more vincero pavarotti became the global rock star.
i would like to dedicate to lady diana.
luciano was the one and only.
pavarotti — 3 ron howard film.
when did you last feel like this?
the moment that made you jump around like that?
the highs, the lows.
who’s your number one?
sports personality of the year it’s thursday, it’s 12:15
and we’re live in westminster.
with me today: conservative andrew bowie, the shadow attorney general emily thornberry, the guardian’s north of england editor helen pidd and the editor of reaction and times columnist iain martin.
today: is plan and the booster campaign enough to deal with omicron?
there are several things we don’t know.
but all of the things that we do know are.
the hospitality industry is hit by cancellations.
should the government offerfinancial support?
it’s still radio silence from the chancellor.
we’ll also be asking how we can start to live with covid.
also today we have put an end to the victimisation of people who are not criminals.
as malta becomes the first country to legalise cannabis.
we speak to the conservative who says now is the time to change britain’s drugs laws.
just as we have come on air, i can bring you the breaking news that the england has raised interest rates for the first time in three up to 0.
25%.
that follows years up to 0.
2596.
that follows yesterdays inflation figures, which to 5.
1%.
let’s open the surged to 25.
196.
let’s open the programme ith a question about ther that is the right response rom the bank of england, andrew?
ithink it is right hi.
i think it is the right response.
it is a proportionate and red response.
we need to do omething to to tackle this rease in inflation, the highest ince 11.
i think it is sensible.
at don’t want to see is raising nﬂation what we don’t want to see is raising inflation rates, rising interest es, go higher.
the bank and on the right thing.
have they done ight thing, emily, or have they far enough?
what we need to nderstand is whether it is the sort flation we had after the second orld when the economy started ain.
is this inflation caused by ovid, ficulties in the supply chain?
is it temporary, is it more mic than it was?
it is likely to global.
it is something we need ork across the world.
as the ank of england done the right ng?
probably.
the rate is not high.
if we want to tackle it have to work internationally and rstand the nature of inflation.
know at iain has a view that it neither of the two things i have gested, it is something else gain.
we need to have a better erstanding than we do at the oment.
we haven’t talked about it years because it has not been an sue?
--.
len?
iwould be lying if i said i understood the minutiae cal policy.
we are facing a cost of living crisis in the .
i had an e—mail yesterday to say my going up gas is going up to £200 a month.
i will defer to bigger brains.
iain?
sure about that!
the uthorities are in a difficult ition because they don’t quite now what is causing this inflation.
is broadly right move.
but their concern was, if there is rest rates, even by a small mount, you then hit the recovery, is already stalling.
if you which is already stalling.
if you look at wall street, there are some ains they’re betting on a big brains therre betting on a burst of inflation this year or next r, and then deflation if the year, and then shop deﬂation if the recovery stalls.
it is a difficult make.
there were some cells for it to happen ime around for it to happen last time around the bank of england made their sion.
they postponed it.
perhaps thought they wouldn’t do it today use of omicron.
are you surprised?
no, ithought had to something.
overnight, the ings have come out of the , the fed is predicting three or increases the next year.
so essentially, the consensus view central bankers and amongst authorities is that they have restimated the scale of this.
hey are going to have to move kly.
this is the start.
quickly.
this is just the start.
in historical context, it is still very have a