you can see more isobars on the chart for the north and west, so it’ going to be a breezy day for all, windy across the north—west, with more cloud around and showery bursts of rain, particularly across northern and western scotland, perhaps the far north-west of england, and thicker cloud for western wales and the far south—west.
the best of the sunshine, southern and eastern england.
like i mentioned, a breezy day for all but windier across the north—west.
that will impact the temperatures, the mid teens across northern and western scotland, but again in the sunshine further south it’ going to feel warm, low to mid twenties celsius.
now, for thursday, we’ve got low pressure again to the north—west, higher pressure to the south—east, so not much change.
i think the best of the brightness will be across southern and eastern areas, variable amounts of cloud, outbreaks of rain and stronger winds for western scotland and northern ireland close to the low pressure system.
but we are drawing air up from the south—west, so it’ a warm air mass.
temperatures range from around 20 to 25 degrees.
beyond that period, into the following weekend and the following week, high pressure wants to build in across the country, and that’ll keep these weather systems out at bay.
so if you look at the jet stream, you can see it’ veering to the north of the .
we will be on the warmer side of that jet as we end the week and head into the following weekend and the following week, and we’ll also see warmer air building in, particularly when high pressure establishes itself, bringing sunshine.
so it’ a fine and settled outlook for the end of the week and beyond, with increasing amounts of sunshine, light winds.
temperatures will also be creeping up.
that’ how it’ looking.
good times on iplayer.
oh—ho—ho!
your light’ going to shine bright and you’re going to meet so many wonderful people.
go, go, go!
boom!
this is the best day out ever.
now, that’ what i’ talking about.
we’re so excited.
surprise!
yeehah!
we’re young, we’re in love, we’re going to make it happen.
you were going to poison me?
yeah.
well, you were going to poison me.
well, no, i wasjust fantasising aboutpoisoning you.
what’ the difference?
the difference is the poisoning.
young people are our capital and while it’ my pleasure to congratulate you on this placement, the work to stay here starts now.
we both know wake up!
what you’re capable of.
we should probably nudge up to around 20 in glasgow as well for monday.
and then, the rest of the week, tuesday, wednesday and thursday will see the jet stream pushing low pressures and weather fronts mostly between scotland and iceland, but there isjust the chance that some of these weather systems will clip the very far north—west of the .
in the south, we will be closer to the high pressure, so basically, the further south you are, the better the weather will be in the week ahead.
further north, dry, generally, but always a bit more cloud.
that’ it from me.
bye— bye.
welcome to news — i’ lewis vaughanjones.
our top stories 7 finance ministers agree a deal — to make big tech companies pay more tax.
the post—pandemic world must be fairer.
especially with regard to international taxation.
a health boss says the coronavirus vaccines have "broken the chain" between infection and serious illness.
jamaica’ shelly—ann fraser—pryce becomes the second—fastest woman in history — with her 100 victory in kingston.
and an unfriendly farewell — a chorus of boos for the first cruise ship to leave venice since the pandemic started.
hello and welcome to the programme.
it’ being called an "historic agreement", that could see global governments make billions more in tax revenue.
the deal made by the 7 group of leading economies could shake—up the tax system for multinational companies, like big tech giants.
it could include a global minimum rate of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
amazon, google, and facebook have welcomed the move.
here’ our economics editor faisal islam.
multinational companies, especially the big tech giants, have become more powerful than some governments, especially in their ability to pay minimal tax bills.
today, the finance ministers of the seven leading economies, the 7, hit back with an historic deal brokered by the chancellor rishi sunak.
i’ delighted to announce that today after years of discussion, 7 finance ministers have reached a historic agreement to reform the global tax system, to make it fit for the global digital age but crucially to make sure it is fair, so that the right companies pay the right tax in the right places.
they agreed to the principle of a global minimum corporation tax of at least 15%.
as well as rules to make the largest companies with profits of more than 10% pay more tax in countries where sales are made, notjust where they declare their profits.
the had initially wanted a higher minimum rate of 21%.
what do you say to those campaigners who say 15% isn’ really going to be the transformative change?
we have yet to set the final rate.
there is an agreement amongst the 7, though, to go for at least 15%, and i do think that is an historic achievement.
foryears, campaigners and european finance ministers wanted this change but it was unthinkable, up until a few months ago.
it’ the pandemic that has changed things, requiring finance ministers around the world to have to fill coffers emptied by a year of lockdowns, but also a change in the american government, as well, creating a window of opportunity.
now, they need to get the rest of the world on board.
the proposals must now go to the wider 620 group including china, russia and brazil, and then the rest of the world.
the german finance minister hailed today as an important step, even if difficult conversations lay ahead with countries whose tax rates are below 15%.
i’ sure that the decision that has been made today will be very successful.
this is a train that has already started and anyone willjoin the train.
ireland’ rate of corporation tax is 12.
5%.
isn’ this notjust about a corporate tax rate but the end of a low tax business model for your country?
we will, even with an acknowledgement of the change that is coming, continue to have the kind of legitimate policies in place in ireland that deliver a competitive approach for ireland and allow us to grow and retain employment.
google and amazon have said they support the work being done to reform tax rules.
50 has facebook, which acknowledged it could end up paying more as a result.
this deal is a product of very different times.
an opportunity taken in a crisis by the world’ big seven.
the americans are also using this meeting to urge the rest of the world, despite worries about higher borrowing and rising inflation, to carry on pumping financial support into the recovery or risk undermining it.
faisal islam, news, at the 7.
earlier i spoke to stephaniejohnston, chief correspondent for tax notes today which is a news service for tax professionals.
i asked her how significant she thought this agreement is.
it sort of depends on who you ask.
landmark in the fact that countries are able, the seven largest economies are able to agree on something so major, but it’ not the final word, let’ just say this.
because, you know, this plan still needs to go to 139 countries for considerations, for further tweaks.
and then to the 620 finance ministers for them to agree this plan so still hoops to jump through, but how likely do you think something approximating what we’ve heard about today will actually come into force?
political agreement i think is very likelyjust because this project has gone on for so long and the issue and stakes are so high.
this problem, these problems that this agreement is trying to address have been going on for years and decades.
you know, countries agree a change is needed to the international tax corporation, to the international system.
multinationals also agree that change is needed and countries need a way to not only raise revenues, but also stabilise the tax system, which is very badly needed.
0, critics of this say it doesn’ go far enough, having this, for example, 15% minimum tax rate, it’sjust too low for some people?
right, that is a big sticking point, ithink.
but i think we also have to really recognise, take a step back and think, these are major corporations and major economies talking about global minimum taxation which is really unthinkable say a decade ago.
i started this job about ten years ago and to think that countries can even get to some agreement on the taxation regime and a reallocation of profits among countries, that was unthinkable decades ago.
i see it as a step toward a broader change.
that’ really good to hear, important to keep that context in mind.
and with that in mind still, there’ a lot of cynicism from people saying, actually, these big companies, they have an army of people behind them trying to find the most tax efficient arrangements for them and that will continue?
well, generally speaking, you can assume rules are meant to be, not broken, but bent.
i mean, i would guess that companies let’ just say, there will be plenty of work available for tax lawyers and tax journalists.
a health boss in england says the decision on easing restrictions on the 21st ofjune is finely balanced.
chris hopson warned that the delta variant, first discovered in india, is still spreading but he said vaccines appear to be breaking the link between coronavirus cases and serious illness.
our health correspondent naomi grimley reports.
it’ the big question of the summer.
can hospitals still cope with the numbers of people who will fall seriously ill with covid—19 before the full effects of mass vaccination are felt?
hospital admissions are well below the levels we saw in winter.
and today one of those representing health trusts appeared to strike an optimistic note.
it does look as though the vaccines have kind of broken the chain between catching covid—19 and potentially being very, very seriously ill and potentially dying.
bolton is the area hit hardest by covid’ more transmissible delta variant, first discovered in india.
looking at what’ happening in hospitals is a gauge to whether the in general will be able to cope.
this graph shows the number of covid patients in bolton’ hospitals over the last few months.
you can see there are high peaks in november and again in january and february.
in the last few weeks, the figures have been rising again but they are nothing like those earlier peaks.
but new case numbers are rising noticeably as we mix more and some experts fear the delta variant could take hold in groups which haven’ yet been fully vaccinated.
more mutations could be incorporated into the delta variant that could mean that vaccines are less effective and that’ really what we want to avoid.
the worst case scenario for us is a variant that is both more transmissible and resistant to vaccination.
opinions in the scientific community remains split.
perhaps the only thing everyone can agree on is that more data is needed.
naomi grimley, news.
the indian capital delhi has announced a gradual lifting of covid restrictions, weeks after being ravaged by a second wave.
markets and malls will partially reopen from monday.
despite the move, officials are still warning the country to prepare for a third wave of coronavirus.
the secretary general of the united nations, antonio guterres, has expressed outrage at the killing of a large number of civilians in burkina faso.
suspected jihadist militants struck the north—eastern village of solhan in the sahel region of the country.
132 people, including children — were killed when homes and a market were targeted.
burkina faso’ television announced the government’ decision to hold three days of national mourning.
islamist extremists have carried out a series of attacks in burkina faso and neighbouring countries in the sahel and more than 350,000 citizens have been forced from their homes in the past three years.
western diplomats in nigeria have expressed disappointment at the government’ decision to suspend twitter.
a joint statement from the , , britain, canada and ireland said the right to free expression and information was a pillar of democracy in nigeria.
the row started after twitter removed a tweet by nigeria’ president muhammadu buhari saying it breached the social media platform’ rules — the governemnt accuses the social media platform of undermining nigeria’ corporate existence.
mayeni jones reports.
on saturday morning, twitter users in nigeria woke up to find that they no longer had access to their accounts.
that’ using most mobile phone networks.
on wi—fi, you could still access the website and the hashtag "thank god for " has been trending, suggesting many users have managed to find a way to use the website by using virtual private networks.
the nigerian government had announced on friday that it had planned to suspend all of twitter’ activities in the country.
at the time it was unclear what they meant by that.
it seems they have now decided to block access to the website.
telecoms companies that operate in nigeria released a statement saying that they had received a directive from the government to suspend twitter and that they had complied, but they did say that they followed the united nations provisions on freedom of communication and that they agreed with those.
twitter users in nigeria have been very angry.
they say this is undemocratic.
nigeria is africa’ largest democracy and many see this as a step backwards for the country.
many also pointing out to the fact that president buhari was a military dictator in this country in the ‘805 and they see this latest move as a continuation of that legacy.
twitter has issued a statement, as they say they are deeply concerned by the suspension of their services in nigeria and say they will work towards reinstating a service for its users here.
there are about 150 million internet users in nigeria and according to the authorities here just over 60% of those use twitter, so it is a huge market for the social media company.
it will be really desperate to and rebuild relationships with the government.
for a little bit of context, this has happened because twitter deleted a post by president buhari earlier this week.
they said it breached its rules in that post.
many nigerian users flagged it because they felt it was a threat to a secessionist movement in the south—east of nigeria.
this is news — a reminder of the headlines: 7 finance ministers say their agreement to reform the global tax system will help end a ‘race to the bottom’ on taxation and help fund the economic recovery.
the head of providers in england says coronavirus vaccines appears to have broken the link between cases and serious illness.
a federaljudge has overturned california 5 32 year—old ban on assault weapons, calling it unconstitutional.
he 5 given the state thirty days to appeal against his decision.
california 5 governor condemned the ruling saying it is a direct threat to public safety.
robyn thomas, executive director of giffords law center to prevent gun violence, told us she expected the case may go to the supreme court.
i certainly expect that gun rights advocates, the gun lobby and the gun industry, who would love to be selling many more assault weapons to many more americans, would like it to go to the supreme court because they will do anything they can to convince people to buy these guns.
this is what drives a lot of the momentum behind this litigation, is the desire to sell more guns and to encourage americans that they need these very, very lethal weapons in order to be safe.
when in fact, having these kind of weapons on our streets endangers the safety, notjust of our communities, but of your own family.
many, many of these mass shootings that happen in our society happen because of unsecured assault weapons left in the home, like the sandy hook shooting.
let’ take a look at some of the other stories making the news kurdish officials in northern iraq say at least three people have been killed in a turkish air strike on a camp for displaced people.
: we are having some technical gremlins, so will bring you of the stories before we to our guest.
kurdish officials in northern iraq say at least three people have been killed in a turkish air strike on a camp for displaced people.
the strike on the makhmour camp, housing kurdish refugees from turkey, comes three days after president recep tayyip erdogan warned that turkey would "clean up" the camp, which it claims provides a haven for kurdish militants.
thousands of people have marched through budapest to protest against controversial plans to open a multi—million dollar chinese university campus in the hungarian capital.
they say the project will undercut the country’ own higher education, and increase the influence of china’ communist authorities.
the right—wing government of viktor orban has close ties with beijing.
now with just a month and a half before the olympics this summer, jamaica’ two—time olympic champion shelly—ann fraser—pryce has become the second—fastest woman in history, after running 100 injust 10.
63 seconds.
fraser—pryce beat the 10.
72 seconds run by sha’carri richardson earlier this year, and is second only to florence griffith—joyner who has held the world record since 1988.
johanna gretschel is a sports journalist and long—distance runner herself and joins me now from texas.
thank you for coming on the programme.
thank you so much aving me.
this seems like retty significant achievement, what do you make ?
incredible, 10.
63, we of it?
incredible, 10.
63, we haven’ seen a time like this arty 33 years and the in nearly 33 years and the fastest anyone has run this is .
72.
to take the year is 10.
72.
to take the leading time down by that much finitely something nobody saw coming.
itjust bodes ell.
given her age, how nexpected is this?
0, elly—ann is 3a years old, so a little ore advanced than a little bit more advanced than your typical elite athlete.
she of a larger trend where we are seeing women not being to continue their athletic reers nto their late 305.
something we haven’ ntioned yet
but i am sure we get to, she also recently a child a couple of years go and was already able to back from childbirth in 019 and when the world ampionships in the 100 has rom that and was able to ange her colloquial nickname the pocket rockets which is really short, she is feet tall, the mummy five feet tell, to the mummy rockets.
when women go through dbirth and are able to make hat jump back into athletic ness, are also able to fitness, they are also able to gain some unprecedented letic gains and inner trength that wasn’ there fore.
at 3a, she is a bit ore vanced in age than your typical elite athlete, but i think it is a larger trend that see, especially at this we will see, especially at this olympic games, because it was yed for a year because of the pandemic so many athletes uld have retired last year been able to stay in the me and prolong the career.
ust brieﬂy, what are her chances?
shelly—ann is the urite.
there has been talk favourite.
there has been talk about the young american, ’carri richardson, who came out blazing year.
10.
63, out blazing this year.
10.
63, shelly-ann is definitely enting her status as the avour.
thank you so much, eat to have you on.
thank ou.
dozens of people are facing fines for taking beach sand and shells from the italian island of sardinia — where it’ illegal to remove the island’ natural resources.
authorities there say the investigation is ongoing — so far, 41 people are facing fines of up to 3,600 dollars each.
our news reporter courtney bembridge has the details.
they are looking for tourists who may be unwittingly or on purpose ﬂouting these local laws which restrict people taking pebbles from the beach, any beach sand.
sardinia is famous for its pristine, white sand and people have been taking it away.
each summer they put this operation in place to stop this practice and stop people taking it home with them.
are people taking sand from a beach.
you may remember holidays, that thing we used to do?
people want a souvenir of these trips are what they would do is finish an empty water bottle, fill it up with sand.
customs officials are finding —rays to find these things in luggage.
there was one french couple in 2019, they were found that a0 kilograms of sand in the back of their car.
they said they had no idea it was illegal, but they were facing a penalty at the time of up to six years in jail.
dollars and 41 people have been caught in this latest operation and they are trawlling the website where the bottles of sand are getting high prices.
i can understand it is one thing taking a bit of sand, i don’ know you would do it, but you take it to remind yourself of a holiday, but you will saying there is a market for the sand?
yes, there is a market online and the authorities are saying you are getting very high prices for the sand.
my guess when you outlaw something its value increases.
there is a black market for sand, pebbles and rocks.
but the locals are sick of it and they have been complaining for years that the beaches are being degraded by this practice and they have set up their own system where they get this sand and once it has been confiscated from taurus, they return it to the specific beach came from.
so they are using a facebook group called sardinia robbed and plundered.
a cruise ship has left venice — the first to do so since the coronavirus pandemic began.
while people are keen to get back to normality, not everyone was happy about the ship entering that you canal.
rachel stanton reports.
"no big ships".
that is what is on the flags being raised here in venice.
people have taken to the streets and waters, as they are concerned about the impact ships have on the historic city.
back in march this year, italy’ government said cruise ships would no longer sail past venice’ mark’ square and the dock in the historic centre, but would instead be diverted to the city’ industrial port.
however, the infrastructure is not yet in place for this to happen.
this is the orchestra.
it’ set to cruise around the mediterranean with about 650 passengers.
but residents in venice have been urging the government to ban large ships from the lagoon over safety and environmental concerns.
the reason we are here is because we are citizens of venice and we are against this passage, but we are also against this type of tourism model that is destroying the city and is pushing out residents and people that want to live here.
a rival protest also took place in support of the resumption of the tourist season.
many have suffered financially as well as losing their livelihoods.
in the last two decades, the picturesque city has become one of the world’ most important cruise destinations, and people are keen for things to get back on track.
venice is a home port.
this is where many itineraries begin or end, and this means two things, first that the economic impact in venice is huge.
the other thing is that, well, basically, there is a risk that if venice is taken off the itineraries, all of the adriatic will suffer the consequences of this, so
yeah, it would be a huge impact.
the battle to stop large vessels from being in these waters is far from over.
the government said it is organising bids for a rival alternative outside the lagoon, relieving the traffic through venice.
it’ reaching that time in the bulletin where we take the opportunity to show you pictures of some cute animals.
this time the animals in question are five wolf cubs — who made their public debut at a zoo in mexico city.
the cubs, who are said to be in good health, are part of a breeding programme that’ kept the species alive.
a reminder of our top story.
there’ been a mixed reaction to a landmark deal reached by the 7 group of advanced economies to make multinational companies pay more tax in the countries where they do business.
finance ministers, meeting in london, agreed to a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%.
facebook said it wanted the reform to succeed, even if it pays more tax.
amazon also welcomed the move.
i will be back with the headlines in a couple of utes.
plenty online.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @lvaughanjones lam i am lewis vaughan—jones and this is news.
hello.
the weather on sunday is going to be a little hit and miss, particularly across england.
you are likely to have a lot more cloud around compared to saturday and there will be a few showers around, too.
but across scotland and northern ireland i think it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
now on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
it’ a weak weather front, it’ actuallyjoining a big area of low pressure to the north but that will bring some showers to parts of wales and england from morning onwards.
so this is what it looks like through the early hours, you can see some rain affecting parts of devon, dorset into wales and the midlands, a stray shower in the north of scotland.
but generally speaking, it’ a clear night in scotland, northern ireland, probably the lake district as well.
but many of us in england and wales will be waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that through the afternoon as well.
but i think the biggest chance of catching some heavier showers further south into the midlands, but also around wales and east anglia.
the best of the weather on sunday northern ireland, scotland, the lake district should be fine, but modest highs here, 16 to 18.
in the south, despite the cloud and the showers will still manage around 21 also in london.
this is news, the headlines the 7 group of advanced economies have reached a deal to make multinational companies pay more tax in the countries where they do business.
finance ministers meeting in london agreed to a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
a senior official says the vaccination programme appears to have broken the link between cases of covid—19 and serious illness or death.
the head of providers says people in hospital with the delta variant of coronavirus are significantly younger — which puts less strain on critical care.
the nigerian government has defended its decision to suspend twitter — saying the social media platform had been used to spread misinformation that had violent consequences.
a joint statement from the , the , britain, canada and ireland said the right to free expression was a pillar of democracy.
now on news it’ dateline london.
hello and welcome to dateline london.
this week we are asking should the unlock from covid restrictions or not?
should the rich nations provide excess vaccines to poorer countries, and what can we expect from forthcoming global summits?
the 7 here in the and president biden and vladimir putin meeting in geneva.
joining me we have got thomas and stephanie.
and joining me here in studio is the ’ esteemed health editor hugh pym.
welcome to you all.
freedom from 0vid restrictions in england onjune 21, that is what borisjohnson is hoping will still happen.
scientists fear another wave despite the success of the ’ vaccination programme.
let’ start off with you hugh.
june the 21st, will restrictions be lifted in england?
borisjohnson says, you know, the data is looking pretty good but actually, a lot of the figures are going in the wrong direction at the moment.
yes, i think this one will go right to the wire, possibly up until the 14th ofjune because the government has made it clear that, for england, a week’ notice will be given of any lifting of restrictions planned for the 21st.
the first possible date.
but they will be watching data throughout the week leading up is not looking quite as bright as it might have been and of course, all of the ’ four nations are looking very closely at all the stats because they are making decisions themselves throughout the about to when to lift restrictions in different ways.
suggests quite a big increase in the week leading up to may the 29th, that is based on community infections picked up by the office for national statistics, and the daily reported case numbers which are just people who have gone for testing.
that actually shows a pretty big increase as well.
more than 6000 in the for the first time since the end of march.
but what the ministers and officials have to do making these decisions is to say, yes, we expected cases to go up because we opened up a bit in may.
how many people are actually going to hospital?
how many, sadly, don’ survive?
how effective is the vaccine, actually, in this situation?
of course, we have got this delta variant first identified in india which we now know is more transmissible and is increasing cases and is actually now the dominant variant in the .
it has been described as a race between the vaccine and the variant but there are some people saying, actually, a huge proportion of adults in the have now been vaccinated and rich countries should start giving away their access vaccines to the poorer countries.
we have heard from nepal and other countries pleading for more vaccines because they are so short of them.
the argument in the in the different nations is you do need to get down to the 30—year—olds and below that to those aged over 18 because there is still a vulnerability to getting sick and then transmitting quite a lot of cases amongst lower age groups who haven’ been vaccinated so they could spread it to the vulnerable who had not been vaccinated who are older.
in other words, you do need to push on with the vaccine programme here.
but is contested by some who say that once you get under people in their 205 you need to prioritise maybe sending vaccines to other countries more in need so it is quite delicately poised debate.
the argument in the is that the oxford astrazeneca vaccine, developed in the and has been provided at cost only, not profit.
that is part of the ’ contribution, they argue, to the global effort.
stephanie, do you think the richer nations should be doing more and giving away more of their vaccines?
they all talk about, we are not vaccinated until the whole world is vaccinated but on the whole day seem to be wanting to vaccinate their adult population first before they give away too much more.
no, absolutely.
i think wealthy countries with advanced vaccination programmes are in a position to start sharing a lot more doses than they have so far.
i mean, in the there are now vaccinating 12—year—olds where in low—income countries i think less than 1% of people have gotten one dose.
the fact of the matter is, you know, we have seen the virus, you know, surge in places with low vaccination with very little access to vaccines.
take argentina, nepal, thailand and, you know, so far the has promised to provide about 25 million doses, sharing most of the global alliance called covax which was set up last year to provide vaccines to low—income countries and so far it is way behind on its targets.
it is about 190 million doses short of where it was hoping to be by the end ofjune and it is kind of outmanoeuvred and outbid by wealthy countries that have blocked up vaccine supplies with bilateral deals with the most promising vaccine developers but the reality is the in particular, i would say, is in a position to be sharing more doses than it is.
at the current rate it is going, i think it is delivering about 70 million doses more than has been administered so they are really looking at a glut in vaccine supply and, you know, i think for each country should be realising it is in their self interest now to be sharing this vaccines more widely in order to contain the virus as well as slow the spread of these variants that are developing and seem to be boomeranging back to rich countries.
thomas, i mean, some people watching this might say charity begins at home, vaccination begins at home.
we need to look after our own country first before we look after the rest of the world.
welcome i don’ want to
but i will admit that this new pandemic that hit the world globally at a moment when nobody was prepared for it and as you say, all these governments are elected into power by the electorate, have to mind and consider their own population.
but at the same time they also have to be understanding of the fact that you don’ save your own country and population if you don’ make sure that the rest of the world will participate in the general saving effort
and so we have learned, all the while, and, yes, i agree with you, you have to mind the store, your own store.
you have to be generous, as it were, to your own population.
to show that you care for them
but you also have to educate everyone in your own country, that you cannot buy safety by isolating yourself against the rest of the world.
this is a global pandemic and if there is a future pandemic of this kind hopefully we will all learn from it and we will start right from the beginning to spread the available medicine and help in as wide a way as possible.
we have learned that from what we have experienced in the last 18 months.
the question, this issue about, you know, should the richer countries he vaccinating their children?
it is now becoming possible.
when adults in some of the poorer countries around the world hath not been vaccinated.
this is becoming a key question, isn’ it?
welcome it is.
certainly on the back of news that the medical regulators given the go—ahead and said it is safe to vaccinate children under 12 and over following the for europe has also given the green light to that and in the the , and in fact, the has started vaccinating children aged 12 or over and it is planned in france as well.
it is not definitely going to go ahead in the .
thejcvi, the expert committee on vaccinations which advises the government will give a view on whether it should happen.
no doubt some of these ethical issues will come into play.
it has been indicated by ministers that there is enough pfizer to go through to 12—year—olds and over.
children certainly don’ get seriously ill based on the data but they can transmit it to communities and therefore you would want to vaccinate but it is a delicate issue.
the and france with a lot lower levels of uptake, then there is more of an argument for getting the vaccine into children.
but certainly, it is a very topical issue right now, as you say.
some of these richer countries do have huge stockpiles of vaccines.
the has millions and millions.
either in its hands or on order.
yes, i think that that the vaccines currently being used in the , a lot was ordered and also johnson and johnson, the doses which are due to come through there.
the single—dose vaccine.
and others which have not yet been formally approved and the argument of british ministers is, well, we moved quickly to secure these and we do need to act for the benefit of taxpayers but it is certainly leaving governments like that open to suggestion, you have ordered far too many, can you not release some at this stage?
thank you for that.
later this month there are two important summit meetings coming up.
the first is the 7 and it is being hosted here in the and in fact, i will be in cornwall covering that for news next weekend.
the second is the first face—to—face meeting between presidentjoe biden and russia’ vladimir putin in geneva.
thomas, it is summit season.
sketch out for us what you think will be the importance of those two summits.
it is a pretty tall order to be summarising the summits in such a short time.
let me start with a second one.
the dialogue, as it were, between president biden and president putin.
i am reminded of what happened exactly 60 years ago injune 1961 when kennedy and khrushchev met and it was decided to be a summit where the mettle of the young american president was tested.
will putin do the same?
i hope not.
biden is the most experienced politician in america at the moment and he does not need the russian president trying to find him out so they are having to work for a stable relationship.
the problem with russia is, the main bone of contention is ukraine.
a democratic hopefully western country which russia cannot accept close in the proximity.
they consider ukraine to be a threat to their own authoritarian rule.
that is president putin has leaned on this other dictator in his neighbourhood in belarus, lukashenko.
and supported him an air piracy where plane was forced down and a belarus dissident was apprehended and so forth.
such events cannot be tolerated and we need to unite to make sure that won’ happen, but on the other hand there is a mixed signal coming from the biden administration.
he shown himself willing to reconsider some of the approaches towards russia.
for example, he has waived sanctions against the company which built in germany the gas pipeline which was a very big issue in the beginning of the biden presidency.
and so that has been moved off the table of opposition, and their meeting, which is a way to recognise russia as an important ally, and they can talk about common problems like covid, probably even the middle east and other issues the world over.
so there is a reason for trying to work a relationship.
now, that said, lam not very hopeful it will happen straightaway.
earlier president biden was asked in an interview, do you think that president putin is a killer and he said yes.
and when they met for the first time ten years ago when they were both vice president at the time biden looked into the eyes of putin and said, i don’ think you have a soul.
so there is no real sort of national rapprochement between them and no natural understanding.
and they will have to work on it to to mediate.
the ukraine issue, as i said before, is a difficult one for putin who cannot accept a democratic western country in the neighbourhood that threatens his own authoritarian rule.
it seems to be an intractable situation and we will need to wait and see what comes of it.
now, in cornwall, it is an equally intractable event because the several issues which are on the table, each of them takes a whole conference to solve.
there is the question of global trade.
britain is very much in the forefront, as a global nation, now having left the , to want to expand trade relations with the world and they also want to work on taxing big tech companies which so far has been a bone of contention but overall, which will absolutely outshine all these other issues will be the issue of how to deal with another global pandemic if the world is hit by it.
we are coming together here at an important moment
and i said before the world at large has to recognise this as a global problem.
we have to forget all our own individual nations which we have to serve.
we have to think globally.
gordon brown has published a new book, seven ways of saving the world, and he said how shocked he was that global cooperation was lacking in the beginning of the pandemic when isolationism ruled supreme.
so the cornwall gathering will have to unite behind a common approach to global pandemics.
stephanie, let me ask you how important is a lot this for joe biden, do you think?
it is his first overseas trip as president and, you know, some people are saying, actually, he should not be seeing putin at all.
he is rewarding putin by even having that face—to—face meeting with him.
yes, absolutely.
many are questioning what he is hoping to achieve by meeting him.
for putin the meeting itself is a victory.
it signals his acceptance on the global stage, you know, and as thomas pointed out there is no love lost between the two of them.
there is no personal chemistry, you know, and there is a very long list of issues that biden will no doubt raise and admonish putin for.
everything from the poisoning and jailing of the russian opposition activist, navalny, the spate of cyber attacks that have happened in the emanating from hackers in russia.
now, we don’ know to what extent that is sanctioned by the russian government but that is certainly another bone of contention between the two
but, you know, i think it kind of reflects biden’ worldview that he kind of want to engage with adversaries in the hopes of trying to, diplomatically, so to speak, as a way of trying to find some common ground, figure out whether you can get certain issues forward
and i think some of issues will be perhaps iran’ nuclear programme where there are perhaps shared interests.
possibly a new arms control treaty, syria, what have you.
so there is a long list of things that they do need to discuss.
all i can say is it will certainly be a very different summit to the one in 2018 between trump and putin which was, as you may remember, a disaster.
trump was trying to curry favour with putin, said he believed him when he said that russia had nothing to do with election meddling in 2016.
and it was by and large seen as an embarrassment.
you know, so this will have a very different tone to it and we will wait to see how much of the sort of clash that might happen behind the scenes we get a view on the kind of joint statement that they might put together at the end.
let me just ask you about the 7 summit in cornwall because the pandemic of course is going to feature very heavily.
and it is a chance, really, for more co—operation between the big nations of the world.
yes, and as we have been hearing, calls are coming in from diplomats and former leaders and others putting pressure on the 7 to really come up with a big financial contribution to vaccine roll—outs in developing nations.
gordon brown, the former british prime minister been one of them.
saying that the 7 collectively has got the firepower to make much bigger contribution at the moment financially.
the health ministers have been meeting in oxford.
they’ve come out with a communique, one bit of which includes a push to speed up and harmonise drug development so that drug trials can happen a lot more quickly and there are standards for doing it but there’ one thing learned in this pandemic is the normal rather ponderous way that drugs are approved had to be thrown out of the window to get to treatments and vaccines to the patient as quickly as possible and then there are moves to boost international agreements on certification so that vaccine passports and certificates could be more easily available.
but of course this is all talk at the moment.
whether any action follows is another matter.
we are talking about talking.
0.
before we go i want to ask each of you to tell us something that has caught your eye, maybe a story or event we ought to be covering.
let’ start with you thomas.
there happen a number of cases lately of compatriots of mine in germany and other citizens who came to heathrow airport and had problems being accepted by the border force either as some of them who had settled status and were allowed to in britain but the documents were not recognising they had to be verified, and others who thought they wanted to to work and the borderforce said no, this is not possible and they were put in detention.
and straightaway asked back home.
there is been a general sort of breakdown in good spirits and good vibes, as it were, between the forces that be at the border and visitors.
i think all these problems are causing a lot of reputational damage to britain in europe because these stories about what you envisage and what you experience when you to enter britain, they spread like fire, they are all over the media in europe and they lead to an increased ill will towards britain
and i think we need to study what happens at the british border and whether or not a new sense of xenophobia is taking hold of those officials and we need to really fight it tooth and nail to not allow this to happen.
thank you for that.
stephanie, what has caught your eye?
well, you know, two cases of pro—democracy activists being arrested, i think i would love to highlight.
one, obviously, today is the anniversary of tiananmen square massacre and a pro—democracy activist was detained.
can i pronounce her name right?
just a very sad moment.
and in belarus i think we have moved on and forgotten about the activist who remains injail and he appeared in a one—hour interview in belarus where he pledged his support for the belarusian president and, you know, confessed to alleged crimes and some of his supporters noted that, you know, he had marks on his wrist which indicated that, you know, he had been tortured.
so here you have a case of two pro—democracy activists, you know, campaigning against authoritarian regimes who are now sitting in prison and it is just a sad state of the world that, you know, they are just two of many other activists in similar situations.
you think the world, the democratic world, if you like, does enough?
there have been a lot of protests and strong words about those things that you are talking about but is there enough action?
well, you know, not enough.
we are confronting these authoritarian regimes that are routinelyjailing, you know, activists.
and it pops up in the news and then we forget about it, which is i wanted to highlight the plight of the activist in belarus because it is easy to move on in the cycle and forget that these people are still sitting injail.
so i don’ actually think there was another that is done and not enough attention paid to these cases.
and they are multiplying.
a quick one to you, thomas.
do you think that the democratic world, if you want to call it that, is doing enough on these things?
whatever you do in these instances you are actually hitting against a stone wall.
these authoritarian regimes, dictatorships, don’ we call them by their proper names?
will absolutely fight it and move it off the table and not care a single iota about whatever protest we put forward.
if you want to go further and punish those regimes by sanctions you have a problem in your own country.
will sanctions hurt our own interest?
economic and otherwise?
there is a limit to what we can do if countries behave in a dictatorial sense and reign supreme over the freedom of their subjects.
that is a very hard nut to crack.
a minute to tell you what has caught your eye.
long covid.
the that can persist for many, many months after somebody has had the virus.
figures from the say a million people report long coated and a big increase in people who have had them for more than a year.
i interviewed a woman of 26 studying for a and keen on outdoor activities like mountaineering and canoeing anti—said all of that had to change.
it had totally changed her life and her message to other 20 year olds and anyone else who has not had and who is eligible, long covid is a very nasty long lasting condition which there is no cure or remedy at the moment.
thank you very much indeed.
that is it for this week.
my thanks to thomas, stephanie and hugh here in the studio and of course, thanks to you very much for watching.
as i mentioned, i will be in cornwall next week for the 7 summit.
looking forward to little english sunshine on the coast.
shaun will be here next week same time, same place.
hello.
the weather on sunday is going to be a little hit and miss, particularly across england.
you are likely to have a lot more cloud around compared to saturday and there will be a few showers around, too.
but across scotland and northern ireland i think it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
now on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
it’ a weak weather front, it’ actuallyjoining a big area of low pressure to the north but that will bring some showers to parts of wales and england from morning onwards.
so this is what it looks like through the early hours, you can see some rain affecting parts of devon, dorset into wales and the midlands, a stray shower in the north of scotland.
but generally speaking, it’ a clear night in scotland, northern ireland, probably the lake district as well.
but many of us in england and wales will be waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that through the afternoon as well.
but i think the biggest chance of catching some heavier showers further south into the midlands, but also around wales and east anglia.
the best of the weather on sunday — northern ireland, scotland, the lake district should be fine, but modest highs here, 16 to 18.
in the south, despite the cloud and the showers we’ll still manage around 21 also in london.
you can see, there’ the clock, 8pm, 9pm, still some showers around in the evening across parts of england and wales.
so not a completely day but with a bit of luck you’ll have prolonged sunny spells rather than the heavy showers.
on monday, also likely to be some showers around, particularly across northern and eastern areas of the .
so the best of the weather, although a little bit hazy at times out towards the west, i think.
but decent enough, temperatures around 22 in london, 20 in liverpool and should probably nudge up to around 20 in glasgow as well for monday.
and then the rest of the week, tuesday, wednesday and thursday we’ll see the jet stream pushing low pressures and weather fronts and mostly between scotland and iceland, but there is just the chance that some of these weather and the south will be closer to the high pressure, so basically the further south you are, the better the weather will be in the week ahead.
further north, generally but always a bit more cloud.
that’ it from me, bye—bye.
hello and welcome to news.
it’ being hailed as a "historic agreement", that could see global governments make billions more in tax revenue.
the deal made by the 7 group of leading economies could shake—up the tax system for multinational companies, like big tech giants.
it could include a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
tech companies google and facebook have welcomed the move.
our economics editor faisal islam reports.
multinational companies, especially the big tech giants, have become more powerful than some governments, especially in their ability to pay minimal tax bills.
today, the finance ministers of the seven leading economies, the 7, hit back with an historic deal brokered by the chancellor rishi sunak.
i’ delighted to announce that today after years of discussion, 7 finance ministers have reached a historic agreement to reform the global tax system, to make it fit for the global digital age but crucially to make sure it is fair, so that the right companies pay the right tax in the right places.
they agreed to the principle of a global minimum corporation tax of at least 15%.
as well as rules to make the largest companies with profits of more than 10% pay more tax in countries where sales are made, notjust where they declare their profits.
the had initially wanted a higher minimum rate of 21%.
what do you say to those campaigners who say 15% isn’ really going to be the transformative change?
we have yet to set the final rate.
there is an agreement amongst the 7, though, to go for at least 15%, and i do think that is an historic achievement.
foryears, campaigners and european finance ministers wanted this change but it was unthinkable, up until a few months ago.
it’ the pandemic that has changed things, requiring finance ministers around the world to have to fill coffers emptied by a year of lockdowns, but also a change in the american government, as well, creating a window of opportunity.
now, they need to get the rest of the world on board.
the proposals must now go to the wider 620 group including china, russia and brazil, and then the rest of the world.
the german finance minister hailed today as an important step, even if difficult conversations lay ahead with countries whose tax rates are below 15%.
i’ sure that the decision that has been made today will be very successful.
this is a train that has already started and anyone willjoin the train.
ireland’ rate of corporation tax is 12.
5%.
isn’ this notjust about a corporate tax rate but the end of a low tax business model for your country?
we will, even with an acknowledgement of the change that is coming, continue to have the kind of legitimate policies in place in ireland that deliver a competitive approach for ireland and allow us to grow and retain employment.
google and amazon have said they support the work being done to reform tax rules.
50 has facebook, which acknowledged it could end up paying more as a result.
this deal is a product of very different times.
an opportunity taken in a crisis by the world’ big seven.
the americans are also using this meeting to urge the rest of the world, despite worries about higher borrowing and rising inflation, to carry on pumping financial support into the recovery or risk undermining it.
faisal islam, news, at the 7.
let 5 get some of the day 5 other news.
secretary—general, antonio guterres, has expressed outrage at a suspected jihadist militant attack in burkina faso.
at least 132 people have been killed in the north—eastern village of solhan in the sahel region of the country.
three days of mourning have been announced.
the president of salvador has told atendees at the bitcoin 2021 conference in florida that he’ll make the currency legal tender in his country alongside the dollar.
if congress backs his proposal, salvador would become the first country in the world to formally adopt bitcoin.
thousands of people have marched through budapest to protest against controversial plans to open a multi—million dollar chinese university campus in the hungarian capital.
they say the project will undercut the country’ own higher education, and increase the influence of china’ communist authorities.
the right—wing government of viktor orban has close ties with beijing.
: we pause to say goodbye to viewers watching around the , but in the former president donald trump has returned to the stage to address the republican faithful, for his first speech in several months as he considers a new presidential run in 202a.
organisers at the convention of north carolina’ republican party said the event was a sell—out, with all 1250 tickets sold.
although trump has been cut off from social networks, many republicans still see him as a valuable asset ahead of midterm elections next year.
it’ a disgrace what’ happening to our country.
the survival of america depends on our ability to elect republicans at every level, starting with the midterms next year.
we have to get it done.
we have no choice, actually.
the head of providers, which represents english trusts — says the decision on easing restrictions in england on the 2lst ofjune is finely balanced.
chris hopson warned that the delta variant, first discovered in india, was still spreading but he said vaccines appear to be breaking the link between coronavirus cases and serious illness.
our health correspondent naomi grimley reports.
it’ the big question of the summer.
can hospitals still cope with the numbers of people who will fall seriously ill with covid—19 before the full effects of mass vaccination are felt?
hospital admissions are well below the levels we saw in winter.
and today one of those representing health trusts appeared to strike an optimistic note.
it does look as though the vaccines have kind of broken the chain between catching covid—19 and potentially being very, very seriously ill and potentially dying.
bolton is the area hit hardest by covid’ more transmissible delta variant, first discovered in india.
looking at what’ happening in hospitals is a gauge to whether the in general will be able to cope.
this graph shows the number of covid patients in bolton’ hospitals over the last few months.
you can see there are high peaks in november and again in january and february.
in the last few weeks, the figures have been rising again but they are nothing like those earlier peaks.
but new case numbers are rising noticeably as we mix more and some experts fear the delta variant could take hold in groups which haven’ yet been fully vaccinated.
more mutations could be incorporated into the delta variant that could mean that vaccines are less effective and that’ really what we want to avoid.
the worst case scenario for us is a variant that is both more transmissible and resistant to vaccination.
opinions in the scientific community remains split.
in the end the decision whether to loosen restrictions further olitical one.
opinions in the scientific community remains split.
perhaps the only thing everyone can agree on is that more data is needed.
naomi grimley, news.
the latest government figures show there were 5,765 new coronavirus infections and 13 deaths, in the latest 24—hour period.
on average the number of new cases reported per day in the last week, was 4,485.
in the vaccine roll—out over 174,000 people have received a first vaccine dose in the last 2a hours.
in total, more than 40.
1 million people have now had theirfirstjab.
that’ 76.
2% of the adult population.
over 360,000 people had their second dose in the past 2a hours, meaning more than 27.
1 million people have had both doses.
that’ 51.
6% of the adult population.
coronavirus restrictions have eased for millions of people in scotland.
glasgow has moved down to level two, which means people can meet in each other’ homes, in limited numbers, and drink alcohol in pubs and restaurants for the first time in almost nine months.
but a planned relaxation across some other parts of the country has been delayed.
alexandra mackenzie reports.
restrictions in glasgow have been eased.
life is beginning to lookjust a little bit more normal.
as the city moves to level two, it’ the first time this new bar has been allowed to serve alcohol inside.
so far it’ been good.
a lot of happy faces, obviously, people getting out and about, and i think there is starting to be a weight off people’ shoulders.
cinemas also reopened in glasgow today.
they had already opened in the rest of scotland.
this new one in the city centre welcomed its first customers.
it’ really exciting for us as a family.
we really enjoy going to the cinema.
we are going to see cruella and i’ really excited to go back to the cinema again.
we can go and socialise with our friends who we feel like we haven’ seen in ages, as well.
and we’ve just found out we’re having a baby
so we get to share that news, as well!
but the number of cases of coronavirus in scotland has been rising, they’ve more than tripled in the last month.
the first minister has described the situation as "fragile" and is encouraging people to remain cautious.
because of this, some easing has been put on pause.
places, including edinburgh and dundee, had hoped to have more restrictions lifted, but instead, for now, those remain in place.
in glasgow, people are making the most of life with fewer restrictions, but fear there is still some way to go before they can celebrate the end of the covid pandemic.
alexandra mackenzie, news, glasgow.
western diplomats in nigeria have expressed disappointment at the government’ decision to suspend twitter.
a joint statement from the , , britain, canada and ireland said the right to free expression and information was a pillar of democracy in nigeria.
the row started after twitter removed a tweet by nigeria’ president muhammadu buhari saying it breached the social media platform’ rules — the governemnt accuses the social media platform of undermining nigeria’ corporate existence.
" mayenijones reports.
on saturday morning, twitter users in nigeria woke up to find that they no longer had access to their accounts.
that’ using most mobile phone networks.
on wi—fi, you could still access the website and the hashtag "thank god for " has been trending, suggesting many users have managed to find a way to use the website by using virtual private networks.
the nigerian government had announced on friday that it had planned to suspend all of twitter’ activities in the country.
at the time it was unclear what they meant by that.
it seems they have now decided to block access to the website.
telecoms companies that operate in nigeria released a statement saying that they had received a directive from the government to suspend twitter and that they had complied, but they did say that they followed the united nations provisions on freedom of communication and that they agreed with those.
twitter users in nigeria have been very angry.
they say this is undemocratic.
nigeria is africa’ largest democracy and many see this as a step backwards for the country.
many also pointing out to the fact that president buhari was a military dictator in this country in the ‘805 and they see this latest move as a continuation of that legacy.
twitter has issued a statement, as they say they are deeply concerned by the suspension of their services in nigeria and say they will work towards reinstating a service for its users here.
there are about 150 million internet users in nigeria and according to the authorities here just over 60% of those use twitter, so it is a huge market for the social media company.
it will be really desperate to and rebuild relationships with the government.
for a little bit of context, this has happened because twitter deleted a post by president buhari earlier this week.
they said it breached its rules in that post.
many nigerian users flagged it because they felt it was a threat to a secessionist movement in the south—east of nigeria.
this is news, the headlines: 7 finance ministers say their agreement to reform the global tax system will help end a ‘race to the bottom’ on taxation and help fund the economic recovery.
the head of providers in england says coronavirus vaccines appears to have broken the link between cases and serious illness.
a federaljudge has overturned california 5 32—year—old ban on assault weapons, calling it unconstitutional.
he 5 given the state 30 days to appeal.
california 5 governor condemned the ruling saying it is a direct threat to public safety.
robyn thomas, executive director of giffords law center to prevent gun violence, told us the case may go to the supreme court.
i certainly expect that gun rights advocates, the gun lobby and the gun industry, who would love to be selling many more assault weapons to many more americans, would like it to go to the supreme court because they will do anything they can to convince people to buy these guns.
this is what drives a lot of the momentum behind this litigation, is the desire to sell more guns and to encourage americans that they need these very, very lethal weapons in order to be safe.
when in fact, having these kind of weapons on our streets endangers the safety, notjust of our communities, but of your own family.
many, many of these mass shootings that happen in our society happen because of unsecured assault weapons left in the home, like the sandy hook shooting.
dozens of people are facing fines for taking beach sand and shells from the italian island of sardinia — where it’ illegal to remove the island’ natural resources.
authorities there say the investigation is ongoing — so far, 41 people are facing fines of up to 3,600 dollars each.
our news reporter courtney bembridge has the details.
they are looking for tourists who may be unwittingly or on purpose ﬂouting these local laws which restrict people taking pebbles from the beach, any beach sand.
sardinia is famous for its pristine, white sand and people have been taking it away.
each summer they put this operation in place to stop this practice and stop people taking it home with them.
are people taking sand from a beach?
you may remember holidays, that thing we used to do?
people want a souvenir of these trips are what they would do is finish an empty water bottle, fill it up with sand.
customs officials are finding —rays to find these things in luggage.
there was one french couple in 2019, they were found that a0 kilograms of sand in the back of their car.
they said they had no idea it was illegal, but they were facing a penalty at the time of up to six years in jail.
dollars and 41 people have been caught in this latest operation and they are trawlling the website where the bottles of sand are getting high prices.
i can understand it is one thing taking a bit of sand, i don’ know you would do it, but you take it to remind yourself of a holiday, but you will saying there is a market for the sand?
yes, there is a market online and the authorities are saying you are getting very high prices for the sand.
my guess when you outlaw something its value increases.
there is a black market for sand, pebbles and rocks.
but the locals are sick of it and they have been complaining for years that the beaches are being degraded by this practice and they have set up their own system where they get this sand and once it has been confiscated from taurus, they return it to the specific beach came from.
hey return it to the so they are using a facebook group called sardinia robbed and plundered.
a cruise ship has left venice — the first to do so since the coronavirus pandemic began.
while people are keen to get back to normality, not everyone was happy about the ship entering the giudecca canal.
rachel stanton reports.
"no big ships".
that is what is on the flags being raised here in venice.
people have taken to the streets and waters, as they are concerned about the impact ships have on the historic city.
back in march this year, italy’ government said cruise ships would no longer sail past venice’ mark’ square and the dock in the historic centre, but would instead be diverted to the city’ industrial port.
however, the infrastructure is not yet in place for this to happen.
this is the orchestra.
it’ set to cruise around the mediterranean with about 650 passengers.
but residents in venice have been urging the government to ban large ships from the lagoon over safety and environmental concerns.
the reason we are here is because we are citizens of venice and we are against this passage, but we are also against this type of tourism model that is destroying the city and is pushing out residents and people that want to live here.
a rival protest also took place in support of the resumption of the tourist season.
many have suffered financially as well as losing their livelihoods.
in the last two decades, the picturesque city has become one of the world’ most important cruise destinations, and people are keen for things to get back on track.
venice is a home port.
this is where many itineraries begin or end, and this means two things, first that the economic impact in venice is huge.
the other thing is that, well, basically, there is a risk that if venice is taken off the itineraries, all of the adriatic will suffer the consequences of this, so
yeah, it would be a huge impact.
the battle to stop large vessels from being in these waters is far from over.
the government said it is organising bids for a viable alternative outside the lagoon, relieving the traffic through venice.
now with just a month and a half before the olympics this summer, jamaica’ two—time olympic champion shelly—ann fraser—pryce has become the second—fastest woman in history, after running 100 injust 10.
63 seconds.
fraser—pryce beat the 10.
72 seconds run by sha’carri richardson earlier this year, and is second only to florence griffith—joyner who has held the world record since 1988.
johanna gretschel is a sports journalist in texas and long—distance runner herself — she gave me her reaction to frances—pryce’ feat.
incredible, 10.
63, we haven’ seen a time like this in nearly 33 years and the fastest anyone has run this year is 10.
72.
to take the leading time down by that much is definitely something nobody saw coming.
itjust bodes really well.
given herage, how unexpected is this?
0, shelly—ann is 3a years old, so a little bit more advanced than your typical elite athlete.
she is part of a larger trend where we are seeing women not being able to continue their athletic careers into their late 305.
and something we haven’ mentioned yet
but i am sure we will get to, she also recently had a child a couple of years ago and was already able to come back from childbirth in 2019 and when the world championships in the 100 has from that and was able to change her colloquial nickname from the pocket rocket which she is really short, she is five feet tall, to the mommy rocket.
when women go through childbirth and are able to make thatjump back into athletic fitness, they are also able to gain some unprecedented athletic gains and inner strength that wasn’ there before.
at 3a, she is a bit more advanced in age than your typical elite athlete, but i think it is a larger trend that we will see, especially at this olympic games, because it was delayed for a year because of the pandemic so many athletes who would have retired last year have been able to stay in the game and prolong their career.
just briefly, what are her chances?
shelly—ann is the favourite.
there has been talk about the young american, sha’carri richardson, who came out blazing this year.
ran two 10.
75 in the same day.
10.
63, shelly—ann is definitely cementing her status as the favourite.
from a sprint to along distance trek that’ captured the imagination of millions of people across china.
a herd of wild elephants that has been moving northwards over the course of several months.
they began theirjourney in a nature reserve in yunnan province and after five—hundred kilometres — they’ve now reached the outskirts of the city of kunming.
the ’ tim allman reports.
day after day, week after week, month after month, the elements the march.
the smaller members of the group sometimes a helping hand, or trunk need a helping hand, or to get them on their way.
such uation has happened for has never happened before.
it needs to be further observed tudied.
it is not entirely ear lear when their odyssey began.
say they might have set out as earty december.
the mals mals forging a trail through chinese countryside, casionally straying into owns and villages and helping selves to something to eat.
: they like to go to frequented by humans as areas frequented by humans as there is plenty of food.
the ian ephants take such areas as their habitat.
the asian orities have deployed people to to lure the mals away from the local population.
but now they have hed a major city of more than 6 million people.
what plan next is any they plan to do next is any one’ guess.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @lvaughanjones lam i am lewis vaughan—jones and this is news.
hello.
the weather on sunday is going to be a little hit and miss, particularly across england.
you are likely to have a lot more cloud around compared to saturday and there will be a few showers around, too.
but across scotland and northern ireland i think it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
now on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
it’ a weak weather front, it’ actuallyjoining a big area of low pressure to the north but that will bring some showers to parts of wales and england from morning onwards.
so this is what it looks like through the early hours, you can see some rain affecting parts of devon, dorset into wales and the midlands, a stray shower in the north of scotland.
but generally speaking, it’ a clear night in scotland, northern ireland, probably the lake district as well.
but many of us in england and wales will be waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that through the afternoon as well.
but i think the biggest chance of catching some heavier showers further south into the midlands, but also around wales and east anglia.
the best of the weather on sunday northern ireland, scotland, the lake district should be fine, but modest highs here, 16 to 18.
in the south, despite the cloud and the showers will still manage around 21 also in london.
you can see, there’ the clock, 8pm, 9pm, still some showers around in the evening across parts of england and wales.
so not a completely day but with a bit of luck you’ll have prolonged sunny spells rather than the heavy showers.
on monday, also likely to be some showers around, particularly across northern and eastern areas of the .
so the best of the weather, although a little bit hazy at times out towards the west, i think.
but decent enough, temperatures around 22 in london, 20 in liverpool and should probably nudge up to around 20 in glasgow as well for monday.
and then the rest of the week, tuesday, wednesday and thursday we’ll see the jet stream pushing low pressures and weather fronts and mostly between scotland and iceland, but there is just the chance that some of these weather and the south will be closer to the high pressure, so basically the further south you are, the better the weather will be in the week ahead.
further north, generally but always a bit more cloud.
that’ it from me, bye—bye.
this is news — the headlines the 7 group of advanced economies have reached a deal to make multinational companies pay more tax in the countries where they do business.
finance ministers, meeting in london, agreed to a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
a senior official says the vaccination programme appears to have broken the link between cases of the covid—19 and serious illness or death.
the head of providers says people in hospital with the delta variant of coronavirus are significantly younger — which puts less strain on critical care.
a federaljudge has overturned the state of california 32—year—old ban on assault weapons — calling it "unconstitutional".
he 5 given the state 30 days california 5 governor — gavin newsom — condemned the ruling, saying it was a direct threat to public safety.
coventry has hosted an array of small—scale performances around the city to mark the start of its year as the city of culture.
from music and dance performances to horseback rides, the event — called coventry moves — was billed as a "playful and engaging" introduction to the city.
colleen harris reports.
i rise above life is below, river flows breathing new life into coventry’ ska and 2—tone legacy, the singer pauline black of the ‘705 and ‘805 band the selecter opened the city of culture with a performance in a residential part of the city.
i play the river spirit.
there is a river that runs under coventry called the sherbourne, and i’ enticing the future generation by telling a story about how coventry came together.
big up the belly dancers!
organisers have had to keep plans low key and secret to avoid attracting crowds, so performers and street theatre are moving through the city telling its story of resilience, innovation and youthfulness.
the glint in a young person’ eyes after they’ve discovered their potential.
coventry is a city where we are a community.
any time where i’ able to represent my city and the flag, i’ always grateful to have that duty and responsibility to represent the city and be an energy of youthfulness.
it’ fantastic.
it’ hoped the legacy of city of culture will bring coventry’ cultural history to a global audience, but online only, for now.
colleen harris, news.
and that’ it.
now on news it’ time for this week’ edition of our world.
in the summer of 2014, militants swept across northern iraq.
in sinjar, they would go on to commit a massacre, taking thousands of young women like amsha hostage.
almost seven years later, much of the region remains in ruins and thousands remain missing.
despite everything, amsha chose to remain in sinjar.
now every day she confronts the deadly legacy left hidden by herformer captors.
on the 3rd of august 2014, militants invaded sinjar, homeland of the yazidi people.
the so—called islamic state regarded this religious minority as infidels.
reserving for them their most brutal treatment.
militants took amsha and her brother from their car and took them to a nearby base.
for amsha, it was the start of 11 months of torture.
during their occupation of sinjar, the so—called islamic state took over 6000 yazidis hostage, forcing boys into training camps and girls and young women into slavery.
five years on, amsha now lives back at home with her family.
militants might have gone from sinjar but they are still taking lives.
civilians are frequently killed or injured by explosive devices.
three months ago, amsha started work as a deminer, working with a british , the mines advisory group.
when amsha firstjoined , she worked as a dog handler.
it was the start of a new career and an important step in her path to recovery.
iraq remains one of the most heavily mined countries in the world.
in sinjar, civilians live side by side with homes still contaminated with explosives and fields laced with ieds.
since 2016, has cleared over 27,000 items of unexploded ordnance from across iraq, returning thousands of square metres of and back to the community.
seven years ago, amsha’ family along with hundreds of thousands of other yazidis, fled to mount sinjar.
now, a temple on top of the mountain has become a place for reflection for amsha.
back in sinjar, amsha is one of a handful of women who have chosen to stay, to provide for theirfamilies and help rebuild.
every week, amsha and her close friend and colleague spend time together in sinjar town.
before militants attacked, around half a million yazidis called sinjar their home.
amsha was in high school, alongside her sisters and brothers.
militants are thought to have murdered over 5000 yazidis, and of those taken captive, almost 3,000 are still considered missing.
for amsha and her colleagues, the dangerous work of making their and safe continues.
despite the progress that the group and other de—mining agencies have made in clearing the land, the work will continue for years to come.
sinjar remains volatile, with various armed groups spread across the region, often at odds with each other and with the civilian population.
but despite this, the numbers of those returning are slowly increasing and new signs of life are emerging every day.
hello.
the weather on sunday is going to be a little hit and miss, particularly across england.
you are likely to have a lot more cloud around compared to saturday and there will be a few showers around, too.
but across scotland and northern ireland i think it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
now on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
it’ a weak weather front, it’ actuallyjoining a big area of low pressure to the north but that will bring some showers to parts of wales and england from morning onwards.
so this is what it looks like through the early hours, you can see some rain affecting parts of devon, dorset into wales and the midlands, a stray shower in the north of scotland.
but generally speaking, it’ a clear night in scotland, northern ireland, probably the lake district as well.
but many of us in england and wales will be waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that through the afternoon as well.
but i think the biggest chance of catching some heavier showers further south into the midlands, but also around wales and east anglia.
the best of the weather on sunday northern ireland, scotland, the lake district should be fine, but modest highs here, 16 to 18.
in the south, despite the cloud and the showers will still manage around 21 also in london.
you can see, there’ the clock, 8pm, 9pm, still some showers around in the evening across parts of england and wales.
so not a completely day but with a bit of luck you’ll have prolonged sunny spells rather than the heavy showers.
on monday, also likely to be some showers around, particularly across northern and eastern areas of the .
so the best of the weather, although a little bit hazy at times out towards the west, i think.
but decent enough, temperatures around 22 in london, 20 in liverpool and should probably nudge up to around 20 in glasgow as well for monday.
and then the rest of the week, tuesday, wednesday and thursday we’ll see the jet stream pushing low pressures and weather fronts mostly between scotland and iceland, but there is just the chance that some of these weather and the south will be closer to the high pressure, so basically the further south you are, the better the weather will be in the week ahead.
further north, generally but always a bit more cloud.
that’ it from me, bye—bye.
this is news.
welcome if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
i’ lewis vaughan jones.
our top stories: 7 finance ministers agree a deal to make big tech companies pay more tax.
the post pandemic world must be fairer, especially with regard ternational taxation.
a health boss says the coronavirus vaccines have "broken the chain" between infection and serious illness.
jamaira’ shelly-ann fraser-pryce becomes the second—fastest woman in history with her 100 victory in kingston.
and an unfriendly farewell: a chorus of boos for the first cruise ship to leave venice since the pandemic started.
hello, welcome to the programme.
it’ being hailed as a "historic agreement", that could see global governments make billions more in tax revenue.
the deal, made by the 7 group of leading economies, could shake up the tax system for multinational companies like big tech giants.
it could include a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
tech companies google and facebook have welcomed the move.
our economics editor faisal islam reports.
multinational companies, especially the big tech giants, have become more powerful than some governments — especially in their ability to pay minimal tax bills.
today, the finance ministers of the seven leading economies, the 7, hit back with an historic deal brokered by the chancellor, rishi sunak.
i’ delighted to announce that today, after years of discussion, 7 finance ministers have reached a historic agreement to reform the global tax system, to make it fit for the global digital age but crucially, to make sure it’ fair, so that the right companies pay the right tax in the right places.
they agreed to the principle of a global minimum corporation tax of at least 15%, as well as rules to make the largest companies with profits of more than 10% pay more tax in countries where sales are made, not just where they declare their profits.
the had initially wanted a higher minimum rate of 21%.
what do you say to those campaigners who say 15% isn’ really going to bite, isn’ going to be the transformative change?
we have yet to set the final rate.
there is an agreement among the 7, though, to go for at least 15%, and i do think that’ an historic achievement.
foryears, campaigners and european finance ministers wanted this change, but it was unthinkable, up until a few months ago.
it’ the pandemic that has changed things, requiring finance ministers around the world to have to fill coffers emptied by a year of lockdowns, but also the change in the american government as well, creating a window of opportunity.
now, they need to get the rest of the world on board.
the proposals must now go to the wider 620 group, including china, russia and brazil, then the rest of the world.
the german finance minister hailed today as an important step, even if difficult conversations lay ahead with countries whose tax rates are below 15%.
i’ sure that the decision that has been made today is — will be very successful.
this is a train that already started and anyone willjoin the train.
ireland’ rate of corporation tax is 12.
5%.
isn’ this notjust about a corporate tax rate but the end of a low tax business model for your country?
we will, even with an acknowledgement of the change that is coming, continue to have the kind of legitimate policies in place in ireland that deliver a competitive approach for ireland and allow us to grow and retain employment.
google and amazon have said they support the work being done to reform tax rules.
50 has facebook, which acknowledged it could end up paying more as a result.
this deal is a product of very different times — an opportunity taken in a crisis by the world’ big seven.
the americans are also using this meeting to urge the rest of the world, despite worries about higher borrowing and rising inflation, to carry on pumping financial support into the recovery, or risk undermining it.
faisal islam, news, at the 7.
a health boss in england says the decision on easing restrictions on the 21st ofjune is finely balanced.
chris hopson warned that the delta variant, first discovered in india, is still spreading but he said vaccines appear to be breaking the link between coronavirus cases and serious illness.
our health correspondent naomi grimley reports.
it’ the big question of the summer — can hospitals still cope with the numbers of people who’ll fall seriously ill with covid—19 before the full effects of mass vaccination are felt?
hospital admissions are well below the levels we saw in winter and today, one of those representing health trusts appeared to strike an optimistic note.
it does look as though the vaccines have kind of broken the chain between catching covid—19 and potentially being very, very seriously ill and potentially dying.
bolton is the area hit hardest by covid’ more transmissible delta variant, first discovered in india.
looking at what’ happening in hospitals is a gauge to whether the in general will be able to cope.
this graph shows the number of covid patients in bolton’ hospitals over the last few months.
you can see there are high peaks in november and again in january and february.
in the last few weeks, the figures have been rising again, but they are nothing like those earlier peaks.
more mutations could be incorporated into the delta ant that could mean that vaccines are less effective and is really what we want to avoid.
the worst—case scenario is a ariant that is for us is a variant that is both more transmissible and stant to vaccination.
opinions in the scientific community remain split.
perhaps the only thing everyone can agree on is that more data is needed.
naomi grimley, news.
western diplomats in nigeria have expressed disappointment at the government’ decision to suspend twitter.
a joint statement from the , , britain, canada and ireland said the right to free expression and information was a pillar of democracy in nigeria.
the row started after twitter removed a tweet by nigeria’ president muhammadu buhari, saying it breached the social media platform’ rules.
the government accuses the social media platform of "undermining nigeria’ corporate existence".
mayenijones reports.
on saturday morning, twitter users in nigeria woke up to find that they no longer had access to their accounts.
that’ using most mobile phone networks.
on wi—fi, you could still access the website and the hashtag thankgodforvpn has been trending, suggesting many users have managed to find a way to use the website by using virtual private networks.
the nigerian government had announced on friday that it had planned to suspend all of twitter’ activities in the country.
at the time, it was unclear what they meant by that.
it seems that they have now decided to block access to the website.
the telecoms companies that operate in nigeria released a statement, saying that they had received a directive from the government to suspend twitter and that they had complied, but they did say that they followed the united nations provisions on the freedom of communication and that they agreed with those.
twitter users in nigeria have been very angry.
they say that this is undemocratic.
nigeria is africa’ largest democracy and many see this as a step backwards for the country.
many also pointing out to the fact that president buhari was a military dictator in this country in the ‘805 and they see this latest move as a continuation of that legacy.
twitter has issued a statement.
they say they are deeply concerned by the suspension of their services in nigeria and they say they will work towards reinstating a service for its users here.
there are about 150 million internet users in nigeria and according to the authorities here, just over 60% of those use twitter, so it is a huge market for the social media company.
it will be really desperate to and rebuild relationships with the government.
for a little bit of context, this has happened because twitter deleted a post by president buhari earlier this week.
they said it breached its rules in that post.
many nigerian users flagged it because they felt it was a threat to a secessionist movement in the south—east of nigeria.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
secretary—general antonio guterres has expressed outrage at a suspected jihadist militant attack in burkina faso.
at least 132 people have been killed in the north—eastern village of solhan in the sahel region of the country.
three days of mourning have been announced.
the president of salvador has told attendees at the bitcoin 2021 conference in florida that he’ll make the legal tender in his country, alongside the dollar.
if congress backs his proposal, salvador would become the first country in the world to formally adopt bitcoin.
thousands of people have marched through budapest to protest against controversial plans to open a multimillion—dollar chinese university campus in the hungarian capital.
they say the project will undercut the country’ own higher education and increase the influence of china’ communist authorities.
the right—wing government of viktor orban has close ties with beijing.
former president donald trump has returned to the stage to address the republican faithful for his first speech in several months as he considers a new presidential run in 202a.
organisers at the convention of north carolina’ republican party said the event was a sell—out, with all 1,250 tickets sold.
although trump has been cut off from social networks, many republicans still see him as a valuable asset ahead of midterm elections next year.
it’ a disgrace what is happening to our country.
the ival of america depends survival of america depends upon our ability to elect ublicans at every level, tarting with the midterms next , we have to get it done.
have to get it done.
we have hoice, actually.
a federaljudge has overturned california’ 32—year—old ban on assault weapons, calling it unconstitutional.
he’ given the state 30 days to appeal.
california’ governor condemned the ruling, saying it is a direct threat to public safety.
robyn thomas, executive director of giffords law center to prevent gun violence, told us the case may go to the supreme court.
i certainly expect that gun rights abacus, the lobby and industry who would love the gun industry who would love to be selling many more assault ons to many more americans ould like to go to the supreme because they will do anything they can to convince pla to these guns.
this is what drives a lot of the entum this litigation is the sire to sell more guns and to ourage americans that they these very, very lethal pons in order to be safe en, in fact, aving ese when, in fact, having these kind of weapons on our streets ngers the safety not only of our communities but of your amily.
many, many of these shootings that happen in society happen because of secured assault weapons left he home, like the sandy ook shooting.
this is news.
our top story this hour: 7 finance ministers say their agreement to reform the global tax system will help end a race to the bottom on taxation and help fund the economic recovery.
let’ stay with that now.
i’ve been speaking to stephaniejohnston, chief correspondent for tax notes today, which is a news service for tax professionals.
i asked her how significant she thought this agreement is.
it’ a sort of depends on who you ask, landmark in the fact countries are able to, the largest economies are able to agree on something so but not so much that, it’ not the final word, let’ his, because you know this greement, this plan still eds to go to 139 countries to nsider it and then to the 7 620 likely agreed this plan.
i see, till hoops to jump through are likely do you think mething approximating what we heard about today will ally come into force?
well, political agreement i think is likely because there is, very likely because there is, this project has gone on for so and the issues at stake are so high and this problem een, these problems that these agreements have been to address have been trying to address have been going on for years and decades untries agree that you know are changes needed to the onal tax corporation system you know multinationals agree that changes and tries have, just need a stable, a way to not only raise nues nues but so state my revenues but also state my stack system which is very needed.
0, minutes of this say it does not go far ugh, having a for example 5% minimum tax rate, it is too for people.
right, low for some peopla.
right, yeah.
so that is, that is a big sticking point i think
but i think we also have to really gnise and take a step back think you know based on jor company, major corporations, and major nomies, talking about, you ow, global minimum taxation ich was really unthinkable a cade ago, i mean, istarted job a decade and to this job a decade ago and to think that countries could even some close agreement to a goal on taxation and even a it reallocation profits, profit reallocation profits, among countries, that was hinkable, decades ago, so .
i see it as a step owards, you know, what a nge, so that’ a fficult, that’ really good hear and it’ important to the context in mind and with that in mind still, there of cynicism from lots is a lot of cynicism from lots of peopla, saying actually ese big companies have an of people behind them, ying to the most tax trying to find the most tax efficient arrangements for them and that will continue?
well, i think things, generally aking, anyone can, you can speaking, anyone ran, you ran assume that rules were meant to roken but bent.
i mean, ould kind of gas that ompanies will fits —— let’ there will lots of work say there will be lots of work for lawyers and tax urnalists.
now with just 1.
5 months before the olympics this summer, jamaica’ two—time olympic champion shelly—ann fraser—pryce has become the second—fastest woman in history, after running 100 injust 10.
63 seconds.
fraser—pryce beat the 10.
72 seconds run by shacarri richardson earlier this year, and is second only to florence griffith—joyner who has held the world record since 1988.
johanna gretschel is a sports journalist in texas and long—distance runner herself.
she gave me her reaction to frances—pryce’ feat.
wow!
incredible!
10.
63, we have not been a time like this in 33 and the fastest they have years and the fastest they have this year the fastest is 7 to run this year the fastest is 10.
7 to 30 take delaney time — ing time own by that much leading time down by that much is something definitely no—one oming bodes really saw coming and bodes really well.
given her age, how xpected is this?
well, 0, is 3a years old, so she is 34 years old, so obviously a little more anced than your typical elite athlete
but she is really of a larger trend where we are seeing women not being able ntinue their athletic to continue their athletic careers into their late 305.
omething we have not and something we have not mentioned yet but i’ sure we get to, she also recently had a child just a couple of ago and was already able come back from childbirth in 19 and win the world championships in the 100 metres that, and was able to change her colloquial nickname the pocket rocket, which is called because she is very , around five feet tall, the short, around five feet tell, to the mummy rocket!
she drawls mum strength that that mum strength that sometimes when women go through dbirth and are able to make hat big jump back into hletic fitness they are also to gain some kind of precedented athletic games inner strength that wasn’ ere before.
at 3a, she is ore vanced in age than a typical elite athlete
but i think it is a larger trend that see, especially at this we will see, especially at this in the big games because it was yed for a year, from 2020 because of the pandemic, there some athletes it would may be some athletes it would have retired last year are able ay in the game and prolong to stay in the game and prolong their athletic career.
just ﬂy, fly, looking ahead to the briefly, looking ahead to the athletics and the olympics, at her chances?
shelley what are her chances?
shelley and is a favourite, for sure, here was a lot of talk and there was a lot of talk about richardson, coming out ing this year, running blazing this year, mnning 210.
7, , but
10.
63, shelley and er-pryce definitely fraser—pryce is definitely cementing her place as the ourite.
— at from a sprint to along distance trek that’ captured the imagination of millions of people across china.
a herd of wild elephants that has been moving northwards over the course of several months.
they began theirjourney in a nature reserve in yunnan province and, after 500km, they’ve now reached the outskirts of the city of kunming.
the ’ tim allman reports.
day after day, week after week, month after month, the phants are on the march.
15 them, heading northwards, reasons known only to hemselves.
occasionally, the ler members of the group smaller members of the group need a helping hand or trunk, get them he way.
to get them on the way.
: such a situation appened for the first time history and it hasn’ pened before and many are nking about the reasons and hey are to be observed and udied.
it is not in clearly — studied.
it is not in dearty - syntactically when the odyssey but some suggest they set as earty as december, the mals mals forging a trail through chinese countryside, casionally straying into owns and villages, even ping themselves to something eat as the peter to eat as thejenny peter greste.
: they like to go do frequented by humans as areas frequented by humans as there are plenty of food.
the an lephants take that as asian elephants take that as habitat.
the elephants have thousands of people to evacuate homes, block off road rotted your them away from pope relation but they have reached a major city of ore than 6 million people.
hat
hey lan to do next is anyone’ uess!
tim allman, news.
dozens of people are facing fines for taking beach sand and shells from the italian island of sardinia, where it’ illegal to remove the island’ natural resources.
authorities there say the investigation is ongoing.
so far, 41 people are facing fines of up to 3600 dollars each.
our news reporter courtney bembridge has the details.
they are basically looking for tourists who may be unwittingly ybe on purpose are or maybe on purpose are ﬂouting the local laws, which ricts ricts local people from restricts oral peopla from taking pebbles on the beach, or each sand, sardinia is any beach sand, sardinia is famous for the pristine white and people are taking it sand and peopla are taking it away and each summer they put peration in place to top the practice and stop pla taking it home with hem.
are people taking and a beach?
you may remember, lewis, holidays, that we used to do!
i guess eople wanted a souvenir of ese trips so what they would is finish an empty water ttle, fill it up with sound other customs officials are -rays find these using -rays to find these things in people luggage and just a ttle bit of sand, not just a little bit of sand, there was a french couple in , found with a0 of sound 2019, found with 40 of sound in the back of their car and id it
no idea that it was illegal in sardinia but were a penalty at the time of facing a penalty at the time of six years in jail.
so it is very seriously.
the fine up to 3000 euros, and there 41 people who have been aught in latest operation taught in this latest operation and they are trolling these ites where these bottles of are getting really high ces the people are buying, iran derstand taking it of buying, i can understand taking a bit of sand, i don’ know it
but you can take a you do it
but you ran take a bit of sand to remind yourself oliday
but you are saying there is a market for this sand ll?
ell?
that is right.
there is a market online and horities are saying you are high prices for the sand and i guess when you outlaw ething, perhaps its value increases.
50, now there is a lack ket fourth sand, black market fourth sand, pebblas and rocks but the als are thick of it.
they have been complaining for many that teachers are being degraded by the practice and have actually set up a —— that the ches are being degraded, so they are making it is being returned to sure it is being returned to the specific beach and using a book group to corral each other, and it is called dinia robbed and plundered.
staying in italy, and the first cruise ship to leave venice since the pandemic began has set sail.
while people are keen to get back to normality, not everyone was happy about the ship entering the giudecca canal.
rachel stanton reports.
no big ships!
that is what is on the ﬂag being waved here in ce.
ice.
people have taken to streets and waters as they concerned about the impact ise ships ave on their historic city.
back in march year, italy’ government this year, italrs government said cruise ships would no nger sell venice’ san marco square and dock away from entre but be diverted to the centre but be diverted to the industrial port however, nfrastructure is not yet the is not yet in place for this to happen.
is the orchestra, set this is the orchestra, set to cmise around the mediterranean with about 650 engers.
but residence in passengers.
but residence in residence in venice have been the government to ban urging the government to ban large cmise ships from the over large cruise ships from the green over safety and ironmental concerns.
we are izens of venice and we are against this passage but also this type of tourism model that is destroying the and is pushing out city and is pushing out residents and people that want here.
arrival protest took place in support of the mption of the tourist season as many have suffered ncially as well as losing financially as well as losing livelihoods.
in the last two des, the picturesque city decades, the picturesque city has become one of the world’ important cruise most important cruise destinations and people are for things to get back on rack.
venice is a home port.
is where many itineraries gin or end.
this means that things, firstly, the conomic impact on venice is .
the other thing is that, well, basically, there is a that if venice is taken the itineraries, all the driatic will suffer the nsequences of this.
so, yeah, would be a huge impact.
the attle to stop large vessels being in these waters is far from over.
government i
d
it is rganising bids for a viable alternative outside agoon, relieving the raffic through venice.
rachel stanton, news.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @lvaughanjones this is news.
goodbye.
hello.
the weather on sunday is going to be a little hit and miss, particularty across england.
you’re likely to have a lot more cloud around, compared to saturday, and there will be a few showers around, too, but across scotland and northern ireland, i think it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
it is a weak weather front, joining a big area of low pressure to the north but that will bring some showers to parts of wales, and england, from morning onwards.
this is what it looks like through the early hours.
you can see some rain affecting parts of devon, dorset, into wales, midlands, the stray shower in the north of scotland but, generally speaking, a clear night in scotland, northern ireland, probably the lake district as well, but many of us in england and wales will be waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that through the afternoon as well
but i think the biggest chance of catching some heavier showers further south into the midlands but also around wales and east anglia the best of the weather on sunday, northern ireland, scotland, the lake district should be fine as well, but modest highs, 16—18, in the south.
despite the cloud and the showers, still managing around 21 in london.
there is the clock, 8:00pm, 9:00pm still some showers around around in the evening across parts of england and wales.
not a completely day but, with a bit of luck, you will have some prolonged sunny spells instead of heavy showers.
monday, also likely to be some showers around, particularly across northern and eastern areas of the , so the best of the weather, although hazy at times, out towards the west but decent enough temperatures — around 22 in london, 20 in liverpool, probably nudging up to 20 in glasgow as well for monday.
then, the rest of the week, tuesday, wednesday, thursday, we’ll see the jetstream low pressures and weather fronts mostly between scotland and iceland, but the chance that some of these weather systems will clip the very far north—west of the .
in the south, it is closer to their high pressure so, basically, the further south you are, the better the weather will be in the week ahead, further north, generally, but always a bit more cloud.
that is it for me.
bye— bye.
this is news.
the headlines: the 7 group of advanced economies have reached a deal to make multinational companies pay more tax in the countries where they do business.
finance ministers meeting in london agreed to a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
a senior official says the vaccination programme appears to have broken the link between cases of the covid—19 —— appears to have broken the link between cases of covid—19 and serious illness or death.
the head of providers says people in hospital with the delta variant of coronavirus are significantly younger, which puts less strain on critical care.
the nigerian government has defended its decision to suspend twitter, saying the social media platform had been used to spread misinformation that had violent consequences.
a joint statement from the , the , britain, canada and ireland said the right to free expression was a pillar of democracy.
now on news, click.
this week — the giant coming to a city near you.
a giant leap for disability.
and thrilling rides on giant screens.
hey, hey — it is one of my favourite fests.
we’ve been coming to the hay literary festival for quite a few years now, each time meeting amazing people who have written on fascinating topics.
every so often, someone has stolen the show and stopped our world spinning.
can you see it?
i’ sorry.
the town of hay on wye has more bookshops than you can throw a thriller at and they are usually packed with festivalgoers.
and after an enforced year online in 2020, the organisers are taking tentative steps back into town.
as are we.
welcome to click at hay, 2021.
anyway, today, we are going to be talking about al, which, of course, is very big.
artificial insemination.
next year, then, i promise!
but in the meantime, some of hay 21’ events are being streamed from the cinema around the back of richard booth’ beautiful bookshop.
and later on, we will bring you one of the most inspiring stories from the festival.
first, i want to tell you a tall tale from the emerald isle.
a very tall tale.
it’ one of the most famous stories ever written.
it’ actually called travels into several remote nations of the world, in four parts, by lemuel gulliver, first a surgeon and then a captain of several ships.
but you probably know it better as gulliver’ travels.
well, well!
what have we got here?
300 years after the book was written, i’ following in the footsteps of its author jonathan swift to the place that inspired him to write the novel in the first place.
this is belvedere house in county westmeath, hang in the centre of ireland.
so, the story goes that jonathan swift was standing about here, looking across the lake, where there is actually a place called lilliput.
and he thought, "wow, those people in the distance are really small".
and the rest is history.
i said, isn’ there a giant gulliver here in belvedere house?
paddy dunning is a music manager and proprietor of several museums.
he has rubbed shoulders with the likes of 2, and dame shirley bassey and now, he wants to make some icons of his own.
we designed a beautiful statue in wood — larch wood — and we would build a viewing tower from the hat.
and inside would be a heritage centre, a museum dedicated not just to jonathan swift, but to the writers of the county.
so that was where it started.
it didn’ end there, though, did it?
so we came up with what is the concept now, which is a statue that has a matrix skin and now, we have just hunched the giant project, which is the search for 21 sites, to build 21 giants around the world.
people of the world, welcome to the giant.
ill be an interactive visitor attraction centred around a huge, human—shaped moving structure with cafes, restaurants, shops and a museum to boot, literally at the boot.
the project is currently being masterminded at paddy’ residential recording studio, grouse lodge, and it’ caught the attention of eric fraad, an opera director, music producer movie—maker and all round creative, who wanted to make sure that the statue could represent absolutely anybody.
one of the possibilities was it’ a gigantic statue, and it’ androgynous and therefore, with the leds, you know, not projected but actually revealed on it, it makes it much more spectacular and transformable rather than a static image.
what kind of shape did you end up going for?
essentially, it is an amalgamation of the facial shape of a man, a woman and a child.
the human eye, it cheats.
the human eye fills in so much that’ not there.
if you give it a hint, it will fill in an awful lot and that is part of what it is.
is it big enough, do you think?
and bear in mind this is only a small scale concept model.
it will be covered with millions and millions of pixels of addressable leds.
that is all fed to controllers.
the more control you have over the leds, then the greater spectral variations you can have with colour, with intensity.
we’ve managed to get this big, massive movement up to the sky, the winning pose, so that’ a big, massive movement.
these are 60—80 foot long arms that will weight tonnes.
if the giant is on the ground on top of the museum, you would need an acre.
interestingly, somebody in new york has been on, and they can do it on airspace, and that is really interesting.
what does that mean?
airspace means that they would put it on top of an existing building.
because of covid, a lot of the cities are looking at how are they going to get tourism back?
how are they going to get people back into their countries and their cities?
what is the draw going to be?
we do think that the technology that we’ve got will be the future of statues, and there won’ be just an image of one person.
we think that images will change as society changes.
and in fact, the image that paddy thinks will draw most attention is the image of you.
part of the visitor experience will involve getting your whole body scanned and then thrown up onto the statue for all to see.
the world’ most awe—inspiring selfie!
you can look up and you will become the giant.
you are calling this the world’ biggest selfie.
there’ nothing like it on the planet.
you can’ ignore it, can you?
it’ so big, it’ going to be gigantic.
poor, poor foolish little people.
look what you’ve done.
with goliath ambitions, the giant company hopes to raise hundreds of millions of dollars and plans to roll out the first five by the end of this year.
one thing’ for sure — the scope of that task will be enormous.
when i first heard about this project, i thought it was nuts.
but then i got here
and i saw the scale model of the head, and i started to understand how it could work, and the technology needed to bring this to life is proven.
it is just coloured leds.
so maybe the main question is whether people will want it, but we are living in the century of the selfie, so who knows?
i have a feeling they will.
hello and welcome to the week in tech.
it was the week that huawei launched its self—developed operating system harmony in an attempt to challenge google’ dominance in smartphone software.
bill gates and the announced a push for $1 billion to accelerate clean tech.
and big news — ebay updated its terms of service, meaning that sellers can no longer use paypal.
also this week, and a cyber attack hit the world’ largest meat supplier.
computer networks atjbs were hacked, temporarily shutting down some operations in australia, canada and the .
the ransomware attack could lead to shortages of meat or raise prices for consumers.
a drone has filmed itself crashing into the lava flow of a volcano.
it happened in the south—west of iceland, were drone pilot gerry helms tried capturing the volcano, which has been erupting since march.
and finally, a not—at—all creepy robot which copies you.
scientists at columbia university in new york used deep learning to teach robot ave to mimic the expressions are people around it.
ava can express six basic emotions — anger, disgust, fear, joy, sadness and surprise.
the aim of the technology is to build trust between humans and robotic workers and caregivers in real—world applications, such as hospitals, schools and homes.
of course, these machines are not softening us up before they become our robotic overlords.
the hay festival is steeped in tradition.
a place where people come to exchange their screens for good old —fashioned books.
but the pandemic has forced even the most conventional to adapt, and this appearance has proved no gimmick.
it has gone beyond digital.
i am a transitioning cyborg.
this is peter scott morgan, who has motor neurone disease, also known as .
but he’ also a doctor of robotics and he calls himself the world’ first human cyborg.
peter was diagnosed with in 2015 and decided to use technology to overcome the extreme difficulty that he knew that he would face.
he said that he chose to thrive rather than die.
there have been two sides to his transformation — the physical and the virtual — and in a minute, stephen will talk to one side about the other.
but first, nick kwek has been looking at how peter 2.
0 has been realised.
today, i’ in the scottish capital of edinburgh — a city with a rich history of storytelling, where novel ideas come to life and the art of discourse has been mastered.
i’ here to meet the engineers putting personality into voice.
voice is part of what we are, it’ part of our souls, it’ the way we communicate, it betrays where we are from, our emotions, our motives, everything.
doctor matthew aylett and his team have been banking peter’ voice so that peter can continue to talk now it is gone.
he had to have his vocal track removed, so before that happened, we recorded him extensively
and then we were able to recreate his voice in a speech system so he can new type in text and it will speak exactly the way that he spoke.
text—to—speech technology has been around for a while.
we all remember microsoft sam, right?
his voice sounded a tad monotonous.
peter provided far more than the average voice sample recording amount — 15 hours’ worth of material.
in order to make a voice, you take that audio and you use neural net system to learn how the sounds in the voice relate to the words that are being spoken.
once you have that model built, you can put a new set of words in and it will produce a new output with that voice.
to better convey sentiment for specific scenarios, peter captured himself speaking in four different styles.
tone of voice is very important.
tone of voice is very mportant.
he also tirelessly recorded 3,000 stock phrases, which he can quickly drop into conversation.
a little knowledge may be a dangerous thing, but is not half as bad as a lot of ignorance!
right, 0.
he doesn’ want an automatic voice which talks for him.
he wants an automatic voice which he can control.
the whole idea of human—sensitive is to work as a partnership, peter has got a great phrase — he sort of describes it as a ‘jazz combo’.
it is like the idea of two systems working together to produce something which is greater than the sum of their parts.
and create they have.
aught peter 2.
0 how to sing.
come with me.
and you’ll be.
in a world of pure imagination!
this is brilliant!
take a look how did you manage that, then?
are you willie wonka?
again, it is about communication, notjust about the words you say.
they have taken things even further by combining his voice with a virtual avatar, which is a work in progress.
it’ pretty amazing what technology can do these days.
so, where does the start, and peter stop?
there is a path of least resistance.
if the says stuff in a certain way it is easy to say let’ just do that, then, but then how do you get the balance right?
the real key is for the to be personalised to peter, rather than just being a default system.
you are watching click at hay festival.
that was nick, so what can peter 2.
0 do?
that is what stephen asked at this year’ hay festival, and this was the answer.
: and if one day i start sounding like a classic american newscaster it is because i can, and it seemed like an interesting idea to try.
and it is still the real me.
stephen, it is absolutely wonderful to be talking with you.
thanks so much for inviting me.
it is going to be fun.
i think it is, it’ going to be fun and fascinating.
first things first, you have described yourself as a transitioning cyborg.
how do you define a cyborg?
a fancy word for part human, part machine.
in my case, what has never been done before is that the most important machine parts of me will be , not mechanics, and that all potentially gets a bit weird.
not least because i am planning to use more and more , to look at everything from speaking to controlling things to moving about.
i think that it is fair to say that we could describe your journey to becoming the world’ first ever cyborg, real cyborg, outside science fiction, begins with, how can i put it, a wonky foot.
my very first was as you so accurately categorised, a wonky foot, but it then took a year to get a diagnosis.
there is no test for , there is no nausea, no pain, and usually, your brain stays as sharp as ever, and the terminal bit turns out to be negotiable.
with that said, it has been dubbed the world’ cruellest disease which inevitably sucks the joy out of life, but i found that the key to imagine total paralysis is to imagine that you’re in a luxury spa hotel, and they insist that you put your feet up and don’ move a muscle.
it’ brilliant.
at one point you write about the fork in the road which we to get at how humanity, notjust for you, but the word human involves alongside , and for you as a living embodiment of , this is something you feel passionately about.
way back in the early ‘805, i was preparing my dissertation in the .
based on this and against the advice of both my professor and my publisher, i ended my first robotics textbook with these words — if the path of enhanced human is followed, then it will be possible for mankind and robots to remain on the same evolutionary branch rather than humanity watch the robot split away.
in this way, mankind will one day be able to replace its all too vulnerable bodies with more permanent mechanisms and use the supercomputers as intelligence amplifiers.
that was 1984.
ever since, i’ve advocated for making our partner rather than rival.
can you make any predictions as to how our daily lives might actually play out, how they might look?
especially for those with disabilities or at extreme old age.
we are at the early dawn of escaping the fear of becoming powerless and feeling trapped in an inadequate body.
some people are pessimistic about and humanity, but i have to say, from my perspective, from everything i know, i feel incredibly excited about our future.
i understand that you have a world—first that you have chosen to reveal here and now, to me, and to our audience.
hello, lam peter2.
0.
welcome to the future.
now, if there is one thing i know about rich it’ that she loves her thrills.
here she is on a roller—coaster from a few years ago
so when we found out that legoland had a new flying theatre ride, well, there was one person we could send to find out how it works.
like many of us, i often dreamt of flying as a child.
i think that is i love thrill rides and theme parks.
such the harness, forget your daily worries and simply escape into the for a few beautiful minutes.
this is the newly opened flight of the lion at legoland, the ’ first flying theatre ride and i’ lucky enough to be in before it opens to the public.
the only person on one of seven gondolas spread across three floors.
the ultimate in social distancing.
it is a wonderful, complex mix of creativity and technology.
behind the scenes, the maintenance team kindly put the ride into manual.
when the ride starts the gondola rotates towards and into a concave, 20—metre high screen.
here is a close—up of the motorised mechanics in action, which is surprisingly quiet.
there are three for each axis, allowing for a 30 degrees swing and 23 degrees pitch, and degrees of yore, or left to right.
and, during the ride, fragrant mist is sprayed on board canisters so that we can smell sea air baby lava dragon burps.
it is clear how much the video, lighting and music add to the atmosphere.
the sight, the sound, smell, the movement, to be as overwhelming as it is, and to know how the technology works, but even knowing how it works, it works on my body, physically, in a way that is quite astounding.
inside the control room, the ride operator monitors the gondola’ precise movements, and theo is one of those responsible for working out how exactly how it is moving and when.
on the computer, first, we would understand where those peaks and drops are, and we would programme that in, and we would essentially go for a ride, and we would film that ride and also speak whilst we were riding it, and we had a big digital meter on the ride, so that we could say, at two minutes ten, we need to bring this movement back, or we need to exaggerate that big drop, at three minutes ten, we are going to bring that forward.
the video creators also need to have intimate knowledge of how the ride moves.
one of the first things that we start with is the ride envelope, what are the degrees of motion?
three degrees forward and back, pitch and roll, stuff like that, so all of those mechanical engineering things that are built into the way that we work with our camera.
ern though the ride envelope may be , you can trick the brain into , because even though the seat only moves a little bit down, if we then continue the camera further down, then slow down the way that the seat moves down and speed up the camera, you have the sense that you’re going much faster than you may actually be, or you may be going at a steeper rate of descent than you actually are, so it is understanding the mechanical engineering side of it and then kind of how we actually trick the brain.
outside, the sculptures hold 1.
76 million lego bricks, they are hybrid lego animals which move when you access them through the app, and augmented reality contactless safari, and post—covid the park’ director is optimistic that most of us will eventually return.
the last year has been challenging with the pandemic.
we’ve had measures in place such a social distancing, so we have had to reduce the number of people coming into the park in the first place.
we collaborate with competitors on something like this.
it is important that we as an industry can get guests through the door again for the longer term recovery.
just time for one more ride.
that was rich having the time of her life.
we have enjoyed being back in hay and hopefully next year we will be back for the full shebang, don’ forget, you can get us on facebook, instagram and twitter, @bbcclick, thank you for watching and we will see you soon.
hello.
the weather on sunday is going to be a little hit and miss, particularty across england.
you’re likely to have a lot more cloud around, compared to saturday, and there will be a few showers around, too, but across scotland and northern ireland, i think it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
it is a weak weather front, joining a big area of low pressure to the north but that will bring some showers to parts of wales, and england, from morning onwards.
this is what it looks like through the early hours.
you can see some rain affecting parts of devon, dorset, into wales, midlands, the stray shower in the north of scotland but, generally speaking, a clear night in scotland, northern ireland, probably the lake district as well, but many of us in england and wales will be waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that through the afternoon as well
but i think the biggest chance of catching some heavier showers further south into the midlands but also around wales and east anglia the best of the weather on sunday, northern ireland, scotland, the lake district should be fine as well, but modest highs, 16—18, in the south.
despite the cloud and the showers, still managing around 21 in london.
there is the clock, 8:00pm, 9:00pm still some showers around around in the evening across parts of england and wales.
not a completely day but, with a bit of luck, you will have some prolonged sunny spells instead of heavy showers.
monday, also likely to be some showers around, particularly across northern and eastern areas of the , so the best of the weather, although hazy at times, out towards the west but decent enough temperatures — around 22 in london, 20 in liverpool, probably nudging up to 20 in glasgow as well for monday.
then, the rest of the week, tuesday, wednesday, thursday, we’ll see the jetstream low pressures and weather fronts mostly between scotland and iceland, but the chance that some of these weather systems will clip the very far north—west of the .
in the south, it is closer to their high pressure so, basically, the further south you are, the better the weather will be in the week ahead, further north, generally, but always a bit more cloud.
that is it for me.
bye— bye.
this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
7 finance ministers agree a deal to make big tech companies pay more tax.
the post—pandemic world must be fairer, especially with regard to international taxation.
a health boss says the coronavirus vaccines have "broken the chain" between infection and serious illness.
jamaica’ shelly—ann fraser—pryce becomes the second—fastest woman in history with her 100 victory in kingston.
and an unfriendly farewell: a chorus of boos for the first cruise ship to leave venice since the pandemic started.
hello and welcome.
i’ lewis vaughan jones.
it’ being hailed as a "historic agreement", that could see global governments make billions more in tax revenue.
the deal made by the 7 group of leading economies could shake up the tax system for multinational companies like big tech giants.
it could include a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
tech companies google and facebook have welcomed the move.
our economics editor faisal islam reports.
multinational companies, especially the big tech giants, have become more powerful than some governments — especially in their ability to pay minimal tax bills.
today, the finance ministers of the seven leading economies, the 7, hit back with an historic deal brokered by the chancellor, rishi sunak.
i’ delighted to announce that today, after years of discussion, 7 finance ministers have reached a historic agreement to reform the global tax system, to make it fit for the global digital age but crucially, to make sure it’ fair, so that the right companies pay the right tax in the right places.
they agreed to the principle of a global minimum corporation tax of at least 15%, as well as rules to make the largest companies with profits of more than 10% pay more tax in countries where sales are made, not just where they declare their profits.
the had initially wanted a higher minimum rate of 21%.
what do you say to those campaigners who say 15% isn’ really going to bite, isn’ going to be the transformative change?
we have yet to set the final rate.
there is an agreement among the 7, though, to go for at least 15%, and i do think that’ an historic achievement.
foryears, campaigners and european finance ministers wanted this change, but it was unthinkable, up until a few months ago.
it’ the pandemic that has changed things, requiring finance ministers around the world to have to fill coffers emptied by a year of lockdowns, but also the change in the american government as well, creating a window of opportunity.
now, they need to get the rest of the world on board.
the proposals must now go to the wider 620 group, including china, russia and brazil, then the rest of the world.
the german finance minister hailed today as an important step, even if difficult conversations lay ahead with countries whose tax rates are below 15%.
i’ sure that the decision that has been made today is — will be very successful.
this is a train that already started and anyone willjoin the train.
ireland’ rate of corporation tax is 12.
5%.
isn’ this notjust about a corporate tax rate but the end of a low tax business model for your country?
we will, even with an acknowledgement of the change that is coming, continue to have the kind of legitimate policies in place in ireland that deliver a competitive approach for ireland and allow us to grow and retain employment.
google and amazon have said they support the work being done to reform tax rules.
50 has facebook, which acknowledged it could end up paying more as a result.
this deal is a product of very different times — an opportunity taken in a crisis by the world’ big -!
the americans are also using this meeting to urge the rest of the world, despite worries about high borrowing and rising inflation, to carry on pumping financial support into the recovery, or risk undermining it.
faisal islam, news, at the 7.
a health boss in england says the decision on easing restrictions on the 21st ofjune is finely balanced.
chris hopson warned that the delta variant, first discovered in india, is still spreading but he said vaccines appear to be breaking the link between coronavirus cases and serious illness.
our health correspondent naomi grimley reports.
it’ the big question of the summer — can hospitals still cope with the numbers of people who’ll fall seriously ill with covid—19 before the full effects of mass vaccination are felt?
hospital admissions are well below the levels we saw in winter and today, one of those representing health trusts appeared to strike an optimistic note.
it does look as though the vaccines have kind of broken the chain between catching covid—19 and potentially being very, very seriously ill and potentially dying.
bolton is the area hit hardest by covid’ more transmissible delta variant, first discovered in india.
looking at what’ happening in hospitals is a gauge to whether the in general will be able to cope.
this graph shows the number of covid patients in bolton’ hospitals over the last few months.
you can see there are high peaks in november and again in january and february.
in the last few weeks, the figures have been rising again, but they are nothing like those earlier peaks.
but new cases are rising noticeably as we mix more, and some experts fear the delta variant could take hold in groups which haven’ yet been fully vaccinated.
more mutations could be incorporated into the delta variant that could mean that vaccines are less effective and that is really what we want to avoid.
the worst—case scenario for us is a variant that is both more transmissible and resistant to vaccination.
opinions in the scientific community remain split.
perhaps the only thing everyone can agree on is that more data is needed.
naomi grimley, news.
western diplomats in nigeria have expressed disappointment at the government’ decision to suspend twitter.
a joint statement from the , , britain, canada and ireland said the right to free expression and information was a pillar of democracy in nigeria.
the row started after twitter removed a tweet by nigeria’ president muhammadu buhari, saying it breached the social media platform’ rules.
the government accuses the social media platform of "undermining nigeria’ corporate existence".
mayenijones reports.
on saturday morning, twitter users in nigeria woke up to find that they no longer had access to their accounts — that’ using most mobile phone networks.
on wi—fi, you could still access the website and the hashtag thankgodforvpn has been trending, suggesting many users have managed to find a way to use the website by using virtual private networks.
the nigerian government had announced on friday that it planned to suspend all of twitter’ activities in the country.
at the time, it was unclear what they meant by that.
it seems that they have now decided to block access to the website.
the telecoms companies that operate in nigeria released a statement, saying that they had received a directive from the government to suspend twitter and that they had complied, but they did say that they followed the united nations provisions on the freedom of communication and that they agreed with those.
twitter users in nigeria have been very angry.
they say that this is undemocratic.
nigeria is africa’ largest democracy and many see this as a step backwards for the country.
many also pointing out to the fact that president buhari was a military dictator in this country in the ‘805 and they see this latest move as a continuation of that legacy.
twitter has issued a statement.
they say they are deeply concerned by the suspension of their services in nigeria and they say they will work towards reinstating a service for its users here.
there are about 150 million internet users in nigeria and according to the authorities here, just over 60% of those use twitter, so it is a huge market for the social media company and they will be really desperate to and rebuild relationships with the government.
for a little bit of context, this has happened because twitter deleted a post by president buhari earlier this week.
they said it breached its rules in that post.
many nigerian users flagged it because they felt that it was a threat to a secessionist movement in the south—east of nigeria.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
secretary—general antonio guterres has expressed outrage at a suspected jihadist militant attack in burkina faso.
at least 132 people have been killed in the north—eastern village of solhan in the sahel region of the country.
three days of mourning have been announced.
the president of salvador has told attendees at the bitcoin 2021 conference in florida that he’ll make the legal tender in his country alongside the dollar.
if congress backs his proposal, salvador would become the first country in the world to formally adopt bitcoin.
a bipartisan delegation of three united states senators have arrived in taiwan, where they’ve announced that washington will donate 750,000 coronavirus vaccine doses to its ally.
the high—profile delegation and gift comes as taiwan accuses china of hampering its efforts to secure enough doses as part of beijing’ ongoing campaign to keep the island isolated.
former president donald trump has returned to the stage to address the republican faithful for his first speech in several months as he considers a new presidential run in 202a.
organisers at the convention of north carolina’ republican party said the event was a sell—out, with all 1,250 tickets sold.
although trump has been cut off from social networks, many republicans still see him as a valuable asset ahead of midterm elections next year.
it’ a disgrace what is happening to our country.
the survival of america depends upon our ability to elect republicans at every level, starting with the midterms next year, we have to get it done.
we have no choice, actually.
a federaljudge has overturned california’ 32—year—old ban on assault weapons, calling it unconstitutional.
he’ given the state 30 days to appeal.
california’ governor condemned the ruling saying it is a direct threat to public safety.
robyn thomas, executive director of giffords law center to prevent gun violence, told us the case may go to the supreme court.
i certainly expect that gun rights advocates, the gun lobby and the gun industry, who would love to be selling many more assault weapons to many more americans, would like it to go to the supreme court because they will do anything they can to convince people to buy these guns.
this is what drives a lot of the momentum behind this litigation is the — is the desire to sell more guns and to encourage americans that they need these very, very lethal weapons in order to be safe when, in fact, having these kind of weapons on our streets endangers the safety not just of our communities, but of your own family.
many, many of these mass shootings that happen in our society happen because of unsecured assault weapons left in the home, like the sandy hook shooting.
this is news.
the former british prime minister john major has urged johnson to let compassion revail and everse the ecision to cut foreign aid is year.
it comes as more han 1700 charities, business academics written to the british ernment, calling on it to keep can provide itment.
helen catt reports.
shi unak announced late last he was going to cut aid get from 0.
7% of national budget from 0.
796 of national income 0.
5%, reduction about 4 llion.
at the time is said it was temporary and because of andemic.
in a letter the charities say it is having a impact, as a result families are going hungry, are not going to school accines are expiring on helves.
they argued there is ustifiable economic need for the cut and that, they say, cause forecasts suggested the end of this year the onomy will have returned back previous pre—pandemic levels also say the is sting the 7 this week.
they that if the calls on the elievers to do more, it will ringing hollow.
on the overnment side, they say it spend £10 million this year, 2021, on aid.
the government spokesperson said eismic impact of the pandemic had forced to take but necessary decisions the government was ommitted to returning to ending 0.
7% when the fiscal tuation allows.
thank you to an.
len.
with six weeks to go efore he olympics, jamaica’ —time olympic champion helly—ann fraser—pryce has ome the second fastest woman history after running 100 res in 10.
63 seconds.
fraser—pryce beat the 10.
72 seconds run by sha’carri richardson earlier this year, and is second only to florence griffith—joyner who has held the world record since 1988.
johanna gretschel is a sports journalist in texas.
she gave me her reaction.
wow!
incredible!
imean, 10.
63!
you said it yourself —— we haven’ seen a time like this in nearly 33 years and the fastest anyone has this year is 10.
72, so, i mean, to take the leading time down by that much is something definitely nobody saw coming and bodes really well.
and, given her age, how unexpected is this?
um, well, 0, shelly—ann’ 3a years old,
so obviously a little more advanced than your typical elite athlete
but she is really part of a larger trend where we are seeing women not being able to continue their athletic careers into their late 305.
and something we have not mentioned yet
but i’ sure we will get to, she also recently had a child just a couple of years ago and was already able to come back from childbirth in 2019 and win the world championships in the 100 metres from that, and was able to change her colloquial nickname from the ‘pocket rocket’, which she is called because she is very short, around five feet tall, to the ‘mummy rocket’!
she draws that mum strength that, sometimes when women go through childbirth and are able to make that big jump back into athletic fitness, they are also able to gain some kind of unprecedented athletic gains and inner strength that wasn’ there before.
at 3a, she is more advanced in age than a typical elite athlete
but i think it is a larger trend that we will see, especially at this olympic games, because it was delayed for a year, from 2020 because of the pandemic, there may be some athletes who would have retired last year are able to stay in the game and prolong their athletic career.
just briefly, looking ahead to the athletics at the olympics, what are her chances?
oh, man, shelly—ann is the favourite, for sure!
there was a lot of talk about the young american sha’carri richardson, who came out blazaing fast this year, laying down a lot of10.
7, ran two 10.
75 on the same day, that a lot of people got excited about, but10.
63, shelly—ann is definitely cementing her status as the favourite.
tennis, and roger federer admists he’ considering pulling out of the french open after a gruelling four set victory over germany’ dominik koepfer.
the match lasted more than 3.
5 hours.
the eighth seed is playing in only his third tournament since january last year after two knee surgeries.
i thought it was very important for me.
i clearly had not ractised hours 35 practised three hours 35 minutes because that is pushed as much as i could as i thought reasonable.
but this, , was i think a huge step today, was i think a huge step forward for the team and for us.
i did not expect to be able to win three matches and back up a good performance of marin cilic and letely different com pletely different circumstances tonight
so i’ happy
and i think we have very happy
and i think we have a lot to go through with the tonight.
dozens of people are facing fines for taking beach sand and shells from the italian island of sardinia, where it’ illegal to remove the island’ natural resources.
authorities there say the investigation is ongoing.
with me is our news reporter courtney bembridge who’ been following this story.
so people are stealing sand?
this is a phenomenon that pens every year in this eration has found 41 people.
hey have ken a total of 100 kilograms of sand, shells and les, so not a small amount pebbles, so not a small amount and authorities say desist at of the iceberg and what are doing is selling them ine.
there is a flourishing online.
there is a ﬂourishing black market for sand, would elieve!
they are getting prizes for these, making a ofit out of this.
is because is particularly special from he eaches there are?
as a estern australian, would say sand from the beach is articularly special!
no, it is ause people are taking them rom 705 and in fact in 2019, a couple talk a0 as a french couple talk 40 as a 70!
people love 705 and want to mementos but it is a unique beach in terms of sand.
thorities are taking this seriously?
are they nvestigating and trying to down, what are they doing?
ajoint operation, toms involved and the customs or involved and the military is involved and they -raying uggage and are -raying luggage and finding water bottles full of and pebbles and then a sand and pebbles and then a volunteer organisation is ally taking the samples actually taking the samplas back to the beaches where they aken from to to kind estore the situation.
they really concerned because llions visit the island every and if they all take a0 ith em, they may not have any beach left
and they are one star attractions that bring tourist to sardinia.
that difficult balance ecause just so like many parts he world, they are hugely ependent on tourists and want ttract people there and it is that ance between scaring people off attracting peopla making sure the atural resources are there for ure generations i suppose.
seems a bizarre thing to be pending police authority time it is very important for that reason.
we must move on.
you for that.
staying in italy, and the first cruise ship to leave venice since the pandemic began has set sail.
while people are keen to get back to normality, not everyone was happy about the ship entering the giudecca canal.
rachel stanton reports.
"no big ships!
" that is what is on the flags being waved here in venice.
people have taken to the streets and waters as they are concerned about the impact cruise ships have on the historic city.
back in march this year, italy’ government said cruise ships would no longer sail past venice’ mark’ square and dock in the historic centre but, instead, be diverted to the industrial port.
however, the is not yet in place for this to happen.
this is the orchestra, set to cruise around the mediterranean with about 650 passengers.
but residents in in venice have been urging the government to ban large cruise ships from the green —lagoon, over safety and environmental concerns.
we are citizens of venice and we are against this passage but also against this type of tourism model that is destroying the city and is pushing out residents and people that want to live here.
arrival protest took place in support of the resumption of the tourist season as many have suffered financially as well as losing livelihoods.
in the last two decades, the picturesque city has become one of the world’ most important cruise destinations and people are keen for things to get back on track.
venice is a home port.
this is where many itineraries begin or end.
this means that two things, firstly, the economic impact on venice is huge.
the other thing is that, well, basically, there is a risk that if venice is taken off the itineraries, all the adriatic will suffer the consequences of this.
so,
yeah, it would be a huge impact.
the battle to stop large vessels from being in these waters is far from over.
the government said it is organising bids for a viable alternative outside the lagoon, relieving the traffic through venice.
rachel stanton, news.
from a sprint to along distance trek that’ captured the imagination of millions of people across china, a herd of wild elephants that has been moving northwards over the course of several months.
they began theirjourney in a nature reserve in yunnan province and after 500km, they’ve now reached the outskirts of the city of kunming.
the ’ tim allman reports.
day after day, week after week, month after month, the elephants are on the march.
15 of them, heading northwards, for reasons known only to themselves.
occasionally, the smaller members of the group need a helping hand, or trunk, to get them on their way.
: such a situation has happened for the first time in history.
it has never happened before, so everyone is thinking about the reasons.
it remains to be further observed and studied.
it is not entirely clear when their odyssey began but some suggest they set out as early as december, the animals forging a trail through the chinese countryside, occasionally straying into towns and villages, even helping themselves to something to eat as theirjourney progressed.
: they like to go to areas frequented by humans as there’ plenty of food.
the asian elephants take such areas as their habitats.
the authorities have deployed thousands of people to evacuate homes, block off roads and to lure the animals away from the local population but they have now reached a major city of more than 6 million people.
what they plan to do next is anyone’ guess.
tim allman, news.
and have a look at these clubs, in mexico city.
they are part reeding programme that has actually kept the species .
that is it from me.
there is plenty more on the site of course and if you re online can get me on social dia.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @lvaughanjones lam the i am the was .
this is news.
hello.
the weather on sunday is going to be a little hit and miss, particularty across england.
you’re likely to have a lot more cloud around, compared to saturday, and there will be a few showers around, too, but across scotland and northern ireland, i think it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
it is a weak weather front, joining a big area of low pressure to the north but that will bring some showers to parts of wales, and england, from morning onwards.
this is what it looks like through the early hours.
you can see some rain affecting parts of devon, dorset, into wales, midlands, the stray shower in the north of scotland but, generally speaking, a clear night in scotland, northern ireland, probably the lake district as well, but many of us in england and wales will be waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that through the afternoon as well
but i think the biggest chance of catching some heavier showers further south into the midlands but also around wales and east anglia the best of the weather on sunday, northern ireland, scotland, the lake district should be fine as well, but modest highs, 16—18, in the south.
despite the cloud and the showers, still managing around 21 in london.
there is the clock, 8:00pm, 9:00pm still some showers around around in the evening across parts of england and wales.
not a completely day but, with a bit of luck, you will have some prolonged sunny spells instead of heavy showers.
monday, also likely to be some showers around, particularly across northern and eastern areas of the , so the best of the weather, although hazy at times, out towards the west but decent enough temperatures — around 22 in london, 20 in liverpool, probably nudging up to 20 in glasgow as well for monday.
then, the rest of the week, tuesday, wednesday, thursday, we’ll see the jetstream low pressures and weather fronts mostly between scotland and iceland, but the chance that some of these weather systems will clip the very far north—west of the .
in the south, it is closer to their high pressure so, basically, the further south you are, the better the weather will be in the week ahead, further north, generally, but always a bit more cloud.
that is it for me.
bye— bye.
this is news.
the headlines: the 7 group of advanced economies have reached a deal to make multinational companies pay more tax in the countries where they do business.
finance ministers, meeting in london, agreed to a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% to avoid countries undercutting each other.
a senior official says the vaccination programme appears to have broken the link between cases of the covid—19 and serious illness or death.
the head of providers says people in hospital with the delta variant of coronavirus are significantly younger, which puts less strain on critical care.
the nigerian government has defended its decision to suspend twitter, saying the social media platform had been used to spread misinformation that had violent consequences.
a joint statement from the , the , britain, canada and ireland said the right to free expression was a pillar of democracy.
now on news, the uncovers allegations of filth, lice, sickness and neglect in a vast system of mostly closed—off camps scattered across the , holding more than 20,000 migrant children.
a warning, some viewers may find find parts of this programme distressing.
over 19,000 migrant children locked up in america.
children speaking for the first time tell of disease, neglect, hunger and filth.
now children are being shipped masse to 13 new sites around america it feels a lot more like a detention facility, a prison for kids.
sites that are shrouded in secrecy.
they go to bed hungry.
the boys have been in there for 45 days straight without any sunlight.
this level of deprivation, which really amounts to child abuse, is very widespread in the largest facilities.
what is the impact on thousands of children?
will their experiences come to haunt them?
the rio grande, and a night of fear.
at midnight, migrants will cross the river from mexico to america.
many are children, travelling alone.
guards are waiting.
the rafts bring families with children, too.
some have walked for weeks to get here.
over 36,000 unaccompanied children have crossed into america this spring.
many of the adults will be deported.
but under president biden, most of the children will remain.
the children who came alone who are told to line up separately from the others.
many came hoping tojoin a family member already there.
—— many came hoping to join a family member already in america.
these girls are cousins.
border guards demand the children’ belts and laces — a measure usually reserved for prisoners, to prevent them from committing suicide.
jordi has fled violent gangs in guatemala.
tonight, he has a new dread.
america’ camps for migrant children.
what do you expect is going to happen next?
this is donna, texas.
these tents held over 3000 children earlier this spring.
these, the notorious cubicles the migrants call ‘ice boxes’.
these children’ stories have not yet been heard.
journalists have been banned from talking to them.
but we’ve been tracking down children who have been released.
this is sonja.
she is waiting for her daughter, ariani, a ten—year—old.
sonja fled violence in honduras six years ago, leaving ariani behind.
she thought she was too young for the dangerous journey.
we are seeing more folks landing.
i think we’re gonna be seeing them soon.
0, she’ here!
they are not sure, because they can’ recognise her, but it is her.
her daughter travelled hundreds of miles, only to be locked up in donna.
she didn’ want to let go of her mother.
how did you feel when you saw your daughter again?
ariani slept in one of the plastic cubicles.
cindy, 16 years old, who fled honduras for her safety, was also in donna.
here are some of the photos of donna.
it was more crowded than this?
much more crowded?
wow.
pipes were dripping, cindy said, and inside her mylar blanket, she was wet.
when night fell on the borderlands, the sound of crying filled the tents.
paola, 16 years old, cried on her mattress many nights.
and on top of everything, there was the filth.
closely guarded and largely away from the world’ eyes, illness in the tents became rampant.
paola became sick.
so did ariani.
cindy got covid.
now, a mass movement of children is under way.
we obtained flight logs.
here, children are about to be flown to a set of new and secretive detention centres across the country.
they have the capacity for over 19,000 children.
one day, cindy was told to get on a bus.
she was taken to the airport in the dark with a large group of sick girls.
they were not told where they were going.
cindy was flown 1500 miles away to a new detention site in san diego, california.
we set out to find the new facilities.
there are about a dozen of them.
several here in texas.
setting them up has reduced overcrowding in centres like donna.
we entered san antonio.
just east of town was a sports stadium.
it had beds for over 2000 migrant teenagers.
in february, a month before this facility opened, it was used for a rodeo.
we were given this image, showing where the children have been kept.
we’ve been told it was the same building that’ normally used for animals in the annual rodeo.
this detention site, which is now set to close, has been under investigation following allegations of sexual abuse, inadequate food and neglect of the children.
an hour away in the heart of downtown dallas, the business district, we’ heard that hundreds of teenage boys were being held here in the convention centre.
i’ been told there were no windows in the part of the building they were kept in.
but where were they?
we asked for access, but no.
you guys have to go somewhere else.
0.
this is where the children are being held?
yes, so uou guys cannot be over here.
staff said they had to sign agreements that they won’ talk about what goes on inside.
private contractors run the place on behalf of the government.
this women, an employee, spoke to us on the condition of anonymity.
there’ rows and rows and rows of cots and there’ guards everywhere.
it feels a lot more like a detention facility — a prison for kids.
this is a rare glimpse inside the dallas detention site.
it was secretly filmed and given to us.
children spend, on average, a month in these sites.
releases are processed slowly, even though most children have sponsors in america ready to take them.
this man, who has also been working in the centre, was deeply upset by conditions.
it’ freezing cold.
each boy has one thin blanket.
the children have always complained about not having enough, not eating enough.
the boys have been in there for 45 days straight without any sunlight.
absolutely no recreational time outside, no fresh air.
how did the boys cope with that?
how can they cope, you know?
they’re all depressed.
i heard the other day some were contemplating suicide because of the conditions here.
detention sites are regularly opened and closed.
children are moved.
many are now flooding into this place.
fort bliss, a tented camp that can hold 10,000 children in paso, texas.
in april, crowds protested.
here in the heat of the desert, some of the tents hold hundreds of children.
insiders have told the large numbers of children here now have covid.
they say there are tents for those with ice and scabies.
we are hearing some terrible stories come out of fort bliss, including instances of sexual abuse of children by workers there, including children who are having to be on suicide watch for long periods of time because of the conditions there.
i have deep, deep concerns about the physiological and deterioration of children in a camp like that.
democratic congresswoman silvia garcia has visited several of the sites and was keen to stress progress made.
and you’re not aware of problems in these facilities when the facility closed i think because there have been problems and allegations let me just be clear.
you asked me about issues in dallas.
i am not aware of issues in dallas.
obviously, if you’re looking at all facilities, are there issues?
yes, there are.
but i am telling you that i think that based on everything i have seen in the ones i have visited, the administration is doing a much betterjob today than they were when it first started because they were not prepared for the sheer numbers, they did not have the facilities in place, they do now.
the government told the that children in dallas and the other new centres have access to nutritious food and recreation.
and they are being kept in a healthy environment.
they say they are trying to speed up releases.
this is wilton, ten years old.
he had been wondering for hours in the desert in march when a border guard found him.
president biden is not the first to deal with a surge of migrant children over the border.
in 2018, under president trump, nearly 3000 children were separated from their parents and crammed with others into detention centres.
these are believed to be some of their voices.
parents were taken off to be charged with illegal entry.
the policy left a searing mark on america’ conscience.
republicans are now accusing president biden of separating families.
pointing out that trump later made children stay in mexico with their families to await asylum hearings.
they are absolutely incentivising the separation of families and they are putting them in detention centres notjust on the borders but in detention centres across the country, and the centres by the way were never equipped to house children.
but this is fundamentally different than president trump’ trial separation policy, right?
which deliberately separated children from parents and was widely seen as cruel.
i think the administration will take unaccompanied minors, they are specifically separating children from families.
the trump administration was the expert on family separation.
it was cruel, it was inhumane and it goes against our values as americans, but certainly it is the opposite with the biden administration because for this administration, the goal is to reunify them with families as quickly as possible, and again, the numbers are huge.
80% of the children that are coming unaccompanied have a relative in this country.
in biden’ america, migrant children are not being physically taken from their parents by border officials.
but they are being separated from other relatives.
many of whom are sent back to mexico whilst the children stay.
those children are uniformly removed from the arms of their grandmothers and the laps of their aunts and uncles and older siblings and the trauma they experience is identical to the trauma experienced by a child who is taken away from a biological parent.
when ariani got to america, she was separated from her adult sister, who had become like mother to her.
the trauma of their experiences followed the girls home.
cindy was not the same.
ariani drew pictures in detention of love hearts and flowers to fight off her sadness.
ariani, once a bubbly and sociable girl, is now largely silent.
the children we worry about most are the children who go quiet.
they become despairing internally.
for those children, the trauma goes underground.
it sits like landmines under the surface.
they are more likely to have substance abuse problems, more likely to suicide, more likely to have physiological problems.
and those can be long—term consequences of this kind of trauma, consequences that these children live with for the rest of their lives.
children are still crossing the border in large numbers.
as night falls on the river, another group prepares for the journey into a country that promises dreams, but which for thousands of children leave scars.
ariani’ nights now are filled with terror.
hello.
the weather on sunday is going to be a little hit and miss, particularty across england.
you’re likely to have a lot more cloud around, compared to saturday, and there will be a few showers around, too, but across scotland and northern ireland, i think it is a case of sunshine right from the word go.
on the satellite picture, you can notice this little lump of cloud drifting out of the south—west.
it is a weak weather front, joining a big area of low pressure to the north but that will bring some showers to parts of wales, and england, from morning onwards.
this is what it looks like through the early hours.
you can see some rain affecting parts of devon, dorset, into wales, midlands, the stray shower in the north of scotland but, generally speaking, a clear night in scotland, northern ireland, probably the lake district as well, but many of us in england and wales will be waking up to overcast skies and it could actually stay like that through the afternoon as well
but i think the biggest chance of catching some heavier showers further south into the midlands but also around wales and east anglia the best of the weather on sunday, northern ireland, scotland, the lake district should be fine as well, but modest highs, 16—18, in the south.
despite the cloud and the showers, still managing around 21 in london.
there is the clock, 8:00pm, 9:00pm still some showers around around in the evening across parts of england and wales.
not a completely day but, with a bit of luck, you will have some prolonged sunny spells instead of heavy showers.
monday, also likely to be some showers around, particularly across northern and eastern areas of the , so the best of the weather, although hazy at times, out towards the west but decent enough temperatures — around 22 in london, 20 in liverpool, probably nudging up to 20 in glasgow as well for monday.
then, the rest of the week, tuesday, wednesday, thursday, we’ll see the jetstream low pressures and weather fronts mostly between scotland and iceland, but the chance that some of these weather systems will clip the very far north—west of the .
in the south, it is closer to their high pressure so, basically, the further south you are, the better the weather will be in the week ahead, further north, generally, but always a bit more cloud.
that is it for me.
bye— bye.
good morning, welcome to breakfast with rachel burden and rogerjohnson.
our headlines today: remembering more than 20,000 british servicemen who died during the normandy landings.
a new memorial’ opened on the 77th anniversary of —day.
pupils are urged to take a covid test before returning to school after half term, amid rising infections.
the stars will be back on the red carpet, but some are just a hologram.
it’ the baftas pandemic style.
burns battles for england.
he scores a century — but england still have work to do, as new zealand have the edge going into the final day of the opening test at lord’.
good morning.
for scotland and northern ireland it is more ightforward today.
looks like it be and are sunnier than it yesterday.
england and wales, re oud around with dad and more cloud around with dad and driuly weather, at the opens - damp.
drizzly weather, at the opens up.
—— damp.
join me later for all etails.
it’ sunday the sixth ofjune.
our top story: a memorial to british and commonwealth troops who died on —day is to be opened in normandy today.
the monument honours the more than 22,000 servicemen who died on the day and in the fighting that followed.
our correspondent hugh schofield reports.
—day, the normandy campaign, the thousands of tradition and commonwealth soldiers who died.
is that future generations are going to to come to honour their ry.
part temple of remembrance, art place of contemplation, the tish normandy memorial is a place serene beauty.
at its centre, 3 atue of three caught tle.
and on its 160 columns, he names, ranks and ages of all who were killed.
as the years ssed and the numbers of those who in the campaign dwindle, it the lfilment of a promise.
the spiration for it came from the terans themselves.
they wanted to one single place where all the omrades who lost their lives, ing ving under general montgomery, an be ran be remembered together.
and i think they felt with the passing of was important there was a single place where people could come ect, to think about what happened, realise the importance at happened in 191 and how it of what happened in 1944 and how it is still relevant today.
the most ious thing about the normandy emorial is the setting.
on a hill, ooking gold beach.
to the west, overtooking gold beach.
to the west, dearty visible the remains of erry clearly visible the remains of mulberry artificial harbour, and us, the sands where on the below us, the sands where on the morning of during the sixth 19lm, sands of morning of during the sixth1941i, thousands of british and monwealth troops came pouring off their nsports.
gold beach was at he centre of the landings, the icans on one side, the canadians the others.
here, british diers scored early success but it as the of a long and bitter fight to the lanes and villages of normandy.
not till did mral normandy.
not till july did the allies take the key city, ing the way to paris.
among opening the way to paris.
among those killed in the later fighting man who parachuted in as a signals officer on detail —— on .
his son mes often with his -day.
his son comes often with his children and grandchildren to visit ave.
a hero.
when i saw all the grave.
a hero.
when i saw all the stories in the letters and all at that related to what he had done.
i will often think of him, now, i think of him.
and think what a wonderful he did.
it can ean, he is of so many when you think of all these others who were brave and who lost their ives.
this year, because of covid, is no —day tourism.
the there is no -day tourism.
the hotels are empty.
but the people of haven’ forgotten and the famous pegasus bridge over the canal again 96 -- the scene of is once again 96 -- the scene of france —enactors.
the petition have wait a little to see he beaches again and we live in the the site —— excitement and acrifice of ose terrible days.
thing is sure, when they do , it is here at the normandy morial that they will gather.
and hugh schofield is in the town of ver—sur—mer in normandy, where the memorial has been built.
it is going to be a very poignant day.
it is, of course.
it will get way here in four hours or so.
ran see behind me there are only all