and around the world.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
the duchess of sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and prince harry.
i don’t know how they could expect that after all this time we would stilljust be silent if there is an active role that the firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
the chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation to the highest level since the 19605 — as he faces criticism for doing too little to tackle inequality this is a good way to raise money that we need because it’s a progressive measure.
it means those on higher incomes contribute a lot more than those on lower incomes.
if you want to tell me your reaction to the budget — or any of our main stories today — you can tweet me at annita underscore mcveigh or use the hashtag your questions countries with more overweight people have had the highest death rates from covid 19, a report says, as the government looks at a reward scheme to encourage people to lose weight.
i’m dressed up as my favourite character.
fantastic fox.
and as children dress up to mark world book day, campaigners call for more books with characters from ethnic backgrounds.
or around the world.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition, buckingham palace says.
prince philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
he was being treated for an infection and moved to bartholomew’s hospital in london on monday.
our royal correspondent, nicholas witchell, is following developments.
duke of edinburgh yesterday underwent a successful procedure for existing art condition at a pre-existing heart condition at saint bartholomew is hospital.
his highness will remain in royal highness will remain in hospital for treatment, rest and peration for a number of days.
so, a successful procedure for this xisting eart condition.
this pre-existing heart condition.
this surgical procedure took place yesterday, it’s been successful.
it will remind us, of course, what ened nearly ten years ago when had a ent inserted in his heart treat a blocked coronary artery.
her there has been another stent nserted whether there has had to some adjustment to the existing stent, we simply don’t know and i don’t think the palace will ghten us any further.
but the portant point that this procedure carried out yesterday, for this re-existing art condition, which imply hat perhaps it is something to do with the stent that serted ten years ago, and he will remain in hospital treatment, rest and recuperation is atement says, for a number of ays.
the duke, nicholas, he is 99, lieve this is the start of his ird week in hospital.
do we have dea when he might be allowed to home?
the statement says a number but obviously, the family hoping that he is over the worst of particular period in hospital.
es.
16 nights so far in hospital, tially, of course, at the king ward hospital, he went in re on the 16th of february and he transferred to sin bartholomew monday of this week.
very much think, the expectation there uld be some procedure of some sort cause saint bartholomew is is the re of cardiac excellence, centre of cardiac excellance, particular skills and expertise e.
that skill and expertise has been brought to bear, this ocedure carried out yesterday, ccessfully, the palace says.
how long will he remain in hospital?
we are told a number of days.
i would ine that for a man of that age, of his age, he is 14 weeks, i think, short 100th birthday, have a surgical procedure olving your heart, i would imagine, that he would need rest, peration and further treatment l, we don’t know, but a number of ys, iwould have ught, but hat days, iwould have thought, but that will certainly take us into next , that is clear.
providing everything goes according to plan i expect we won’t hear anything until leaves hospital, the deal leaves hospital, potentially?
potentially, as we , the palace neither the palace or the hospital or into this what latest situation?
there is never latest, except in as they issued atements such as this when there omething tangible to report.
50
so i would ink it is entirely ossibla that there will be no ther ther statement now from the lace unless there is any ignificant change in video ‘s ition until such time as he is eady to go home.
that was our royal respondent nicholas witchell.
the duchess of sussex has said buckingham palace could not expect her and prince harry to be silent if it was "perpetuating falsehoods" about them.
she was speaking to the talk show host, oprah winfrey, in an interview which will be broadcast in america on sunday.
the palace is launching an investigation into claims meghan had bullied staff in 2018.
simonjones reports.
meghan is making it clear she will not be afraid to speak out in a second trailer for the interview released overnight.
how do you feel about the palace hearing you speak your truth today?
i don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time we would stilljust be silent, if there is an active role that the firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
if that comes with risk of losing things, i mean, there’s a lot that’s been lost already.
this is a second clip released by but the first in which we have heard the duchess speak.
the interview was recorded before buckingham palace began an investigation into claims meghan had bullied former royal staff.
the times newspaper has obtained an e—mail, written in late 2018, byjason knauf, the couple’s communication secretary, to simon case, he is now the cabinet secretary.
in it he is reported to have written "i’m very concerned that the duchess was able to bully two pas out of the household in the past year.
the treatment of was totally unacceptable.
" buckingham palace said it was very concerned about the allegations.
former members of staff are being invited to participate in its investigation.
in a statement, it added "the royal household has had a dignity at work policy in place for a number of years and does not and will not tolerate bullying or harassment in the workplace.
"
but a spokesperson for meghan said "the duchess is saddened by this latest attack on her character, particularly as someone who has been the target of bullying herself.
she will keep striving to set an example for doing what is right and good.
" the latest interview clip will do little to heal any apparent rifts between the sussexes and the palace.
simon jones, news.
our royal correspondent sarah campbell says the latest clip released from the interview is quite extraordinary.
i think we knew and certainly for the first dip from harry that was leased earlier this week and the ngoing rrative from him, that the ress was likely to come in for ticism in this interview.
he’s it absolutely clear.
what we dn’t now was the level of criticism which might be levelled at the royal and the royal amily and the royal household.
and i think that is clip is so indicative and white a at the palace will be people at the palace will be particularly concerned about what’s to be red on television going to be aired on telavision this weekend because it does appear hat dip, clip, and this interview from that dip, and this interview with oprah winfrey is due to run for hours, it’s meghan, there two hours, it’s mainly meghan, there is a little bit of harry in there as but she will have a lot to say uﬂng during that time and from this clip been released, is she really that’s been released, is she really saying that members of the firm, the that she uses, have actively been spreading falsehoods, spreading effectively, about the couple?
and when she says the firm, is sheet the royal household, meaning the royal household, disorder palace machine, or is she to directly accuse individual members the royal of members the royal family of spreading lies about them.
that ously is a huge accusation.
but that’s the point of traders, we have until this weekend to find the context, it’s going to be bout the context.
that was all about the context.
that was sarah campbell.
let’s talk to katie nicholl — vanity fair’s royal editor and author of the book "harry and meghan".
good to have you with this and thank you for your time today.
as sarah ust saying, the whole point of hese teasers, trailers, call them will, to draw us in and what you will, is to draw us in and i suppose one of the big questions what we heard in that clip from he duchess of sussex is who exactly referring to when she says buckingham palace is perpetuating hoods about her and harry?
well, until we hear this in context, ery difficult to say
and there is so much speculation.
i’m kind of tant to add to that but reluctant to add to that but certainly when i talk about the , and the duke of edinburgh firm, and the duke of edinburgh talks about the firm he is not ing about the palace machine, he eights, the press officers and vate secretaries, he is talking out the family.
my understanding will talk specifically about the family on certain subjects, i think rice is going to be one of .
no two ways, this is going to very uncomfortable viewing for royal amily, that goes hout the royal family, that goes without saying but whether she specifically king about the royal family rpetuating falsehoods whether she but what i can tell you, t’s from a very or aide who it’s from a very senior aide who worked very closely with them, ainly in that period after the oyal wedding, five onths when arrative beginning to change we were reading about duchess icult, we were reading stories we hadn’t heard before.
that was the of this feeling of paranoia, there was an increased climate anoia, the couple were of paranoia, the couple were convinced that aids at kensington were briefing against them, palace were briefing against them, briefing the newspapers and that i’m afraid, a climate of paranoia that exacerbated and became ntensified as time went on.
say paranoia but do you think feeling was justified in some es?
clearly, there were sources riefing at the against meghan.
briefing at the time against meghan.
you know, those stories are there, re in print.
you will remember story about the sam e—mails that he was sending hat led to she was sending and that lad to stories about staff, there was a turnover of staff, absolutely.
but you know, there clearly was a gative rative was being fed to the media by certain sources, i think that’s irrefutable.
what level rain you think the family of strain do you think the family ties, the familial bonds are under now?
we’ve looked at the right now?
we’ve looked at the difficulties of late since the ‘s departure to the united tates, obviously things have been ined but a lot of people have strained but a lot of peopla have said those bonds are there, that ains.
but what we are seeing ere suggests a climate that is much difficult than that?
it’s going be very, very hard.
i was being that william and harry ‘s relationship was on a better track, those wins were beginning to some of those wins were beginning to heal, ithink this has just blown rift wide open again.
william is not happy about any of this.
i’m by a dose source to the told by a close source to the sussexes that prince harry has been with his grandmother this week, therve been speaking about duke of edinburgh ‘s health so obviously still in contact certain members of his family absolutely, this is going to use a huge strain and huge ressure and very ill feelings, tainly, between buckingham palace the sussexes.
i think, palace have really gone out of their to make life smooth for the uple, certainly in those early s.
we keep reading about how the bent over backwards to ccommodate the couple, she olutely did that, she did that in mn-up to the wedding, on so different the run—up to the wedding, on so many different occasions.
there is ill feeling and this is so much ill feeling and this is turning into a very ugly war of s.
someone compared it to me the her day, they haven’t seen it the war of the wealthiest and truth is no one really comes out king good in any good.
do you any sense whether senior royals have any idea what will be in is interview before it’s broadcast he at the weekend?
—— aleses.
i think it’s fair to say didn’t know about the interview it was announced, i think here is not a chance anyone will see this, not from the get to see this, not from the palace, before it airs.
thank you hat.
the chancellor, rishi sunak, has defended his decision to raise corporation tax for the most profitable companies to 25% in 2023.
this measure — along with other moves such as freezing income tax thresholds — mean that britain is on course to have the highest tax burden since the 19605.
paul hawkins reports.
billed as a budget to rescue an economy ravaged by covid.
: can the country afford this budget, sunak?
the chancellor has promised to protectjobs.
tax increases loom, taking the ’s tax burden to its highest level since the 19605, according to the office for budget responsibility.
obviously, the pandemic has dealt us pretty bad damage to the public finances and the economy, and i think i and the government have a responsibility to put those back in a strong position over time but do that in a way that is supportive of economic recovery in the short—term but also do so in a way that is fair.
this is how he intends to do it.
the furlough scheme is to be extended until the end of september, as will higher universal credit payments.
the headline rate of corporation tax will go up from 19% to 25% from 2023, though smaller firms will be exempt.
and a freeze on income tax thresholds is expected to lead to 1.
3 million more people paying income tax, plusi million more paying the higher rate.
but there will be some more help for hospitality.
pubs won’t have to pay business rates until the end ofjune.
we have been open forfour months out of the last 12 when we get to reopen.
when we reopen, it’s going to be gardens only, and then restricted inside.
we are going to need all the help we can get to get hospitality through.
labour talk of a missed opportunity.
i just think this didn’t deliver the scale of what was required.
for most people what they’re going to see is a very big increase in council tax, possibly 3 universal credit cut, and a very high level of unemployment, no matter where they live.
although much of the focus has been on business, some number crunchers say the effects of the budget will also be felt far wider.
much less attention was paid to what is happening to british households.
in many ways, the year ahead for them is more difficult than the year we’ve been through, with falling living standards this autumn.
and actually, for public services, further cuts to public spending mean that we may be seeing what feels a lot like austerity.
there is now a route out of lockdown.
but tough times ahead.
the chancellor says not all his decisions will be popular but they are, he insists, honest.
paul hawkins, news.
our chief political correspondent, adam fleming, told me the budget was a story of three chapters.
the first chapter is the government continuing to spend billions of to support people and usinesses through what they hope is ast stage of the pandemic.
and at will last until september when ciety is supposedly all but two opened up again.
then chapter starts, the recovery of the ernment hopes which will be osted by a massive, massive tax with billions of pounds for sinesses to invest in staff.
then year after is when chapter three s.
that is when we see the government raising more money in tion.
first of all, by an taxation.
first of all, by an increase in the rate of corporation aid by companies earning more than a quarter of £1 billion of its a 3 year.
and then, secondly, eezing those resholds for the rates of income tax which means more earners will start paying the asic rate and for higher earners start paying the higher rate.
rishi sunak, the chancellors morning been defending that this morning has been defending that as a fair way of mending the public nces.
people’s current take—home it won’t be fected by this pay it won’t be affected by this policy but you are right
and i was yesterday, that this means the ncremental benefit that they would experienced had those have experienced had those thresholds continue to rise with ation won’t be there.
we are ing to keep putting up the hresholds next year as we promised they will be frozen at the
but then they will be frozen at the higher level but you mention the lution foundation, i think herve y’ve also said this is a good way aise money at we need because it’s a progressive measure, it means on higher incomes contribute a more than those on lower incomes think that’s what most people a would accept fair way to do what we need to do.
the resolution dation that the chancellor tioned as a think tank that looks peopla on incomes and they re doing everything right now with analysis which will be ollowed in an hour by the very ous institute for fiscal studies it’s always the economists view budget the day after that of the budget the day after that tends to shape people’s reactions terms of reactions, the bour party opposed to tax rises ow, they think at would be bad for the covery.
but the shadow ancellor anneliese dodds is in our of those phrases to the income tax threshold.
in principle, freeze, we are not against on that freeze, we are not against the freeze on principle.
what i am erned about is the fact that this is taking place when we have he changes to council tax but also changes to social security as you quoted a speaker from the well.
you quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation 3 moment ago ointed out that actually, the overnment is planning to switch off ncrease in social security, actually, right at the time when we ipate the peak in unemployment, that’s not a sensible approach to .
labour also critical of take.
labour are also critical of this thing that the government has lled the tan 5 fund, £1 got rallad the tan 5 fund, £1 billion allocated for investment in around england and if you look the towns, the vast majority of are in seats held by onservative mps.
labour says is nyism, the nservatives just say cronyism, the conservatives just say it’s a product of levelling up and he result was at the last election.
a0 out of 45 towns eceiving money from the receiving that money from the newtown deal that’s been mentioned budget, to be precise.
what left out, at’s conspicuous by absence, would you say?
we are ing to be with a lot of ncertainty.
so does the pandemic out in a way that’s better or orse than rishi sunak predicts?
o, do we have businesses nvesting in the way that he hopes he next year?
and also, can you raise as of corporation tax as expect?
there’s lots of things deal with of the next few years.
terms of other things that aren’t there, what about social rare?
it was meant to be a big reform to how rare is funded by the end of he year, there as no mention of at.
the office of budget day dget responsibility says missing idea of how to handle the backlog in , operations and treatments that haven’t happened of covid, will that require lots more money to deal with?
ation, money has gone into these catch-up funds ere can be more catch-up funds so there ran be more tuition for people to have fallen ind their learning, will that require a lot more?
and also, the thing the office for budget onsibility pointed out is if nterest rates for government debt hen the government will have to spend a lot more on servicing its hich could mean more interest, more tax rises and potentially more ing cuts and so, when rishi sunak comes back to the house of ons in the autumn, potentially or another budget and definitely a spending review, we will talk bout the allocations of spending to nment departments, will be oing through all of this over in?
that was adam fleming.
i put it to pauljohnson of the institute for fiscal studies that the covid—19 pandemic means there’s still a lot of uncertainty about the economy you’re right, there’s a huge amount of uncertainty about the forecast in all of this.
and the central numbers that the chancellor talks about, but of course much more than usual we don’t really have much of an idea, frankly, what’s going to happen to the economy in the next year or two.
but associated with that, and a separate point, is that the chancellor has pencilled in some really very tight spending plans into his spending review in the autumn and into this budget, which involve actually spending quite a lot less next year and in subsequent years than he was planning pre—pandemic.
now, frankly, that doesn’t strike me as being terribly plausible.
the idea that we will need to be spending less on education and health and social care and local government and all those things after the pandemic than we thought we were going to beforehand just doesn’t look in the least bit likely, given that we know evenjust for the minimum things, like vaccination and test and trace and and so on, let alone catching up with the huge backlog of operations and the need to catch up children who have lost so much school, and the need to help local authorities and so on.
these numbers don’t look like they are going to hold.
and i was just asking adam 3 second ago, what do you think was left out that you would have liked to have seen in there?
what is conspicuous by its absence?
your thoughts on that?
well, i wrote a piece on monday which said there are two challenges for the chancellor.
one is telling us how he is going to balance the books, and he has given us a sense of that.
the other is what is he going to do about the big inequalities that have opened up over the last year?
inequalities in education, particularly it is poorer children who have done badly.
inequalities in employment, it’s the young and those with lower levels of education who have done badly.
inequalities between generations, once again it is younger people who have suffered economically and older people who are, economically at least, better off over this period.
and he didn’t really offer anything on those.
he didn’t really begin to address the challenge of the economic inequalities that have opened up as a result of this pandemic.
and quite a lot of traction for this.
again, something i was talking about with adam a second ago.
the fact that a0 out of 45 towns getting this £1 billion deal are conservative constituencies.
now, i don’t have the exact breakdown of which constituencies those are yet, but does that strike you as levelling up?
well, i haven’t looked at the details of which towns are getting which funds.
i mean, there is frankly whenever allocations like this are done on a geographic basis, and this works also when finances are sent to local authorities, there is always a little bit of a political overlay on some of the marginal decisions.
but i think, you know, the key point about levelling up is even this sort of and it sounds like a lot of money, but across a lot of towns across a period of time and given the scale of inequalities, it’s going to make only a relatively small and quite localised difference.
i think the real challenge for the government here is that they are promising a lot, and i think people might be expecting a lot, but it’s going to take a very long time — and certainly well beyond a parliament — to see really noticeable changes in those differences between local areas and towns.
i’m joined now by lord bilimoria, president of the confederation of british industry, which represents 190,000 businesses across the — lord bilimoria is the founder of cobra beer and sits as an independent crossbench peer in the house of lords.
thank you very much for joining us here on news today.
what works is budget you and what in this budget for you and what isn’t there that you might have to have seen?
this is a really, really crucial budget in its g.
a year go went into timing.
a year ago we went into lockdown, we’d been through a tmare globally, a health crisis, nomic crisis that has reverberated through the supply ns, the demand shop, the supply chop, we’ve all been affected, and ance to his credit has been the chance to his credit has been extraordinary in terms of per capita bsolute terms, £400 billion orth of support to save businesses obs and the economy.
the proof of that is very clear.
unemployment ago was and a half a year ago was three and a half percent, one of the lowest rates back to the 705, today it’s at 5.
1%, after the financial crisis ployment went up to nearly 10% unemployment went up to nearty1096 and the eason for that is all the port, including in particular the rther scheme and our request to was thanks to our wonderful cination programme, we are ahead the world, we have vaccinated 20 lion people, when our capacity goes up this we may be able to accinate 1 million people a day, hat ans over 20 illion a month, we will be vaccinating the whole ulation soon.
we will be population very soon.
we will be able to open up our economy very .
allow our businesses have suffered so much, give them the y, ay, the breathing space, andy aldane, the chief economist of the of england said the economy is like a coiled spring, i will go one further, i say we are like a rouching lion waiting to roar and forward.
we can do it if we are iven the mmy, unway, the chancellor has ened, as he has throughout the ar, whenever we’ve said we need an nsion, we need more time and lp, he has listened and he has tened again.
the most important pect of this budget is to help pla give in terms of the scheme tended, the business rates relief nded, reduction down to 5% being ended, no tax increases at his time as our request and that is ppening although corporation going to go up in two years me.
which is a concern.
we’ve ard from couple of business ners today already saying yes, of urse they would have liked more this helps
and it helps protect jobs of their employees.
however, i spoke to paul johnson from the itute for fiscal studies 3 a little rlier
and they have now ublished eir detailed assessment the budget
and they are saying onomy well supported in the short but no medium—term
but no real medium-term prospectus, , spending numbers are too to be credible, it’s a similar story from the office for budget onsibility which says there is real plan here, for next year ards which in the business will, bviously, you would want to be nning for?
well, i think the hings like the reductions and tax ourage investment, the to encourage investment, the government says you put on £100 and be 130, 20 5% of your tax it will be130, 20 596 of your tax bill to ncourage investment, what to do short term is solutely crucial because in the ort term, we can protect the jobs, at’s the important, we cannot that’s the most important, we cannot have youth unemployment mployment, we protect and jobs and get the nomy integral quickly hich i think can happen in what happen is jobs are what will pay taxes, the biggest tax comes from jobs, that’s
the and the chancellor says jobs rst, that’s what’s going to help paying for all this money that the government has put in and i think that short—term is crucial, i take they are saying yes i take what they are saying about the long—term.
things like are at this pandemic has xposed ealth and social care secretary far more attention secretary needs far more attention and will need more investment going rd.
we need to address that going forward.
but now is the time rowth, for investment and for growth, for investment and allowing the economy to open up.
to get your reaction, thank you for your time today.
you’ve been ing me about the budget.
and hat you think of it, let me read of your tweets.
one viewer says don’t get how government gave £20 up a 12 months to universal credit and extent six months proving it wasn’t enough to live on but working tax credit gets nothing for on a one—off £500, how is that fair?
his from neville.
who s, iagree with tax says, i agree mostly with tax changes, though i would have put tax anyone earning over £100,000 now.
i’m disappointed with nothing kle the climate emergency, to reeze fuel duty is a big mistake.
1 talks about the excluded, it’s azing that fter a year at the hancellor still hasn’t supported hree plus million he is xcluded from support, and now in management, struggling to pay debt management, to pay rent and food and the company is insolvent.
let me and fit in ouple more of your tweets.
peter 75 i think the budget is , but opla need to remember is the extra at has been borrowed because of id, it will have to be paid back the should be done by us an utlat for our children or randchildren.
thank you for all of e.
do keep them coming into me.
you can of course comment about any of our other stories today as well.
let’s return new to our main story.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition, buckingham palace says.
prince philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
he was being treated for an infection and moved to bartholomew’s hospital in london on monday.
our heath correspondent, katherine costa, is with me.
just a brief statement from the palace with this update on how the is doing.
that’s right.
buckingham palace has said he had a dure on wednesday and will spend another few days in hospital and recuperation.
they for rest and recuperation.
they haven’t confirmed the exact edure that he underwent
but we know that in 2011 prince philip treated for a blocked artery in ambridgeshire and had a stent ted after suffering from chest in.
there is a procedure that kes about half an hour to two and patients are assessed, hey might have blood tests taken, cialists will look inside the teries.
patients would write on —— ients would on the table, they would inflate a small balloon lear luggage and a stent is fitted and that helps the blood flow in.
there some cases where again.
there are some rases where arteries begin to narrow again so ents may require another stent be fitted.
essentially what it is mall wired mesh which acts scaffolding to keep the rteries open.
now, afterwards you need some blood thinning drugs uch as aspirin her specialist such as aspirin and other specialist drugs and then it is a case of rest elaxation and follow—up assessments.
because the duke has hospital or 16 nights and been in hospital for 16 nights and was treated for an infection before to saint bartholomew and given he had a procedure at his age we expect him to be in hospital or quite a few days yet for nitoring, i would assume.
as you , he is 99, he has had a previous condition and he has spent a ortnight ago hospital already.
this airty straightforward procedure.
in some cases patients go home in the same day but could go home in the same day but because of his age and because he infection prior to this procedure it may be that they want end a number of more days checking him for more rest and peration and to see how he is responding.
catherine costa, you for that.
in myanmar, police have broken up demonstrations in several places with tear gas and gunfire but there’s no immediate word on casualties.
the french president emmanuel macron has repeated his call for an immediate end to repression — and respect for the democratic choice of the myanmar people.
he tweeted that france is "at your side".
hundreds of mourners this morning have attended a funeral for a 19—year—old protester whose face has gone viral on social media.
angel, also known as kyal sin, was among 38 protestors killed yesterday.
she was shot in the head while on the streets of mandalay.
our south east asia correspondentjonathan head is following the story from bangkok.
i think the scale of the violence yesterday and the way in which people were gunned down, were rounded up, in mass arrests and were savagely beaten really laid open the strategy of the military authorities which is, i think, to put it bluntly, to terrorise people back off the streets, to to regain control of a country that is a nationwide uprising, whatever the cost.
there was no attempt whatsoever to minimise casualties.
and indeed, the videos we’ve seen circulating on social media show both police and soldiers gloating over the fact that they tend to go out and kill people.
they are making it very obvious, most of those killed yesterday had either head or chest wounds, this is a deliberate shoot to kill policy and yet people are out again and when we talk about them coming out you need to understand how the strategy has evolved.
they are just rallying and marching in now, they are barricading their neighbourhoods, sometimes quite impressively, in a sense, to deny the military government the control on the ground and that’s what the police and army have been going in to and stop but those barricades are becoming bigger and harder to move.
so this is actually, a real fight going on for control of myanmar between its people, i mean, huge numbers of whom support this movement, and a military that is still struggling to assert its authority.
the european union’s finance chief has said the ’s decision to make unilateral changes to the northern ireland protocol raises questions about whether it can be trusted in future trade negotiations.
yesterday, the government announced that it was extending a grace period for border checks on some goods crossing the irish sea.
mairead mcguinness accused the of breaching both trust and an international agreement.
health officials are to examine whether paying people to exercise could help drive down levels of obesity.
sir keith mills, who founded the air miles and nectar rewards programmes, is to advise the government on a new way to use incentives to support people who choose healthier diets and do more physical activity.
the says new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants, like the one from brazil, can be fast—tracked through the approval system.
the ’s regulator has issued guidance, along with authorities in australia, canada, singapore and switzerland, on what checks and measures would be necessary.
our health correspondent michelle roberts explained more the decision had been taken.
the medicines regulator has been talking about what the next could be to keep up the pressure on this virus and to fight have already got brilliant accines which are working really in the real world with lots of pla protected but it appears that ith some of these new variants the tection you get from the current accine, although it is good, it possibly be made a bit better tweaking the design of these bs.
so when they talk about fast acking, how much faster are we king about then say the production of the current vaccines that was done at an because that was done at an incredibly fast pace?
it took ten to go from zero to having ccines available which was redible.
now we have that science tweaks if you like should be quicker.
we are talking months, three, four months to get maybe three, four months to get something that is available.
it is uch like with the flu jab is very much like with the jab is we have every year.
you can modify se.
you ’t need the long those.
you don’t need the long clinical trials in thousands tients cause you already know of patients because you already know the vaccine itself is really ctive.
50 you’re just making effective.
so you’re just making minor changes to make it a better for the virus and that is what we have been doing with covid.
in that there seems to be an acceptance ith the vaccine programme olling out here in the and where, the are talking about ramping up the speed of delivery ines, the covax programme etting vaccines at all countries.
overnments don’t want to that governments don’t want to contemplate and none of us want to emplate going back to a position re we go back into a spiral of ockdown and reopening and there has way to keep on marching forward including tackling these whatever it takes.
the variants whatever it takes.
the vaccines are one way to do that and ing is so important.
getting eopla who do test positive to olate.
that is we have heard uch testing happening to and lampdown particularly on the south ican brazil variant and the african and brazil variant and the variant that has some other ges as well.
millions of doses of the coronavirus vaccine are being rolled out across africa.
tomorrow, around 4 million doses will be distributed across nigeria’s most densely populated city, abuja.
first in line to receive the vaccine will be health workers and front line staff, including teachers.
peter hawkins is the unicef representative in nigeria.
this is through the covax programme, peter.
good to have you with us on ews.
unicef has a lot of experience in immunisation rammes for malaria and other iseases so tell us about your olvement in the plans to tackle ovid.
that has been quite an edible feats, the covax facility includes unicef and and her major donors, is about curing large quantities come up 3 million doses of vaccine and tributing them in 92 countries ross the globe.
here in nigeria we ceived 4 million doses the day re yesterday on the 2nd of march hich is the first step and a ntastic first step in trying to nteract the pandemic here in geria and complement the already nsive measures that have taken lace to and prevent the virus around nigeria.
you mention opla like health care workers will among to get the vaccine first.
what are conditions like at ment in terms of the number of rases, transmission of the virus in ia.
how far do you think this nitial batch of vaccination will go to help tackla the virus though?
at the moment 155,000 people have racted covid in nigeria but that hides a much larger statistic of more people who have contracted many more peopla who have contracted it but haven’t been tested or shown ivity.
over 2000 people have positivity.
over 2000 peopla have died from it but again, perhaps one peopla who have died of covid aven’t been registered as covid ths.
the effects of covid in a untry like nigeria is not only the rect effect but it is the indirect fect, schools were closed, the nomy has deteriorated ubstantially.
now there are over million people registered as oor.
this vaccine is the first real light that allows us to move rward.
as you said, the health kers will start to be vaccinated rom tomorrow that will go right oss the country to 1.
2 million ont line workers being vaccinated, owing many other measures to ntinue for the workers to continue ine immunisation for children hich is the biggest killer in eria.
50 the infrastructure is nigeria.
so the is ready.
are there any challenges that?
for routine immunisation infrastructure is already here for ings like o, as you mention.
things like polio, as you mention.
we are integrating the whole system the chain of vaccination is one by the same system, a primary care system, people register sing the istration we have used for polio.
for those who cannot ster then treach will be done register then outreach will be done with community health workers going to the community to generate interest and the demands coming is a slow process and a very process.
after the health rkers it is the over 50s and so on so so forth.
2022 we should get the 50% we are aiming for but it be a long ess.
in the will be a long process.
in the meantime protective measures have to to ensure we all keep safe by keeping safer families are and our communities are safe.
talk about interest and demand.
supportive is the public erally about the idea of being accinated against coronavirus?
re will always be vaccine hesitancy, especially in a country igeria which has seen many different types of accidents, three.
where our risk community ngagement really comes in.
organisations, people at the community level, can really make derstand that this is safe and good for them.
i am vaccinated a who is vaccinated, it is not just a protection for me it is a ection for other people around me as ll.
it is that obligation that sense of "we are in the mile and we can continue this last mile’ hich is so important to peopla interested in what is appening around the vaccinations.
unicef peter, good to talk to you.
unicef rep in nigeria.
thank you very much time.
the headlines on news the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
the duchess of sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and prince harry.
the chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation to the highest level since the 19605 — as he faces criticism for doing too little to tackle inequality.
the chancellor, rishi sunak, has promised another £65 billion of economic support in his budget, which he says will help businesses and people through the pandemic.
he also explained how he plans to start paying the bill, which will push britain’s tax burden to its highest level since the 19605.
nina warhurst has been getting reaction from people in redcar.
every town and every city has thousands of stories of what should happen now.
bailey deserves a break.
he trained for three years as a rail engineer before cancer treatment cut off his career before it even had a chance to start.
i was trying to get a job with amazon but 700 people applied for the same job that i applied for.
so that is probably going to be a no—go.
kobe dreams of being a singer.
but times are tough for his mum.
she used to be a special needs nurse but stopped to look after her daughter who has complex disabilities.
they just about get by on universal credit and her husband’s income.
it has been a bit of a struggle, definitely.
during the first lockdown people are quite happy to get takeaways and things.
my husband is a takeaway driver.
then obviously, that’s not there.
50 his hours have been up and down in bits.
but yeah, we get by.
so things are at the moment but do you worry about what comes next and what things will be like for the kids?
yeah, absolutely.
kids are the future, aren’t they?
it is notjust about education, it is about mentally.
you ask all the time about covid and about when he is going to see his friends, when he can hug people.
joanna runs three pubs.
she is desperate to get customers back through the doors but she is worried about what happens if tax goes up and punters can’t splash out.
she is glad has come down and thinks it should stay down.
one thing i would like to see is something they do in europe and that is a fixed percentage for the hospitality trade, a country like spain and france that does rely heavily on tourism and hospitality, we are in that boat now here in the .
a fixed rate that is lower than the standard rate that everybody else pays is what they do in spain.
i think it is around about 11%.
something like that to be brought over here in the , that would be a great asset.
but gary’s hair salon isn’t farfrom joanne’s pub.
he was hoping he might have had a surprise cut from the chancellor.
we pay 20% where hospitality pays 5%.
we are not a service you can put online or a takeaway service.
when we are closed we are closed.
the theory is that once things are back to normal then everyone will want a haircut so you will be able to bounce back quickly.
there is no doubt we are going to be really, really busy.
i worry for salons because they will have taken out extra debt, extra loans, they will have deferred payments.
they will have to be paid back eventually so it is added pressure on businesses.
who are the real winners?
who will be the long—term losers?
we won’t truly know how successful the chancellor’s support has been for months, even years.
for now, everyone is just trying to make it to tomorrow.
just to get our locations right, nina warhurst was in fact in astle.
just eight weeks after rioters stormed the capitol, police say they’ve obtained intelligence showing there is a possible plot to breach the building again today.
the plot is linked to afar right militia group, and march 4th is the day that some conspiracy theorists believe donald trump will return to take power once again.
while extra security measures are being put in place, the house of representatives has decided not to convene on thursday.
here’s an counter—terrorism official warning of the threats posed by extremists in the united states.
looking forward we assess the extremist threat will continue to threat to the .
we expect racially motivated violence emist and anti authority violent tremist will pose the greatest estic terrorism threats throughout 2021 and leading into .
news correspondent debra alfarone is on capitol hill with the latest on what intelligence agencies have told us.
they have been very general about this and not giving us much cific.
there may be a right militia group hat is thinking about something at the capital, reaching the capital and really ting lawmakers at risk.
they are sking lawmakers to not come in or have two using one of the arking garages and using the erground walkway that the capitol .
we are in one building here but here are semi different buildings ake up the capitol so there that make up the capitol so there are all of these walkways underneath is pretty hard to get in here.
i come here every day and, i tell you, there are big fences with wire all around this huge razor wire all around this huge sprawling complex.
there are onal guard members outside her rms, there is capitol police side.
it is not easy to get in re
so if you are a lawmaker and get in here they are saying n’t leave the capitol building, use the erground walkways to get from one to the next.
there is a bit of repidation coming here today but we ere every day and i’m sure come here every day and i’m sure lawmakers are also on edge about as well
but we have to do the that we have to do.
as thousands of children dress up to mark world book day, campaigners are calling forfamilies, schools and nurseries to have books with more characters from black, asian and minority ethnic backgrounds.
this is news.
the headlines at 11am.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
the duchess of sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and prince harry.
i don’t know how they could expect that after all this time we would stilljust be silent if there is an active role that the firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
the chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation to the highest level since the 19605, as he faces criticism for doing too little to tackle inequality.
this is a good way to raise money that we need because it’s a progressive measure.
it means those on higher incomes contribute a lot more than those on lower incomes.
new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants, like the one from brazil, can be fast—tracked through the approval system — the ’s medical regulator says.
countries with more overweight people have had the highest death rates from covid 19, a report says as the government looks at a reward scheme to encourage people to lose weight.
scotland’s first minister, nicola sturgeon, has insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’ her predecessor alex salmond.
i’m dressed up as my favourite character, fantastic fox.
and as children dress up to mark world book day, campaigners call for more books with characters from ethnic backgrounds.
good morning.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition, buckingham palace says.
prince philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
he was being treated for an infection and moved to bartholomew’s hospital in london on monday.
our royal correspondent, nicholas witchell, is following developments.
what more can you telus?
well, not a whola lot.
the palace is not saying re more about this pre—existing art ndition or the successful procedure but given that the existing heart condition that we know out her ten years ago when he a stent inserted to relieve a cked coronary artery, it is easonable to speculate that tever took place at the hospital erday was, in some way, was volving the stent.
it could have the insertion of a new one or nsertion of the existing one.
aware that this is known as gioplasty and takes place under naesthetic.
when dealing with mebody is almost 100, they ould have been a narrowing of the ntor the artery which was causing eart condition for which he was transferred from one hospital to her, to son bartholomew is spital which is an expert hospital rdiac issues.
he experience onitoring and assessment on tuesday the procedure carried out on tuesday.
it has been successful and remain in hospital as the palace says for rest and recuperation for a number of days.
i imagine that mean, well, mon—sense, for someone of his ge, it is perhaps kely he will be here for another week.
perhaps ger.
the royal mily are not longer.
the royal family are not likely to tell us much more because on’t tend to give running they don’t tend to give running commentaries.
however, it does not eporters like us watching for omings and goings from the hospital use prince charles visited when he was in the previous hospital.
he visited on the saturday when he was king edward.
i think that iven we are told that the ocedure, whatever it was, was ccessful and he now requires a iod of rest and recuperation and ven the protocols that are in ace instant bartholomew is, siting is not permitted other than in exceptional circumstances, i would be surprised if any prominent of the royal family felt it ecessary to visit him there.
not because it would be contrary protocols and not least as it be seen as a signal that things have taken a turn for the e.
thank you very much, nick.
our correspondent katharine costa has more information on the condition the duke has.
they haven’t confirmed the exact procedure but we do know that in that he was treated for an 2011 that he was treated for an artery in papworth and he had a fitted for heart pains, chest ains.
there is a procedure that half an hour to two hours re patients are assessed, they have blood tests taken and the ecialist will look inside their teries and, now, the patient would a table with the x—ray.
cardiologists would make a small rtion in the groin area and assed through a catheter and then inﬂate a small balloon which to they inflate a small balloon which helps to clear the blockage and a is fitted and that helps the ood flow again.
so, there are some ases re arteries begin to narrow again, so a ient may require nother stent to be fitted.
sentially, what it is, is a small mesh which acts like scaffolding to keep the arteries .
now, afterwards, you would eed some blood— thinning drugs, so ings like irin, other things like aspirin, other specialist drugs and then it’s a of rest and relaxation before ssessment.
the duchess of sussex has suggested the royal family have played a part in what she called "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and prince harry.
she made the comments in an interview with oprah winfrey, to be broadcast in the this weekend.
meanwhile, last night, buckingham palace said its human resources team was looking into claims that the duchess had bullied staff while she was a working royal in 2018.
simon jones has more.
meghan is making it clear she will not be afraid to speak out in a second trailer for the interview released overnight.
how do you feel about the palace hearing you speak your truth today?
i don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time we would stilljust be silent, if there is an active role that the firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
if that comes with risk of losing things, i mean, there’s a lot that’s been lost already.
this is a second clip released by but the first in which we have heard the duchess speak.
the interview was recorded before buckingham palace began an investigation into claims meghan had bullied former royal staff.
the times newspaper has obtained an e—mail, written in late 2018, byjason knauf, the couple’s communication secretary, to simon case, he is now the cabinet secretary.
in it he is reported to have written "i’m very concerned that the duchess was able to bully two pas out of the household in the past year.
the treatment of was totally unacceptable.
" buckingham palace said it was very concerned about the allegations.
former members of staff are being invited to participate in its investigation.
in a statement, it added "the royal household has had a dignity at work policy in place for a number of years and does not and will not tolerate bullying or harassment in the workplace.
"
but a spokesperson for meghan said "the duchess is saddened by this latest attack on her character, particularly as someone who has been the target of bullying herself.
she will keep striving to set an example for doing what is right and good.
" the latest interview clip will do little to heal any apparent rifts between the sussexes and the palace.
simon jones, news.
i’m joined now by royal author and journalist victoria murphy.
thank you for joining us.
simon jones talked about any apparent .
harrell bigger rift is there tween the suffixes and the rest of irm is megan referred to them?
it’s pretty obvious.
it’s bsolutely astonishing we have all information being put into the pub“: domain but so much open tility there.
this latest clip seems in response to this seems to be in response to this story published by the times erday, his allegations of llying, that statement however, we to remember that the interview ith meghan was filmed before this was released.
she does talk about the active role that the firm reating false heads but she is not talking about this story now.
she referring to?
we note hat meghan has been very strated.
she has made no comment referred in court documents.
it’s a very serious thing to suggest accuse, albeit not and to accuse, albeit not individuals, but the firm, as she the mob.
i think that’s what peopla want to know and, from this erview, i think people are looking for be a bit more specific information here on what it makes her feel that that is hat was done, and i think that’s t’s going to be the test of that erview.
what specifics, what ctual nformation is put forward make that argument?
yes, because, ously, that clip was chosen to peak peopla uzz interest and get hem to it at the weekend.
how portant is the context of what the chess has said?
it could show a very different light on things?
i think this interview is incredibly it’s 90 minutes and gives them a huge amount of time to get forward point and have their say.
it’s very dear lear that people clearly felt, very clear that peopla dearty felt, some individuals felt that, ahead of nterview going out, it was this interview going out, it was important for a different narrative eard.
now, the people who to be heard.
now, the peopla who have spoken to the times, clearly not forward with this had not come forward with this information before that something them want to do that.
has made them want to do that.
perhaps there has been a realisation nless somebody does come orward with this information to sent that narrative, so then it’s set of considerations that will be heard, will not be taken into nsideration.
i suppose people will go watch is oprah interview in mind, it changes the situation what.
but, ithink somewhat.
but, i think this interview is a hugely landmark nt.
the suffixes have this pportunity to have their say and very much polarise opinion.
the est of this interview will be her people who are in the middle ground, used about what to ground, confused about what to think, who don’t know what to eve, whether the suffixes are able to provide information that ally talks about things that kes people understand and athise with them more than they lready do.
where does this leave palace ause it
they tend not the palace because it they tend not to want to engage in his public ements that other people might feel they have the right to make a onse to?
we so really hear about hat goes beyond behind closed rs.
it’s something that’s worked hem the many years, no comment.
now they meghan are putting lots information into the public ain so the royal family are going have to reconsider their policy.
it’s important to point out hat even though there has been in rom the sussexs that there is ome sort of buckingham palace moved to the times, this was to talk to the times, this was actually individuals who came ard to the times newspaper.
here is no suggestion this is hestrated by palace officials.
ut, the palace has responded on ord with a statement about making nvestigation.
it is an unusual for them to do.
you might question these allegations were made ime ago so there might be a bit a?
of a?
around that, but certainly, i think we are going to see them aps be more vocal than we’ve seen before.
it is fascinating, i look back to years ago because i look back to years ago when journalists like my sales when stories about the division of the households between the ridge is and the sussexs.
and that’s what we were being told.
but was obviously a huge other element to the side of the story as .
huge disagreements which we now know from everything that has out since that were much more entrenched, more tense and escalated greater extent than we had nitially first thought.
this erview airs on sunday in the ited states.
no doubt it will be ely reported here but for the ent, victoria murphy, thank you much.
the chancellor, rishi sunak, has defended his decision to raise corporation tax for the most profitable companies to 25% in 2023.
this measure — along with other moves such as freezing income tax thresholds — mean that britain is on course to have the highest tax burden since the 19605.
paul hawkins reports.
billed as a budget to rescue an economy ravaged by covid.
: can the country afford this budget, sunak?
the chancellor has promised to protectjobs.
tax increases loom, taking the ’s tax burden to its highest level since the 19605, according to the office for budget responsibility.
obviously, the pandemic has dealt us pretty bad damage to the public finances and the economy, and i think i and the government have a responsibility to put those back in a strong position over time but do that in a way that is supportive of economic recovery in the short—term but also do so in a way that is fair.
this is how he intends to do it.
the furlough scheme is to be extended until the end of september, as will higher universal credit payments.
the headline rate of corporation tax will go up from 19% to 25% from 2023, though smaller firms will be exempt.
and a freeze on income tax thresholds is expected to lead to 1.
3 million more people paying income tax, plusi million more paying the higher rate.
but there will be some more help for hospitality.
pubs won’t have to pay business rates until the end ofjune.
we have been open forfour months out of the last 12 when we get to reopen.
when we reopen, it’s going to be gardens only, and then restricted inside.
we are going to need all the help we can get to get hospitality through.
labour talk of a missed opportunity.
i just think this didn’t deliver the scale of what was required.
for most people what they’re going to see is a very big increase in council tax, possibly 3 universal credit cut, and a very high level of unemployment, no matter where they live.
although much of the focus has been on business, some number crunchers say the effects of the budget will also be felt far wider.
much less attention was paid to what is happening to british households.
in many ways, the year ahead for them is more difficult than the year we’ve been through, with falling living standards this autumn.
and actually come up for public services, further cuts to public spending mean that we may be seeing what feels a lot like austerity.
for public services, too, further cuts to public spending may feel a lot like austerity.
there is now a route out of lockdown.
but tough times ahead.
the chancellor says not all his decisions will be popular but they are, he insists, honest.
paul hawkins, news.
our chief political correspondent, adam fleming, told annita mcveigh the budget was a story of three chapters the first chapter is the government continuing to spend billions of pounds to support people and businesses through what they hope is the last stage of the pandemic.
and that will last until september when society is supposedly all but have opened up again.
then chapter two starts, the recovery of the government hopes which will be boosted by a massive, massive tax break with billions of pounds for businesses to invest in staff.
then the year after is when chapter three starts.
that is when we see the government raising more money in taxation.
first of all, by an increase in the rate of corporation tax, paid by companies earning more than a quarter of £1 billion of profits 3 year.
and then, secondly, freezing those thresholds for the rates of income tax which means more lower earners will start paying the basic rate and for higher earners will start paying the higher rate.
and rishi sunak, the chancellors this morning has been defending that as a fair way of mending the public finances.
people’s current take—home pay, it won’t be affected by this policy but you are right
and i was clear yesterday, that this means the incremental benefit that they would have experienced had those thresholds continue to rise with inflation won’t be there.
we are going to keep putting up the thresholds next year as we promised but then they will be frozen at the higher level, but you mention the resolution foundation, i think they’ve also said this is a good way to raise money that we need because it’s a progressive measure, it means those on higher incomes contribute a lot more than those on lower incomes and i think that’s what most people would accept as a fair way to do what we need to do.
the resolution foundation that the chancellor mentioned as a think tank that looks at people on low incomes and they are doing everything right now with their analysis which will be followed in an hour by the very famous institute for fiscal studies and it’s always the economists view of the budget the day after that tends to shape people’s reactions and in terms of reactions, the labour party is opposed to tax rises now, they think that would be bad for the recovery.
but the shadow chancellor anneliese dodds is in favour of those phrases to the income tax threshold.
in principle, on that freeze, we are not against the freeze on principle.
what i am concerned about is the fact that this is taking place when we have got the changes to council tax but also changes to social security as well.
you quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation a moment ago who pointed out that actually, the government is planning to switch off its increase in social security, actually, right at the time when we anticipate the peak in unemployment, that’s not a sensible approach to take.
labour are also critical of this thing that the government has got rallad the towns fund, £1 billion allocated for investment in towns around england and if you look at the towns, the vast majority of them are in seats held by conservative mps.
labour says is cronyism, the conservatives just say it’s a product of levelling up and put the result was at the last election.
we can speak now tojohn caudwell, philanthropist and founder of phones , who joins us live from monaco.
thank you for joining us.
what is your initial reaction to what the cellor’s budget is going to mean businesses?
i think that first all, i think you did a good erformance on his feet.
fortunately, some of the content not great.
for me, he should made far more of recommendations of pandemic recovery is tackling four main areas of which is tackling four main areas of the infrastructure, massive stment into apprenticeship emes, inward investment and efficient setting.
he did not of that really
but he has some small stuff
and i like his ductions because that will really urage businesses to invest in nfrastructure and capital spend and t’s going so that’s a really good thing.
free ports i think will generate a lot more ness and so very positive.
his restart grants for small businesses to be a very, very positive thing as is greenbank investment .
has not gone far enough, anywhere near enough gain the ecovery we nearly need.
we have the west terest rates of all time.
debt is affordable.
we keep talking putting the public finances about putting the public finances are right but japan is into hundred debt for 20 years or percent debt for 20 years or more.
i must say are not an advocate debt because interest rates go up but nor am ifun of terity failing conomy.
and we really, ally need to the economy, grow jobs, hose 3 million grow jobs, get those 3 million peopla back in work, grow and that, tax revenues will grow and when we grow those tax revenues, erest rates go up, which of course they will do, but i submit suspect years before anything ike a significant rise, we can pay the of debt servicing and he debt back if we choose to outer cess rather than austerity.
you elieve then that he is being pmdent as you see it?
given this this is a conservative vernment.
they tend to want to taxes low but get we are seeing rporation tax due to rise to 25% which caused some people to a to throw up their in despair.
i think just ered the question because know, the simple fact is anything that damages nvestment, especially inward estment is going to be a negative for the .
we need low orporation taxes and other entives to cause businesses to elocate onto our shores, to grow manufacturing industry, jobs and growth.
the rise in corporation tax, till leaving this competitive element with the rest of europe but to be ultra—competitive and treat ritain as an aggressive iness looking for maximum osperity over the years to come in der to payout debt through success than the future austerity which will come if we do not grow conomy.
it was not my intention answer my own question!
other entators have said that it will till leave the better place than the other g7 economies, but ’ve got the context of brexit to in mind.
how much of the shadow that cast?
well, i don’t ieve believe it does fast a shadow.
i think there’s difficulties and ling in period is to get over brexit is the very thing that ows us to be very adventurous our economic measures and to be mpetitive within europe, more petitive than the europeans are pable of being so it gives us an lity to attract trade from their ores onto hours
but this is where saying the chancellor is not eing ambitious enough.
he is being rudent.
i would never want to too pmdent.
i would never want to expose britain to fiscal problems really do not see interest rates going up significantly at all ny, many years and if the money that we borrow is invested emely wisely, it’s invested in future, job creation which cuts rnment’s costs, it’s invested in growth which provides more nue, when we calculate the costs of 3 lion people out of work, the total cost robably in the region between 100— £200 billion per .
getting ose 3 million, if it turns out to be 3 million, i am that assumption because hat’s my forecast, but, whatever number, getting those 3 million to work safely huge amount of cost to the economy and would pay for any debt servicing costs we need to.
so this is a time more ambitious than the hancellor has been.
i understand he has taken the road he has but, in my view, he should have promoted the economy above else, to and grow that , jobs, tax revenues, as a consequence success, not as a nsequence of making people worse make britain the absolute eading light of europe.
we will see of the reductions, and a urlough scheme will be closed down politically, he had to be seen to be behaving in this way.
if not omically, which is more of your rgument, but politically, needs to to be trying to claw back is incredible amount of public ending during the pandemic.
this money was never going to be free.
it always had to be paid back.
that’s he could have put a reversal rgument if he wished most people buy to that because he says it has to be paid back with smack issue with big debt is the potential if the debt causes ation and interest rates rise.
any economies over the future years oing to be living with debt of 01: 96 plus of .
who says we need pay it?
the only issue is if nterest rates rise, the interest in ebt becomes a big drag on the economy.
so, 0, what we need to do is big and nvest wisely in big, to grow businesses in the , the omy
and we can choose to pay the debt out of growth, but even if don’t pay it, we will have more enough income in the exchequer pay the increased servicing ts.
50
i don’t disagree with the costs.
so i don’t disagree with the budget.
i just don’t think he’s been ious enough.
there’s a lot of smart moves in there but he could done a lot more.
in one of my have done a lot more.
in one of my major criticisms is his loan very scheme of 25,000 to £10 illion because he is once again that he will guarantee 80% of hat.
now, will not work that.
now, that will not work because those businesses that have raumatised and need these loans will not be able to put the 20% equity in to guarantee the n.
and had this argument loan.
and i’ve had this argument with the chancellor nine months ago previous set of lines and he ntually changed his mind and he 10096 guarantee on.
he thinks an can revert back to 80% nine he ran revert back to 8096 nine months ater and required a business 2096 to put 2096 really do not know.
it might not be ver yet.
there are ays concessions, aren’t they?
to talk to you,.
thanks for joining us today.
thank you.
goodbye.
and just after two thirty this afternoon we’ll be answering your questions on the the budget and its impact on personalfinances.
i will bejoined byjasmine birtles, founder of the website moneymagpie and by iona bain, founder of young money blog.
send in your questions using the hash tag your questions or by emailing yourquestions@bbc.
co.
uk.
that’s coming up at two thirty here on news.
now it’s time for a look at the weather with carol.
cloudy and chilly over the next three days
but there will be hine at times.
the wettest front sinking south bringing patchy rain northern ireland, northern england and east anglia.
it will up however and see sunshine but ahead of it, a lot of clout.
eratures between 5—10 c.
overnight, weather front sinks
and there will be some clearer kies and re we have got that skies and where we have got that clearance, in the highlands, eratures will fall as low as minus four celsius.
but generally, oing to be a cold night.
it is going to be a cold night.
tomorrow we start off with a bit sunshine than we have been used to but don’t get too excited because oud will build up and expand cross most of the .
temperatures morrow, five in the north to about 7—8 in the south.
hello, this is news.
the headlines: the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
the duchess of sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and prince harry.
the chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation to the highest level since the 19605 — as he faces criticism for doing too little to tackle inequality.
new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants — like the one from brazil — can be fast—tracked through the approval system, the ’s medical regulator says.
countries with more overweight people have had the highest death rates from covid—19, a report says, as the government looks at a reward scheme to encourage people to lose weight.
scotland’s first minister, nicola sturgeon, has insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’ her predecessor alex salmond.
sport, and for a full round up, from the sport centre, here’s jane dougal.
good morning.
m: we are going to start with the cricket.
england’s batsmen have struggled again on the first day of the fourth and final test against india.
they were bowled out for 205 after winning the toss in ahmedabad.
the pich looked much improved on the one which attracted such controversy last week, but england still failed to come to terms with the indian attack.
captainjoe root, the third wicket to fall — for just five.
ben stokes resisted for a time and occasionally took the attack to india on the way to a half century.
stokes, though, eventually went for 55.
and, apart from dan lawrence with a6, the rest of the batting folded fairly meekly.
james anderson gave england some hope when he dismissed shubman gill for a duck.
at the close india were 2a—1.
staying with cricket, west indies’ kieron pollard has become just the third player to hit six sixes in one over in an international match.
it was a remarkable t20 game in antigua, especially for sri lanka’s bowler akila njaya.
he took a hat—trick, and the west indies slumped to 62—a, chasing 132 to win.
then came pollard.
every ball of dananjaya’s next over was smashed over the boundary.
pollard eventually out for 38, but west indies winning by 4 wickets, with 41 balls to spare.
rangers are getting close to ending all the hurt of the last decade, by being crowned scottish premiership champions, and stopping celtic getting 10 in a row.
rangers’ manager steven gerrard, who’s on the brink of his first title, was sent off at half time for comments he made to the referee who’d booked alfredo morelos earlier.
and it was morelos who came up with the only goal to secure the win.
they need just 4 more points now for the title.
elsewhere, hamilton drew 1—1 with stjohnstone.
there are three more premier league games this evening.
relegation threatened fulham are at home to spurs, while second from bottom west brom host everton.
in the later game, liverpool take on chelsea, with both sides eyeing a top 4 finish.
last night, manchester united could only manage a goalless draw at palace.
united are still 1a points behind leaders manchester city.
leicester city in 3rd are also dropping points, but they did salvage a draw at burnley, thanks to a wonderful finish from kelechi iheanacho.
the point means burnley are 6 points clear of the relegation zone now.
in last night’s other match, bottom side sheffield united got a rare win, beating aston villa1—0.
manchester city can start thinking about the women’s champions league quarter—finals after beating fiorentina 3—0 in the home leg of their last 16 tie.
city scored twice in the first four minutes through lauren hemp and ellen white, before sam mewis added another late on.
it was a good night for chelsea in their first leg.
their keeper, ann katrin berger, saved two penalties before fran kirby wrapped up the 2—0 win against atletico madrid at kings meadow.
the new chief executive of kick it out says he believes there are enough qualified people of colour to fill the vacant roles at the and at the , without resorting to tokenism.
tony burnett says there should be an environment where the best people from any background are able to access opportunities.
gordon taylor steps down from his chief executive position at the at the end of the season, and the is recruiting a permanent chair to replace greg clarke.
i would love to see absolutely a person of colour or from an ethnic rity background because they ome through a process which is n, fair and transparent and they re the best person for the job.
the thing, there is a question we answer about the criteria for those jobs.
uld love ee, to see, if it is not necessarily a person, spective of what the irrespective of what the individual’s background, have they right alues?
the got the right values?
the individuals in those jobs, it is a ively important that they value lusion.
massively important they art with perspective that humans equal value.
when you’ve been at the top, but you’re now123rd in the world, it can be tough to deal with, and andy murray says he has been struggling to adjust.
after losing on his tour comeback in montpellier last week, he was beaten in straight sets last night in rotterdam.
and his frustration was clear.
he is returning from a serious hip injury and was up against ath seed andre rublev.
murray says he can’t help but over analyse the mistakes he’s making.
lam not i am not used to making those errors in those moments.
i am finding that frustrating and mentally finding myself looking back on those a little bit too much.
which ay be, you ow, affected me a bit the second set.
that’s all the sport for now.
there’s more on the website and app — including news that wales scrum half kieran hardy has been ruled out of the six nations with a hamstring injury.
that’s bbc.
co.
uk/sport.
the ’s medicines regulator has ruled that new covid vaccines to fight emerging variants can be fast—tracked through the approval system.
guidance from the says manufacturers would need to prove the jabs could provide protective antibodies.
this could be achieved from data on real—world use, bypassing the need for clinical trials.
on a visit to a vaccination facility in glasgow — the health secretary, matt hancock, welcomed the decision.
i think that the have played a very, very wise publication.
this is out making sure that if we all about making sure that if we need an updated vaccine to work these new variants, we can against these new variants, we ran get it approved and into people’s as soon as as safely possible.
he regulator is incredibly rigorous fety, but what they have shown that they are also prepared to fast whilst doing all the cessary checks.
today’s nouncement will mean that if we do an updated vaccine because of ese new variants, we will be able do it faster.
faster than the set of vaccines and faster an almost anywhere else in the ld.
how concerned are you about he new variants as we go forward on rrent spread of coronavirus?
the current spread of coronavirus?
the number of cases is coming down number of hospitalisations and is coming down even faster cause of the vaccine.
we can see accine saving lives right cross the right now.
but one of worries that we have, one of the as these new variants.
thankfully, there is very, very numbers in the now.
we need to keep it that way.
at the same , do the scientific work in ces like the university of glasgow, working across the , to ure that we have the updated vaccine as soon as as safely ible.
health officials are to examine whether paying people to exercise could help drive down levels of obesity.
sir keith mills, who founded the air miles and nectar rewards programmes, is to advise the government on a new way to use incentives to support people who choose healthier diets and do more physical activity.
scotland’s first minister, nicola sturgeon, has insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’ her predecessor alex salmond.
giving evidence to the inquiry into her government’s handling of harassment allegations against salmond, she described claims of a plot against him as ‘absurd.
’ our political correspondent nick eardley reports.
after months of allegations, yesterday nicola sturgeon had her chance to make her case.
i solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm that i will tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
scotland’s first minister insists she followed the rules, that her government was right to investigate alex salmond and that there was no plot to take him down.
alex salmond has been, for most of my life, since i was about 21 years old, notjust a very close political colleague, a friend, in my younger days
somebody i looked up to and revered, you know, i had no motive, intention, desire to get alex salmond.
this was a marathon session, more than seven hours of questioning.
miss sturgeon apologised to women who were let down by the government, but she insisted all the decisions she made were for the right reasons.
i have never claimed in this or anything else to be infallible.
i have searched my soul on all of this many, many times over.
it may very well be that i did not get everything right, that is for others to judge, but in one of the most invidious political and personal situations i have everfaced, i believe i acted properly and appropriately, and that overall i made the bestjudgments i could.
this row is not over, though, there could be more claims to come, and a report on whether miss sturgeon broke the rules ministers have to follow is expected this month.
nick eardley, news, holyrood.
let’s return to the reaction to yesterday’s budget.
the chancellor confirmed that the £20 top up of universal credit will be extended for another six months.
rishi sunak said the measure, worth £1,000 a year, would help those hardest hit by the pandemic.
campaigners want the top up to be made permanent, while labour said the measure did nothing to address insecurity and inequality.
with me is caroline rice, who receives universal credit.
and also i’m joined by katie schmuecker, deputy director of policy, joseph rowntree foundation.
welcome to you both.
first, katie, this £20 uplift, the weekly increase extended to september.
her welcome is that?
it is certainly than taking away that better than taking away that lifeline right now, but we are erned that only by can do much concerned that only by ran do much extending it by six months, the rnment seems to not be in touch ith the realities of the economic uation that we are actually in.
are going to be facing a perfect orm as we head into the winter.
as furlough ds, just as urlough ends, just as unemployment is expected to peak at 2 million people, that is the around 2 million peopla, that is the point at which this support of the tional £20 per week, which has been a lifeline for so many people ough this demic, is going to through this pandemic, is going to be taken away.
that means that about ion families are going to be 6 million families are going to be facing a really tough winter, as face a loss of income overnight just over £1000 per year.
aroline, you have been in receipt niversal credit, you also work a registered childminder, how difference to you has this xtra £20 a week made?
it has made a difference.
it is the difference etween what i pay or basically ying afloat.
i had to make ifficult choices, from august, as at resources i can cut back on within the se.
and if that £20 is aken away, it is more difficult ices to cut back mething choices to cut back on something else.
caroline, you have been ributing to a research project hich tracks how low income families during the pandemic.
what sort pact has he pandemic had on you?
your life, your ability to find earn money, to make sure you are not dependent solely on fit?
is a childcare provider, demand at the minute for hildcare is very low.
parents are urlough, you know, i have had a amily that is on working tax dits, has had childcare stop, she on furlough, i have had another in income out of no fault of ybodrs.
it is difficult, it is a ntal mental strain on the household.
it is a mental strain on me.
it is a strain on my child because she sees pact on me on a she sees the impact on me on a day-to-day basis.
worrying about next, you know.
it is not asy.
katie, the chancellor said temporary support is only mporary, it cannot be made ermanent because of the impact it have on public finances.
how atisfied are you with that as an explanation of it must end?
if you look back to the start of the emic, the chancellor when he announced the uplift to universal t, said that he was doing it in order to strengthen our safety net.
ight there is an admission of he fact that it sisters security tem has not been providing equate support for people, it has there for them in the way that they need it in difficult times ial security system.
that was the right thing to hen because fame into the pandemic in bad ape, we came in on the back of a cade of deprivation, when people the west incomes were seeing eir incomes fall and that was ing driven largely by cuts to cial security, also low paid and really high housing costs.
right hing was to increase he adequacy of the social security em.
the right thing to do yesterday would have been to make a permanent part of our social curity system.
we should all be to rely on social security when vents hit us.
you know, the last year has hammered home for all hat we simply do not know of us that we simply do not know what is around the corner.
our security system should be an mbodiment of our desire to help and one another.
that is in tune with our values as a country.
that mething that we would have is something that we would have liked to have seen rishi sunak ing about yesterday and making at uplift to universal credit rmanent, or the very least xtending it for one year to get us what we know is going to be an xtremely challenging winter.
tell the minimal income floor for us what the minimal income ﬂoor for self-employed people on universal it is ing to be?
it is going credit is going to be?
it is going to be reintroduced in y, i believe.
at potential impact will ave?
the minimum income floor is part of universal it that a part of universal credit that appﬁes to people who are elf—employed.
what it basically is job entre will assume an mount that they expect you to be to earn, and then that is used the basis for your universal dit calculation, whether or not credit ralmlation, whether or not you do earn that amount in reality ugh your self—employment.
the inimum ncome floor has been suspended oughout the pandemic, hat has brought welcome relief to many low income self—employed opla, it is oing to be reintroduced from the end of , it is not ntirely clear that port is being taken away at the of july, months sooner than her orms of upport ike other forms of support like furlough.
i think the important here is that people who are on low mes, self—employed and on universal edit are actually going ace a double whammy.
first of l, the minimum income floor is oing to come in july, when we know that imes are going to be economically, but then, come of september, that lifeline uplift to universal credit, hat extra £20 per week is going to ken away.
they are going to ace a double whammy before then ding into a difficult autumn, we know unemployment is going be high and things will be very for a lot of families.
caroline, as someone who are —employed, what impact for the eintroduction of the minimum income ave for you?
bearing in mind what your earning capacity has been 12 months.
as katie says, it is a double whammy.
i have not rienced it minimum income floor experienced it minimum income ﬂoor on universal credit prior to the pandemic.
i do not know how much i would potentially lose out to now in lam kind guessing perhaps july.
lam kind of guessing perhaps 40 or £50 per month that i could be out in pport.
as a losing out in support.
as a childcare provider here in northern nd, our potential to earn here heavily restricted in comparison to our counterparts in britain.
my potential to earn is really low here thern ireland.
and i am still xpected to reach that minimum ome floor, the same as the rest of the , and mpossible.
due ofthe , and it is impossibla.
due to the lack of demand at the minute.
circumstances really do not help, do they?
ongoing uncertainty u.
caroline rice and katie schmuecker the joseph rowntree oundation, to have you both on news today.
thank you very much lking to us.
some dramatic pictures now — and ambitions to send humans to mars have suffered another setback — after a prototype rocket exploded.
the unmanned space—x rocket blew—up after what appeared to have been a successful test flight in the united states.
russell trott reports.
three, two, one ignition we have liftoff.
it was all running so smoothly.
the starship prototype rocket launch from boca chica, in cameron county, texas.
five minutes in and the space—x craft begins its tricky descent back to the landing zone, ten kilometres — or 30,000 feet below.
a near—perfect landing, or at least that’s how it looked and despite some flames needing to be put out, it was all systems go for a second flight.
whoa, whoa, whoa.
this time, not so good.
thankfully, no one was on board and there were no injuries among the safety crews on the ground.
two previous tests also had failed.
space—x, founded by the tesla electric car entrepreneur, elon musk, hopes to eventually send a reusable rocket to mars.
it may need more testing.
russell trott, news.
now here’a story of two amazing friends who’ve managed to raise £200,000 for the hospital treating one of them for leukaemia.
10—year—olds hughie and freddie set out to raise £1,000, to buy a slushie machine for the children on hughie’s ward, and patients at the royal manchester children’s hospital have just had their first drinks delivered.
josh parry reports.
sour cherry!
huey had a simple goal, to help other children like him ugh the power of slashes.
the ids get sore mouse so the word ager said to get a slushy machine ecause they all want cold things.
ore outh is.
friday was also lad to help.
back november, he himself a target to run two ometres per day, completing his target on istmas day.
to help and something and and get help through it because it is a really hard thing to get through.
in the 50th day, he trudged through the rain and mud with each step mashing through his £1000 raising target.
he is doing fundraising target.
he is just doing such a great job and i could not him more.
freddie, go!
just like reddie, the donation wed no signs of slowing down.
we went on air, it was £56,000, it has ver £70,000!
and an now it has over £70,000!
and an 85,000 now.
they said, well, ,000.
we want to top it up.
with extra unds, the boys have even aged to buy the hospital some fe-saving ipment.
it is life-saving equipment.
it is basically a piece of kit that can up a rge amount of blood warm up a large amount of blood really quickly.
as soon as me and ay heard it would save lives, we ere like, yes.
as well as the hes, we have got a big box of it.
the first delivery of lashes.
while while freddie his ney to ecovery continues, it journey to recovery continues, it has been made a little easier by ndship.
amazing what you can do ith your best end.
some breaking news from germany regarding the use razeneca’s coronavirus of astrazeneca’s coronavirus vaccine.
germany’s vaccination hority now approved its use in peopla over he age of 65, cording to he health ministry.
hey said that the permanent ination authority recommended xtending to the maximum 12 weeks eriod between receiving the irst and second doses of the cine, which is of course what ends to happen here.
in the ement, the ministry said this is ood news for older people who are iting for a cine.
they can now waiting for a vaccine.
they ran now be vaccinated more quickly.
we will issue a regulation shortly issue a regulation implementing both recommendations.
had held off giving the germany had held off giving the astrazeneca vaccine the thumbs up ause a lack of data and they were not sure of its efficacy in over the age of 65, but they people over the age of 65, but they have now approved its use.
as thousands of children dress up to mark world book day, campaigners are calling forfamilies, schools and nurseries to have books with more characters from black, asian and minority ethnic backgrounds.
they say recent events by the black lives matter movement have drawn more attention to the importance of greater representation in children’s books.
our community affairs correspondent adina campbell reports.
dressing up as a favourite book characters i’m dressed up as fantastic fox, my favourite character.
world book day is one of the biggest events in the school calendar, but campaigners feel characters from ethnic minority backgrounds are not represented enough in children’s books.
we don’t see iconic roles, charlie and the chocolate factory, alice in wonderland, all these characters are amazing but they are white or they are written as white characters.
it would be great to see more characters pushed into the limelight so they could be more iconic
and so we could have more selection when it comes to world book day.
despite a third of schoolchildren from the being from an ethnic minority backgrounds, latest figures show just 5% of all published children’s book featured someone as a main character from one of these backgrounds.
over the last 30 years, children’s authors, like trish cook, have been trying to increase representation.
there is no reason black characters shouldn’t be in books.
it is not something unusual.
in everyday life, we take on main roles, we are notjust a friend or supporting role.
the stories i’m telling are universal stories, hat happened to everyone, but i’m writing them from the point of view of a black writer to make sure these characters get out there because they haven’t been out there before.
say they are reading more during lockdown, according to the national literacy trust, and some businesses have seen a growth in sales.
i get such great feedback and parents me all the time to say "thank you, that finally my child sees a character" i believe in the saying, "you can’t be what you can’t see" i feel like a lot of children now are seeing themselves as astronauts, politicians, they are realising they can literally be anything.
for some parents, change has been too slow and doesn’t fairly reflect the today.
their message is clear.
we are raising the next generation, the next change makers, the next business owners.
in orderfor in 20 years time for us to not be having this conversation, we need to start now, it starts with books.
what’s a gruffalo?
adina campbell, news.
now it’s time for a look at the weather with carol.
hello again.
it was another cloudy, chilly start to the day.
in fact, as hrough the next few days, we will hang on to a fair bit of cloud, bit of sunshine at times, fog the morning, isolated showers, it will turn colder.
but it will more settled and because this of high pressure is going to rift across the and settle down.
today, we have got this ather front which are sinking down ards the south—west.
what it is is ntroducing some patchy, ight rain, some hill snow, and some hter conditions behind it with this north—easterly feed coming in.
of it, ere is still a lot of ahead of it, there is still a lot of cloud, some of the fog this morning into low cloud, but there will be some brighter breaks here here.
under that cloud, and there.
under that cloud, temperatures holding up to around the south—west.
even though 9-10 in the south-west.
even though there are still some cloud across orth—east of england, there is not as uch as there was, so it will feel quite as cold as it has in recent days.
a weather ont drift owards the south—west, with atchy ain, as we head through he evening and overnight.
there be some clear skies around.
here we have got the clear skies is re we ill have the lowest temperatures.
following potentially as 4; in parts of the as low as -4 in parts of the highlands.
some of us will wake up rrow to a frost.
the remnants of this front really just visible as ressure takes charge of our weather and sits right across the eeping things fine and settled.
and mostly dry.
we start off on a ote, with a fair bit of sunshine, but through the day what appen is a bit more cloud will uild and we will see that extend oss many areas.
it will still be fine and day, and a bright , with temperatures five in berdeen to 7—8 in the south.
we say dbye to the uble—figure goodbye to the double—figure temperatures for now.
overnight, into saturday, it will be cold, frosty, temperatures in parts anglia could fall as might a.
a cold start to the day, but
ere we got clear skies, we will start with some sunshine.
on saturday, the cloud will thicken the west, heralding the arrival of an atlantic weather front.
this erald a change in our weather as well.
temperatures, five in deen to 7—8 as we pushed on towards ndon.
into the weekend and earty part of next week, we start to see more of an atlantic uence coming our way, so the ather will turn more and settled, it will mean that it will but it will also mean that it will become less cold, with temperatures to erage.
this is news.
the headlines.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
the duchess of sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and prince harry.
i don’t know how they could expect that after all this time we would stilljust be silent if there is an active role that the firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
the chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation to the highest level since the 19605 —— as he faces criticism for doing too little to tackle inequality: this is a good way to raise money that we need because it’s a progressive measure.
it means those on higher incomes contribute a lot more than those on lower incomes.
scotland’s first minister, nicola sturgeon, has insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’ her predecessor alex salmond.
new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants — like the one from brazil — can be fast—tracked through the approval system — the ’s medical regulator says if we do need an update on these vaccines then we’ll be able to do it than when we initially faster than when we initially created the vaccines.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition, buckingham palace says.
prince philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
he was being treated for an infection and moved to bartholomew’s hospital in london on monday.
our royal correspondent nicholas witchell gave me this update.
the palace is not saying any more about this pre—existing heart condition, the nature of it, or the successful procedure but given that the pre—existing heart condition that we know about ten years ago when he had a stent inserted to relieve a blocked coronary artery, it is reasonable to speculate that whatever took place at barts hospital yesterday was, in some way, was involving the stent.
it could have been the insertion of a new one or an insertion of the existing one.
i’m aware that this is known as angioplasty and takes place under local anaesthetic.
when dealing with somebody who is almost 100, there could have been a narrowing of the existing stent or the artery which was causing the heart condition for which he was transferred from one hospital to another, to son bartholomew is to bartholomews hospital which is an expert hospital on cardiac issues.
he experienced monitoring and assessment on tuesday with the procedure carried out on tuesday.
it has been successful and he will remain in hospital as the palace says for rest and recuperation for a number of days.
i imagine that mean, well, common—sense, for someone of his age, it is perhaps likely he will be there for another week.
perhaps longer.
the royal family are not likely to tell us much more because they don’t tend to give running commentaries.
however, it does not stop reporters like us watching for comings and goings from the hospital because prince charles visited when he was in the previous hospital.
he visited on the first saturday when he was at the king edward.
i think that given we are told that the procedure, whatever it was, was successful and he now requires a period of rest and recuperation and given the protocols that are in place at bartholomew’s, visiting is not permitted other than in exceptional circumstances, it is an hospital, not a private hospital.
i would be surprised if any prominent members of the royal family felt it necessary to visit him there.
not least because it would be contrary to protocols and not least as it would be seen as a signal that things have taken a turn for the worse.
thank you very much, nick.
our health correspondent katharine costa has more information on the condition the duke has been treated for.
they haven’t confirmed the exact procedure but we do know that in a blocked artery in papworth and he had a stent fitted for heart pains, chest pains.
this was allegedly caused by a blocked artery.
there is a procedure that takes half an hour to two hours where patients are assessed, they might have blood tests taken and the specialist will look inside their arteries and, now, the patient would lie on a table with the x—ray.
achine.
cardiologists would make a small insertion in the groin area and pass through a catheter and then they inflate a small balloon which helps to clear the blockage and a stent blockage and a stent is fitted and that helps the blood flow again.
so, there are some cases where arteries begin to narrow again, so a patient may require another stent to be fitted.
essentially, what it is, is a small wire mesh which acts like scaffolding to keep the arteries open.
now, afterwards, you would need some blood—thinning drugs, so things like aspirin and other specialist drugs and then it’s a case of rest and relaxation and follow up assessment.
the duchess of sussex has suggested the royal family have played a part in what she called "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and prince harry.
she made the comments in an interview with oprah winfrey, to be broadcast in the this weekend.
meanwhile, last night, buckingham palace said its human resources team was looking into claims that the duchess had bullied staff while she was a working royal in 2018.
simon jones has more.
meghan is making it clear she will not be afraid to speak out in a second trailer for the interview released overnight.
how do you feel about the palace hearing you speak your truth today?
i don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time we would stilljust be silent, if there is an active role that the firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
if that comes with risk of losing things, i mean, there’s a lot that’s been lost already.
this is a second clip released by but the first in which we have heard the duchess speak.
the interview was recorded before buckingham palace began an investigation into claims meghan had bullied former royal staff.
the times newspaper has obtained an e—mail, written in late 2018, byjason knauf, the couple’s communication secretary, to simon case, he is now the cabinet secretary.
in it he is reported to have written "i’m very concerned that the duchess was able to bully two pas out of the household in the past year.
the treatment of was totally unacceptable.
" buckingham palace said it was very concerned about the allegations.
former members of staff are being invited to participate in its investigation.
in a statement, it added but a spokesperson for meghan said the latest interview clip will do little to heal any apparent rifts between the sussexes and the palace.
simon jones, news.
the chancellor, rishi sunak, has defended his decision to raise corporation tax for the most profitable companies to 25% in 2023.
this measure — along with other moves such as freezing income tax thresholds — mean that britain is on course to have the highest tax burden since the 19605.
paul hawkins reports.
billed as a budget to rescue an economy ravaged by covid.
: can the country afford this budget, sunak?
the chancellor has promised to protectjobs.
tax increases loom, taking the ’s tax burden to its highest level since the 19605, according to the office for budget responsibility.
obviously, the pandemic has dealt us pretty bad damage to the public finances and the economy, and i think i and the government have a responsibility to put those back in a strong position over time but do that in a way that is supportive of economic recovery in the short—term but also do so in a way that is fair.
this is how he intends to do it.
the furlough scheme is to be extended until the end of september, as will higher universal credit payments.
the headline rate of corporation tax will go up from 19% to 25% from 2023, though smaller firms will be exempt.
and a freeze on income tax thresholds is expected to lead to 1.
3 million more people paying income tax, plusi million more paying the higher rate.
but there will be some more help for hospitality.
pubs won’t have to pay business rates until the end ofjune.
we have been open forfour months out of the last 12 when we get to reopen.
when we reopen, it’s going to be gardens only, and then restricted inside.
we are going to need all the help we can get to get hospitality through.
labour talk of a missed opportunity.
i just think this didn’t deliver the scale of what was required.
for most people what they’re going to see is a very big increase in council tax, possibly 3 universal credit cut, and a very high level of unemployment, no matter where they live.
although much of the focus has been on business, some number crunchers say the effects of the budget will also be felt far wider.
much less attention was paid to what is happening to british households.
in many ways, the year ahead for them is more difficult than the year we’ve been through, with falling living standards this autumn.
and actually come up for public services, further cuts to public spending mean that we may be seeing what feels a lot like austerity.
for public services, too, further cuts to public spending may feel a lot like austerity.
there is now a route out of lockdown.
but tough times ahead.
the chancellor says not all his decisions will be popular but they are, he insists, honest.
paul hawkins, news.
our chief political correspondent, adam fleming, told annita mcveigh the budget was a story of three chapters the first chapter is the government continuing to spend billions of pounds to support people and businesses through what they hope is the last stage of the pandemic.
and that will last until september when society is supposedly all but have opened up again.
then chapter two starts, the recovery of the government hopes which will be boosted by a massive, massive tax break with billions of pounds for businesses to invest in staff.
then the year after is when chapter three starts.
that is when we see the government raising more money in taxation.
first of all, by an increase in the rate of corporation tax, paid by companies earning more than a quarter of £1 billion of profits 3 year.
and then, secondly, freezing those thresholds for the rates of income tax which means more lower earners will start paying the basic rate and for higher earners will start paying the higher rate.
and rishi sunak, the chancellors this morning has been defending that as a fair way of mending the public finances.
people’s current take—home pay, it won’t be affected by this policy but you are right
and i was clear yesterday, that this means the incremental benefit that they would have experienced had those thresholds continue to rise with inflation won’t be there.
we are going to keep putting up the thresholds next year as we promised but then they will be frozen at the higher level, but you mention the resolution foundation, i think they’ve also said this is a good way to raise money that we need because it’s a progressive measure, it means those on higher incomes contribute a lot more than those on lower incomes and i think that’s what most people would accept as a fair way to do what we need to do.
the resolution foundation that the chancellor mentioned as a think tank that looks at people on low incomes and they are doing a briefing right now with their analysis which will be followed in an hour by the very famous institute for fiscal studies and it’s always the economists view of the budget the day after that tends to shape people’s reactions and in terms of reactions, the labour party is opposed to tax rises now, they think that would be bad for the recovery.
but the shadow chancellor anneliese dodds is in favour of those phrases to the income tax threshold.
in principle, on that freeze, we are not against the freeze on principle.
what i am concerned about is the fact that this is taking place when we have got the changes to council tax but also changes to social security as well.
you quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation a moment ago who pointed out that actually, the government is planning to switch off its increase in social security, actually, right at the time when we anticipate the peak in unemployment, that’s not a sensible approach to take.
labour are also critical of this thing that the government has got rallad the towns fund, £1 billion allocated for investment in towns around england and if you look at the towns, the vast majority of them are in seats held by conservative mps.
labour says is cronyism, the conservatives just say it’s a product of levelling up and put the result was at the last election.
you’re watching news labour has accused the chancellor of planning to reduce day—to—day spending in the department of health.
budget documents show a planned cut of £30 billion in day—to—day spending from april of this year, falling from 199 billion pounds to 169 billion.
the labour leader, keir starmer, has been visiting a hospital in derby and criticised the plans.
i think a lot of people would be pretty astonished know that the to-day unding for the is being cut.
i’m re at the royal hospital.
they are still mggling derby hospital.
they are still struggling with coronavirus cases we not through the pandemic yet.
and of course, we are going to big of cases, people on waiting understandably who not been dealt with this last r.
so the is going to have a ally hard ear
so i think that ost peopla ill be astonished that funding is ut.
but they’ve said erre therre putting money into the and building new hospital?
but if on’t fund the the day to day, you are heading for troubla.
if you have a health crisis you have an mic crisis and i think most eoplc will say, "look, we are not rough the ndemic.
vaccines are till being rolled out and we got a backlog.
everybody is talking bout the backlog which is coming the track, all sorts of operations that were not done last year that now need to be done.
we understand they were put off but ave got to be done and i think that the right thing is to give the he funding it needs to get through that.
is this budget going ect low—income workers with he tax mpact?
we are very critical is on those with lower incomes you ran see his in the council hike that is coming.
families ross the country, universal credit ing to an end in this month, families using up to pounds —— up to 1000 a year.
and a pay freeze for key workers, all the in this hospital i’ve just een talking to.
this will hit our ome is very, very hard.
this afternoon we’ll be answering your questions on the the budget and its impact on personalfinances.
jane hill will bejoined byjasmine birtles, founder of the website moneymagpie and by iona bain, founder of young money blog.
send in your questions using the hash tag your questions or by emailing yourquestions@bbc.
co.
uk.
that’s coming up at 2.
30pm here on news.
the headlines on news the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
the duchess of sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and prince harry.
the chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation to the highest level since the 19605 —— as he faces criticism for doing too little to tackle inequality.
sport and for a full round up, from the sport centre.
here’s jane.
good afternoon.
england’s batsmen have struggled again on the first day of the fourth and final test against india.
they were bowled out for 205 after winning the toss in ahmedabad.
england slumped to 30 for 3, and although ben stokes made 55 and dan lawrence a6, they still failed to deal with spinners ravi ashin and axar patel who shared seven wickets.
india were on 24for1 in their first innings at the close.
england must win to level the series.
liverpool managerjurgen klopp says he won’t automatically release players for international duty if they have to quarantine on their return to the .
liverpool’s brazilian players alisson becker, fabinho and roberto firmino and portugalforward diogojota could face 10 days in quarantine on their return to the united kingdom from —19 "red—list" countries.
klopp said he had the backing of .
m: we cannot let the boys just go and then see the situation when they back.
all players attending uarantine in a hotel for topics not possible.
i understand the eed for these different essays but not a time we can make this is not a time we ran make everybody happy and we have to admit he players are paid by the ubs
so that means we have to be priority.
the new chief executive of kick it out says he believes there are enough qualified people of colour to fill the vacant roles at the and at the , without resorting to tokenism.
tony burnett says there should be an environment where the best people from any background are able to access opportunities.
gordon taylor steps down from his chief executive position at the at the end of the season, and the is recruiting a permanent chair to replace greg clarke.
i’d love to see a black person or person from an ethnic minority use they come from place which is fair and transparent in their place for the b.
he other best place for the job.
the other question is about criteria regarding jobs, i’d to see it’s those jobs, i’d love to see if it’s not necessarily appurtenant, not sarily their background, have they got the right values?
the viduals in those jobs you have to start from a perspective that human being is of equal value.
that’s all the sport for now.
there’s more on the website and app — including news that wales scrum half kieran hardy has been ruled out of the six nations with a hamstring injury.
that’s bbc.
co.
uk/sport.
jane, thank you very much.
the ’s medicines regulator has ruled that new covid vaccines to fight emerging variants can be fast—tracked through the approval system.
guidance from the says manufacturers would need to prove the jabs could provide protective antibodies.
this could be achieved from data on real—world use, bypassing the need for clinical trials.
the health secretary, matt hancock, welcomed the decision.
i think that the have made a very, very wise publication.
this is all about making sure that if we need an updated vaccine to work against these new variants, we can get it approved and into people’s arms as soon as as safely possible.
the regulator is incredibly rigorous on safety, but what they have shown is that they are also prepared to move fast whilst doing all the necessary checks.
today’s announcement will mean that if we do need an updated vaccine because of these new variants, we will be able to do it faster.
han the first set of vaccines and faster than almost anywhere else in the world.
how concerned are you about the new variants as we go forward on the current spread of coronavirus?
thankfully, the number of cases is coming down and a number of hospitalisations and deaths is coming down even faster because of the vaccine.
we can see the vaccine saving lives right across the right now.
but one of the worries that we have, one of the risks is these new variants.
thankfully, there is very, very small numbers in the now.
we need to keep it that way.
at the same time, do the scientific work in places like the university of glasgow, working across the , to make sure that we have the updated vaccine as soon as as safely possible.
the european union’s finance chief has said the ’s decision to make unilateral changes to the northern ireland protocol raises questions about whether it can be trusted in future trade negotiations.
yesterday, the government announced that it was extending a grace period for border checks on some goods crossing the irish sea.
mairead mcguinness accused the of breaching both trust and an international agreement.
the european union’s highest court has ruled that britain has systematically breached agreed air pollution limits for years, and ordered it to comply with the guidelines.
if it fails to do so, it may be fined.
britain has left the , but it has agreed to respect court decisions in cases, such as today’s, that started before brexit.
we can talk now to our energy and environment analyst, roger harrabin.
roger, what is this ruling saying?
ell, the like other nations in ope has to abate european laws on pollution, in this case, a toxic and gas and particularty by cars.
the actually hasn’t challenged the fact it as been in breached over ssions rules in 16 different reas it argues that it has been rying to clean up as quickly as sibla
but it also passes part of he blame onto volkswagen and other akers who cheated with their emission ndards and given that ouncils and government the wrong ression of what pollution would ook like so it is now considering it’s oing to do next.
in terms what it’s going to do next.
in terms of the british relationship with court though, in future, will be bound by these limits and rulings now brexit has happened?
well, because these cases ted fore brexit, the court started before brexit, the court still retains jurisdiction over them will happen now is the court is saying that the , "0k, ave is saying that the , ", you have to comply now and especially you two compliant reasonably quick amount of time.
" if it does not then european commission could apply again to the european of ustice and that would take another mling gainst the and heoretically, could issue a fine.
there is an unresolved legal oint as to whether britain outside uropean bloc would have to pay at fine.
one could imagine that isters would probably decide to hat we are just not paying that but it still has some way to go.
er, for the moment, thank you very much.
in a moment, we’ll be live in holyrood for first minister’s questions.
but first, nicola sturgeon, has insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’ her predecessor alex salmond.
giving evidence to the inquiry into her government’s handling of harassment allegations against salmond, she described claims of a plot against him as ‘absurd.
’ our political correspondent nick eardley reports.
after months of allegations, yesterday nicola sturgeon had her chance to make her case.
i solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm that i will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
scotland’s first minister insists she followed the rules — that her government was right to investigate alex salmond, and that there was no plot to take him down.
alex salmond has been, for most of my life, since i was about 20, 21 years old, not just a very close political colleague, a friend and, in my younger days, somebody i looked up to and revered.
you know, i had no motive, intention, desire, to get alex salmond.
this was a marathon session, more than seven hours of questioning.
sturgeon apologised to women who were let down by the government, but she insisted all the decisions she made were for the right reasons.
i have never claimed in this or anything else to be infallible.
i have searched my soul on all of this many, many times over.
it may very well be that i didn’t get everything right, that’s for others to judge.
but in one of the most invidious, political and personal situations i have ever faced, i believe i acted properly and appropriately, and that overall i made the best judgments that i could.
this row isn’t over, though.
there could be more claims to come.
and a report on whether sturgeon broke the rules ministers have to follow is expected this month.
nick eardley, news, holyrood.
some breaking news, the metropolitan police have ruled out a criminal estigation martin bashir’s 1995 nterview with diana princess les.
princess now, the metropolitan police are saying that they have received espondence but they are correspondence but they are carefully assessing it and they’ve ned legal advice from the obtained legal advice from the force’s lawyers, independent counsel the crown prosecution and from the crown prosecution service and the statement from ander murray of the met, says, following the detail assessment and vice we received we do not ink it is appropriate to begin a criminal investigation into this.
as in this matter, should any nificant new evidence comes to we ill reset it to —— assess it.
cloudy and chilly over the next three days
but there will be sunshine at times.
the wettest front sinking south bringing patchy rain across northern ireland, northern england and east anglia.
it will break up however and see sunshine but ahead of it, a lot of cloud.
temperatures between 5—10 c.
overnight, the weather front sinks down and there will be some clearer skies and where we have got that clearance, in the highlands, temperatures will fall as low as minus four celsius.
but generally, it is going to be a cold night.
there will be some frost around.
tomorrow we start off with a bit more sunshine than we have been used to but don’t get too excited because the cloud will build up and expand across most of the .
temperatures for tomorrow, five in the north to about 7—8 in the south.
hello, this is news.
the headlines: the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
the duchess of sussex has accused the royal family of "perpetuating falsehoods" about her and prince harry.
the chancellor defends his plans to raise overall taxation to the highest level since the 19605 — as he faces criticism for doing too little to tackle inequality.
scotland’s first minister, nicola sturgeon, has insisted she had no motive, intention or desire to ‘get’ her predecessor alex salmond.
new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants — like the one from brazil — can be fast—tracked through the approval system, the ’s medical regulator says.
let’s cross to holyrood now, where the first minister nicola sturgeon is taking questions from msps.
she is beginning with coronavirus igures.
talk to a number of people have sadly using our daily measure, is now 3798.
once again i want to send my deepest condolences those who have lost a loved to all those who have lost a loved one.
we will also publish the latest ate of the figure it later day and expect it to show, again, the value is below one and at reflects the best of trends we an say in the figures right now.
i will also give a quick date on the vaccination programme.
8:30am, an increase of 26,729 ents esterday.
in addition, 0,058 people have also now receive second dose.
that is an ncrease of 7500 and 80 cents erday.
which means that in total terday 4,230 people received vaccinations.
95% of 65—69 year-olds now had a first -year-olds have now had a first dose, as of 37% of 60—64 —year—olds.
5 of -59 year—olds and 26% of 3196 of 55-59 -year-olds and 2696 of 50-54 ear—olds, and each group at is of articular interest to e, presiding officer.
we still ect to be offer to first doses to veryone over 50, all unpaid carers adults with an underlying health condition by mid april.
i think taking all of what i have just ted, there is little doubt that things are, at the moment, firmly ing in the right direction.
the number of cases is falling, umbers in hospital are falling and ccination programme is the vaccination programme is progressing extremely well.
that is are unable to set out the we are unable to set out the timetable for children’s return to ol.
ext week, i will outline any further changes we can make at stage to level for restrictions.
the following week, i will provide more information about metable after the 26th of the timetabla after the 26th of april for easing restrictions.
there to eel optimistic about is much to feel optimistic about right now, but i want to stress that hould not see us throw caution wind.
case numbers to remain igh, and of rse the new variant remains highly infectious, so for ment, if we want to continue this progress, my advice to everyone ontinue to abide by the is to continue to abide by the stay—at—home rule.
stay—at—home, for sential purposes, except for essential purposes, follow facts when you are out, and sure that collectively we ontinue to keep everything going in ight direction.
my thanks to everybody who is doing that and king with it during difficult imes.
thank you very much, first ster.
could i encourage any ember who wishes to ask a question ress the button as soon as possibla?
i all on ruth davidson?
i want to ask the first minister about gal advice from the salmond enquiry.
despite this parliament ing for it released four voting for it to be released four months ago, it was only partially aled this week.
the ministerial code makes clear, in section 2.
30, inisters must act lawfully, that ministers must act lawfully, informed of the legal siderations, and that the legal mplications of any action are sidered at the earliest portunity.
this part, acting early legal plications, it is on legal implications, it is important.
let’s go through the line.
nine weeks before onceding the dicial eview, legal advice stated that the case was more to fail an succeed.
the likely to fail than succeed.
the first minister chose to go forward.
before conceding, legal one month before conceding, legal advice said the least worst option was to stop because otherwise, and i quote, expenses will be far higher.
minister chose the worst ption.
19 days before conceding, advocate, government and the lord advocate, government and external lawyers all said the case not stable minimum requirement.
the first minister dug els in.
will she tell us, to uote the ords of her own legal unsel, did the government defend the indefensible for so g?
ithink, is ybody who paid any attention to proceedings rday, which clearly did not yesterday, which dearty did not include ruth davidson, will have that is just simply not true.
december 11, the law officers very clear, the information on has been published, and i think quote from the law office are arised in the note that was summarised in the note that was published in advance of yesterday at there was no question that the rase should be dropped on the trary there re credible arguments to be made across the tion, including on the issue of he appointment of the investigating cer.
that was the position of he law officers.
things started to ng, seriously wrong in the rase in go wrong, seriously wrong in the case in the days that followed, and rocess followed that load to in due process was followed that lead to a decision on the part of overnment to concede the case.
that is for anybody with an that is there for anybody with an open mind to look at.
i think the first minister is undertaken provide further information to mmittee, which will happen, the parliament can look at that.
ered questions for eight hours on this yesterday.
i answered every ion that was put to me, and shall provide siding officer, i intend now to rest on that, allow the committee and the enquiry the ministerial code to conclude work.
the meantime, going to get on with the job, i suspect, most were watching at home to get on with.
which is eting, eading this country through and out of a pandemic.
i will leave ruth davidson and the ervatives to play the political ames that they seem to prioritise else.
presiding officer, the minister characterises this as itical games, but i have never orgotten, never forgotten the women ere failed at the heart of this quiry.
the thing the thing that first minister cannot get away is that it was her government hat failed them and that questions require to be answered.
first nister, it is not up to question he government ignored legal vice and cost taxpayers money, is being argued is how long and much was wasted.
this is what is incredible.
view of legal counsel was, and i quote, based on acts as then known.
first minister, this government did not ive its own lawyers the facts.
advocates stated this, we have each ienced extreme professional mbarrassment.
on instruction, they plainly emonstrably untrue made plainly and demonstrably untrue statements before a judge.
documents ithheld from those qcs, which were withheld from those qts, which were highly relevant, yet isclosed.
they called that nexplained and frankly explicable.
they refused to come quote, rehearse the and i quote, rehearse the regrettable way in which the document disclosure has unfolded.
so i will ask the first minister to arse it for us now, will she onfirm that the withheld documents precisely the ones that made his rase this use and is dabble?
firstly, i am going to to agree with something ruth davidson’s said.
i agree at she has not forgotten the women the heart of this because i do think ruth davidson ever embered the women at the heart of is.
the legal advice is there for ryone to see.
people with an open , which does not include ruth avidson, can look at that.
ruth idson says that she is not playing political games.
i beg to er.
i think we saw the true differ.
i think we saw the tme colours of the conservatives erday.
first of all, on tuesday ght, they said, i do not know if davidson approved this comment ot, but the conservative said, erms that it did not matter what aid before a parliamentary mmittee yesterday because they had eady made up their minds.
it is about due process, it is olitical desperation on the part of onservatives.
presiding fficer, i think we also had a mpse of some of the values at lay with the conservatives terday, because during that mittee session, one of the tory embers on it seem to be suggesting i should have intervened in the ocess to effectively sweep the legations against salmond under carpet.
then the other onservative member asks me to logise for the inappropriate haviour of a man.
re we have behaviour of a men.
there we have the tories, i think, demonstrating any elp from me that they without any help from me that they are indeed playing political games.
they that, i say again, whila they do that, i say again, eight hours of evidence to a ittee, it is time to allow the mmittee and the independent uiry into the miz ministerial to do their b.
in the code to do theirjob.
in the meantime, i’m going to get on with of eading this country my job of leading this country through covid and out of lockdown.
ding 0fficer, order, please.
presiding 0fficer, order, please.
the first minister cannot get away he fact that this chamber is an organ of this parliament.
this mber only the legal advice chamber only saw the legal advice that this chamber voted for four ago this week.
we have every ight to question a first minister head of the government, who led these two women.
first minister, i want everyone to rstand how incompetent and cretive this government is.
legal sel was provided with one e—mail in a chain.
it was a crucial element defence, but they were not given the next e—mail, sent less half hour later in the same chain.
it was withheld.
and when it nally handed over, it was one the final straws, and her lawyers threaten to resign to force had to threaten to resign to force the government’s hand.
presiding er, that information was officer, that information was available to the whole time.
the rnment could have passed it to heir lawyers in september or ber or november.
but they withheld it.
they kept it secret.
it cost them months and all of us ,000 of taxpayer’s money.
first inister, as the crucial idence withheld for months from government on legal team.
7 the ase ultimately because case ultimately collapse because information came to light.
i said in the committee yesterday, and ple ran judge, looking the people ran judge, by looking at the advice that was published, selves.
the committee will come conclusions, as will be dependent enquiry on the inisterial code.
i await the dings of both.
again, if i can to strike a of consensus, because i do believe in the ortance of this democratic stitution, the time i sit down the session of first minister’s questions today, i will een subjected, and have been subjected, and property, to ten hours of rliamentary scrutiny over the course his week.
that is me doing my job in charging their esponsibilities.
but can i gently out to davidson that this point out to ruth davidson that this democratic institution that she the virtues of is the same emocratic institution that she is to depart, to take up a seat in the unelacted house of lords.
i think peopla across this country are ming eartily sick of the soon baroness davidson lecturing anybody democracy.
presiding else on democracy.
presiding officer, because of the legal advice ad to be dragged from this that had to be dragged from this government, under threat of a vote onfidence, we know that for eks this government were efinitively and beyond any doubt oring legal advice.
but the case only became datable so late because this government withheld documents for so long.
the crucial documents for so long.
the withheld documents from their own rs.
what them from this cup partiament.
what we have already seen shows that is no argument if this overnment ignored legal advice, did.
the argument as if it did for three weeks or for more than ree months.
there is no argument first minister was at fault for losing more than £500,000 of ayers oney, the argument is taxpayers money, the argument is only about how much is to blame for.
is no argument if nicola sturgeon broke the ministerial code, gument is only about how badly she broke it.
we believe that the tion is to go, doesn’t she?
think ruth davidson has just shown me colours and the her true colours and the conservative true colours all over in.
she up your and says again.
she stands up your and says scmtiny on democracy and due ess is scrutiny on democracy and due process is really important, but as on tuesday night, the onservatives prejudge my evidence parliamentary enquiry, she to the partiamentary enquiry, she has just prejudged the outcome of ndependent enquiry into the inisterial code.
this is bout bout desperate litical games for the nservatives.
i suspect their vate polling is even more esperate than the public polling now, because remember, the ple of scotland have been voting nfidence in the conservatives the 19505.
i think we are about to see why.
i will get on with b, i will let enquiries do my job, i will let the enquiries do their job, i have not prejudge them, ruth davidson dearty has.
but i will also, in a few weeks, subject to the ultimate scrutiny, the scmtiny and verdict of the ople of ple of scotland, the verdict that most.
as i do so, ruth davidson will be slinking off to the of lords.
can i start by house of lords.
“an i start by offering my ondolences to all the ilies impacted by confident 19 particularly those who have lost ved ne.
the exchanges we have heard represent the worst of politic.
-- vid 19.
everyone us come into this chamber and we in front of that mace, inscribed ith the ideals of this parliament, sdom, passion, justice, and wisdom, compassion, justice, and integrity.
principles that have been mined when the government felt the women who submitted claims of ssment.
undermined by the harassment.
undermined by the government’s refusal to hand over cumentation to the committee vestigating these failures, and rmined by the government noring two votes of this arliament calling for all the legal dvice published.
the advice to be published.
the government keeps telling us they nothing to hide.
but when this rliament twice demanding legal dvice be published, they efused.
when it was finally eased, it was partial and came ust hours ore the first just hours before the first minister’s appearance.
wisdom, assion, stice, and integrity.
first minister, did it take the of a no—confidence vote in a puty first nister for your overnment to act?
the importance all governments that have been able to take proper legal advice i think should be understood by ybody across this chamber.
the government now given the gations that have been levelled it, have published that legal ice, and people can now look at that legal and draw their own conclusions.
i say again, i sat in of parliamentary committee, front of a partiamentary committee, i am not sure there’s any other of this chamber that has done ikewise ever, i sat in front of a tiamentary ommittee for eight ours, as is duty and obligation, ered questions that were put to and put the case of the government.
ialso apologised, as i will do again, to the women who were by the mistake that the gap permanent mate.
i think it is right oper
and i think there’s a line with the principlas, which i hold dear, as we allow the enquiry its work, we allow the to do its work, we allow the independent enquiry into the sterial code to do its work
and we allow me to get on with the job i believe the majority of the country to focus on now, which is to ontinue to steer this country ough a global pandemic so that we through covid, come out of ockdown get back to normality.
at is what i intend to focus on these enquiries conclude their rk.
first minister, that answer uld have more credibility if all he legal advice was published fore you gave evidence, not legal after you give evidence.
the first minister has had the tunity to address the committee opportunity to address the committee yesterday, and i do agree with her, mportant that all parties are it is important that all parties are given due process and we do not udice the outcome of the prejudice the outcome of the enquiry.
with that in mind, within ming the coming weeks, james hamilton at will present his report on potential hes of the ministerial code to he government.
the outcome of this will be crucial in report will be crucial in establishing the facts about what ned.
the wholly unacceptable disgraceful situation we have the legal advice cannot be epeated with the hamilton report.
the irst minister give the “an the first minister give the people of cotland 3 cast iron guarantee the government will elease the report without delay, or ruction on the day it is handed ver by ames over byjames hamilton 0c?
yes.
i welcome that commitment from the minister.
but remember this, we will hold her to that promise.
use the first minister is right, his is about transparency, and can delay in blishing this be dull delay in publishing this report.
the ministerial code exists old standards in public life.
it is there to protect the integrity office of the first minister of all scottish ministers, and the whole of the scottish government.
in her foreword to the ministerial code, the first minister says, and i quote, iwill lead by example and owing the letter and spirit of his code, and i expect all isters and civil servants to do ikewise.
wisdom, compassion, tice, and tegrity.
in that light, does the first minister agree ing party and personality that minister, any minister, who is in breach of the ministerial ode should resign?
i will uphold my in the foreword to the inisterial code, i will uphold the ciples on that mace, but i will principlas on that mace, but i will also demand the right to due ess, which one party at least is prepared to give me.
let us wait see what the outcome of the quiries are.
they will be blished and then we can debate in his this chamber the outcome of that.
i sat before that committee, i answered every question, and i will he committee and the enquiry the opportunity now to do their .
that is where we will leave minister’s questions for day.
health officials are to examine whether paying people to exercise could help drive down levels of obesity.
sir keith mills, who founded the air miles and nectar rewards programmes, is to advise the government on a new way to use incentives to support people who choose healthier diets and do more physical activity.
let’s discuss this further withjohanna ralston, of the world obesity federation, who joins us from boston, massachusetts.
thank you very much for joining us.
there is, it seems then, a nection between coronavirus and besity in of its severity and fatality.
“an explain what that nnection seems to be?
thank you so ch, first of all, it is a pleasure here.
the connections, there definitely a biological sociation, yet also we think there elationship in terms of government policies and how those rotect people against coronavirus and protect them around ty.
we are going to do mac —— we did a study owing that 90% of ronavirus tests occurred in ntries with high obesity rates.
imilarty, ountries with low covid occurred in countries with obesity rates.
there is clearly an ociation.
there is some causation and some correlation.
the tion, we note there is a causation, we note there is a greater inflammatory response, ious ivers there.
it also there various drivers there.
it also there is a correlation, which we think to some of the other diseases that obesity drives, cardiovascular se, cancer, diabetes, but also ome of the policy of public health ies.
the has the policies.
the has the third—highest covid death rate in rld, the fourth obesity rate.
re these two things inextricably d?
we believe they are linked?
we believe they are definitely connected.
the has had tunities in the past two have opportunities in the past two have more of a robust response to obesity may have had.
but we do than it may have had.
but we do applaud the announcement today of illion investment.
the is £100 million investment.
the is actually playing catch up and doing utely the right things in terms of a robust response, in terms of sing on families and children, articularty places where access effective medical care and althy ods is less than it might be in be in other parts of the country.
we have been reporting, as you heard in troduction, health officials are looking at whether hey could perhaps pay people to healthier choices and to take ore exercise.
what is your view of as a orkable idea?
i think it that as a workabla idea?
i think it is perhaps necessary, but absolutely fficient.
do they have to make ese choices in the first ace?
because there is far too much at is unhealthy that is available pla ple and at reduced cost.
50 to people and at reduced cost.
so personal incentives can be useful, ome ways it places the onus on the individual and plays into a ative that unfortunately has prevalent for too long, that it individual who is at fault, at is a narrative that we know is tme.
rue.
people need to have, be iving in nvironments which are althier.
that means fewer althy choices, fewer unhealthy ions and far more healthy ptions.
both in terms of food and sical activity, erms of other physical activity, in terms of other aspects of contributing to health.
ralston, thank you so much for your time.
ank you so much.
it has been a pleasure.
the prime minister says he wants to ‘unite’ and ‘level—up’ across the whole country.
speaking on a visit to middlesbrough, borisjohnson said some places felt they had ‘missed out’ and the government would address that.
but yesterday’s budget has been criticised by thinktanks and charities for doing little to address inequality.
mrjohnson was asked what people working in the health and care sectors should do if they wanted to see a payrise.
m: we are investing already in a health and social care sector, huge ntities, roughout the pandemic.
think the whole country is ssively teful to health care massively grateful to health care workers and social care workers for they have ne.
so about 52 what they have done.
so about 52 billion went into the , just to cope with the pandemic.
1.
5 billion into social care.
35 million pport cal councils and all to support oral councils and all sorts of ways.
in one of the things we have done, as we have gone the vaccination programme, celerated that, is concentrated on ial re workers and care homes.
we have, i think, vaccinated 94% of elderty rare home residents.
we over three arters of the staff w.
we are doing everything we can look ter them, but we are massively, massively in their debt.
no pay rise for them in that the budget yesterday.
a lot of these the private sector, the care are in the private sector, the rare home workers.
what we have done is a ecord investment, record increases in the living wage.
again, wage will be going up, which brought on by the government, up again in april.
our debt to hose workers is massive.
now, stav has the weather high pressure is how we are going to end the week, high—pressure in some cooler air to all areas.
it will be chilly for the end of the and indeed into the weekend, with a lot of weather ound.
variable cloud, perhaps in ine.
we have got this cold ront spreading southwards across ountry through today.
the country through today.
high—pressure building in from the .
i’m hat confident, you can see the der air moving its way outhwards.
there will be a little patchy rain on that front, ffecting northern england, northern and.
that is the midlands as we move towards the end of the day.
i did, perhaps a few of but for most going to be rather grey and retty damp.
those temperatures, gla figures, low single figures the north, turning chilly here, hilly feel two things south and a chilly feel two things south too.
as we head into this evening vernight, that front spreads way southwards, taking patchy with it.
skies will tend to ear behind it.
we will see ariable cloud and clear skies.
with kies re clear, it will turn old with some frost across northern estern areas.
an onshore breeze ontinuing to keep things a little frosty ross north sea coast.
here for a week with a big area high pressure slap bang on top of .
hold erupt into it
so it the .
hold empt into it so it will feel quite chilly.
we start off note, perhaps centring round, more than we have seen over last few days, but through the ternoon there is a chance that oud may tend to build up.
some eas turning rare.
just a chance of hower ffecting the north sea oast, being blown in that north sea .
temperatures range from around 5-8.
friday night ing to be 5-8.
friday night is going to be railed, particularly where we have lear ies.
think we will see clear skies.
i think we will see more of a widespread frost to greet saturday morning.
us for saturday morning.
high—pressure still with us for the of the weekend.
it will be a start, but bright with some nshine.
again, through the day, we see some cloud building up so it could turn a little grey for many a chilly day to come.
of us.
a chilly day to come.
temperatures generally 6—8.
it is a story on unday, chilly start, some sunshine around, mainly changes are starting to take place across the north and , more unsettled onditions here, weather onts pushing on.
if you shower is at s, perhaps a little less culture than at it will be further south.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a procedure for a pre—existing heart condition.
buckingham palace says the operation was successful — prince philip is likely to stay in hospitalfor a number more days.
it comes as the duchess of sussex tells american television she feels she has to speak out about how the palace treated her and prince harry.
i don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time we would still be just silent if there is an active role that the firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
we’ll have the latest from our royal correspondent.
also this lunchtime: more tax rises may be needed, says the institute for fiscal studies, as it warns the chancellor’s spending plans don’t look deliverable.
the number of coronavirus infections in england continues to fall, say researchers, but the rate of decrease may have slowed.
and leave your money at home — amazon opens its first supermarket in the , and it doesn’t have any tills.
and coming up on news liverpool managerjurgen klopp says he won’t automatically release players for international duty if they have to quarantine on their return to the .
klopp said fifa backed him.
good afternoon and welcome to the news at one.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a procedure for a pre—existing heart condition.
buckingham palace says the procedure was successful, and was carried out yesterday.
the duke, who is 99, is expected to stay in hospital for a number of days.
the news comes as the royal family is being accused by the duchess of sussex of perpetuating falsehoods about her and and her husband.
the dramatic comments are in a newly released excerpt from meghan and prince harry’s interview with oprah winfrey for american television.
here’s our royal correspondent, nicholas witchell.
it was on monday of this week that the duke was transferred from the king edward hospital, where he had spent 13 nights to bartholomew’s hospital, one of britain’s premier centres for cardiac care.
he will have been assessed on tuesday and then a surgical procedure yesterday.
according to buckingham palace it’s thought the pre—existing heart condition may refer to the episode ten years ago, when he was admitted by helicopter to papworth hospital.
he had suffered a blocked coronary artery.
a stent was inserted.
the queen and other members of the family visited him in hospital, a sign that this had been a moment of real anxiety.
this time, the queen is remaining at windsor, where, with her officials, she will doubtless be pondering the latest twists and turns in the sussex saga.
last night, the broadcaster issued another clip from the duchess of sussex’s upcoming interview with oprah winfrey.
it is not comfortable viewing for the palace.
how do you feel about the palace hearing you speak your truth today?
i don’t know how they could expect that after all of this time we would still be just silent if there is an active role that the firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us.
and if that comes with risk of losing things, i mean, there’s a lot that has been lost already.
as the duchess accuses the palace of perpetuating unspecified falsehoods against her, the palace is preparing to investigate claims from former members of her staff that she bullied them, allegations which the duchess’s spokesman has denied.
normally, of course, the queen would have her husband at her side to support her at moments such as this.
l111: but not just now.
but from the palace today on social media, on world book day, a reminder of ass less turbulent times.
the queen and together at bell moral in 976.
and nicholas is here with me let’s talk about the duke.
the