scotland, at times clip in north—west scotland and wales.
arer ies developing in the orth—east of scotland and parts of ern england and wales.
it is going to be atively mild night.
to start the day across central thern england, lifting into low loud then breaking up, so more of us will see sunshine tomorrow.
we still have a weather front bringing cross scotland also northern eland.
temperatures ranging from the north to highs of 21.
this is news.
the headlines here and around the world.
energy bills across the could increase by hundreds of pounds next year because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
a federaljudge in the united states has suspended a law in texas that bans almost all abortions.
prince andrew is granted access to a sealed document which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought against him by virginia giuffre.
more countries are to be removed from the government’ red list today which requires ravellers to stay in a quarantine upon their return.
20 years on from the start of military operations in afghanistan, commemorations are held to remember the a57 british personnel who died in the conflict.
a british woman who joined islamic state group with her young children says politicians should open their minds to allowing them to them to return to the .
and the physio said to me, where is your wedding ring?
and i was like, oh, no.
andy murray has lost his wedding ring and he is asking fans to help him find it.
hello and welcome if you’re watching in the or around the world.
householders are being warned their energy bills could rise by another £400 early next year after gas prices soared to record levels.
the rise would add further cost to households following the increase in the energy price cap last week.
that’ on top on rises caused by the higher energy price cap that came into effect last week.
the business secretary, kwasi kwarteng, will face industry bosses later today as the sector deals with an unprecedented spike in wholesale costs.
kevin peachey reports.
just like the season’ weather, bill payers are being warned the worst is yet to come.
a host of energy companies have collapsed in recent weeks.
their customers moved to a new supplier are already having to pay hundreds of pounds more a year than they expected.
the price cap does protect millions of people from extreme rises in bills, but say, next year, they will still face a bill shock.
under the price cap, a customer now pays £1277 a year if they use an average amount of gas and electricity.
expect that typical bill to rise to £1600 when a revised but as yet undecided cap starts in april.
compare that with a year ago, when you could have got a deal costing just over £850 a year.
we are competing with the rest of the world, the rest of europe for gas supplies.
unfortunately, it is the reality.
price comparison sites, which historically talk about how much we can save you by switching.
the reality is that is not there at the moment, and very few people for the whole of this year, really, have been in a position where they would be able to save, compared to last year.
steel producers confirmed they halted production at times of high demand, showing that industry, as well as consumers, is feeling the impact of rising costs.
some of the heat was drawn from the crisis yesterday when russia said it would increase gas supplies to europe, helping to limit the latest surge in wholesale gas prices.
but it hasn’ ended calls for the government to step in.
the business secretary will be expected to address concerns of the energy sector today.
but then also the worries of businesses and consumers in the weeks to come.
our business correspondence victoria fritz said the situation our business correspondence victoria fritz said the situation is really for people struggling to pay tough for peopla to pay their bills.
consumers are facing ouble whammy being corporately in what is going on in the wider et, the wholesale market but lso what is happening in terms of petition in this industry and we seen, pretty much within the month or so, we have seen nine uppliers completely drop out of the et.
are we going to see more?
the money at the moment is yes, we see fewer competitors in this arket and that is concerning for tomers, it is not like you can just shop ound and and find a tter deal and ofgem, the energy gulator, says if wholesale gas ices ntinue to rise at this prices continue to rise at this level, the energy cap will have to .
rtainly, at the moment, it is fixed for winter 2021 and into .
i am just reading messages from viewers about the kind of they are on at the moment.
this is jim in ancashire, my dual from jim in lanashire, my dual fuel bill deal is running out and i paid 00
£1500 for the year.
the best deal i ran get now is £2500.
that is not to be sustainable for some opla, is it?
what about the people a who don’ alify to be the poorest useholds for whatever reason?
you bsolutely right, this is going to be felt everywhere, it is lies, people on their own, families, peopla on their own, peopla all through the food chain is businesses as well.
we are aring from the manufacturers, re is a paper company, it is oted in a article on this quoted in a artida on this which is very good if you want to at it, it is the lead item at he moment, and there is a paper uer and they are saying since january, their ces of energy have one up 5096.
what are they supposed so you ?
so you are having anufacturers and companies saying is going to have to be passed to the end consumer, so it means we are looking at a situation re your energy bills are likely go but also the cost of everyday is going to go up as well, so is a very, very difficult enario and, at the moment, it is difficult to understand or know hat to do.
thank you for your ages.
malcolm says i received notification yesterday from , an company, that my direct energy °mpany, that my direct debit is going from £133 per to £560 next month.
that is month to 560 next month.
that is from malcolm.
nick says over the few years, i have invested in home energy systems, reduced by iance on the market for energy fuel.
i disconnected from mains installed a heat pump, solar a home battery system and swapped my petrol far to elactric.
i was protected from the recent fuel ages, remember, we didn’ have shortages, it was a shortage of ers, but i now protected from instability in hiking in prices and swer is to reduce reliability invest in renewables at overnment and individual levels.
ore, i miraculously paid attention to news over the summer ixed, variable tariff to a and fixed, variable tariff to a fixed tariff for a year before it up, keeping it pretty much to precrisis bill.
now i am nervous about what happened next year, i suppose i have only kicked the can the ad.
gas prices reached down the road.
gas prices reached record levels yesterday, falling fter vladimir putin suggested russia could supply more gas to at the russian deputy prime nister has suggested it will help if a controversial pipeline is pproved.
let’ get more from the russian service is, thank you or talking to us.
so just explain the link is between wholesale prices and president putin.
that is naturally but usually they new on the summer.
what happened year is that is already this year is that it is already october
but still there is a lot of space in gas chambers and that tarts the panic, and markets rise, rices rise, so what happened ourse, russia was one of the in gas supplies to europe and the ited kingdom and overall it pues plies roughly around 30% of the gas and of se, russia was gas and of course, russia was benefiting from the sudden price .
50 what happened yesterday, uite prisingly, president putin said he will give, he orders gazprom arge supplies of gas to europe and the united kingdom but the trick want to do it their way, is they want to do it their way, they want to use a controversial line nordstream, not the usual ay through ukraine and the pipeline der heavy criticism from many ropean politicians because they lieve it is being used as a litical tool.
and so the kremlin saying give its approval for this roversial pipeline and then we provide with more gas?
ran provide you with more gas?
exactly, they say we are ready to you, but we want to do it our help you, but we want to do it our way.
europe, in a way, insists uses the old pipelines, for ample through ukraine, but russia explanation for everything.
utin says we will be glad to use hose but we can’ because we are iring the pipeline for the past veral years, so it is quite gerous to do so.
of course, kiev hinks the opposite but russia is gas supplier so it is for them to choose which pipeline to use.
in a way, you can’ take gazprom by the they have an explanation for everything
but it seems there is a message underneath.
thank you much.
ajudge in the has given permission for prince andrew’ legal team to get access to a confidential settlement agreement which they believe will negate a civil claim being pursued against him.
the claim was based on allegations of sexual assault made by virginia giuffre.
prince andrew has always denied those allegations.
our correspondent nada tawfik is in new york with the latest.
now with the judge’ sign—off, prince andrew’ legal team will very soon get their hands on this confidential document that they believe will end the civil lawsuit against him.
in a previous court hearing, the prince’ lawyer said that a settlement agreement reached between virginia giuffre and the sex offenderjeffrey epstein essentially absolved anyone associated with epstein from any and all potential liability.
now, virginia giuffre and her legal team, and epstein’ estate, have all consented to handing over that document and now they have thejudge’ sign—off to do that.
but her lawyer david boies has said that he believes this settlement is irrelevant to prince andrew’ case.
he says that essentially they have the right to review it and to make whatever arguments they want based on it, but he doesn’ believe that their characterisation is accurate.
there will be arguments in this case, another hearing, early next month.
a british woman who joined the islamic state group with her children says the government should "deal with the issue" of allowing them to return.
nicole jack left the in 2015 and is being held with her three daughters in syria, in a camp for wives and children of fighters.
her husband was killed in fighting in 2016.
the home office said its priority is to ensure the ’ safety and security.
poonam taneja reports.
this is no place for children to live.
but thousands do.
it’ home for the surviving children of islamic state group’ fallen caliphate.
shall i fix your slipper?
amongst them are three british sisters.
they are seven, nine and 12, and they live here with their mum, nicole jack.
you, as their mother, decided to take your children to islamic state group territory to live under their regime, it was brutal, there were beheadings, murders, massacres.
did you do that?
how would you explain that to anyone?
i don’ think even if i explain it, everyone would understand, but from my point of view where i stand, firstly, it was about my family being together, do you understand?
honestly, secondly, what may have happened, we have never been witness to it, my children and i, honestly.
you know, i haven’ seen a beheading in my life.
but her children have suffered trauma and loss.
their father was killed fighting for .
and their ten—year—old brother isaac died in an air strike in front of them.
i really miss my family, i miss my granny, my aunties.
i miss my grandmother and my other grandmother.
i miss them so much.
as with so many children in the camp, it’ clear how they will get out.
the is reluctant to allow the wives of islamic state group’ foreign fighters to return to britain.
they’re viewed as a threat to national security.
however, they are willing to repatriate british orphans and unaccompanied children.
can you ever see an option where you would send your children to britain to safety on their own without you?
for us as a family, we cope together.
i know for sure if my kids were separated from me, they will not be in a stable situation, because we are a unit.
and so her daughters remain prisoners here.
a makeshift school offers a few hours of escape.
i think it is really fun learning to make different things.
i like learning, like, different languages, and like when you learn more things, your brain feels better.
i want to be smart when i grow up.
but there’ little hope of that as long as she’ in this camp, separated from her family in the .
she records this message for her grandmother.
love you guys, hope you guys are fine.
me and my sisters and brothers are fine.
love you guys.
hopefully come back soon to see you guys.
i would love to spend time with you when we come back.
it is difficult to watch for their grandmother, charlene jack henry, thousands of miles away in london.
she wants her grandchildren back home with their mother, her daughter.
let her come and face the consequences.
but it is not fair and it is not right for these children to be languishing in this place.
enough is enough.
they have already served a six—year sentence, without even having the benefit of being taken to court and tried by your peers.
the british government wouldn’ comment on nicole jack’ case.
they say those remaining in syria include dangerous individuals and not to make securityjudgments based on gender and age.
but charlene says while her daughter should face justice, her grandchildren are innocent.
poonam taneja, news.
in the charities are warning they are expecting more people to use their services this winter, as vulnerable households across the country could face extra financial difficulties this winter.
it follows a combination of energy price rises, the furlough scheme finishing, and the ending of the £20 a week uplift to universal credit.
our reporter fiona lamdin has been to meet one family on low income.
when we are in here in the evening, i make sure this is the only light that is on in the flat.
just save power where possible.
then, with the telly, i always make sure this is off on an evening.
single mum holly and her 11—year—old daughter live in bristol.
holly works in a local supermarket, but money is tight.
i look at the smart meter and think, , i have got £2.
50, let’ say, and i think that has got to last.
so i think, what uses the most?
and then the telly will go off.
and i think, we will sit here, we will talk and play games.
but the telly is entertainment.
i have been at work all day, my child is now in bed, and shouldn’ i get to sit and watch that?
and, like many, holly is already seeing herfuel bills rise.
she is on a prepayment meter, which could increase by £150 a year.
on friday, i topped up using the utility app.
i topped up £10.
yesterday, it came on that i was already on emergency.
so how much have you got?
i’ve got £9 left.
since yesterday, i have already used £5.
it is stressful because i don’ get paid till friday.
i have now got to hope that £9 sees me till then.
and, until she is paid, holly cannot afford to use the washing machine.
so it’ this is my washing pile.
i am not going to wash it till friday.
it is one of the things i will put aside just to make sure that £9 sees me through.
and all this coincides with the ending of the £20 a week uplift to universal credit that was introduced in the pandemic.
the choices now are i’ve looked and thought, 0, my daughter is going to have this for tea, but i will eat later, or i willjust have a sandwich.
it is sacrifices i have made.
and i’ not ashamed.
but we shouldn’ live like it.
no one should live like it.
the government argues that as the economy opens up, the focus needs to shift to getting people back to work.
here in avonmouth, this is where bristol north—west stores all their food for the food bank.
they have been stockpiling in anticipation of the hard winter that lies ahead.
we desperately need people to keep on giving to us.
we have the added complications of the universal credit uplift finishing, furlough finishing, and the rising cost of household fuel bills, as well as petrol.
so there is a huge pressure on the poorest in our local communities.
and for holly and her daughter, they look forward to the weekend when, once she is paid, they can once again watch television and clean their clothes.
the biden administration has welcomed a judge’ decision to block a near total ban on abortion in the state of texas.
the white house described it as an important step towards restoring constitutional rights for texan women.
the court issued a temporary injunction to suspend the controversial law which prohibits abortions after the sixth week of pregnancy.
thejudge described it as "an offensive deprivation of an important right.
" the state authorities have lodged an appeal.
supreme court agreed to let the restrictions stand, resulting in protests right around the united states.
here are two women explaining their views in texas.
everything is so more intense and so much worse.
we want to see an end from a leg — ective bortion from to elective abortion from fertilisation, the moment a new being reated.
it is crazy human being is created.
it is crazy to think we had access to safe tion is now that is taken away rom us.
me and my partner came to a tual agreement we honestly mutual agreement where we honestly thought it was the best to get an tion.
one, two, three, abortion!
is is a controversial issue, it is hat people disagree on ardenﬂy.
tly.
at the end of the day, the ion we ask is what is the question we ask is what is the pre-born child?
what is in the er’ omb?
it is a human being hat has legal protection and is erent with moral value and gnity?
if so, that is what we are hting for and we are fighting end abortion.
laura podesta is a correspondent for news and we can speak to her now.
tell us what the judge said in the ruling.
the district judge robert an ided with the department of justice with is ruling, 113 pages he
and he said, "from the moment eight, the name of the law, went effect, women had been nlawfully affected from controlling lives in way three that is their lives in my three that is protected by the constitution.
" 50 is mling is in with a lot of this mling is in line with a lot of what we have heard from legal ever since the texas governor signed a six week abortion to law, that really the substance of this ban cannot be ared with current precedent squared with the current precedent set by roe versus wade, which ded that women have a constitutional right to privacy and their own decisions and the ecision to have an abortion in the trimester is a private one etween a woman and her doctor.
sequent trimesters of course ould have more regulation other roe wade.
but the fight tinues, doesn’ it?
this is a ight that will likely make its way to the supreme court again and ay again because, a few weeks , the high court, in a 5—4 ruling left the law lace but did not at hat point mle on the law’ onstitutionality, so they would, they review it again, if it when they review it again, if it gets up to the supreme court.
tionally, we should mention, in december, this is already on the et, the supreme court will eal arguments about mississippi’ abortion ban and this is the most significant challenge to roe a generation, in that as far as the oral arguments that the eme court will hear regarding the mississippi law in december, so ver is decided there could set a precedent for texas and, of se, the other 48 states.
in the eantime, how are abortion rights paigners reacting to this temporary suspension of the law?
tion rights proponents are esponding as a victory, this is a ory, but they are celebrating emporarily because it is in order porarily block the ban.
and, espite the ruling, it is unclear her abortion in texas will esume today because there are some ors who fear they could be sued ater on without a more permanent decision.
thank you very much, ra.
later this morning, the queen will launch the commonwealth games’ baton relay at a ceremony at buckingham palace.
the baton will travel across the commonwealth before arriving in birmingham for the start of the games nextjuly.
reeta chakrabarti is outside buckingham palace this morning.
i think the rain has stayed away, has it?
thank goodness it has.
it is scene here, as you can a lovely scene here, as you ran probably see
and they guests are ving for the ceremony which is to start in around an hour and a lf.
the commonwealth games will be important for the but particularty or birmingham in the midlands, where they start next .
the baton, to which the july.
the baton, into which the queen will insert a message, is then around all 72 commonwealth tions and territories.
it will 294 days for that to happen, baton will travel 94,000 miles fore it returns to birmingham and, , the message inside the baton ill be read by the queen or her resentative and that will be the ing of the commonwealth games.
ere to discuss with me the gnificance of the games and the mmonwealth more generally, i am to say i am joined by the of the royal commonwealth ciety.
good morning, linda, i know will be part of the ceremony day, you must be very excited.
olutely, this is, especially fter the pandemic, what an occasion athletes come together, to see athletes come together, competitors, the people to people characterise the links that characterise the commonwealth, just get enshrined in mes.
i’ve course, every the games.
i’ve course, every commonwealth country will be ring for their own athletes.
hat community spirit doesn’
ppear ust because you are part of the same, well.
talk a little bit the relevance of the commonwealth because people know is but they don’ what it is but they don’ necessarily know what it is for.
the nwealth, i think it’ fairly commonwealth, i think it’ fairty unique.
the queen is the head of the nwealth and the commonwealth is a network, it is 5a countries that voluntarily ned ogether are voluntarilyjoined together because they share values like human , like democracy, equality, mla rights, like democracy, equality, ml; of law but what makes it quite que is the rule of law but what makes it quite unique is the people to people links at games represent so well and that the games represent so well and my charity represents, it is what it different to other organisations, like the 620 for ance, which is all about instance, which is all about government and government links.
50 ing together, having grassroots ompetitions like the games, we had is called a council of mmonwealth societies, a lot of ities that are all doing charities that are all doing incredible things, work on ation, other issues, the education, other issues, the environment and it is all of those that are centred on this luntary group of nations that, want to further these values, hink it is important to work with government and that is what the commonwealth endure.
and important is the queen as the of the commonwealth?
how ortant is she as a figurehead?
ncredibly important.
as we know, queen is heading into her platinum jubilee, which will mark 70 of service to the and the ommonwealth, so how long service, ommitment to fostering these ues by bringing together such ifferent countries and she is ays very focused on the charities, on the communities, on ung people, the young leaders, ause if you want to instill these lues for the future, that is what need to focus on, so we focus on at and we are very privileged to ganise key events for the royal ily, like the commonwealth rvice at westminster abbey every , so i have seen it first—
hand, he queen’ mmitment to these alues then really rewarding young ers who do this in their leaders who do this in their communities across the commonwealth coming together and elebrating those, which is what service does and other events ough the year.
and we know prince arles will take over as head of commonwealth eventually.
do you hings changing under a new see things changing under a new head?
i’ sure there will be some ges, but what i have personally seen is that the royal family are committed to these values and hat is what makes the commonwealth an important part of what they ook after and, for the prince of as, is very focused on the wales, he is very focused on the environment and, indeed, we are ing with his office around that i think, to me, there is always to be, you know, some differences but what is most rtant is are they committed to the values?
the answer is yes.
do they see the grass roots, the young , the charities as being key?
absolutely and the importance i think of making sure, especially in ded world, that you do have a latform, a network, to speak with ferent voices around trying to do ter for the environment, trying improve literacy, achieve sustainable development goals, i think that is really what the power ion and where it comes from, we support these values but how do translate?
and the prince of les is active in a number of these eas.
it is a pleasure to talk to “- , thank you very much.
well, the emony gets under way very shortly we will have extensive coverage one and on news from 45am, so do please watch.
victoria.
hank you very much.
yes, iewers in the , stay tuned for that.
nine months after it was rolled out, the astrazeneca covid vaccine has finally reached the antarctic.
it was flown there this week to immunise the 23 staff members who’ve been keeping a british research station running through the polar winter.
our science correspondent jonathan amos reports.
it is literally at the end of the earth.
this is the antarctic, a place of extremes where you really must avoid getting sick.
which is the arrival this week of the astrazeneca covid vaccine is so important.
it will keep those who work on the white continent safe.
getting the coronavirus jabs there, however, has been a grand challenge.
it is a 10,000—mile flight from england to the rothera station, with stopovers required in africa and the falklands.
but the astrazeneca vaccine is now in the arms of the scientists who reside on the antarctic peninsula during its cold, dark winter.
they know it helps protect in case covid got to the station, but also they are going to be leaving in the next few months, anyway, so that group is going to do their summer season at rothera
and then they are going back, and perhaps one of the scariest parts is when one of the team get back into society and covid, there are so many cases per day.
so we are protecting that team before they have to get back on the air bridge flights back to the and back to see their family and friends.
this is the furthest south the astrazeneca jab has reached.
it means all continents have now received at least some doses.
there has been very little covid, so far, in antarctica.
just one isolated outbreak at a chilean research station.
international science agencies want to keep it that way and anyone going south in the coming months will still have to quarantine.
jonathan amos, news.
the headlines energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next year because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
a federaljudge in the united states has suspended a law in texas that bans almost all abortions.
prince andrew is given access to a sealed document which his lawyers believe could help in the sexual abuse case brought against him by virginia giuffre.
more countries are to be removed from the red list later.
20 years on from the start of military operations in afghanistan, morations are how to remember commemorations are how to remember the british personnel who died in ict.
a british woman who joined the islamic state group with her young children says politicians should open their minds to allowing them to return to the .
and andy murray has lost his wedding ring, and he asks fans to help him find it.
commemorations are being held to mark 20 years since military action in afghanistan.
a57 british personnel were killed during the conflict.
troops left afghanistan at the end of august, bringing an end to the two decade war.
a57 british military personnel lost their lives in afghanistan.
one of them was claire and brian hill’ only son, james.
it never leaves us.
we don’ have a son anymore, we don’ have any other children.
there is an emptiness, there’ a hole that nothing can fill.
remembrance day for most people is november the 11th, but, for the likes of us, remembrance day is every day.
it’ nearly 12 years to the day that james hill was killed by an improvised explosive device in helmand.
he was just 23 and about to get married.
his parents are proud of his service and his sacrifice, though the recent return of afghanistan to taliban control has been hard for them to bear.
if we were to say now, yes, james’ life was wasted, then that would hurt us all over again, because we have to believe that what he did made a difference and what they all did, and that they gave so much, notjust the ones who died, but the ones who carry on with injuries.
one hand says, what the heck did we go there for?
the other hand says, we’ve stopped any terrorist atrocities on our streets.
and, as claire said, another 9/11.
so it’ it’ very, very difficult.
and when you balance that, do you think the sacrifice that you’ve made of your only son has been worth it?
no.
nothing is worth it.
that’ not worth anything.
i am moving with a piece of equipment over a patch of ground that had been walked on by 30 or a0 people already and then, massive explosion.
and i had stepped on a pressure plate , it functioned and, thankfully, it was only me that got hurt but it was quite severe, it took both legs above the knee.
luke sinnott is one of more than 300 british troops who lost limbs in afghanistan.
but he has battled through his severe injuries with the help of sport.
he was due to take part in the tokyo paralympics this summer, but, because of an injury, he had to stay home and witness the collapse of the country in which he once fought.
and the desperate scenes of those trying to leave.
getting injured, not going to tokyo and then the afghanistan withdrawal, you know, it’ been a mentally rough period for the summer.
from my point of view, we were on the ground, we were moving ieds and giving people some safety, some remnants of safety in the country and kids the ability to go to school, so i will never regret that, i can hold my head high on what we did out there.
if i could make a deal tomorrow and get my legs back, i would.
my view of afghanistan is a very clear one to me and that is the intent of what we were trying to do was always right.
the concept was flawed.
too little, too late and we quit way too soon.
and that is the great tragedy of afghanistan.
stuart tootal led the first british troops into helmand in 2006.
he commanded the 3rd battalion, the parachute regiment, who suffered the first serious casualties of the war, with dozens injured and 15 killed.
what was then supposed to have been a simple peace support operation turned into a bloody counterinsurgency conflict.
if you wanted to pick the positives out, you can turn round and say, well, we gave the afghans 20 years of an opportunity of how life might be different.
that’ true.
the trouble is, that opportunity never realised itself fully because the taliban are now back in control, but i don’ think we can be very proud of the outcome.
we can be proud of what we tried to do as soldiers, but in terms of those responsible for the strategic decisions, i don’ think there’ a great deal to crow about in terms of there being a particular there is no victory here.
you know, we did not win that conflict.
there was little fanfare when the last british troops left afghanistan earlier this year.
this, the low—key ceremony in kabul before the chaotic exit.
wars without victory are often forgotten, but the hopes of all those who served there and who lost loved ones is that their sacrifice will never be forgotten.
jonathan beale, news.
joining me now is afghanistan veteran andy reid who in october 2009 was blown up by a taliban improvised explosive device while on patrol in helmand province, he was injured so badly that it was thought he would not survive.
thank you very much for talking to us.
who are you thinking about ?
thank very much.
i am today?
thank you very much.
i am just thinking about some friends of did pay the ultimate mine who did pay the ultimate sacrifice with regards to my regiment and guys any regiment i served with when i was over there.
re you marking today?
i am just elaxing today, to be honest.
i will down to the cenotaph and pay my respects at around 11 ’clock and it and reflect for a while on just sit and reﬂect for a while on one of the memorial benches and about the time that i spent ere.
what do you think about the that you ent there, in terms of your mission?
i knew the mission ways to go there and train the afghan army and police and then .
that was always going to be he mission.
the general said in nterview, i think if we have tively changed one person’ life when we were over there, if one on got an education, become a octor, maybe a cure for cancer, the ifice i personally made has been thwhile.
we made a positive hange in that country to those pla and that is what we have got and take way with us.
you finitely made a difference to more one person’ life when you were here.
over the period of time that were there, i suppose it is the anner of the departure of western ops that has led people to troops that has lad peopla to question whether it was worth it.
do you ay to those people?
ltimately, be the job were not quite finished.
that was not done in way.
but veterans that are ruggling, we did make a positive nge to people’ lives and every ime we set foot out of camp based patrol, we nged peoples lives on patrol, we changed peoples lives and that is what we have to take with us.
hopefully those guys an come to term without one day.
move and move themselves forward.
may i ask you about the injuries that you ined back in 2009?
yes, it is my 12 anniversary next wednesday.
i am a triple amputee now for lost my lag elow the knee, and my right leg below the knee, and my right arm above the elbow.
i am a ivor, not a victim.
i am still here.
some of my friends did pay the ate sacrifice and i have ultimate sacrifice and i have respect for them
and i have to move forward and keep moving on.
you have achieved a lot in the few years.
tell our audience about your charity, for example.
i set upbeat handing — standing tall ation to and help foundation to and help disadvantaged young people and rans as well.
i feel passionate bout helping veterans with mental treatment.
it has been a ficult time over the last couple months and i have had a lot of rans phoning me personally and ffering them free mental health port.
that has been fantastic.
disadvantaged young people.
people from poorer areas of ciety maybe choose the armed as an option to escape the ituation they are in and if we can swer ose issues that they have fore they go into adult life, put them in a better stead ving forward.
that is what the undation is all about.
part of motivation if i have understood ectly, you were expelled from chool, so you feel that you really help in this ea?
yes, i can ran help in this area?
yes, i ran relate to these kids from advantaged areas.
i was following rong path in life
and i made uite a few wrong choices.
i could gone down that path and ended in jail and at kind of thing.
luckily, i chose to the but luckily, i chose to join the armed forces and it changed my life me the person i am today.
and made me the person i am today.
the standards and discipline i have definitely put me in good tead.
and when i got expelled from ool, i nova thought it would be chievable.
but the armed forces tilled that into me and made be better person that i am today.
ank you very much for talking to today.
we really appreciate it.
ank you.
an investigation into 26 clinical trials into the use of the horse medicine ivermectin to treat covid has found serious errors or signs of potential fraud in more than a third of them.
the review by a group of independent scientists challenges claims made on behalf of ivermectin by a network of promoters around the world and anti vaxxers who advocate its use.
let’ talk now to an epidemiologist at the university of warren gong.
ivermectin a treatment for covid?
it is certainly a drug that is being for vid, yes.
whether it is an effective treatment for covid, i think is the question
and i think at oint, given the number of udies that we have found that are ther potentially fraudulent or stantially fraud in a way that ndermines the conclusions entirely, say recently don’ know the conclusion to that answer.
ntially fraudulent, so what is your eling about that?
absolutely.
thing is when we are reviewing dies from outside perspective, hat we mostly do is look at data you ran identify the fact that a that replicates the study ults cannot have possibly come a trial.
that doesn’ ecessarily an there is some study there that may have been onducted, all we can say is that study that ublished does not ppear to be based on real data.
ther hat was an inadvertent mistake, here people had very bad nagement practices, in some ases, or ther there was cases, or whether there was intentional and you know guided is something that you simply annot really sess from the position at we are in.
0, from what you have been, what does that for our understanding of ermectin?
very basically, the idea ivermectin was very, very erful treatment against covid was sed on a fairly small number of als which had very enormously sitive results.
and most of those appear to be either trials appear to be either potentially fraudulent also flawed at results can be trusted and that the results ran be tmsted
and that leaves us in a difficult ation because we have now very trials with sufficient large bers of patients to determine a onclusion either way, so if you about harm on one side and nefit on the other and no effect he middle, we currently have ars that of span all of those it is plausible that ivermectin , it is also plausible that ivermectin does not work.
and so we of left waiting for the are kind of left waiting for the logical clinical trials to finish iting unfinished trial, so that recruiting unfinished trial, so that we ran understand if ivermectin is tially beneficial for covid or ot.
in the meantime, what kind of peopla are promoting ivermectin?
i find it quite strange leaf fears cacy for ivermectin across the orld, there are a number of ssionate groups who have based eir ideas on these studies that we now identified as likely to be other than that, has been fake.
other than that, it has been used very much in the developing , in places where there are few ffective treatments for covid and fective treatments are more the effective treatments are more expensive, they have understandably to what is decidedly a fairly turned to what is decidedly a fairty safe medication that is well—known ing safe, specially in for being safe, especially in countries in africa, it is used very nly, and even if it does not commonly, and even if it does not work, peopla have thought, what is harm in trying?
i think that is primary place where it is being the moment.
thank you very uch.
thank you for talking to us we reciate it.
appreciate it.
the headlines now, energy bills the could increase by across the could increase by hundreds of pounds next year because ther big rise in wholesale prices.
federal udge the united states as at a in texas that bans lmost all abortions.
nce andrew is given access to a aled document which his lawyers ieve could help end the sexual use case brought against him.
the stirling prize, for britain’ best new building, will be announced next week — in alive programme here on the news channel.
the shortlist includes a footbridge in tintagel, a boat museum in the lake district and a university building in south west london.
over the coming few days we’ll be looking at each of the six buildings on the shortlist.
today is the turn of the cambridge central mosque, which features geometric columns, timber "trees", which form the structural support for the roof.
when you enter the space, it feels very other, and hopefully uplifting.
i don’ think, as architects, we can hope for anything more than that, really.
my name isjulia barfield, i’ one of the co—founders of marks barfield architects, and we are the architects of the cambridge central mosque.
we hadn’ designed a mosque before, so of course we did a lot of research to find out about mosque design throughout the world, and what we discovered was that, historically and globally, mosques generally took on the character of the place that they were in and the time they were in, so what should a british mosque of the 20th century he like?
david, my partner, was the one who came up with this idea of the glade of trees, and the garden of paradise.
the trees in this glade of trees became the structural trees.
this is an entirely timber—structured building.
timber is beautiful, it’ very sustainable.
but also, it’ got that connection with nature, which is, in islam, very important.
that is also one of the kind of features of this place is that your naturally somehow look up, which seems appropriate for a sacred space.
it’ a space that is used by the whole community, notjust the muslim community.
the idea is that the mosque is not just a place for worship, it’ so lovely to see there’ that sense of private ownership, notjust for muslims in cambridge but also the wider community too.
you’re sort of met with his immediate calm and sense of peace, and it’ something that visitors get to experience when they visit, but something i get to experience everyday, so it’sjust phenomenal.
we’ve kept the energy usage down as much as possible, as well as trying to address embodied carbon in the choice of materials.
all the rainwater is captured, it’ used to flush the toilets and also to help water the garden.
in a sense, we were trying to kind of combine the english sacred architecture with islamic traditions.
we wanted to construct something that was a symbol of hope, that this difference is notjust about problems of integration but is about inherent interests of bringing together different narratives, different civilisations, different ethnicities, languages, cultural communities.
it is a kind of celebration of the very central contribution that islam brings to the rainbow diversity that makes modern britain so fascinating.
muslim, islamic culture has been part of british culture for so long, and i hope this building reaffirms that, it brings the two together.
one of the contenders for the stirling prize.
we’ll have more on that later today.
and there will be live coverage of the award ceremony here on the news channel on the 14th of october .
a saudi arabian takeover of newcastle united football club is nemsﬂa united football club is close newcastle united football club is close to being agreed.
a decision is ected hin the next 24—hours expected within the next 24-hours after the proposed majority owner the saudi state would not ave control the club.
let’ talk to wards, i think, from the aily telegraph, who knows all about .
it looks like it is going to appen.
what kind of issues have the ier league een looking at when it comes to due diligence?
i think is a little bit of a fudge ing on, to be quite honest with .
ithink eparation matters.
because the premier league work erned that the saudi state, amely the crown prince, would be in rol of the football club and hey would be selling the football to a state.
there is nothing tually in the rules that says they annot to a state.
i can’ “an you not?
you an’ hear me?
i ran now, i’ so ry.
i think there a separation ssue relating to ether the football club will be to the kingdom of saudi arabia whether it is eing sold to its public investment fund, , the is the public investment problem is the public investment fund committee chairman is actually own prince of saudi arabia, the crown prince of saudi arabia, there are government officials that the board.
i think what the remier league have been given, my erstanding, they had been given gally binding assurances, written rances, that it will be that runs the football club, independent saudi state
but i do think of the saudi state
but i do think there is a bit of a fudge because hairman, as i said, of is crown prince and there are vernment officials on the board is part of the saudi state.
ave to look at that until esterday you could not legally emier league football in audi arabia because the official adcast partner were banned.
the remier league has tried to take action nine times against ose responsible and has been cked by the saudi state.
they re effectively being asked to sell em.
i think there has been ken from eyes on both sides the ggest single issue has been solved.
i don’ think the premier will i thing the biggest ssue is the piracy issues have been ved.
$1,000,000,000 in damages have been paid.
i think we will hear bout separation but i think is a fudge.
this is effectively ugh the public investment fund, a takeover of a premier league ball club by the premier saudi state.
and what do you think of that?
it raises moral questions.
we have to look at this for what it is.
sportswashing.
it is about the regime has many, many saudi regime which has many, many critic, one of the worst human records on the planet, it has mshed right records on the planet, it has crushed political and social distend ent within saudi arabia rather tally and it about cleansing hat regime past reputation ough sport and through an english elite football club.
however, what i would say on that is the kingdom of i arabia is a military ally of he government
and we sell arms audi arabia.
they are an — on every , they have operty in the , usiness interest in the , they invest in a wide—ranging of businesses already, so i don’ think that moral argument should be forgotten, i don’ think you block his takeover with a moral uestion when are already nvesting in so many other sinesses was not as a reporter, a journalist based in nemsﬂa, i cover journalist based in newcastle, i cover the whole of the north of and, i will not forget those issues, those human rights issues at this is, a sportswashing and what this is, a sportswashing project and we always have to be ful of that but that does not mean it should not go ahead and it not mean that newcastle united upporters should be attacked or coming this investment in their ty, in their otball lub, as city, in their football club, and as i say, the government are more happy to deal with the saudis and the queen gave a state banquet crown prince of saudi arabia so long ago.
you are asking tball fans to oppose something hat the rest of the economy and business interests and the government have never opposed.
very , we cannot talk about briefly, we cannot talk about newcastle united fans as though they nemsﬂa united fans as though they are newcastle united fans as though they are one homogenous mass, there will , many different opinions, but if it is goodbye to mike ashley, majority be pleased?
will the majority be pleased?
absolutely.
and 93.
5% of voters from astle united supporters trust a newcastle united supporters trust survey this week said they wanted akeover to happen.
that is the st, vast majority by don’ think yone will be sorry to see mike lay.
ey.
he has strangled the club ith a lack of ambition and this is dawn and a new era.
quite rightly, it is a new world for astle united and its supporters.
nemsﬂa united and its supporters.
thank you newcastle united and its supporters.
thank you very much, luke edwards the daily telegraph newspaper.
you’re watching news.
andy murray says he’ in the bad books at home after losing his wedding ring whilst competing in indian wells in california.
he described how it happened after he decided to leave his tennis shoes under his car because they were so smelly and posted an appeal on instagram for help to get the ring back.
i decided when i got back to the hotel that the shoes needed some air eeded to them out a little bit, so i have no balcony in
and i did not want to leave hem in the room because they would stink the room out, so i thought, i would leave issues underneath the .
to get ome air to them and far to get some air to them and them out overnight.
anyway, when ack to the car in the i got back to the far in the morning, the shoes had gone, so my is shoes from the tournament had i had to go to the local pro and buy erent shoes to what shop and buy different shoes to what i normally wear, a different brand erything.
which is not the end the orld but not ideal.
but anyway, i was eparing my or my practice and my physio said to me, eas your wedding ring?
and i was ike or, no!
and i basically tie edding ring to my tennis shoes i am playing because i cannot ay with it on and.
yeah, my play with it on my hand.
yeah,
my wedding ring has been stolen as well ess to say, i am in the bad needlass to say, i am in the bad books at home.
sol want to and it.
yeah, if anyone can share his or may have clue where they may be, it would be very helpful, so and get it ack and get to i ran and get it back and get to the bottom of it.
it would be appreciated.
you know what you need time for a look at to do.
time for a look at the weather forecast.
if you like your a bit warmer, that is weather a bit warmer, that is certainly going to be the case in next days.
we have got quite a bit of cloud around but it is king in places.
we have seen some sunshine.
a weather front is ucing rain across northern eland and scotland.
these are the erature values, 16 to about 20 21 celsius.
overnight, we tinue with this rain across parts of northern ireland and scotland.
at times, drifting into north—west and and rth—west wales.
clear england and north-west walas.
clear skies developing in northern land and also southern england this is where we will see some eveloping.
it is not going to a cold night, wherever you are.
orrow, we start off with fog cross central southern england, to left.
we should see more nshine than today.
but we still the weather front across rthern ireland and scotland, ducing some brisk winds and some ain at times and still warm.
this is news.
the headlines at 11am: energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next year because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
more countries are to be removed from the government’ red list later today, which requires travellers to stay in a quarantine hotel when they get back to the .
prince andrew is given access to a sealed document which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought against him by virginia giuffre.
a federaljudge in the united states has suspended a law in texas that bans almost all abortions.
20 years on from the start of military operations in afghanistan, commemorations are held to remember the a57 british personnel who died in the conflict.
a british woman who joined the islamic state group with her young children says politicians should open their minds to allow them to return to the .
if: he said to me, where is your wedding ring, and lines ike, oh, no.
andy murray has lost his wedding ring and he asks fans to help him find it.
householders are being warned their energy bills could rise by another £400 early next year after gas prices soared to record levels.
the rise would add further cost to households following the increase in the energy price cap last week.
the business secretary, kwasi kwarteng, will face industry bosses later today as the sector deals with an unprecedented spike in wholesale costs.
kevin peachey reports.
just like the season’ weather, bill payers are being warned the worst is yet to come.
a host of energy companies have collapsed in recent weeks.
their customers moved to a new supplier are already having to pay hundreds of pounds more a year than they expected.
the price cap does protect millions of people from extreme rises in bills, but say, next year, they will still face a bill shock.
under the price cap, a customer now pays £1277 a year if they use an average amount of gas and electricity.
expect that typical bill to rise to £1600 when a revised but as yet undecided cap starts in april.
compare that with a year ago, when you could have got a deal costing just over £850 a year.
we are competing with the rest of the world, the rest of europe for gas supplies.
unfortunately, it is the reality.
price comparison sites, which historically talk about how much we can save you by switching.
the reality is that is not there at the moment, and very few people for the whole of this year, really, have been in a position where they would be able to save, compared to last year.
steel producers confirmed they halted production at times of high demand, showing that industry, as well as consumers, is feeling the impact of rising costs.
some of the heat was drawn from the crisis yesterday when russia said it would increase gas supplies to europe, helping to limit the latest surge in wholesale gas prices.
but it hasn’ ended calls for the government to step in.
the business secretary will be expected to address concerns of the energy sector today.
but then also the worries of businesses and consumers in the weeks to come.
joining me now is dale vince.
he runs a green energy company that uses around 80 wind parks — groups of turbines, to generate power.
thank you very much for joining us.
“an you tell us a it about your iness iness model and how exposed you to the wholesale cost of gas?
usiness model is basically not ividend.
we put our money from nergy bills into a building windmills and things like that.
we make about 20% from renewable ergy, insulates us to a energy, which insulates us to a degree, but we hedge going forward, re 90% hedged for the next 12 so we are 9096 hedged for the next 12 months.
if you romise to supply ebody something and then you on’ commit to buy that at the same , you leave yourself open to the of the show to an energy gamble of the show to an energy market, which is where we are now.
re just hearing about the cost the fact that for domestic ers, a year ago, you could get a that would have cost £850 for gas and electricity, and come ril it is likely to go up to about 600.
what sort of price are your stomers paying now?
it is above price rap, ctually.
the problem ith the price is that it is not pable “an explain what that ans?
capable can you explain what that means?
the price cap is £1277.
are saying you charge more than you saying you ran charge more than that?
yes.
what is known as a gation, rom off gem.
customers derogation, from off gem.
customers join us for a different reason other rice.
i think our average rice might be £1400, i can’ be tain, but the important thing is rice rap is not capable of the price rap is not capable of dealing with these incredible es.
to a degree, it looks backwards, so it won’ be until that the price cap moves to allow for at has happened in the nter.
that is too late for many companies, 12 have gone rupt already.
and the price cap already.
and the price rap is illogical because we have a price the retail price but not the holesale price.
businesses normally and put up the retail price, nergy companies are not allowed to.
are concerned about energy companies going under because they stick to the price cap.
are you saying the cap should not you saying the price rap should not be there?
either the price cap uld be there or we should be there or we should have a wholesale price cap.
right , 5096 britain’ gas comes from the north sea.
the cost of duction has not gone up but they selling it to british consumers five times the price they were january, so are making in january, so they are making billions at the wholesale end of the market.
but if there are too many companies in play and they have what you said you did to not done what you said you did to protect yourself, should they be cted from going under at the xpense of consumers, who have ously been told you can’ shop ound, you can get a cheap deal, ife is pensive?
they are architects of their own demise, i accept that, but i think the rnment have a hand in this as ell by using a price cap.
it does exist ywhere else.
we spent ive times as much on food than we energy, and more people are in food verty than energy poverty, we don’ have a price cap on food.
we just to sort it out food.
we just need to sort it out because it is illogical to to prices down when world events re driving them up.
stay with us a moment because the business ecretary has been speaking about i just want to listen and this
so i just want to listen and get your thoughts on it after we what he has been saying.
he was lking about protecting customers that price cap.
with that price rap.
the recent issues that we have with latility of the gas price, ncredible spikes, and then falling great uncertainty in the back, great uncertainty in the market, i think that shows exactly need vigorously to pursue our climate goals.
uld you hear from asi warteng then?
then?
what are your thoughts?
i think he is absolutely right that we pursue what he calls climate need to pursue what he falls climate goals.
from my perspective, that building enough renewable ergy generators in our country so we make all the energy we need rom renewable sources and break from these global markets.
but today we had from industry on radio scotland, being told by overnment that when they need to their factories because they ’ afford the gas, government vice to those businesses is to put eir prices up.
it is incoherent to different sectors like this.
is right, but that is a long—term ution.
right , companies are solution.
right now, companies are being made bankrupt by an illogical rap.
you talk about price rap.
when you talk about breaking away from global markets, mir putin intervened yesterday, vladimir putin intervened yesterday, saying taps would be turned on to pe, and a huge spike of a 37% 96 increase the price of wholesale in 24 hours certainly dropped, at hat does that say about how things set?
these international markets absolutely manipulated by energy as well as energy producers.
they are rigged in terms of supply emand.
what president putin said that as not been too widely ported is, a big part of europe my problem is that europe moved from long—term gas contracts, hich is the same as buying orwards, instead europe opted for a market, we have a daily price, these huge problems.
he is quite .
thank you very much for joining us.
do let us know your ghts, how you are feeling about cost of your energy bills.
you get in touch me directly on ran get in touch with me directly on twitter.
he institute for fiscal studies council tax in england may have rise by as much as 5% a year for he next years to keep the next three years to keep services running and you pay for orms social care.
the reforms to social rare.
the government says it has allocated than £12 billion directly to uncils since the start of the emic and is taking historic action to fix the social care is.
ajudge in the has given permission for prince andrew’ legal team to get access to a confidential settlement agreement which they believe will negate a civil claim being pursued against him.
the claim was based on allegations of sexual assault made by virginia giuffre.
prince andrew has always denied those allegations.
our correspondent nada tawfik is in new york with the latest.
now with the judge’ sign—off, prince andrew’ legal team will very soon get their hands on this confidential document that they believe will end the civil lawsuit against him.
in a previous court hearing, the prince’ lawyer said that a settlement agreement reached between virginia giuffre and the sex offenderjeffrey epstein essentially absolved anyone associated with epstein from any and all potential liability.
now, virginia giuffre and her legal team, and epstein’ estate, have all consented to handing over that document and now they have thejudge’ sign—off to do that.
but her lawyer david boies has said that he believes this settlement is irrelevant to prince andrew’ case.
he says that essentially they have the right to review it and to make whatever arguments they want based on it, but he doesn’ believe that their characterisation is accurate.
there will be arguments in this case, another hearing, early next month.
the biden administration has welcomed a judge’ decision to block a near total ban on abortion in the state of texas.
the white house described it as an important step towards restoring constitutional rights for texan women.
the court issued a temporary injunction to suspend the controversial law which prohibits abortions after the sixth week of pregnancy.
thejudge described it as "an offensive deprivation of an important right.
" the state authorities have lodged an appeal.
supreme court agreed to let the restrictions stand, resulting in protests right around the united states.
at dawn today, wreaths were aid at the bastion memorial in staffordshire and at the iraq and afghanistan memorial in central london.
a57 british personnel were killed during the conflict.
troops left afghanistan at the end of august, bringing an end to the two decade war.
jonathan beale has been speaking to some of the troops involved in the ict.
a57 british military personnel lost their lives in afghanistan.
one of them was claire and brian hill’ only son, james.
it never leaves us.
we don’ have a son anymore, we don’ have any other children.
there is an emptiness, there’ a hole that nothing can fill.
remembrance day for most people is november the 11th, but, for the likes of us, remembrance day is every day.
it’ nearly 12 years to the day that james hill was killed by an improvised explosive device in helmand.
he was just 23 and about to get married.
his parents are proud of his service and his sacrifice, though the recent return of afghanistan to taliban control has been hard for them to bear.
if we were to say now, yes, james’ life was wasted, then that would hurt us all over again, because we have to believe that what he did made a difference and what they all did, and that they gave so much, notjust the ones who died, but the ones who carry on with injuries.
one hand says, what the heck did we go there for?
the other hand says, we’ve stopped any terrorist atrocities on our streets.
and, as claire said, another 9/11.
so it’ it’ very, very difficult.
and when you balance that, do you think the sacrifice that you’ve made of your only son has been worth it?
no.
nothing is worth it.
that’ not worth anything.
i am moving with a piece of equipment over a patch of ground that had been walked on by 30 or a0 people already and then, massive explosion.
and i had stepped on a pressure plate , it functioned and, thankfully, it was only me that got hurt but it was quite severe, it took both legs above the knee.
luke sinnott is one of more than 300 british troops who lost limbs in afghanistan.
but he has battled through his severe injuries with the help of sport.
he was due to take part in the tokyo paralympics this summer, but, because of an injury, he had to stay home and witness the collapse of the country in which he once fought.
and the desperate scenes of those trying to leave.
getting injured, not going to tokyo and then the afghanistan withdrawal, you know, it’ been a mentally rough period for the summer.
from my point of view, we were on the ground, we were moving ieds and giving people some safety, some remnants of safety in the country and kids the ability to go to school, so i will never regret that, i can hold my head high on what we did out there.
if i could make a deal tomorrow and get my legs back, i would.
my view of afghanistan is a very clear one to me and that is the intent of what we were trying to do was always right.
the concept was flawed.
too little, too late and we quit way too soon.
and that is the great tragedy of afghanistan.
stuart tootal led the first british troops into helmand in 2006.
he commanded the 3rd battalion, the parachute regiment, who suffered the first serious casualties of the war, with dozens injured and 15 killed.
what was then supposed to have been a simple peace support operation turned into a bloody counterinsurgency conflict.
if you wanted to pick the positives out, you can turn round and say, well, we gave the afghans 20 years of an opportunity of how life might be different.
that’ true.
the trouble is, that opportunity never realised itself fully because the taliban are now back in control, but i don’ think we can be very proud of the outcome.
we can be proud of what we tried to do as soldiers, but in terms of those responsible for the strategic decisions, i don’ think there’ a great deal to crow about in terms of there being a particular there is no victory here.
you know, we did not win that conflict.
there was little fanfare when the last british troops left afghanistan earlier this year.
this, the low—key ceremony in kabul before the chaotic exit.
wars without victory are often forgotten, but the hopes of all those who served there and who lost loved ones is that their sacrifice will never be forgotten.
jonathan beale, news.
energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next year because ther big rise in wholesale prices.
rince andrew is given access to a led document which his lawyers ieve could help to end the sexual use case brought against him by rginia uffre.
virginia giuffre.
a federal judge in the united states spended a law in texas that ans almost all abortions.
1 now back to the energy prices.
kwasi kwarteng has sought to reassure omers that they will not run out of gas and supplies this inter.
record wholesale energy ces have led to some supply struggling, nine collapsing last month alone.
speaking at an industry conference, kwasi warteng warned that more suppliers exit the market, but he could exit the market, but he insisted talks were continuing to ise disruption.
let’ go to abour’ shadow business secretary, liband.
what would you do right now if you in charge?
the first hing i would do, because families eling the terrible strain as they see the rising energy prices he prospect of a further rise, is cancelled the cut in universal it, because that is going to ake £1000 of millions of families country plunge people in our country and plunge peopla into deeper and deeper fuel poverty, beggars belief to me in the context of rising energy prices, prices generally, tax rises come in with national insurance, that the government is hing ahead with this cut.
sorry ploughing ahead with this cut.
sorry to intermpt.
you would let the ergy situation continue and focus iversal credit?
the first thing would do is tackle the cost of living crisis.
second thing, re we in this position?
because we not built a resilient energy ystem.
we allowed gas storage to , we haven’ moved fast enough renewables, nuclear, and on ficiency.
if we were rulli moving on energy efficiency, lating homes, we could cut gas mand, cut bills and so the answer to move on all of those fronts.
and while eople are facing those increased
and we look ahead to april potentially energy bills could to £1660, do you agree with sort of level?
we have to keep rap as low possible.
as some your viewers emember, i proposed rap some years ago, i think it good that we ave a cap in place, it is viously going up.
the answer then is how can we do all we to help mentioned universal credit.
we should look at some of the discounts abla, the warm homes, which the available, the warm homes, which the government could definitely do more we should look at whether the businesses need help, but as see energy bills rising by peopla see energy bills rising by £100, they are going to be facing double whammy, many people, of this iversal credit cat, which is nother 00 taken out of their pockets, and that is a situation is going to be unbearable for any families.
that is i come to this point, universal credit the only answer, but the ime minister gave a speech esterday and he did not mention the of living crisis and he did not ntion this decision they are king.
and the government has been that the that cut is not oing to happen.
we are not giving this.
there is a budget in three weeks’ time.
the fact is, if want a operly targeted you want a property targeted solution, this is the best targeted ion, that you have also got a look at what you can do in relation nergy bills some of the to energy bills and some of the discounts available to poorer eholds, but targeting people through social system is the answer, as well as getting on energy efficiency.
if we tually did proper energy fficiency, you could cut people’ by around 25%, independent estimates say, and the fact we have on energy efficiency, the overnment has cut the programmes were designed to help people, another reason families are cing problems.
this is definitely isis a crisis made in downing street.
i spoke a short while ago to someone runs a een energy company and who a green energy company and his view is that they either it to be a cap on wholesale needs to be a rap on wholesale prices, and it does not make sense a rap on he retail prices.
to have a rap on the retail prices.
in other words, he thinks that cap uld just go .
he points out should just go away.
he points out that households spend five times on food than on energy and ere is no price cap on food.
what you say to ?
the difference is this, the food market has some lams, but and large it seems problems, but by and large it seems a competitive market.
the energy et, the reason i argued for he price rap ome years ago, and he government eventually agreed, is a market that has not been rking for families.
the situation was in place was that we saw generators and suppliers king huge profits and not actually ponding to falls in wholesale prices by ssing them on to ustomers, so that is the cap ventually, by government, after years of me trying to persuade em, brought in, and that is it to be kept in place.
goodness where we would be if the cap as not in ace.
on that point about competition, if more energy iers go out of business, the suppliers go out of business, the competition will be even more uced.
do you think those companies should be protected from out of business in the going out of business in the interest of competition?
i think it dangerous to say that if a ompany ran’ ind its way forward, hat you prop up a failing company ause they may be all sorts of easons the company is failing.
ree there is a problem about he concentration in the market and are different mechanisms of the government can look at.
alled supplier of last resort also aving an administration nction, where you keep a holding - ".
‘rf function, where you keep a holding company, if you like, and all of options have got to be on the able.
what we can’ do is end up sidising the gest energy companies or concentrate their ket share.
all those options have to be on the table but the biggest answer is to go further and on the crucial zero carbon renewables and nuclear, the whole nda at government has failed agenda at the government has failed on.
thank you for ining us, miliband.
ore companies are expected to be oved from the government’ dallist later today.
let’ talk to esperson for the body that epresents 90% of package tours sold the and 80% of travel agents.
in the and 8096 of travel agents.
the red ist is expected to go down round 12 countries.
what ifference will that make?
it is to make a massive difference.
ere will be a lot of destinations people who have not seen friends mily for a long time.
we wait ith bated breath to see who is off that red list, and it uld be latin america, large parts africa, and it has caused inancial difficulties for eloping countries, which rely on rism from the .
it is nteresting times we are living in is looking positive to see countries coming off that list.
we are part of an organisation lving a lot of trade bodies and understand we are still in a demic, there is a need for a red st, but we believe it should be eserved for destinations where vid concerns are in existence cause at the moment the list is long.
you mentioned the impact the lack of tourism on countries have been constrained.
what out the shape of the travel ustry right now?
how are things ooking?
they are getting better but been through almost two ears of severely restricted iness.
at one stage, it was illegal to take a foreign holiday hat has not been the case since the beginning ly, but bookings are still bstantially down.
things the reduction of the red list be very helpful, especially for ialist tour operators.
one of my friends who represents the latin ican trade association, they are sperate to have people travel to areas once more.
another thing is very important, thinking of milies, they have said to us eatedly, one of the things that tops them taking holidays is the of test for themselves and eir children.
we saw a great vement on the ath of october where don’ have to redeparture you don’ have to do a predeparture test, and that is really helpful, still have to do a very expensive test on day two of rning to the .
grant shapps aid
he will be looking at reducing saying you only have to take the cheaper lateral ﬂow test.
we need an announcement on that soon use we are not too far away from half turn
and i know a lot of ents will be keener on going away they feel the cost will be nsiderably lower.
what is the vel of ookings in the run—up to he holiday?
would you rate onfidence currently?
it varies from talk to.
some members say hey are doing really well, that business is really low.
we are king about a fraction of what we in a normal year.
i have come back greece and it was an azing experience because one of advantages of travelling is a zarre town, so you are not seeing crowds, and the weather is still good.
so if you have not been able to take a holiday, and i think of families were priced out of aking a holiday, we saw the cost of tic breaks went through the oof, so particularly for half term, many milies, this might be heir last opportunity to get a good break this year, so let’ see some movement from the government saying, yes, you don’ need all your children to take a test get back.
i am not sure when you get back.
i am not sure what time we will get the ouncement or whether we will get he news about the day two test, but as there is any news, we as soon as there is any news, we will bring it to you.
now it is time look at the weather.
going to be a bit warmer over the next few days.
today got quite a bit of cloud we have got quite a bit of cloud around but it is breaking in places.
ather fronts producing in the weather fronts producing rain in scotland and northern ireland, mpanied by some brisk winds.
emperatures between 16 and 21 rees.
as we head through the ening and overnight, we continue this rain across northern reland and scotland.
that will into north—west england and rth—west wales, but they will be ear ies in northern scotland and outhern england.
this is where we see some fog develop.
but it is going to be a cold night.
omorrow we start off with that fog central and southern england.
will lift into low cloud and we ould see some more sunshine today.
we still have the weather front cross northern ireland and scotland ucing brisk winds and some rain times and still warm.
hello, this is news.
lam iamjoanna gosling.
here are the headlights energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next year because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
more countries are to be removed from the red list today.
which ires ravellers to stay in a requires travellers to stay in a quarantine hotel when they get back .
prince andrew is given access to a sealed document which his lawyers believe could help to end the sexual abuse case brought against him by virginia giuffre.
a federaljudge in the united states has suspended a law in texas that bans almost all abortions.
1.
1 20 years on from the start of the military operations in afghanistan, morations are held to remember commemorations are held to remember the 4.
57 ritish personnel who died he conflict.
our british woman joined the amic tate group with her young children says ticians should open their minds to allow people to return to the ted ngdom.
sport and for a full round up, from the sport center, here’ jane dougall.
good morning.
amnesty international has urged the premier league is to change its and directors test to address uman rights issues.
a consortium providing most of the money for the £300 million deal be in control of newcastle not would be in control of nemsﬂa not the would be in control of newcastle not the saudi state.
they have urged the state not to as for the fans, they’re just happy to see the deal edging closer to completion.
football don’ get a choice in who buys their football club.
’
have a say, it has dragged on 18 months.
fans are really, really excited about the prospect of a football club to believe in having a football club to believe in again.
newcastle fans are delighted at disastrous 1a year reign of that the disastrous 14 year reign of the previous owner is nearly over.
majority of fan base are the majority of our fan base are happy at this.
there is more on that oping story on the sport developing story on the sport website.
the chief executive of the professional footballers association, maheta molango says all footballers have been given education and guidance on the importance of getting the coronavirus vaccine.
it follows reports that a low percentage of players have had the jab, but molango insists most of those involved understand the benefits of getting the vaccine.
i think the message is very clear.
the message is that we are ortive of the vaccination supportive of the vaccination roll—out.
we understand that we all get ack to some sort of want to get back to some sort of normality.
we understand that this right way forward.
we also elieve that taking the vaccine or is a personal choice.
we need to sure that the players are able make an educated decision based cience.
the national woman’ ball league resumed last night.
it the first time matches have been played since the dismissal of the head coach, of carolina courage, paul riley, amid allegations of sexual misconduct.
they linked arms together.
he denies allegations.
england all—rounder ben stokes is unlikely to play in the ashes against australia this winter, after a second operation on his injured left index finger stokes took an indefinite break from cricket injuly, to protect his mental health and rest his finger which he first injured in april.
this second operation was to remove two screws and scar tissue.
the ashes are due to begin in december, with the expected to make an announcent on whether the tour go ahead tomorrow.
the build up to the big fight in las vegas on saturday has got angry.
the heavyweight champion tyson fury against the american deontay wilder.
the pairfaced off ahead of saturday’ bout, in what will be the third fight between the two, with the first a draw and fury winning the second.
wilder has suggested that fury cheated his way to victory, in that last fight, something that has angered the defending champion.
i don’ want to hurt deontay wilder, i just want to beat him in a fight knows what he’ saying is es.
in deep down in his soul he that he lost and he will lose ain and he lost the first time and second time and he’ going to the third time.
guess what you be back working in that fast ood chain you were working rtier ier in career.
now andy murray is in a spot of bother this morning.
out in indian wells, in california, where he is competing.
andy murray’ ring was tied to his tennis shoes which were left under his car to air and they then went missing he’ taken to social media to explain his predicament and ask for help.
my physio said to me where is your wedding ring?
and i was like
oh, i basically tied my wedding ring to my tennis shoes when i’ ing because i can’ play with it on my hand.
yeah, my wedding ring een stolen as well.
needless to say, i’ in the bad books at home.
ant to and find it.
if et, if anyone could share this or ay have any clue as to where it be, it would be very helpful.
50 i ran and get it and get i ran and get it back and get to the bottom of it.
it would be much eciated, thank you.
owe, to be a on the wall when he xplained that to his wife.
that for now.
more on the sport site.
i’ll be back later.
now, in just over three months time the eyes of the world will be on glasgow — as the cop26 climate change conference gets underway.
it’ll be the biggest global summit the has ever hosted.
but how are we doing in our own back yard in tackling climate change?
our reality check correspondent chris morris is here with more details.
as the host of the glasgow summit, the wants to set an example to the rest of the world.
it does have some pretty ambitious targets, but setting targets, and actually changing policy to achieve them, are two different things.
so, how’ the government doing?
let’ take the overall target first of sharply reducing emissions of the greenhouse gases that are warming the planet up.
there’ a legal requirement to get to net zero emissions by the middle of the century, which means the country taking out as much greenhouse gas from the atmosphere as it’ putting in.
and the government has promised a 68% reduction in emissions compared to 1990 levels by 2030, and a 78% reduction by 2035.
there’ a good start to build on — total emissions have already fallen 45% by 2019.
but most of that reduction was achieved by removing coal — the most polluting fossil fuel — from energy systems.
and that was the easy hit.
further reductions are going to have a much more direct impact on all of us.
the independent climate change committee says it needs to deliver publish detailed strategies more and publish detailad strategies to reduce emissions from heating dings, that is expected soon.
rom transport and for the oduction of food.
let’ look at cific pledges.
when it comes to eating our which counts for 14% of the greenhouse emissions, the nment has committed to government has committed to installing 600,000 heat pumps 3 year 28 to place place gas boilers.
heat by 2028 to replace gas boilers.
heat pumps transfer heat from the air, round or the water around the perty.
the climate change committee says the target should be ousands installations a year.
900 thousands installations a year.
the latest available figures say in 2019, only 35 thousands 5,000 were installed and only work if your home is properly insulated.
petrol diesel cars ill be phased out by 2030.
the sale of electric cars is growing fast.
up by 2.
595 to just ver one in ten new last year.
need to charge all those ars.
there are about 0 25,000.
we need ten times ore.
planting trees are very rtant because they help remove greenhouse gas from the atmosphere.
vernment has promised to plant 30,000 hectares of plants by 2025.
i hector is a bit bigger than a ball pitch.
we have not planted hat many since the 19805.
and most was in scotland.
in england lot more needs to be done.
about capturing storing carbon ecurely?
before it is released or ing it out of the air.
the government wants to capture or mac re 10 llion tonnes a year.
and the expert says we need double that.
chnology is so new that it not be scaled up enough in to make a big difference.
overall limate change committee is aying could do better.
in the update the committee said ttern has emerged of government ategies that are later than anned and they are shorter than required policy ambitions.
the ministers said that he hoped that all energy could be created by able sources by 2025.
but the challenge of putting the promises ractices.
in less than a fortnight, the government will run out of money, unless congress votes to raise the debt ceiling — the limit on how much it can borrow.
that would allow the treasury to increase its borrowing, and keep paying its debts.
but the republicans are at loggerheads with the democrats over how much money president biden can pump into his reconstruction plans — and the debt ceiling vote has become caught up in the row.
nomia iqbal reports.
politicians are once again in a showdown, and one which threatens to take america to the brink.
the country has less than two weeks to pay its debts.
government can borrow, and republican senators have refused to help.
our republican friends need to stop playing russian roulette the economy.
if they don’ want to do the job, just to get out of the way, we’ll take the heat, we’ll do it, we will do it, let us do it.
let the democrats vote to raise the debt limit without obstruction or any further delays president biden says this is about paying off existing obligations, rather than paying for new ones.
the longer this goes on, the higher risk of the government defaulting, impacting millions of americans.
if congress does not take action to raise the debt limit, treasury’ cash balance will reach an insufficient level to pay the nation’ bills, and america would default for the first time in history.
payments for so many things, including social security and other critical benefits, as well as military salaries, would stop.
fear it could also lead to the loss of six million jobs.
now mitch mcconnell has offered to support lifting the debt ceiling by a fixed amount.
however, only until december.
democrats are yet to accept, and if they do, it means the stand—off will happen again in a few months.
historically, both parties have always come together to resolve these in the end.
the government has never deliberately failed to make a payment, but if it does, america will face a moment it’ never experienced before.
nomia iqbal, news, washington.
it is time to say goodbye if you are watching us on two.
thank you our company, have a for your company, hope you have a good afternoon.
an update on our lines.
energy bills could headlines.
energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next ecause of another big rise in wholesale prices.
prince andrew has action to a sealed document given action to a sealad document which his lawyers believe could help the sexual abuse case brought to end the sexual abuse rase brought against him by rginia giuffre.
a federal in the united states has suspended a law in texas that almost all abortions.
householders are being warned that energy bills could increase.
the would add further cost to useholds following the increase in the energy price rap last week.
we ran speak to carol who lives in ke—on—trent and has seen her ergy bills tting more expensive.
ol, thank you for carol, thank you for joining us.
i think you are joining us from the food bank were you volunteer?
yes, i am.
it is good to have you with us.
us a bit more about your tell us a bit more about your situation about your energy bills.
around, you go online, you always compare things.
they are all uch similar prices.
you very much similar prices.
you used to be able to get deals, good deals fferent ones, but they are all he same now.
so i have stayed my provider.
i was paying £53 a i’ve gone on to a month now i’ve gone on to a variable tariff which is not good.
it is £73 th.
it is a £20 rise.
if i want to go on a fixed tariff, it is £10.
in the uation i am, there being in the situation i am, there is no way i ran do that.
it is just much.
are you managing to find the extra 20 a a month?
yes, you have got to.
i’ being what you have got to.
i’ being more sparing with how i’ using the ing and the water, if i wash my or a cup or something, i use water.
if you use the hot water, it kicks the boiler in.
i’ve ays said if had to walk always said if you had to walk around your house wearing a cardigan was something wrong and guess there was something wrong and guess what, i’ doing that.
i only put my ing on for half an hour in the orning and half an hour at ght.
the rest of the time i am taking the best way i can.
it sounds over the best way i ran.
it sounds like you’re pretty resourceful.
got to be.
like he said, i’ the food bank at the moment and been volunteering and i’ve been aking on -- i’ve been taken on in a paid capacity 15 hours a week which i’ really enjoying.
it gets me out of the house.
i’ not my heating.
it is good at moment.
in my right in thinking you universal credit and impacted by the cut in that?
oh, yes, sively, massively.
basically it down to i was down about £22 a for food a week.
i am lucky.
got a really good network of mily and friends around me.
they not see me go hungry or cold.
it’ the people that you see ming to food bank and hearing hat they are going through and they oing through really bad and hard es.
mothers going to bed ungry because they fed the children themselves.
because they are ried about the heating, they are ing coats and blankets.
how are opla going survive like this?
can they afford this?
do you any ughts on what you have any thoughts on what you would like the government to do?
the main they could do to help is to this uplift in overwinter.
that would help a lot of families just over the cold time.
it is just -- it’ not just food and gs, it is ashing and drying clothes.
how are you going to be to do that?
people used to put diator on in the winter to drive se, but with the price of fuel will not be able to do that.
£20 uplift would help massively of people just over the a lot of peopla just over the winter.
you talked about the people to the food bank.
you coming to use the food bank.
you also talked about how much money you week to spend on food and have a week to spend on food and toiletries and everything else, ’ £22.
have you been in a that’ £22.
have you been in a position where you have had to use ood bank?
how do you feel bout that?
i have not been in that tion because i’ve got a position because i’ve got a good network of family and friends around will not let me go hungry me.
they will not let me go hungry or cold, but if i did not have that ort, i would to use a food support, i would have to use a food bank.
people at my age, which i am etirement age until next april, we are stuck between a rock and a place.
because some people do want ploy you because of not want to employ you because of your age and because you are so near irement.
it is very difficult that respect.
you want to go to and earn money.
i’ve got this and it’ going to ease my tuation nicely.
not completely, will be better for me.
what eopla do in people do in these positions i really feel for them.
christmas is up, how do you feel about hat?
yes, that’ if you cannot to warm your house and feed our children how can you buy christmas presents?
i’ve got 1a grandchildren and four at—grandchildren.
they are going disappointed from nana at this ristmas because i don’ have the to do what i normally do.
hopefully a big fat hug which was ossible last christmas.
yes, not possibla last christmas.
yes, that will have to do.
it was good to to you, carol.
thank you for oining us.
do get in touch on tter if you want to share your experiences and your thoughts at joanna .
a british woman who joined the islamic state group with her children says the government should "deal with the issue" of allowing them to return.
nicole jack left the in 2015 and is being held with her three daughters in syria, in a camp for wives and children of fighters.
her husband was killed in fighting in 2016.
the home office said its priority is to ensure the ’ safety and security.
poonam taneja reports.
this is no place for children to live.
but thousands do.
it’ home for the surviving children of islamic state group’ fallen caliphate.
shall i fix your slipper?
amongst them are three british sisters.
they are seven, nine and 12, and they live here with their mum, nicole jack.
you, as their mother, decided to take your children to islamic state group territory to live under their regime, it was brutal, there were beheadings, murders, massacres.
did you do that?
how would you explain that to anyone?
i don’ think even if i explain it, everyone would understand, but from my point of view where i stand, firstly, it was about my family being together, do you understand?
honestly, secondly, what may have happened, we have never been witness to it, my children and i, honestly.
you know, i haven’ seen a beheading in my life.
but her children have suffered trauma and loss.
their father was killed fighting for .
and their ten—year—old brother isaac died in an air strike in front of them.
i really miss my family, i miss my granny, my aunties.
i miss my grandmother, my other grandmother.
i miss them so much.
as with so many children in the camp, it’ not clear how they will get out.
the is reluctant to allow the wives of islamic state group’ foreign fighters to return to britain.
they’re viewed as a threat to national security.
however, they are willing to repatriate british orphans and unaccompanied children.
can you ever see an option where you would send your children to britain to safety on their own without you?
for us as a family, we cope together.
i know for sure if my kids were separated from me, they will not be in a stable situation, because we are a unit.
and so her daughters remain prisoners here.
a makeshift school offers a few hours of escape.
i think it is really fun learning to make different things.
i like learning, like different languages, and like when you learn more things, your brain feels better.
i want to be smart when i grow up.
but there’ little hope of that as long as she’ in this camp, separated from her family in the .
she records this message for her grandmother.
love you guys, hope you guys are fine.
me and my sisters and brother are fine.
love you guys, miss you guys.
hopefully come back soon to see you guys.
i would love to spend time with you when we come back.
it is difficult to watch for their grandmother, charlene jack henry, thousands of miles away in london.
she wants her grandchildren back home with their mother, her daughter.
let her come and face the consequences.
but it is not fair and it is not right for these children to be languishing in this place.
enough is enough.
they have already served a six—year sentence, without even having the benefit of being taken to court and tried by your peers.
the british government wouldn’ comment on nicole jack’ case.
they say those remaining in syria include dangerous individuals and not to make securityjudgments based on gender and age.
but charlene says while her daughter should face justice, her grandchildren are innocent.
poonam taneja, news.
james bond actor daniel craig has been honoured with a star on the hollywood walk of fame.
it was unveiled just yards away from his bond predecessor, sir roger moore.
speaking at the event, daniel craig said he was very happy to be surrounded by legends.
i never thought i’ hear myself saying this, but, you know, it’ an absolute honour to be walked all over in hollywood, so and if happiness was measured by the company we keep, then me being on this pavement, surrounded by all of these legends, makes me a very, very, very happy man.
so thank you very much.
that was daniel craig.
it is time now for a look at the weather.
hello again, as we go through the next few days, temperatures are to be higher than we would going to be higher than we would expect.
to give you an idea this average temperature.
through and tomorrow is while we are today and tomorrow is whila we are looking at a range of 18 to 21 ees.
what is happening is we’re pulling up this lder airfrom the opic right cross our shores.
spite the fact we have the weather draped across the parts of cotland and northern ireland, here they will have higher than average temperature.
as well as the here’ a lot of cloud but some that is breaking up
and we are skies.
the emphasis is on a oudy day tomorrow.
temperatures will be wildly 16 to 21 degrees.
as we head on through the evening and night, a weather front is still with us.
northern ireland and land still will have brisk scotland still will have brisk winds.
there will be some clearance further south.
allowing ome mist and fog patches to form.
ill not be cold that night.
the will be dense in parts of ntral southern england until it fts.
then it will break up and we see more sunshine than today.
still do have a weather front ped across parts of scotland and rthern ireland still producing .
temperatures again, tomorrow, 16 15 or 16 to 20 or 21 degrees.
as we move forward into the weekend, here weather front.
is slowly is our weather front.
it is slowly going to slip towards the south over ekend.
fresher conditions will low behind it.
you can see that epresented nicely here.
the represented quite nicely here.
the amber colour is a weather front, as hes away, we will return to the average temperatures.
but into part of next week will the earty part of next week will be seeing temperatures above average.
day the weather front will slip towards the south and rain might be .
than fresher conditions will come.
15 and 16 in the north and in outh 18 or 19.
that will the south 18 or 19.
that will continue as the weather front clears the course of sunday and during the course of sunday and fresher conditions will come.
there quite a bit of weather.
this is news.
the headlines at 12pm: energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next year because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
families, mothers going to bed hungry because they fed their dren rather than themselves cause they are worrying about ting the heating on, checking and blankets on the bed to them warm.
we are going back to dark ages.
more countries are to be removed from the government’ red list later today, which requires travellers to stay in a quarantine hotel when they get back to the .
prince andrew is given access to a sealed document which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought against him by virginia giuffre.
a federaljudge in the united states has suspended a law in texas that bans almost all abortions.
20 years on from the start of military operations in afghanistan, commemorations are held to remember the a57 british personnel who died in the conflict.
a british woman who joined the islamic state group with her young children says politicians should open their minds to allow them to return to the .
my physio said to me, "where is your wedding ring?
", and i was like, oh, no.
andy murray has lost his wedding ring and he asks fans to help him find it.
: we will have plenty more on our top story this lunchtime, that rise in ices.
we will be talking to which magazine shortly to find out ran can do to keep energy bills low.
the usiness secretary kwasi rteng has ruled out energy pliers struggling to survive suppliers are to survive as the cost of wholesale gas source.
ompanies collapsed last month alone.
we will talk more about that ttle while.
before we talk more about energy prices, we are to go to the launch of the commonwealth games baton relay.
it is going to cover 90,000 miles oss he globe before next year’ event in birmingham.
it is basically to be met by the queen at going to be met by the queen at buckingham palace.
she will put her ssage in the baton before own message in the baton before paralympic gold medallist kadeena rries it on the first leg of cox carries it on the first lag of its journey.
there are 7500 bearers take the baton on its who will take the baton on its 90,000 mile journey to all 72 ons of the commonwealth.
let’ to buckingham palace.
eeting, guests, being introduced.
while we are looking at these ctures, lam oined by royal pictures, i am joined by our royal correspondent, sarah campbell, and laura cott, who is our also by laura scott, who is our sports correspondent.
when we think commonwealth, we think of the ueen, don’ we?
we absolutely do of the queen.
just watching hose ctures, we ust have those pictures, we just have to remember what an unusual sight of has been over the last 18 months.
this is the first time that seen the queen on the orecourt of buckingham palace with and is playing in the ackground because of the pandemic.
as spent much of the last 18 onths at windsor castle, much of months at windsor qsﬂa, much of the last months at windsor castle, much of the last few months at balmoral in land, so it feels like, again, a little bit of a step back to mality with the queen at uckingham palace, and celebrating thing that has always been so close to her heart, and that is the onwealth.
the chairman of the organising committee for the birmingham 2022 nwealth games, john crabtree .
well, we are going to stay on these pictures as of this ceremony starts.
scott, an you explain the significance of commonwealth mes?
how does it stand next to other major sporting tournaments?
i think it really depends what sport , because for sports like netball and squash, it is the ada for netball and squash, it is the pinnacle for them in terms of the sporting calendar.
of course global sporting alandar.
of course for other sports like athletics and mming, haps it doesn’ hold swimming, perhaps it doesn’ hold that status, but we have heard from tes that they are really keen athletes that they are really keen to be part of birmingham 2022.
dean smith, adam peaty, all backing asher smith, adam peaty, all hacking these games and saying they want to art.
what we are seeing now is dame ouise martin with crabtree, chair of the irmingham 2022 organising mittee.
they are there with the aton and the message from the queen ing put into the baton.
and hat is the message that will be closed next summer, in , in july, in birmingham, will be read out ither by her majesty or by one of representatives.
and that will the official opening of the 22 commonwealth games.
and it is saying that this baton, over next few months, is going to go mething like 90,000 miles, carried round 00 people, and it really by around 7500 peopla, and it really takes the queen’ image around the nwealth.
all the nations respect the queen and they will feel a small part of her as it makes its long journey.
so with the baton is being handed over, ran see, by her majesty the queen.
as you can see, by her majesty the queen.
prince edward listening in.
at is the first baton bearer, kadeena cox.
this is a really ificant moment in the baton’ journey, and deena cox exemplifies range of sports on show today.
has reached the top in both rding she has reached the top in both cycling and athletics, a multiple lympic ampion.
she did so well paralympic champion.
she did so well at tokyo and also in rio.
in rio, ecame the first black cyclist to win an olympic or paralympic for reat ritain, she as medal for great britain, and she was the first paralympian in 50 years to ross to sports at an win a cross to sports at an individual games.
she really wants pire black cyclists to take up he sport and it is a really gnificant moment.
she has been osen as the first baton bearer.
recently visited the redeveloped xandra stadium in birmingham.
she she can’ wait to be there next ummer in front of home fans.
for of the athletes, it will mark he first time since the pandemic they will have been competing full stadiums.
that is the hope organisers, that by next ummer they will be able to have crowds in attendance.
but you ill see from the selection of the on bearers today, all of the home tions of the are represented, cause at the commonwealth games, don’ compete under the great ritain and northern ireland fry, compete for the home nations.
adeena cox will be representing england and will have athletes scotland, wales and northern reland later in the baton relay.
it dearty is a honour or adeena cox, you ran see clearly is a huge honour for kadeena cox, you can see the broad smile on face as becomes the first her face as she becomes the first baton bearer, stopping for ographs, and there are members the public lining the streets, as see.
week should explain that is going to a lap with the baton, isn’ she?
exactly, before sses over the baton to declan she passes over the baton to dedan james, a a squash player, who will take to lauren price, who then take it to lauren price, who many will have seen women boxing in tokyo.
in her role as the gold in tokyo.
in her rola as the first baton bearer, she gets to do a lap around and waving to the rowd.
and the queen, as you say, a honour for , to take he huge honour for her, to take the baton from the queen and to be this rehead for these games.
we see coming around.
this will be the exchange on its route.
but it interesting, this game is, there things that birmingham 2022 re really proud of.
one is that re are more medal events for than there are four men, and at is the first global multisport ent to have that, and also this is biggest para— sport programme commonwealth games, and that is fully integrated.
she passes it lan james.
hat was quite a to dedan james.
that was quite a aisurely trot.
she did not feel the to put hateful athletic ability isplay there.
she can go a lot faster an that.
— her ull athletic bility.
she has passed the onto?
to declan mes, a baton onto?
to dedanjames, a professional squash player, from ngham.
and lauren price, who won wales’ first boxing gold at 020.
we can see them bearing the baton irectly behind us.
and i heard lauren price earlier, she said as ever taken part in she has never taken part in something like this before.
i think really get the athletes who taking part today really excited next summer’ games.
for many them, for lauren, this will have out tokyo, and now their been about tokyo, and now their attention turns to birmingham and hey might be able to achieve here.
both she and declan have been the mmonwealth games before.
and dearty at the commonwealth games before.
and clearly they will take the rtunity to perform in front of a audience.
they will have been hing them, lauren this summer, kadeena cox this summer, and i’ will want to watch them take part in the games.
and a word or two selection of sporting events the commonwealth games because varies, doesn’ it?
birmingham have the biggest sporting rogramme ever.
they have got the 16 sports for the commonwealth, birmingham have chosen three a sports which they hope will eal to a young, diverse audience.
en’ 20 cricket, beach women’ 120 cricket, beach and para table tennis.
re sports that birmingham have chosen specifically for their amme, which i think shows you much they want to appeal to this nger audience, which perhaps at commonwealth games has struggled in the past.
with in the past.
50 that is the start of the baton ay at buckingham palace.
we will atch up with the queen’ baton ay, travelling 90,000 miles around commonwealth before riving in birmingham next year.
householders are being warned their energy bills could rise by another £400 early next year after gas prices soared to record levels.
the rise would add further cost to households following the increase in the energy price cap last week.
the business secretary, kwasi kwarteng, will face industry bosses later today as the sector deals with an unprecedented spike in wholesale costs.
kevin peachey reports.
just like the season’ weather, bill payers are being warned the worst is yet to come.
a host of energy companies have collapsed in recent weeks.
their customers moved to a new supplier are already having to pay hundreds of pounds more a year than they expected.
the price cap does protect millions of people from extreme rises in bills, but say, next year, they will still face a bill shock.
while there is the potential for some of these price increases under the price cap, a customer now pays £1277 a year if they use an average amount of gas and electricity.
expect that typical bill to rise to £1600 when a revised but as yet undecided cap starts in april.
compare that with a year ago, when you could have got a deal costing just over £850 a year.
we are competing with the rest of the world, the rest of europe for gas supplies.
unfortunately, it is the reality.
price comparison sites, which historically talk about how much we can save you by switching.
the reality is that is not there at the moment, and very few people for the whole of this year, really, have been in a position where they would be able to save, compared to last year.
steel producers confirmed they halted production at times of high demand, showing that industry, as well as consumers, is feeling the impact of rising costs.
some of the heat was drawn from the crisis yesterday when russia said it would increase gas supplies to europe, helping to limit the latest surge in wholesale gas prices.
but it hasn’ ended calls for the government to step in.
the business secretary will be expected to address concerns of the energy sector today.
but then also the worries of businesses and consumers in the weeks to come.
: we can talk now to adam french from the consumer rights organisation .
how much power do consumers have right now to to decide what pay and who they are with?
ortunately, very little.
it is a eally difficult situation, ecially combined with the cost of iving crisis we seem to be lurching at the moment.
it is going to be a tough time, really, when it to energy bills in terms of ctually saving some money on those are on what is called a if you are on what is rallad a variable tariff, a rolling act with your energy provider, is likely to be as cheap as you an get as hings stand, which is up the price rap.
terms of trying find a better deal, as things nd, that isn’ an option for the majority of it does not mean you have to take the hit, you double—check you are on the best deal you ssibly can be with our energy vider and there are some practical steps you can take to your ergy use and there are limit your energy use and there are some benefits available, there are inancial support is available, a, that ran help through what will pretty tricky winter.
i spoke one lovely woman earlier, who was lling us that if ere on a telling us that if she were on a fixed-price deal, the cost would be calendar month at the moment, £104 a calendar month at the moment, but she is currently paying £72 a , it has gone up from £53 a month, it has gone up from £55 a month, so she is better off not on that fixed—price deal, and he is really igating her use to keep that bill down.
is that advice would pass on?
definitely.
that you would pass on?
definitely.
if you are on the variable tariff, is the one where the price cap that is the one where the price rap appﬁes and that is what will keep energy bills low through this nter.
it is completely the osite to what we would usually be dvising people.
usually, the iable tariff is the most you can pay for energy the fixed tariffs re cheaper.
this has really turned on its head and it means you re better off in a lot of cases on variable tariff.
do sit tight or the time being, continue to pay and take steps to mitigate your use.
do things like using the ual modes on your white goods, down your thermostat a single egree.
sit tight.
unfortunately, rice cap is likely to go up in pril and go up siderably.
while a you ran sit on hat variable rate ough the winter, when you use the energy anyway, when april comes und, we are expecting those bills up again and it may be fixing to a fixed term to otect yourself against hat price increase, but with the edictability of gas prices at the moment, it is really hard to so you are probably best off at tight with your energy supplier up this winter as affordably as possible.
adam french, thank you uch for oining us.
we will very much for joining us.
we will have more on that in just a few nts, but we are going to go to port.
any news yet about newcastle?
ince we last spoke.
the premier eague still have to approve this in the last hour, amnesty international has urged the premier to change its owners and league to change its owners and directors test to address human issue, that’ around the audi arabian back takeover of castle.
a consortium providing most of any for the £300 most of the many for the £300 million deal would be in control of la, tle, not the saudi state.
newcastle, not the saudi state.
however, amnesty international has the premier league not to urged the premier league not to allow those involved in human rights tions to walk into football just because they have deep pockets.
ans are just happy the deal is many fans are just happy the deal is getting close to completion.
ball fans don’ get a choice in buys their football club, ave no say.
has dragged on for months.
newcastle fans are just 18 months.
nemsﬂa fans are just excited 18 months.
newcastle fans are just excited at the prospect of having a all club to believe again.
football club to believe again.
newcastle fans are delighted that sastrous 1a year reign of mike ashley is over, so the ashlay is hearty over, so the majority of our fan base has reacted verwhelming positivity.
meanwhile, the chief executive of ofessional footballers’ ssociation all footballers ave been given education and dance on the importance of getting the corona virus vaccine.
it follows reports that a low centage of players have had the ab, but she insists most of those olved to understand the benefits getting the vaccine.
hink the message is very clear the message is that the rganisation is supportive and erstands the vaccination —out.
we want to get back to me sort normality
and this is right way forward.
obviously, the vaccine or not is a taking the vaccine or not is a personal choice and therefore what erstand is, we need to make sure that the players are able to an educated decision based on ience.
science.
the national women’ soccer league last night in the united ates after matches were suspended owing the dismissal of the head coach of carolina courage amid gations of sexual misconduct.
layers are stopped on the field in sixth minute of the game and nked arms in a circle to emonstrate solidarity with two mer players.
they both came rward with allegations of sexual rassment and misconduct.
he was last thursday but he denies he allegations.
ricket, and england all—rounder stokes is likely to play in the hes in australia this winter after ing a second operation on his jured left index finger.
he took ndefinite break cricket in an indefinite break from cricket in july to protect his mental health est his finger, which he irst injured back in april.
this ond operation was to remove two rews and some scar tissue.
the hes are scheduled to begin in cember with the expected to an announcement on whether the will go ahead or not tomorrow.
on that story involving nemsﬂa united on the - sport newcastle united on the — sport website.
business secretary kwasi rteng has ruled out tailing out ppliers are struggling to survive.
nine collapsed last month .
the higher cost will be passed households, which could see ricity and gas bills rise by undreds of pounds next year.
prices shops could go up because it now more expensive to produce .
let’ get more for our olitical correspondent.
so many ues conﬂating here.
what is the atest inking from the government?
seems they are digging in their ls.
lots of calls from industry, position parties to do more act, but the business secretary ing it clear this morning that he uld not be stepping in to bail out iled ompanies, as he called them.
is one failed companies, as he railed them.
that is one thing.
we are also ing from government insiders at a fundamental change is needed.
this highlights is that we are reliant on gas suppliers from rseas, we need to be producing re energy ourselves in the , so asi kwarteng reiterating what is ohnson said at the borisjohnson said at the conservative party conference erday, that the government would investing more in renewable ergy and in nuclear power.
the iness secretary said that by the of this parliament, the rnment would want to invest in more nuclear power station ewhere else in the country to deal with this wider issue.
i suppose what we are getting here is lar message from what we had from the prime minister yesterday in of the labour shortages in the terms of the labour shortages in the country.
there are no quick fixes.
fundamental change in our economy.
that was the message from ime minister yesterday.
there re those who think the upbeat tone is speech yesterday was a bit aid, and what we are here ay from ministers might not chime that well with families having bsorb these increasing bills for energy, there are problems ith the removal of the uplift niversal credit, 6 million families ted by that, so a lot of people potentially facing a tough winter, yond that we have got tax rises coming in the spring, national ance rises, and a warning from he institute for fiscal studies council tax looks set to go up around 596 in april, according to eir calculations.
the budget is three away, is there likely to be anything in it?
i spoke to miliband earlier, the shadow ness secretary, and he said labour not going to stop pushing that 20 uplift to universal redit to come back, even though it cut yesterday.
we will wait and what rishi sunak says.
this is a ernment that has shown itself repared to —turn when necessary, there a huge backlash from people to this, never say never, but ssage from boris hnson the message from doris johnson yesterday in terms of the economy is have got to deal with a that we have got to deal with a pretty tough situation now.
£2 lion is the level of national debt and that is they have had up national insurance to pay for their long—term plan for social the .
the message we rare and the .
the message we will get from the chancellor is not hand—outs, it will be more in to come.
need to take those necessary decisions to sort out the term tructural problems in the long-term problams in the economy.
what he may well do is unce xtra investment in announce extra investment in renewable energy and nuclear power ress those concerns about our overreliance on energy from overseas ultimately could have an which ultimately could have an impact on what we have seen in the four weeks or so with the surge wholesale gas prices causing der oblems in our economy.
at dawn today, wreaths were aid at the bastion memorial in staffordshire and at the iraq and afghanistan memorial in central london.
a57 british personnel were killed during the conflict.
troops left afghanistan at the end of august, bringing an end to the two decade war.
the institute for fiscal studies 5575 council tax in england may have rise by as much as 5% per year or the three years to pay for reforms to social care.
the vernment it has allocated government says it has allocated more than £12 billion directly to cils since the start of the ndemic and has taken historic tion to fix the social care sis.
crisis.
natwest has pleaded guilty at minster magistrates’ court to hree ounts of failing to prevent eged oney laundering with nearly allaged money laundering with nearty £400 million.
the bank is the first lender to admit such offences.
ajudge in the has given permission for prince andrew’ legal team to get access to a confidential settlement agreement which they believe will negate a civil claim being pursued against him.
the claim was based on allegations of sexual assault made by virginia giuffre.
prince andrew has always denied those allegations.
our correspondent nada tawfik is in new york with the latest.
now with the judge’ sign—off, prince andrew’ legal team will very soon get their hands on this confidential document that they believe will end the civil lawsuit against him.
in a previous court hearing, the prince’ lawyer said that a settlement agreement reached between virginia giuffre and the sex offenderjeffrey epstein essentially absolved anyone associated with epstein from any and all potential liability.
now, virginia giuffre and her legal team, and epstein’ estate, have all consented to handing over that document and now they have thejudge’ sign—off to do that.
but her lawyer david boies has said that he believes this settlement is irrelevant to prince andrew’ case.
he says that essentially they have the right to review it and to make whatever arguments they want based on it, but he doesn’ believe that their characterisation is accurate.
there will be arguments in this case, another hearing, early next month.
detectives are appealing for the pub“: bus might help to locate two ssing teenage girl is believed to at of harm.
15—year—old ndrea was last seen on friday, the october, in canterbury, kent, and isabella was seen on the 3rd of ber in harrow, west london.
for a look at the weather.
if you like your weather a bit warmer, that is going to be the case the few days.
today we over the next few days.
today we have got quite a bit of clout around is breaking in places, we but it is breaking in places, we have got some sunshine, but weather creating rain across northern ireland and scotland.
temperatures 16 and 21 degrees.
as we ead through the evening and rnight, we continue with this ain across parts of northern land and scotland.
that will into north—west england and rth—west wales, that clear skies loping in orthern scotland and southern england.
this is where we some folk develop.
that it is not going to be a cold night.
we start off with that fog across ral and southern england central and southern england tomorrow.
it will lift into low
and we should see more unshine than today.
but we still our weather front across northern ireland and scotland cing some brisk winds and some ain at times, and still warm.
hello, this is news with joanna gosling.
the headlines the government rules out rescuing nergy suppliers struggling to vive.
more countries are going to removed from the red list travel later.
it requires travellers stay in a traveller did uarantine hotel.
prince andrew is given access to a sealed document which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought against him by virginia giuffre.
a federaljudge in the united states has suspended a law in texas that bans almost all abortions.
20 years on from the start of military operations in afghanistan, commemorations are held to remember the a57 british personnel who died in the conflict.
a british woman who joined the islamic state group with her young children says politicians should "open their minds" to allowing them to return to the .
: we will stay with that british woman who joined the islamic state with hildren.
she said that the overnment should deal with the of allowing them to return.
icole jack the in 2015 and being held her three daughters in syria in a camp for children.
her husband was killed in fighting in 2016.
the home says its priority is to office says its priority is to ensure the ’ safety and security.
this report.
this is no place for children to live.
but thousands do.
it’ home for the surviving children of islamic state group’ fallen caliphate.
shall i fix your slipper?
amongst them are three british sisters.
they are seven, nine and 12, and they live here with their mum, nicole jack.
you, as their mother, decided to take your children to islamic state group territory to live under their regime, it was brutal, there were beheadings, murders, massacres.
did you do that?
how would you explain that to anyone?
i don’ think even if i explain it, everyone would understand, but from my point of view where i stand, firstly, it was about my family being together, do you understand?
honestly, secondly, what may have happened, we have never been witness to it, my children and i, honestly.
you know, i haven’ seen a beheading in my life.
but her children have suffered trauma and loss.
their father was killed fighting for .
and their ten—year—old brother isaac died in an air strike in front of them.
i really miss my family, i miss my granny, my aunties.
i miss my grandmother, my other grandmother.
i miss them so much.
as with so many children in the camp, it’ not clear how they will get out.
the is reluctant to allow the wives of islamic state group’ foreign fighters to return to britain.
they’re viewed as a threat to national security.
however, they are willing to repatriate british orphans and unaccompanied children.
can you ever see an option where you would send your children to britain to safety on their own without you?
for us as a family, we cope together.
i know for sure if my kids were separated from me, they will not be in a stable situation, because we are a unit.
and so her daughters remain prisoners here.
a makeshift school offers a few hours of escape.
i think it is really fun learning to make different things.
i like learning, like different languages, and like when you learn more things, your brain feels better.
i want to be smart when i grow up.
but there’ little hope of that as long as she’ in this camp, separated from her family in the .
she records this message for her grandmother.
love you guys, hope you guys are fine.
me and my sisters and mother are fine.
love you guys, miss you guys.
hopefully come back soon to see you guys.
i would love to spend time with you when we come back.
it is difficult to watch for their grandmother, charlene jack henry, thousands of miles away in london.
she wants her grandchildren back home with their mother, her daughter.
let her come and face the consequences.
but it is not fair and it is not right for these children to be languishing in this place.
enough is enough.
they have already served a six—year sentence, without even having the benefit of being taken to court and tried by your peers.
the british government wouldn’ comment on nicole jack’ case.
they say those remaining in syria include dangerous individuals and not to make securityjudgments based on gender and age.
but charlene says while her daughter should face justice, her grandchildren are innocent.
poonam taneja, news.
a premier league footballer has been arrested on suspicion of sexually assaulting a woman.
the man is in his 205 and plays for brighton and hove albion.
he was arrested at a in brighton early on wednesday.
the club said it was helping police with the investigation.
the biden administration has supported a court’ support to end the controversial law of banning abortions and texans after week of pregnancy.
the udge described it as an offensive rivation of an important right.
ate authorities have lodged an eal.
in a landmark decision last nth, the conservative majority on supreme court agreed to let he restriction stand resulting otest around the united states.
day marks the 20th anniversary of attacks in afghanistan.
this mmer troops finally pulled out as back under taliban rule.
our efence correspondent has been aking to some of those involved he conflict.
a57 british military personnel lost their lives in afghanistan.
one of them was claire and brian hill’ only son, james.
it never leaves us.
we don’ have a son anymore, we don’ have any other children.
there is an emptiness, there’ a hole that nothing can fill.
remembrance day for most people is november the 11th, but, for the likes of us, remembrance day is every day.
it’ nearly 12 years to the day that james hill was killed by an improvised explosive device in helmand.
he was just 23 and about to get married.
his parents are proud of his service and his sacrifice, though the recent return of afghanistan to taliban control has been hard for them to bear.
if we were to say now, yes, james’ life was wasted, then that would hurt us all over again, because we have to believe that what he did made a difference and what they all did, and that they gave so much, notjust the ones who died, but the ones who carry on with injuries.
one hand says, what the heck did we go there for?
the other hand says, we’ve stopped any terrorist atrocities on our streets.
and, as claire said, another 9/11.
so it’ it’ very, very difficult.
and when you balance that, do you think the sacrifice that you’ve made of your only son has been worth it?
no.
nothing is worth it.
that’ not worth anything.
i am moving with a piece of equipment over a patch of ground that had been walked on by 30 or a0 people already and then, massive explosion.
and i had stepped on a pressure plate , it functioned and, thankfully, it was only me that got hurt but it was quite severe, it took both legs above the knee.
luke sinnott is one of more than 300 british troops who lost limbs in afghanistan.
but he has battled through his severe injuries with the help of sport.
he was due to take part in the tokyo paralympics this summer, but, because of an injury, he had to stay home and witness the collapse of the country in which he once fought.
and the desperate scenes of those trying to leave.
getting injured, not going to tokyo and then the afghanistan withdrawal, you know, it’ been a mentally rough period for the summer.
from my point of view, we were on the ground, we were moving ieds and giving people some safety, some remnants of safety in the country and kids the ability to go to school, so i will never regret that, i can hold my head high on what we did out there.
if i could make a deal tomorrow and get my legs back, i would.
my view of afghanistan is a very clear one to me and that is the intent of what we were trying to do was always right.
the concept was flawed.
too little, too late and we quit way too soon.
and that is the great tragedy of afghanistan.
stuart tootal led the first british troops into helmand in 2006.
he commanded the 3rd battalion, the parachute regiment, who suffered the first serious casualties of the war, with dozens injured and 15 killed.
what was then supposed to have been a simple peace support operation turned into a bloody counterinsurgency conflict.
if you wanted to pick the positives out, you can turn round and say, well, we gave the afghans 20 years of an opportunity of how life might be different.
that’ true.
the trouble is, that opportunity never realised itself fully because the taliban are now back in control, but i don’ think we can be very proud of the outcome.
we can be proud of what we tried to do as soldiers, but in terms of those responsible for the strategic decisions, i don’ think there’ a great deal to crow about in terms of there being a particular there is no victory here.
you know, we did not win that conflict.
there was little fanfare when the last british troops left afghanistan earlier this year.
this, the low—key ceremony in kabul before the chaotic exit.
wars without victory are often forgotten, but the hopes of all those who served there and who lost loved ones is that their sacrifice will never be forgotten.
jonathan beale, news.
it is 118 -- it is 18 minutes to one ’clock.
the headlines on news the government rules out rescuing energy suppliers struggling to survive amid soaring wholesale gas prices.
prince andrew is given access to a sealed document which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought against him by virginia giuffre.
a federaljudge in the united states has suspended a law in texas that now, in just over three months time the eyes of the world will be on glasgow — as the cop26 climate change conference gets underway.
it’ll be the biggest global summit the has ever hosted.
but how are we doing in our own back yard in tackling climate change?
our reality check correspondent chris morris is here with more details.
as the host of the glasgow summit, the wants to set an example to the rest of the world.
it does have some pretty ambitious targets, but setting targets, and actually changing policy to achieve them, are two different things.
so, how’ the government doing?
let’ take the overall target first of sharply reducing emissions of the greenhouse gases that are warming the planet up.
there’ a legal requirement to get to net zero emissions by the middle of the century, which means the country taking out as much greenhouse gas from the atmosphere as you put in.
and the government has promised a 68% reduction in emissions compared to 1990 levels by 2030, and a 78% reduction by 2035.
there’ a good start to build on.
total emissions have already fallen by 45% by 2019.
but most of that reduction was achieved by removing coal — the most polluting fossil fuel — from energy systems.
and that was the easy hit.
further reductions are going to have a much more direct impact on all of us.
an independent climate change committee says it needs to deliver more and publish detailed strategies to reduce emissions from heating buildings, that is expected soon.
from transport and from the production of food.
let’ look at specific pledges.
when it comes to heating our homes which counts for 14% of the ’ greenhouse emissions, the government has committed to installing 600,000 heat pumps 3 year by 2028 to replace gas boilers.
heat pumps transfer heat from the air, the ground or the water around the property.
the climate change committee says the target should be 900,000 installations a year.
the latest available figures say that in 2019, only 35,000 were installed and only work well if your home is properly insulated.
so, plenty to do.
transport is another big issue and the government has said new petrol and diesel cars will be phased out by 2030.
the sale of electric cars is growing fast — up from 2.
5% of the total in 2018 to just over one in ten new cars year.
but you need to charge all those cars.
there are currently about 25,000 charging points in the country and the competition and markets authority says there needs to be ten times that number by the end of the decade.
planting trees is really important because trees help remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.
the government has promised to plant 30,000 hectares of trees a year by 2025 — a hectare is a bit bigger than a football pitch.
we have planted that much in this country since the 19805.
and most of the recent planting has happened in scotland.
in england a lot more needs to be done.
what about capturing and ing arbon securely either early storing carbon securely either earty before it is released or taken out air?
the government wants rapture 10 million tonnes of carbon by in by 2030.
experts say they hould be aiming for double that.
trouble is the technology is so it will not be scaled up enough time to make a big difference decade.
overall, the climate hange committee is saying it could tter.
in the latest update it 575 ays a pattern has emerged in ernment strategies that are later planned and when they do merge, they are short of required ambition.
well, we’ve had another big announcement from the prime minister from renewable sources, no more gas or other fossil fuels by 2035.
climate experts say that’ a really big deal, but the challenge is still putting the promises into practice.
that was chris morris.
the stirling prize, for britain’ best new building, will be announced next week — in alive programme here on the news channel.
cambridge short met cambridge mosque is on the short list.
let’ take a .
when you enter the space, it feels very other, and hopefully uplifting.
i don’ think, as architects, we can hope for anything more than that, really.
my name isjulia barfield, i’ one of the co—founders of marks barfield architects, and we are the architects of the cambridge central mosque.
we hadn’ designed a mosque before, so of course we did a lot of research to find out about mosque design throughout the world, and what we discovered was that, historically and globally, mosques generally took on the character of the place that they were in and the time they were in, so what should a british mosque of the 20th century he like?
david, my partner, was the one who came up with this idea of the glade of trees, and the garden of paradise.
trees in this glade of trees became the structural trees.
this is an entirely timber—structured building.
timber is beautiful, it’ very sustainable.
but also, it’ got that connection with nature, which is, in islam, very important.
that’ also one of the kind of features of this place is that you naturally somehow look up, which seems appropriate for a sacred space.
it’ a space that is used by the whole community, notjust the muslim community.
the idea is that the mosque is not just a place for worship, it’ so lovely to see there’ that sense of pride and ownership, notjust for muslims in cambridge but also the wider community too.
you’re sort of met with his immediate calm and sense of peace, and it’ something that visitors get to experience when they visit, but something i get to experience every day, so it’ just phenomenal.
we’ve kept the energy usage down as much as possible, as well as trying to address embodied carbon in the choice of materials.
all the rainwater is captured, it’ used to flush the toilets and also to help water the garden.
in a sense, we were trying to kind of combine the english sacred architecture with islamic traditions.
we wanted to construct something that was a symbol of hope, that this difference is notjust about problems of integration but is about the inherent interests of bringing together different narratives, different civilisations, different ethnicities, languages, cultural communities.
it is a kind of celebration of the very central contribution that islam brings to the rainbow diversity that makes modern britain so fascinating.
muslim, islamic culture has been part of british culture for so long, and i hope this building reaffirms that, it brings the two together.
one of the contenders for the stirling prize.
and there will be live coverage of the award ceremony here on the news channel on the 14th of october.
nine months after it was rolled out the astrazeneca vaccine finally hed the antarctic.
it was flown there this week to immunise the 23 staff members who’ve been keeping a british research station running through the polar winter.
our science correspondent jonathan amos reports.
it is literally at the end of the earth.
this is the antarctic, a place of extremes where you really must avoid getting sick.
which is the arrival this week of the astrazeneca covid vaccine is so important.
it will keep those who work on the white continent safe.
getting the coronavirus jabs there, however, has been a grand challenge.
it is a 10,000—mile flight from england to the rothera station, with stopovers required in africa and the falklands.
but the astrazeneca vaccine is now in the arms of the scientists who reside on the antarctic peninsula during its cold, dark winter.
they know it helps protect in case covid got to the station, but also they are going to be leaving in the next few months, anyway, so that group is going to do their summer season at rothera
and then they are going back, and perhaps one of the scariest parts is when one of the team get back into society and covid, there are so many cases per day.
so we are protecting that team before they have to get back on the air bridge flights back to the and back to see their family and friends.
this is the furthest south the astrazeneca jab has reached.
it means all continents have now received at least some doses.
there has been very little covid, so far, in antarctica.
just one isolated outbreak at a chilean research station.
international science agencies want to keep it that way and anyone going south in the coming months will still have to quarantine.
jonathan amos, news.
: we are going to go back to what’ happening with the price of energy.
ergy secretary has ruled out the energy secretary has mled out bailing out energy company ggling to survive.
analyst say high cost of energy will be sed on to households who could bill’ rise by hundreds of of next year.
manufacturers also warning that prices in the could go up because it is now expensive to produce their ods.
carol lives in stoke—on—trent she has een her energy bills generally household bills ting more expensive.
i spoke to earlier at the food bank where orks and she told us more about energy bills.
we shop around, you go online, you always compare things.
they are all very much similar prices.
you used to be able to get deals, good deals on different ones, but they are all the same now.
so i have stayed with my provider.
i was paying £53 a month, now i’ve gone on to a variable tariff, which is not good.
it is £73 a month.
it is a £20 rise.
if i want to go on a fixed tariff, it is £10.
being in the situation i am, there is no way i can do that.
it is just way too much.
are you managing to find the extra 20 a month?
yes, what you have got to.
you have got no choice, really i’ being more sparing with how i’ using the heating and the water, if i wash my hands or a cup or something, i use cold water.
if you use the hot water, it kicks the boiler in.
you don’ want that happening.
i’ve always said if you had to walk around your house wearing a cardigan there was something wrong and guess what, i’ doing that.
i only put my heating on for half an hour in the morning and half an hour at night.
the rest of the time i am keeping warm the best way i can.
it sounds like you’re pretty resourceful.
you’ve got to be.
like you said, i’ at the food bank at the moment and i’ve been volunteering
and i’ve just been taken on in a paid capacity for 15 hours a week which i’ really enjoying.
it gets me out of the house.
i’ not using my heating.
it is good at the moment.
am i right in thinking you are on universal credit and impacted by the cut in that?
oh, yes, massively, massively.
basically, it boils down to i was down about £22 a week for food a week.
—— it boils down i would have £22 for food and toiletries a week for i need.
i am lucky.
i’ve got a really good network of family and friends around me.
they will not see me go hungry or cold.
but it’ the poor people that you see coming to the food bank and hearing what they are going through and they are going through really bad and hard times.
mothers going to bed hungry because they fed the children and not themselves.
because they are worried about the heating, coats and blankets on the beds.
: we are going back to the dark ages.
as you say, they are going to keep up, how are people going to going up, how are peopla going to survive?
how are they going to it?
that was carol talking to me eartier.
the one ’clock news will oon.
but first it’ time for the weather.
goodbye for me.
: we have had a weather transformation to think about what sort of ther we prefer.
this feel on the south of england shows there was lenty coast of england shows there was planty of unshine.
fast forward 24 hours, same ation, very different ather.
cloudy and misty, but it is er.
what is going on?
this area low pressure ntains an old urricane.
it is missing us, but it ringing in very mild air into .
the warmer colours do not nslate into sunshine.
there is a of cloud and moisture coming in.
ere is a weather front right ross us.
it is milder as well, but have got outbreaks of rain and several days to come because weather front will hang around.
might be a few brighter breaks this afternoon.
northwest england rthern and west wales will ave ome rain.
the rest will be .
mild across the board, but any ace that has some shine and ’ll see 22 celsius.
not that and and will have more clouds and clear lls.
ernight temperatures which re closer to where they should be his time of year.
a very mild tart tomorrow, maybe record rnight temperatures.
more rain at here to come.
fog will clear ay, there will be lingering areas cloud.
the rest of england and well, overall it is looking like hter day.
more in the way of sunny spells and going to be warmer sult.
some spots the reaching to the low 205.
over the weekend
, ather front finally will begin clear my to the south.
for parts estern to clear way to the south.
for parts of western scotland could see 100 of rain with the risk looding.
as the weather front moves south, here will be barely rain left once it reaches across and.
on saturday, it england and.
on saturday, it will pull away overnight and sunday will outh into england and way.
feed south into england and way.
what happens on that weather front tart to introduce very cooler air again.
it will be colder with the risk of frost.
higher energy costs could lead to higher prices in shops.
a warning business today.
it comes as ousehold energy bills could rise by reds of pounds next year.
i put my heating on for half an hour in orning and half an hour at the morning and half an hour at night.
the rest of the time i am ing one the best way i can.
we look at what’ behind the big energy price increases.
prince andrew is granted access to a sealed document his lawyers say could end the sexual abuse case being brought by virginia giuffre.
20 years since airstrikes began against al-qaeda after the 9/11 attacks, we hear about the impact of the long conflict on afghans.
the queen launches the baton relay for next year’ commonwealth games that will take place in birmingham.
newcastle united football club could soon be in the hands of a saudi—backed group.
human rights groups raise concerns about the takeover.
and coming up on the news channel, england all—rounder ben stokes is unlikely to play in the ashes in australia this winter after undergoing a second operation on an injured finger.
good afternoon and welcome to the news at one.
businesses and are warning that the sharp rise in energy prices will lead to households paying more for bills and everyday products.
the boss of supermarket iceland said price rises were now inevitable, and consultants cornwall insights warned the annual energy price cap could rise by £400 in spring.
the business secretary has said gas supplies would be sufficient this winter, but acknowledged that more energy firms would fold in the coming months.
kwasi kwarteng told energy providers that developing renewable sources will be the only way to protect against soaring gas prices long—term, as our personal finance correspondent kevin peachey reports.
just like the season’ weather, bill payers are being warned the worst is yet to come.
a host of energy companies have collapsed in recent weeks.
their customers — moved to a new supplier — are already having to pay hundreds of pounds more a year than they expected.
a price cap does protect millions of people from extreme rises in bills but say next year they will still face a bill shock.
for many, it is a worry, finding the money to cover it.
i always said that if you had to walk around your house wearing a cardigan, there was something wrong.
and guess what, i’ going around the house with a cardigan on because i only put my heating on for half an hour in the morning to take the chill away and half an hour at night.
the rest of the time i’ keeping warm the best way i can.
under the price cap, a customer now pays £1277 a year if they use an average amount of gas and electricity.
expect that typical bill to rise to £1600 when a revised but as yet undecided cap starts in april.
compare that with a year ago, when you could have got a deal costing just over £850 a year.
as the global economy has been switched back on after the height of the pandemic, the scramble for gas has not been matched by supply, leading to an unprecedented seven fold rise in wholesale prices.
producers of everything from toilet roll to steel say that will feed through to higher prices in the shops.
domestic customers may be predicted from some of this volatility, but industry isn’.
today, the business secretary told an energy industry conference that was the only long—term solution.
the recent issues that we have with the volatility of the gas price, incredible spikes and then falling back, it creates uncertainty in the market.
i think that shows exactly we need vigorously to pursue our climate goals.
with fresh warnings that council tax is also likely to rise sharply, everyone will need to brace and budget for a squeeze on theirfinances.
kevin peachey, news.
yesterday president putin said russia would increase gas supplies ope which did bring the price of wholesale gas down slightly.
how at noose been received, has that noose been received, jessira?
you only need to look at mpact of president putin’ omments to see the power he seems ave, energy prices in europe is huge issue.
prices have