people don’t believe me when say this we all come from iguanas.
lil the evidence is don’t learn off randoms, revise with bitesize, the site that follows -l lasatliflas 0 get off my cha bitesize!
they will go and see a blown up building, or they’ll go carry a weapon and they’ll do something for a month and then they’ll go home.
that fizzles out after a while.
the attack which nearly killed him happened city of zaporizhzhia.
we had been on a four—day operation but we pushed we knew there were three tanks in the area.
we pushed so far forwardq, that it was what we call a come on, where they moved out of the way, waiting for us to come in and then they came in and give us everything they had.
before we knew it there were rounds coming down and it was just boom, boom, boom.
he tried to shelter in a half—dug trench with a ukrainian fighter alongside.
to the left, he would lean to the right and and grab each other’s helmets and get as low as we could and it was only a matter of time and one of the rounds just sort of landed between our legs and blew upwards.
crawled out and then that is when the russians opened up the small arm fire and took out my left arm.
what was going through your mind?
just thought, am going to suffer for an hour it 1s not like the british army where we have got some helicopters come and pick us up, we’ve got no morphine, it doesn’t work like that out here.
it i1s old school, second world war stuff.
but their commander managed to get sharif out alive.
he finally got a kozak vehicle to cross open ground under tank fire, picked us up and drove us away.
an hour and 20 minutes am still gasping for air with two punctured lungs, and saw my hand hanging off.
the right shoulder was splat open, the top of the right arm was shot and the bone’s been destroyed, the forearm has been blown apart, it has been ripped out and the wrist is been taken apart.
my stomach was torn open and put back together.
what was it like recovering in that hospital?
you are awake for these surgeries most of the time.
it 1s time to continue the journey.
sharif’s ukrainian fiance is coming as well and there 1s little time to lose.
he’s to be transferred to a safe hospital in bristol where surgeons are going to and save hand.
if he stays in ukraine he is going to lose his hand.
fighters aren’t the only ones risking their lives ewan and craig have been travelling to some of the worst hit areas.
we have been bringing people back across the border.
couldn’t have sat at home and watched what was happening i actually take part.
how do you fund this?
a lot of personal money has gone into this and ultimately we rely on donations.
the team have organized a medical repatriation flight back to bristol.
despite life—changing injuries, sharif is still holding on to a determination to return to the front line.
am going back.
you still want to go back?
there is nothing else in this ens than to be there with my boys.
you nearly died.
if it means that much to you then you’re not going to start something and not finish it.
it 1s an honour.
but there will be some road to recovery.
this i1s the last leg of the journey and then he is nearly home.
they are bringing aden and they’re getting us back.
of course, but see him very soon.
hope.
ready?
pack your things.
thank you so much.
you have no idea.
it is straight to the hospital for me, so, not a lot of bristol that will be seeing it for a while.
after nine months in the conflict, he is back on british soil his a story of survival has 1t of the newspapers who have given him the nickname, rambo.
the call for volunteers to enlist in the ukrainian military came from the president himself at the start of the nvasion.
"to the citizens of the world,” he said, "come and fight side—by—side with ukraine.
" in what he called the beginning of a war against europe.
can understand ukraine has been welcoming volunteers who have combat experience to help take on the russian army.
but what about those who do not?
these guys are getting together for the first time since being on the front lines and they have agreed to share a few war stories with me from months in the trenches.
did you go?
have seen what was going on in the news.
they are firing on civilians here.
this is just like terrorists what they are doing.
you did not have any military experience beforehand?
100% civilian.
no military experience.
tried to join the military when was younger, but could not get in but could put all my heart and soul in joining.
saw a facebook advertisement, it was all in ukrainian but translated it.
if you know how to handle a gun, contact us, so gave them a ring.
told them that i’d been in the guard, like cadet experience.
but they said we’ll give you a month’s training and we’ll send you out into the front line in the kharkiv district.
after travelling across ukraine, they joined a battalion with other british and international volunteers oh, damn, we got they met james, aged 21, who’d quit the british army to go.
they needed help so knew could fight, that was what was trained to do so that’s got up and went.
and tim, who spent time in afghanistan.
this i1s where we sleep.
and they began filming their experiences along the way.
they issued a rifle about the time we get a volunteer contract, here’s where you’re going.
all we knew was dig a hole, watch.
did you feel up to 1t?
did wonder, what have got myself into here but it did a0 as they learned to become soldiers, it was eye—opening even for those with experience.
in the british army have never come under tank fire, it i1s not something that happens in the british army.
we have the tanks, we have the helicopters, we have the fast air and things like that.
here, 1t is all against you.
it was not long before they were involved in intense fighting.
once you get the first flyover, you watch videos of fire fights then when you are there, and the rounds do go out, my training kicked in.
the first time ever experienced combat was in a school we got hit by multiple missiles and the intel we got, five tanks approaching and we all got out.
remember there was a mud hill and as looked up, a tank came straight through the bushes and straight for me.
we heard on the radio, one tank destroyed, two tanks are destroyed, three tanks destroyed.
that split—second didn’t know if was coming out of that situation.
thought was going to get killed right here, right now.
it was james’s first experience of many coming under fire from russian tanks.
this round missing him by inches.
everyone ?
it has landed right next to me.
can’t hear nothing.
as the ukrainian frontlines pushed forward, the group were involved in many operations to recapture ground, often encountering abandoned russian positions along the way.
so the russians were there yesterday.
ukrainian military, myself and my teams pushed the russians out.
civilians are happy.
much of the fighting involved a1 we were 600 metres from russians at all times.
our treeline was their treeline and a field in—between.
sound travels further and you could hear them talking.
life in the trenches was a constant game of cat and mouse with the enemy.
so we went on this attack on independence day, the whole of the ukrainian frontline pushed forward.
remember just going up the back of the tree line and five prisoners was there.
what have we got here?
a couple of russian prisoners.
how does that work?
quite sad to see.
they were either really young or really old.
they didn’t want to be there.
it was strange.
it feel real did you feel sorry for them?
yeah, empathised.
my biggest fear out there were actually getting captured.
five russian prisoners, there was a high chance they could have killed some of my very good friends, these guys we had captured.
they weren’t crying.
they were probably laughing about it.
they only cried when they’ve been caught.
"i’m a conscript.
"i never meant to do it "i got sent here.
" ukrainian authorities send blanket text messages to russian soldiers’ phones, telling them surrender and they won’t be harmed.
how do you treat them?
we just hand them over to the ukrainian authorities.
did you speak to them?
yeah, said a few words to them.
said a few words in his ear.
wanted to give them something to remember.
we’ve got to get out.
as the months go by, it’s clear the risks become routine.
you can accept that any secong, any moment, anything, and this moment could be the worst you have or the last moment the guy next to you has or two trenches down the line.
in august, a british volunteer from norfolk joined the unit.
we were close, always close, looked up to him as an older brother.
he could light up a room, he really could.
craig mackintosh was a landscape gardener.
hello, darling.
hello, darling.
he was funny, he would always do some crazy thing to make us laugh.
we was really close growing up.
he always wanted to go in the army ever since he would have all his toy soldiers.
he always played with them.
but when he travelled to ukraine, his family had little warning.
didn’t find out until the day before he was going, he said not 11872 and, yeah, that’s the first i’ve heard about it.
what was your reaction?
was gutted.
did you ever to talk him out of it?
even on the way to the airport, like, just, yeah, anything to get him to come home, but he had his heart set on it.
initially was very angry.
it didn’t make sense to me.
thought at first, would you leave everyone and not tell anyone, and then thought, wow, what a courageous thing to do.
what remember about craig, we called him pikey, his call sign were pikey, he loved it.
he’d found his place there, you know, he were happy.
but the group were about to undertake one of their most dangerous operations.
i might message him on a tuesday and would hear from him on thursday or maybe friday.
one day text him and never got nothing back.
we were just on this big counteroffensive and this was the actual last firefight we got into that day.
we were in russian territory, the russians did not know we were in their territory.
one of our friends, an australian friend, he was digging a trench, so just was sat on the edge you know you get the feeling someone’s behind you?
looked behind me, surely enough there was someone there.
he was only ten metres away from me, looking all confused, like that, like, "what are these guys doing here?
they’re our guys?
” he thought you were russian?
yeah, he thought we were.
that’s when seen his face change.
seen he was planning something.
he had time to see 1o he had eye contact with me, he had eye contact with jed, everyone behind us.
was getting screamed at behind, "make sure it’s not so at this point was "put your gun down, put your gun down!
" dropped to the floor, but he raised his gun, so shot him six times.
but the russian soldier had already fired his own shot.
just remember looking and shouting back "jed’s down!
" and "jed’s dead.
" and heard behind me, "craig’s dead.
" it was 25 august that found out that he had been shot.
it crushed me.
after that firefight, looked down, and to be honest, cried, cried.
not because was scared, but just seeing it up close and personal, you are talking with someone, having a laugh someone in the life is just gone.
ithin a click of the fingers.
the police came to my dad’s and they told us.
didn’t think he was going to go on the frontline.
eilelo q=1 was going to happen.
thought he was going to be helping, but away think most people die of cancer or common illness, not being shot out at war.
don’t know, just didn’t believe it, it didn’t feel real.
friends and family said their final goodbyes.
it was heartbreaking.
but he got the send off that he deserved.
like he said, no—one else would understand, he has got to do it for his own reasons and that’s same as a lot of people.
they feel like they can make a big difference, he was happy and you’ve got to be happy for him.
your brother’s a hero, but, yeah, still won’t bring him back, though.
it’s hard and my children miss him.
pikey and jed, we’re not going forget them.
jed, pikey, ninja - think about them every day, every day.
they will always be remembered by me as very good people.
they were.
do you think the british volunteers out there actually make a difference to the overall war effort?
yeah, big time as well.
like the ukrainians see us and it makes them feel like they are not alone.
i’m proud of what i’ve achieved, i’m proud of the guys that we were out there with, we did a lot of good, we took a lot of ground.
it’s impossible to know the exact number of british volunteers in ukraine as there’s now a number of battalions that accept soldiers from abroad, but ukraine’s international legion says there continues to be a steady stream of volunteers willing to join the fight and that the is still one of the most would never tell anyone to go out and do what i’ve done.
believe i’ve saved a few lives and i’m a better person for what i’ve done.
a lot of people who have sat watching it on the news had a good job.
had me own house.
give it all up.
some people would say t4 people call us crazy, people call us crazy.
james dee in leeds, about to go back to ukraine.
we’re ready for it.
slava ukraini!
what is it about it that draws people back?
think it’s the brotherhood.
civilians don’t understand it.
i’ve got a purpose in life out there, i’m happy, i’ve got my friends, and i’ve got a purpose.
i’m connected up to machines and i’m in very, very good hands.
1t worth 1t?
would do it all again now, even though my outcome.
it’s probably the fact that was doing something that he found what he’d always been searching for.
in the photos i’ve seen, he looks like he was happy.
wish we could have kept him here.
it’s not that we love killing or we love bloodshed, it’s because in those situations humanity really does shine through.
this weekend since the transition.
starting to develop \ southerly wind, pushing more southerly wind, pushing milder error across the more southerly wind, pushing i 4 more southerly wind, pushing milder error across the but some moister errors well, also some moister errors well, a lot of cloud through unday, also some drizzle for a through the morning.
that ill tend to time through the morning.
that = o0 an lolntdlnl=e time through the morning.
that will tend to become confined to oast through the day.
could see some mist and fog oss eastern coastal counties hich were clear, allowing which were clear, allowing sunshine to develop and some of will push its way further that will push its way further ateimde that will push its way further north and west.
when we get the hine, temperatures up to sunshine, temperatures up to around 16 or 17 celsius on day afternoon.
on into day, we are still underneath area high pressure.
his is the this area of high pressure.
this area of high pressure.
this is the setup for the week ad, although start to ahead, although we do start to see more of an easterly wind ling and as that does, it settling and as that does, it bring something cooler to 4 facing coasts but it’s i3\ mostly dry, spells of sunshine way from eastern coasts, 3 and away from eastern coasts, feeling a little warmer.
cloud on monday, which will break across eastern areas most soon break across eastern areas eyale 111 soon break across eastern areas and most will see some spells nshine through the david some estern coasts in northern land, perhaps hanging onto cloud, maybe with a bit of rizzle at times.
temperatures widely in mid—teens, quite widely in the mid—teens, the rest of the sunshine and from eastern coasts, temperatures could have gone up ound 16 temperatures could have gone up 0l 16 or 17.
as we head to around 16 or 17.
as we head into tuesday, high pressure the dominant feature, but otice the isobars start to me close together so we start evelop a stronger easterly nd.
coastal counties, eastern astal counties will feel ooler, more cloud pushing ross southern counties of ngland, but for many, day, spells of sunshine, warm good spells of sunshine, warm in the sunshine away from tern coasts in the sunshine away from 1o i8 in the sunshine away from eastern coasts but most will a day as well.
little have a day as well.
little change really as we head into esday.
if anything, wins yoto 0 0: wednesday.
if anything, wins become stronger on wednesday.
ing on the edge of that sitting on the edge of that area of high pressure.
once n, a fair amount of cloud again, a fair amount of cloud across again, a fair amount of cloud i 1 = again, a fair amount of cloud across southern counties stop hine developing for many rough the david notice the trength of the wind on dnesday, quite a keen asterly wind blowing so pite some sunshine along astern oasts, it will be 3 eastern coasts, it will be feeling on the cool side, haps 12 or 13 year, perhaps 12 or 13 year, away astern coasts, from eastern coasts, temperatures again in the —teens but not seeing the 16th and 17th we saw earlier in week and re given the the week and were given the ength of the wind stop we still keep that stronger dows we still keep that stronger etale still keep that stronger windows we head into thursday.
dry, good deal sunshine that noticeable easterly eze taking the edge of emperatures on thursday at he moment, a fine day, good of sunshine but we could 1as tart to see showers pushing stub parts of east anglia south—east england and temperatures will those temperatures will typically be between 12 and 14 6 celsius.
further on from there, as this high pressure inues to drift away a bit continues to drift away a bit further, we start to see areas pressure developing us of low pressure developing us ain 1 1106/ of low pressure developing us central and southern parts of and and we could start to england and we could start to 0 81 0y england and we could start to see some showers developing as ad through the weekend and we head through the weekend and 0 the early part of the into the early part of the following week but for many, we’ve een a fair amount where we’ve seen a fair amount i rain recently and things been on the cool side, for have been on the cool side, for the eek ahead and further ead into the forecast, things looking mainly and a little bit warmer.
goodbye.
live from washington, this is news.
at least 27 people killed, including aid workers, in clashes between sudan’s army and a paramilitary force.
more than 100 animal rights protesters arrested after storming the ground at the grand national horse race.
and minneapolis becomes the first major city to allow broadcast of the muslim call to prayer over speakers five times a day, all year round.
hello, i’m helena humpbhrey.
good to have you with us.
we start in sudan, where heavy fighting between two rival factions of the military has left at least 27 people dead including three staff.
earlier, gunfire and explosions rocked the capital, khartoum.
the sudanese military has = inside amid clashes at the presidential palace and the city’s airport.
what you’re seeing here was recorded earlier at khartoum international airport, where at least two people were reportedly killed.
footage there shows large plumes of smoke and fighter jets flying low overhead, and there was this video from inside the khartoum airport showing passengers taking cover on the floor.
major airlines have reportedly suspended flights.
this is the skyline across khartoum.
exact death tolls are yet to be confirmed.
a journalist from the washington post newspaper reported 30 people dead and nearly 400 injured, citing the united nations.
victims include three united nations aid workers who were killed in the crossfire at a military base.
we want to show you what happened earlier on sudanese state .
the newsreader briefly appeared, talking about clashes, but lsten carefully and you can hear gunshots in the background.
as you see, the picture then froze, and a short while later the broadcast suddenly cuts off.
these clashes erupted after tensions over a proposed transition to civilian rule.
let’s remind ourselves of the political situation in sudan.
sudan has been run by the military since a coup in october 2021.
the fighting is between army units loyal to the facto leader, general abdel fattah al—burhan, and the , commanded by sudan’s deputy leader, mohamed hamdan dagalo.
the two sides are in a dispute over who governs the country.
violence is also being reported in several other cities across the country.
the reuters news agency is reporting eyewitness accounts of sudanese army air strikes in the city of omdurman.
the target is a base belonging to the paramilitary group north—east of the capital, khartoum.
both sides have issued conficting claims of control over key installations, from airports to the presidential palace.
in a post on facebook, the sudanese army has labelled the a rebel militia i -l negotiations or talks until the dissolution of the group.
earlier spoke with the director of africa programs at the institute of peace, susan stigant, who was actually in sudan two weeks ago.
could you tell that tensions running high?
yes, was there the week before last.
at that point it was clear that the tensions were incredibly high.
there was a mobilisation of heavy weaponry, reports i 1ep of additional forces.
and it was clear in the political negotiations that were going on, in an effort to form a new civilian government to end the coup of october 2021, that the parties were coming down to the really difficult issues, and particularly the question of the structure of decision—making and power and control, and the relationship between general burhan as the head of the sudan armed forces and general hemedti as the head of the rapid support forces.
but the fear and concern and tensions were absolutely palpable at that point.
so those tensions, as you described there, were palpable — the feeling that we were starting to come to what appears to be, at least, a pivotal moment.
but perhaps for people who might not be entirely familiar with the political situation in sudan, just briefly explain to us what is going on here.
in the time leading up to today, there have been talks and negotiations taking place to really move to a new civiian—led this resulted in a draft political framework agreement before the end of 2022.
and the discussions continued on really five core issues that were the most difficult to resolve — questions of justice and transitional justice, questions of peace, questions of what happens in the eastern part of sudan, questions about what happens with those who were responsible for crimes and those who were part of the former bashir regime, and then this incredibly difficult question about security reform.
and so there have been intensive discussions taking place, and think much of the focus has really been pushing to to get to that agreement that could bridge i for sudan, if you will.
and so what we saw over the last 24 hours, think, is the clearest and think in many ways quite tragic evidence that those who are holding the power, gun, are not comfortable.
and as much as we believe and we say that violence will not resolve the issue, those people who have the authority over coercive force right now, they believe that they are strengthening their positions for the future through the use of violence.
so susan, you talk there about people with the authority in sudan.
but wonder, then, what does all of this mean for people’s everyday lives in the country?
yes, mean, two weeks ago people were certainly feeling the impact of the economic crisis.
inflation had hit over 150%, and that economic crisis has really been building since the october 2021 coup.
and today in khartoum, and in other urban areas across the country, people are living in the middle of active fighting.
think there are concerns about people getting access to basic services, and there are real safety concerns for individuals.
and when you think about a time four years ago when the sudanese people really came together, men and women, young and olg, from all across the country to mobilise in a peaceful way against an authoritarian regime, who put themselves at risk, who have really sacrificed in hundreds of instances their lives — being in the midst of a fight between security and military, think, i1s really shocking for many sudanese and for many of us who watch the country closely.
and talking about the country, but also the region, susan, as well, we’re hearing that fighting is spreading out of the capital.
we’ve also heard that neighbouring chad has what do you think are the risks of potential spread here?
do you think that we expect any engagement from surrounding the neighbourhood where sudan is located — mean, you’ve mentioned chad, south sudan, central african republic.
these are countries that are all facing their own q1r and where the relationships between different groups across the countries are fragile and tenuous.
and so think an incredibly — you know, the first—order message right now is to end the violence, and don’t think that can be said too much, too loudly or at too high a level at the moment.
think a second—order message is to say to the neighbouring countries, step back.
ensure that you are not engaging in any way 414 could have helped to perpetuate the violence that is taking place, and in fact take a step forward to to encourage those who are fighting to put the weapons down and to return to some sort of sensible political framework and political negotiation that could hopefully deliver a new government and a more peaceful situation for the sudanese people.
susan, do you think that that possibility is still there at this moment?
is the window still open for the violence to be ended?
well, think the escalation and the speed of the escalation of violence, the rhetoric and the spread of the violence is incredibly concerning.
and we know that there are always openings and windows, and so think coherence among international partners, space for the sudanese who are still courageously and with the greatest determination trying to find ways to bridge and deliver the message that a pathway towards a democratic, peaceful sudan does not include the use of violence in a civil war.
susan, you work for the institute of peace.
just want to ask you briefly about the role of the united we’ve heard from the secretary of state, antony blinken, today calling for an immediate end to violence and calling this a fragile situation as the country looks to transition back to civilian -y do you think that there are any indications that the might seek to mediate in some way?
the united states has been actively involved in supporting the ongoing political - the negotiations that were taking place prior to today.
its diplomatic support.
hopefully that includes engagement at the highest levels of the united states government, and anticipate that that will be done in close partnership with leaders from the region, with the african union, with the united nations, with the united kingdom, with the united arab emirates, saudi arabia.
think these are all countries that have influence and interest in seeing a stable sudan and countries that a do 1l in reaching some of the people who are actually the ones who are creating the situation on the ground right now.
in india, a former politician and 1 dal- in india, a former politician and his brother have been shot on live .
they were dead on live .
they were taking questions from a rnalist moments before they re shot.
he was journalist moments before they 2 hot.
he was under police were shot.
he was under police escort facing murder and ault charges and last month supreme court declined to his position in which he alleged there was a threat to i from the police.
to the , and 118 people have been have been arrested at the grand national, one of the most prestigious they were arrested on suspicion of criminal damage and public nuisance offences in relation to disruption.
a large number of police had been deployed to the ground after animal rights activists had warned they would to disrupt the race.
officers went onto the course to remove the protesters.
the start of the race was delayed for 14 minutes whilst the group were cleared, but it did eventually go ahead and was won by corach rambler, ridden by the jockey derek fox.
our correspondent sharon barbour was at aintree racecourse.
well, it’s been a really tense day here at aintree, a day of high drama.
it began with the protesters animal rising, which all week had threatened to disrupt that most important of races in the racing calendar, the grand national, which was due to start at 5:15pm.
everybody said that they couldn’t possibly.
there were so many police here surrounding the racecourse, the protesters arrived.
they began their rally, they began a protest.
they sat down on the ground and when we spoke to them.
they were determined, they said, to disrupt the race, but still it wasn’t believed that it was possible.
well, they did.
the race was stopped for around 15 minutes as they got nine animal rising protesters were arrested.
a little bit about that organisation — it was until a few days ago animal extinction.
it was a sister organisation to rebellion extinction.
we don’t know how many were here, but certainly they got onto the track.
they managed somehow to get through security and disrupted a race that is so important not only here in liverpool, but right around the world.
500 million, the jockey club say, watch the race in 140 countries.
so certainly, even though the race got under way, for the activists it was what they say are issues around animal welfare.
certainly there are going to be a lot of questions not only about security and what they can do to now protect that race, but also questions about what they can do, perhaps, about the safety of the horses taking part.
back to you.
staying in the , and prime minister rishi sunak is to ban the construction of new smart motorways, which use technology to requlate speed and traffic 14 planned smart motorways, including 11 that are already paused, will be removed from government road building plans.
the ’s panorama programme in 2020 investigated smart motorways, revealing 38 people have been killed on them over a space of five years.
it led to the government reviewing the smart motorway network.
here is a snippet from the documentary by richard we put in a freedom of information request for one one warning sign was out of action for nearly a year there was also a 20—fold rise in near misses — 72 in the five years with the hard shoulder, 1,485 in the five years without.
earlier spoke to our political correspondent damian grammaticas and asked him how smart motorways work and what prompted the government decision.
yeah, so the way these work is that in order to to improve the flow of traffic on the motorways and keep traffic moving, what the government has done here over recent years is bring in these sort of measures.
now, some are simply electronic boards that advise you, they change the speed limit and to keep traffic moving.
the one that is most controversial is a scheme that exists already on quite a number of motorways where the hard shoulder — so the edge of the motorway, what would not be used in traditional motorways, if you had a problem — that had been converted on some motorways into an extra lane for permanent moving traffic.
now, the idea was that it’s monitored by cameras.
there are these billboards.
if you had trouble or a problem, you were told to stay in your car.
the traffic would be directed to slow down and go around you.
now, part of the problem was that there were accidents happening there, and as that panorama programme revealed, there had been some 30—plus deaths on some of those motorways in recent years.
so this had led to a safety review, a pause in the development of new areas of smart motorway.
and what we now get is this announcement that the projects that have been paused, so 14 of them have been paused or planned, will not go ahead.
two projects which are nearing completion will actually now be done.
but crucially, think it’s important to say the ones that are already in place will stay.
they will continue, with some safety upgrades, so those will not change.
so damian, is this actually the end, then, of smart motorways?
and can the government do this?
no, by any means it’s not the end.
so smart motorways cover already something like 10% of the motorway network, € so the ones that are in place will stay in place.
for the sort of timeframe you can look into, up to the end of the decade, all road building plans - and smart motorways are part of that — they’re now being removed from those plans.
nothing before the end of the decade, and it will continue to look at how users view this.
but it’s worth saying, too, this is not just about safety.
a large part of this is about cost — inflating prices for the work to convert motorways into smart ones.
the bill for the project upcoming is put at about £1 billion, so that’s £1 billion worth of savings the government is making.
so there’s a cost saving it can make here, as well as, it says, listening to or responding to public concerns about safety.
our political correspondent damian grammaticas breaking that down for us.
damian, thank you.
in england, coordinated strike action involving doctors and nurses isn’t being ruled out, according to the union the british medical association, as their pay dispute continues.
leaders say the further planned walkouts by nurses in england pose serious risks.
simon jones reports.
members of the royal college of nursing will strike again over the may day bank holiday in england.
for the first time, it will involve those working in emergency departments, intensive care units and cancer care.
hospital bosses are concerned.
that will present an unprecedented level of action that we haven’t yet seen from nursing staff and therefore the challenges with that, you know, the organisation and all of the work that will go into managing and mitigating that, will be enormous.
the pay deal on the table would amend a 5% rise for this year plus a one—off payment for last year.
jessica collins, a paediatric nurse from cambridgeshire, voted against the deal.
i restoration we asked for.
in fact, it’s nowhere near and think there is a lot of disappointment in the unions for trying to encourage us to accept it.
clint cooper, a nurse in yorkshire, was in favour absolutely gutted.
understand my colleagues have rejected it, but stand by my word.
will not leave my patients.
this morning, junior doctors returned to work after four days of strike action.
they’re asking for a 35% pay rise and their union has not ruled out co—ordinating strike action with nurses in future.
it’s difficult to hypothesise but all options are very much on the table and involve easing health secretaries called to prevent any further strike action.
the royal college of nursing responded that it is in close planned co—ordinated action.
the government says the 5% pay offer made to nurses is fair generous.
it has been accepted by another union, unison.
ministers say that what the best for patients and staff.
malcolm spent the night in a&e at saint thomas’s hospital in london after falling and breaking a finger.
don’t think they should be allowed to go on strike.
because it’s an important job.
hospital bosses say the needs a period of stability.
instead, it’s facing more disruption.
simon jones, news.
to the state of minnesota, where the state’s largest populated city, minneapolis, has become the first major city to allow broadcast of the muslim call to prayer, adhan, to be heard over speakers five times a day, all year—round.
the state has had a large east african immigrant community since the 1990s, which led to the emergence of groups including the state’s council on american—=islamic relations, which strives to ensure muslims in minnesota enjoy the same protections as all americans.
joining me now is the executive director of the council on american—islamic relations’ minnesota chapter, jaylani hussein who is in minneapolis.
jaylani, thank you for joining the program.
what did restrictions on the call to prayer look like before and the change now?
thank you for having me.
it is a symbol of really is lime and ontinuation what i1s a continuation of what other etids i1s a continuation of what other faith traditions do so for lims across the world, wherever they , it’s muslims across the world, wherever they are, it’s the first sign that you probably that they are muslims know that they are muslims ecause the call to prayer mes ut.
just like most people comes out.
just like most comes out.
just like most people would know that a urch, there are bells going unday or on holidays, so it is a symbol and most osques across he world ave all to prayer and nfortunately in america, we en’t had that opportunity to this being practised widely even practised at .
and or even practised at all.
and natalie and —— and nneapolis is now historic and hope that many ties across we hope that many cities across the country who have many ques across america can also that and mosques across america can also hat and think it’s mosques across america can also @ do that and think it’s a freedom of religion issue but a sign of inclusion, that also a sign of inclusion, that muslims are actually part and of parcel of our communities.
so what did restrictions look like re and how did this change come bout, and now?
well, state masivesi dakuwaqga ctually had the policy that red —— the state of ensured —— the state of masivesi dakuwaga actually had olicy that here would be the policy that there would be no constitutional violations of ractice of religion, so the practice of religion, so there were ordinances which \ ifically had no such thing rom 7pm until 10pm and we live he anar= an from 7pm until 10pm and we live in the northern part of the here, so our prayers move pretty gradually oughout the year so throughout the year so i\ chnically at least three rayers would be allowed roughout the year so what we rked with, bodies who worked our a o= worked with, bodies who worked with our office on one of our mosques —— mosques there, we local mosques —— mosques there, and we were able to change that no ance to make sure that it ordinance to make sure that it - wed for the call to prayer allowed for the call to prayer and really allowed for any type of practice of religion that maybe limited by noise audience of 7am to that noise audience of 7am to 1 p.
m.
how is this being ceived in ten p.
m.
how is this being y- eived in the city, in the community?
it’s incredible.
ived from our organisation, far an incredible amount of port.
even in this process i of requesting this, it truly an interfaith effort.
we had community members from all traditions who came to faith traditions who came to support faith traditions who came to 1o 413 faith traditions who came to support this effort and for the community, this is a muslim community, this is a tremendous joy.
had a member community who is a of our community who is a a ale of our community who is a descendant of slaves, she told never thought she would me she never thought she would v.
1 8 ear the call of prayer in ever hear the call of prayer in x0 ica and it’s something that bviously we have a right to do his is incredible.
talked 0 families and individuals said this the one thing that eir children get to experience and for many of our 016 hbours and our community neighbours and our community members were not muslim, they xtremely welcoming and so remendous support and an = a0 tremendous support and i a1 = 1o tremendous support and excitement and tremendous support and i atlad tremendous support and i ® excitement and think we have 4 a precedent here for other ies.
thank you very much for ining us.
stay with us here on news.
most of us got to see some sunshine on saturday.
suspect that sunday will be a cloudier affair.
that cloud rolling its way in from the west.
that saidq, if you do get some sunshine, it will feel relatively warm.
but those cloudier conditions, courtesy of this frontal system the west, even bringing some splashes of rain.
high pressure still holding firm just about, so we’re looking at mainly weather and where we are closest to the centre of the high across parts eastern england, a sunny but rather chilly start with some early fog patches.
further west, though, a lot of cloud, spots through the afternoon, northern ireland could well brighten up but that could spawn some pretty sharp showers.
north—east scotland, spells of sunshine, lifting temperatures here to around 17 degrees.
generally values between 12 and 16 degrees.
as we move through sunday night, we keep some quite large areas of cloud.
the cloud will break in places but if you do see clear spells for any length of time, they could fill in with some patches of mist and fog.
and if it stays cloudy where you are, it will remain relatively mild but in the clearer spots, temperatures could drop relatively close to freezing.
so still on monday, still this patchwork of clear spells and cloudy areas.
it could well be that we see quite a lot of cloud rolling its way in from the north sea and that, coupled with a bit of a breeze from the north sea, will make it feel really rather chilly for some of our eastern coasts.
so temperatures in hull, for example, around 13 degrees, same sort of temperature for aberdeen but further west, glasgow, 17 degrees, in some spots up to 18 and as as we head deeper into the week, this area of high pressure stays with us, meaning it will be largely but with this high building to the north—east of us, this easterly wind will tend to strengthen a little.
so that breeze, quite noticeable coming in off the chilly north sea will make it feel rather cool for some of these eastern coasts.
we could see more cloud in the south developing some spells of sunshine elsewhere.
once again, the highest temperatures likely to be and west of the .
and that is a theme that will continue as we head deeper into the week.
always a little bit chilly the further east you are.
could turn quite cloudy around the middle parts of the week.
but there will always be some spells of sunshine and generally warmest in the west.
—: this is news.
we’ll have the headlines and all the main news stories for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
high spirits so they can’t kill it.
god’s plan, no man hiplife, to us, i1s what peanut this is what actually defines us as ghanaians.
every ghanaian everywhere is representing ghana with hiplife.
would not even have fathomed being a musician if hiplife didn’t happen.
the story of hiplife is important to tell don’t walk around in the philippines.
with the philistines.
dot, in any vicinity, fulfil a dream.
no, i’m not a rapper, i’m an ideas company to understand the rising global influence of african music, you have to understand the story of hiplife .
when did what did, tagged it.
so, when a dude put a piece of meat between two bread, and he called it a burger, he named it.
‘hiplife’.
but that’s all the boy really wanna hear hiplife music is a conversation between ghana’s past and its present.
this i1s the story of a music genre that birthed a global movement.
but before hiplife, there was ‘highlife’.
from ghana’s independence in 1957 through to the 1970s, highlife was the nation’s soundtrack.
back in the what we call 'the colonial days,’ they were using all these instruments for military you know, people were marching and things like that the colonial masters in their bow ties, they thought that that was a "high" form of life and they called it 110 =3 highlife isn’t originally from ghana.
highlife was brought to ghana by soldiers from the west ghanaian were pushed into the highlife.
we take what is happening outside and we bring our own.
ah, one, two, three, four!
stiid am the originator.
that’s what say, gyedu—blay ambolley is the tree.
those that came later, they are the branches.
stiid because when we were children, we didn’t have money to buy congas.
so, we started using our mouth for the country in the world that has the richest tradition of orators and linguists is ghana.
1 cannot speak to anybody.
he can — he can only speak through a linguist.
the linguist is the rapper, but it was me who added rhythm.
for the next two decades, highlife artists infused global beats like reggae, jazz, funk and disco into the genre.
in 1992, after 11 years of military rule, ghana had a new constitution and democratic freedom.
young ghanaians flooded the cultural capital, accra.
american hip—hop dominated the newly liberated airwaves.
a young music producer, panji anoff, tapped into the scene.
recorded a demo for almost every single rap group could find in accra at the time, free of charge.
a to work with is my childhood friend, reggie rockstone.
my name is reggie rockstone, the hiplife originator.
now whoop it up, turn it out.
whoop it up, bring it in.
turn it out, whoop it up, hey!
: reggie is always hype, all the time.
and when he speaks, it’s like he’s rapping.
mean, he’s literally, his language is like poetry.
woke up outta bed this morning.
crack a dawning grew up in colindale, , brixton, crackney — they call it hackney.
grew up iin brooklyn, new york, flatbush.
coming back home to ghana.
yeah, this is reggie rockstone when got off that plane, the smell, the sunshine, the love, right up to we started this movement called hiplife.
things took off when reggie met rab in accra.
met reggie rockstone in a called miracle mirage and he was rapping on the mic rab was an african—american who came to ghana to stay for a long period and helped develop this sound that became hiplife.
and introduced myself and reggie had the short locks at the time and he was with another rap artist called freddie funkstone.
thought was listening to rappers from brooklyn.
so, immediately, got up out of the table.
said, "look, don’t have any discs, but can make beats".
we left the club, like, 4:00 in the morning, we got to the recording studio at like 10:00 or 11:00 in the morning.
then, like, a few hours later, everything started clicking.
rab was very much like reggie as well — two peas in a pod.
unfortunately, he passed away.
but yeah, rab was reggie’'s partner in music for the two ghanaians, raised in the west, mixed hip—hop and hiplife was born.
looked like the folks that they had seen on .
had the short dreads, the wife beater, the tims, the camouflage.
but then, when rapped, it was in twi.
and that, that just blew everybody’s mind.
twi being one of the biggest local languages, it was unique in a sense that nobody had attempted to put rap together in that context before.
on and on for the hiplife.
check, check it out pops would always say, "listen, reggie," you know, "all your rap?
"bibbidy, bibbidy "people ain’t got time to listen to all of them lyrics.
"we need something to catch them — a hook, a chorus.
" and he was right.
because at the time, not long before came, naughty by nature had blown up with hip—hop - llhey’ holl — and my father always used to say how african that was — call and response.
now "tsoo bol," can say that anywhere in ghana and get a response.
tsoo bol.
yeah.
tsoo bol "tsoo bol" actually is the heave—ho.
any time we have to move something heavy, it’s that sound, and this tells you how powerful sound is.
tsoo bol reggie rockstone quickly became ghana’s first superstar.
people in the place!
you know what i’m sayin’?
it was so easy for africa to embrace hip—hop - it comes from us.
everything about hip—hop is african, right down to the boogey, right down to the swag — everything.
it’s only because of that big, bad boat ride called slavery is how we got divided.
got an uncle that look just like puff daddy.
yo, sometimes sit back and to reminisce panafest ‘94 — a pan—african cultural festival aimed at bringing africans around the globe together — would catapult hiplife.
felt panafest was, in many ways, the perfect opportunity for hiplife to go beyond accra.
all of a sudden, it changed.
it’s like, hold on a second - for the next two decades, hiplife acts dominated west african airwaves, reclaiming hip—hop as african.
there were some huge, huge sales made by hiplife artists like tic tac or obrafour or kenya.
for the very first time, they became the songs that you’d hear in the bars, the clubs — everywhere.
then, when came to this country, shot the very first hiplfe videos, which was reggie rockstone’s tsoo bol and talking drums’ aden.
once had a afro, but not some cornrow had wasted a lot of money taking talking drums to america and thinking that in 1995, america was ready for a burna =t0va know my name is shabba.
they were rapping but they were wearing these batakaris.
30 years ago, they were considered to be very primitive, traditional clothes.
but went to atlantic in 1995 with talking drums.
shouldn’t have done, 'cos met record executive who couldn’t even conceive that there was hip—hop in africa, so it took till 2020 for an american label like atlantic to sign burna boy.
like say tomorrow no dey.
by the late 2010s, afrobeats out of nigeria — a hybrid of highlife and global beats - had knocked hiplife off its pedestal.
afrobeats became the catch—all for west african pop.
hiplife is dead because the driving force of the music is the younger people, and the younger people do not identify with hiplife.
i’d be a fool to sit on and say hiplife is dead.
no, hiplife is not dead.
from jollof rice to football - dispute whether afrobeats was born out of hiplife.
get embarrassed when see these unnecessary ghanaian resentment towards nigerians '‘cos of their success.
it’s not a good look.
don’t deserve all your awesome.
but truthfully, truthfully we benefit from nigerian success, as nigerians do benefit from ghanaian success.
simple for your delight.
mmm, sake off.
some young people now don’t realise the collaborations and work that has been going on between ghanaian and nigerian artists for the last 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 years.
palm wine for lunch and dinner for breakfast nobody will understand the importance of hiplife until afrobeat is the biggest music in the world.
we are almost there already.
but without hiplife, there would be no afrobeats.
ghana had established that sound before nigerians really got into the stride of things.
like say tomorrow no dey for them, ‘99 was like a watershed moment for them and, ‘99, ghanaians already had megastar hiplife artists.
if you were to take the music that they were doing and compare it with what was happening in ghana, what you will find is that it was more like the pre—hiplife american imitation sort of music, and it didn’t have an identity.
but as time went on, they fused in the pidgin, the local language, just like hiplife did.
nigeria carried the torch but ghana lit the torch.
we dropped the soap.
we should have stood by that brand.
because our cousins next door did the same thing with afrobeat and they did not budge, and here we are today.
let’s be clear, first and foremost — afrobeats is not 1o ghanaian and nigerian.
like cabernet sauvignon.
strangers wondering what we on the originators of hiplife were a bit too precious about what it should be, so as new versions sonically were happening, you could hear people saying, "oh, this jamba.
"this azonto i1s watered down, it’s not real.
” this thing, there is always the idea of real.
you have to evolve or perish is what any music form has to understand.
those that were gatekeeping in hiplife were refusing to acknowledge the evolution.
up and down them streets, yeah.
and a thing must evolve.
the thing must evolve.
for it to survive, the thing must evolve.
sh—=sh-shut up and bend over now, a new generation of artists raised on hiplife are writing its next chapter.
kidi and kuami eugene are the fresh faces selling out international shows and captivating a global audience.
learned almost everything knew from the streets.
how to survive with no money in your pocket.
there are a lot of songs made by hiplife artists that actually motivated me, kept pushing me to go.
could see people making ends meet from doing music, which is hiplife music.
and knew had a space in there.
vibe.
by fire.
my vibe afrobeat, it’s making people enough money.
and 1t has the public eye.
my vibe even though we have artists doing afrobeat, it doesn’t tell our story.
hiplife is what tells our story.
and think it wouldn’t be fair for us to lose such a thing.
part of our heritage.
hiplife is the illustration of the culture of ghana.
i’m so tired don’t know what to do.
dreams, dream, dreams.
what i’d hear locally from my legends, with r&b, what 1i’d hear from the west.
when you’re cooking, you throw in this and then in about five minutes, you throw in this, that’s what happened to the hiplife genre.
so when it came, it was in its pure state, like, you know keep your eyes on the road like, it came in its original form but, with time, certain artists took something out of it, added something else and it became like, oh, yeah, hiplife has changed now.
my baby, you be wonderful.
you give me loving wey never know’oo.
my baby, you be miracle.
you give me loving wey never know reggie rockstone — a name that will forever be remembered in ghanaian music history — also came and said, ", "this i1s what we’re doing.
"you know, our fathers are having fun with this.
"what can bring?
"what can spice it up with, to give it a little different "flavour from what our people know?
" aol what birthed hiplife.
girl, your love is spiritual.
oh, my god, oh.
girl, your love dey be.
want to shower you kisses.
to live all over you.
when you give me chance and we had now hiplife and we got highlife, we had two things now.
now, the question is where do we go from here?
some honey.
buy some prada, gucci 1y my momma needs a house.
my brother needs some shoes.
had to get the family right before lost my granny.
i’m from the ghettos of ashaiman in a male—dominated industry, rapper eno barony is changing the face of hiplife.
think the existence of people like eno barony is the breaking of the glass—ceiling moment.
remember the first time was on the radio station with her, she out—rapped me.
was like, "my goodness — who is this one?
" all remember was just being shocked when she started rapping.
was shocked.
just wanted to listen to her.
my name eno means ‘mother’ in my native language, twi.
that’s the name my dad gave to me.
and somehow, some way, divine intervention, i’m like the mother of rap in ghana.
mzbel shot to fame in 2007 with a ground—breaking hiplife album, 16 years.
every girl knew at that time was dressing like mzbel.
face off w’ani be the 15 girl wey you want when came into the music scene, never saw most of the girls was seeing were, let me say, skinnier.
people were talking about my image so much - "why are you like this?
"why are you not going to look like this and stuff?
” it was bothering me.
when accepted myself as who am, did a song called heavy load and realised, "oh, so have fans who are just "like me and are looking up to me, the way dress, "everything do".
the truth about there are not many women involved in hiplife and in the music space is that the space, unfortunately, iis still quite sexist, you know?
it’s difficult for women, you know, to operate in these spaces, whether even it’s as simple as midnight sessions in the studio.
every successful music scene in the world has a lot so, iif we want to succeed bring the gal dem.
so, if you see a woman doing anything male—dominated, you don’t doubt it.
one of the oldest african proverbs, which is sankofa — there’s something beautiful in the past.
if you think you can’t go forward without it, go back, pick it up, and take it with you into the future.
that i1s where we are now.
what that brilliant culture called hiplife that birthed a lot of what’s happening now, to really reimagine it and see how we move forward sista, sista, damn miss ya.
1i’m gone till november, i’ll be back to getcha we had a sankofa moment with hiplife.
can count on you too?
i’m begging you.
let me free and make some revenue.
if chop, you go chop some too.
12 months pregnant, this idea is long overdue hiplife’s place in the future of global music may come down to who it lets in, what it holds on to, when you dey scratch my back.
if you dey fix my itch.
it’s all love symbiosis dey benefit.
do for each other, dem no go fit perhaps the only question is what do we choose to evolve?
is closest to us?
or do we choose to evolve the elements that are foreign to us?
who are you?
you are ghanaian.
so just be ghanaian.
right now, if go to the , and play any african music — it doesn’t matter what it 1s — - as long as they know it’s an african artist, it’s coming from south africa, it’s coming from senegal, it’s coming from kenya, it’s coming from nigeria, they’ll just call it afrobeats.
that’s the problem.
sn’t the fact that hiplife has lost its .
hiplife hasn’t lost his locally.
it is how the international audience is viewing hiplife.
still giving birth to artists day in, day out.
i it won’t bear fruit.
we have and it is something we can’t let go of, cos it’s part and parcel of us.
want hiplife to be that good story that lifted black folks in africa and all over the world, gave young people a voice.
my generation, it gave us a voice from africa.
initially, it was just in accra, then it was ghana, now, it’s global, through nigeria and ghana.
we have artists featuring with beyonce, featuring with justin bieber.
ultimately, believe as a musical genre, it gave a generation a voice and continues to do that.
and this voice has and is slowly changing the perception of this continent.
hiplife i1s identity to us bathe in faith, not based with snakes.
a basic case of me and fake no dey relate ldentity is very important.
if you lose that identity there, then you don’t know where you belong to.
the mother is highlife but rap is africa.
africa.
weather forecast a bit nippy, heard.
beggars can’t choose but be picky instead.
9 to 5 blues kick me, i’m dead.
a how fit see ahead.
weather forecast a bit nippy, heard.
beggars can’t choose but be picky instead.
9 to 5 blues kick me, i’m dead.
up early no sleep be someway bi.
boys abre all week be someway bi.
price of living no be cheap be someway bi.
but thank god it’s friday me be gye m’ani.
someway bi, be someway after what’s been a fairly wet and cool week for a large swathe of the , this weekend sees a transition to something drier and warmer underneath this area of high pressure.
this is the big picture, if you like, for sunday.
we start to develop more of a southerly wind and that will be pushing milder air across the but also some moister air as well, so we’re going to see a lot of cloud through sunday, also some drizzle for a time through the morning.
that will tend to become confined to the coasts through the day.
could see some mist and fog along some eastern coastal counties at first which will soon clear, allowing sunshine to develop and some of that will push its way further north and west.
when we get the sunshine, temperatures up to around 16 or 17 celsius on sunday afternoon.
of high pressure.
in fact, this is the set—up for the week ahead, although we do start to see more of an easterly wind settling in and as that does, it will bring something cooler for east—facing coasts but for many, mostly dry, spells of sunshine and away from eastern coasts, feeling a little warmer.
still a fair amount of cloud around on monday, across eastern areas and most will see some spells of sunshine through the day and some western coasts and northern ireland, perhaps hanging onto the cloud, maybe with a bit of drizzle at times.
in the sunshine, temperatures quite widely in the mid—teens, in the best of the sunshine and away from eastern coasts, temperatures could get up up to around 16 or 17 again.
as we head into tuesday, high pressure still the dominant feature, keeping atlantic fronts at bay, but notice the isobars start to come close together so we start to develop a stronger easterly wind.
once again, some coastal counties, eastern coastal cooler, more cloud pushing across southern counties of england, and perhaps wlaes too, but for many, day, good spells of sunshine, warm in the sunshine away from eastern coasts but most will have a day as well.
little change really as we head into wednesday.
if anything, the winds become a bit stronger on wednesday.
we are sitting on the edge of that area of high pressure.
once again, a fair amount of cloud across some southern counties and parts of wales, sunshine developing for many through the day but notice the strength of the wind on wednesday, quite a keen easterly wind blowing so despite some sunshine along eastern coasts, it will be feeling on the cool side, perhaps 12 or 13 celsius away from eastern coasts, temperatures again earlier in the week.
and we keep the strength of the wind, we still keep that stronger windows we head into thursday.
mainly dry, good deal of sunshine but that noticeable easterly breeze taking the edge of temperatures but on thursday at the moment, a fine day, good deal of sunshine but we could start to see some showers pushing into parts of east anglia and south—east england as well and those temperatures will typically be between 12 and 14 or 15 celsius.
so further on from there, as this high pressure continues to drift away a little bit further, we start to see areas 0 across central and southern parts of england and here we could start to see some showers developing as we head through the weekend and into the early part of the following week but think, for many, where we’ve seen a fair amount of rain recently and things have been on the cool side, for the week ahead and then further ahead into the forecast, things are looking mainly and a little bit bit warmer.
bye—bye.
sh—=sh-shut up and bend over live from washington.
this 1s news.
at least 27 people killed, including aid workers, in clashes between sudan’s army and a paramilitary force.
more than 100 animal rights protesters arrested after storming the ground at the grand national horse race.
and minneapolis becomes the first major city to allow broadcast of the muslim call to prayer over speakers five times a day, all year round.
i’m helena humpbhrey.
ood to have you with us.
we start in sudan, where heavy fighting between two rival factions of the military has left at least 27 people dead, including three staff.
earlier, gunfire and explosions rocked the capital, khartoum.
the sudanese military has = inside amid clashes at the presidential palace and the city’s airport.
what you’re seeing here was recorded earlier at khartoum international airport, where at least two people were reportedly killed.
footage there shows large plumes of smoke and fighter jets flying low overhead.
and there was this video from inside the khartoum airport, showing passengers taking cover on the floor.
major airlines have reportedly suspended flights.
this is the skyline across khartoum.
exact death tolls are yet to be confirmed.
a journalist from the washington post newspaper reported 30 people dead and nearly 400 injured, citing the united nations.
victims include three united nations aid workers, who were killed in the crossfire at a military base.
we want to show you what happened earlier on sudanese state .
the newsreader briefly appeared talking about clashes, but lsten carefully and you can hear gunshots in the background.
you see the picture then froze and a short while later, the broadcast suddenly cuts off.
these clashes erupted after tensions over a proposed transition to civilian rule.
let’s remind ourselves of the political situation in sudan.
sudan has been run by the military since a coup in october 2021.
the fighting is between army units loyal to the facto leader general abdel fattah al-burhan and the , commanded by sudan’s deputy leader mohamed hamdan dagalo.
the two sides are in a dispute over who governs the country.
violence is also being reported in several other cities across the country.
the reuters news agency is reporting eyewitness accounts of sudanese army air strikes in the city of omdurman.
the target is a base belonging to the paramilitary group, north—east of the capital khartoum.
both sides have issued conflicting claims of control over key installations, from airports to the presidential palace.
in a post on facebook, the sudanese army has labelled the a "rebel militia” and said, there "will be no negotiations or talks earlier, spoke with the director of africa programs of peace susan stigant, who was actually in sudan two weeks ago.
could you tell that tensions were running high?
yes, was there a week before last and at that point, it was clear that the tensions were incredibly high.
there was a mobilisation of heavy weaponry, reports i 1ep of additional forces and it was clear in that the political negotiations that were going on in an effort to form a new civilian government to end the coup of october 2021, that the parties were coming down to the really difficult issues and particularly, the question of the structure of decision—making and power and control, and the relationship between general burhan as the head of the sudan armed forces and general hemedti as but the fear and concern and tensions were absolutely palpable at that point.
so those tensions, as you describe there, were palpable — the feeling that we were starting to come to what appears to be, at least, a pivotal moment.
but perhaps for people who might not be entirely familiar with the political situation in sudan, just briefly explain to us what is going on here.
in the time leading up to today, there have been talks and negotiations taking place to really move to that — a new civilian—led government.
this resulted in a draft political framework agreement before the end of 2022 and the discussions continued on, really, five core issues that were the most difficult to resolve — justice, questions of peace, questions of what happens in the eastern part of sudan, questions about what happens with those who are responsible for crimes and those who are part of the former bashir regime and then, this incredibly difficult question about security sector reform.
and so, there have been intensive discussions taking place and think much of the focus has really been pushing to to get to that agreement that could bridge i for sudan, if you will.
and so, what we saw over the last 24 hours, think, is the clearest and, think, in many ways quite tragic evidence that those who are holding the power, gun, are not comfortable.
and as much as we believe and we say that violence will not resolve the issue, those people who have the authority over coercive force right now, they believe that they are strengthening their positions for the future through the use of violence.
so, susan, you talked there about people with the authority in sudan but wonder, then, what does all of this mean for people’s everyday lives in the country?
yes, mean, two weeks ago, people were certainly feeling the impact of the economic crisis.
inflation had hit over 150% and that economic crisis has really been building since the october 2021 coup.
and in other urban areas across the country, people are living in the middle of active fighting.
think there are concerns about people getting access to basic services and there are real safety concerns for individuals.
and when you think about a time four years ago when the sudanese people really came together, men and women, young and olg, from all across the country to mobilise in a peaceful way against an authoritarian regime, who put themselves at risk, who have really sacrificed, in hundreds of instances, their lives being in the midst of a fight between security and military, think, i1s really shocking for many sudanese and for many of us who watch the country closely.
and talking about the country but also the region, susan, as well, mean, we’re hearing that fighting we’ve also heard that neighbouring chad has what do you think are the risks of potential spread here and do you think that we expect any engagement from surrounding the neighbourhood where sudan is located — mean, you’ve mentioned chad, south sudan, central african republic, ethiopia.
these are countries that are all facing their own q1r and where the relationships between different groups across the countries are fragile and tenuous.
and so, think, an incredibly — you know, the first—order message right now is to end the violence, and don’t think that can be said too much, too loudly or at too high a level at the moment.
think a second—order message is to say to the neighbouring countries step back.
0 engaging in any way that could helped to perpetuate the violence that’s taking place andg, in fact, take a step forward to to encourage those who are fighting to put the weapons down and to return to some sort of sensible political framework and political negotiation that could hopefully deliver a new government and a more peaceful situation for the sudanese people.
susan, do you think that that possibility is still there at this moment?
is the window still open for the violence to be ended?
well, think the escalation and the speed of the escalation of violence, the rhetoric and the spread of the violence is incredibly concerning.
and we know that there are always openings and windows and so, think coherence among international partners, space for the sudanese — who are still courageously and with the greatest determination trying to find ways to bridge and deliver the message that a pathway towards a democratic, peaceful sudan does not include the use of violence in a civil war.
susan, you work for the institute of peace.
just want to ask you briefly about the role of the united today, calling for an immediate end to violence, also calling this "a fragile situation” as the country looks to transition back to civilian rule.
do you think that there are any indications that the might seek to mediate in some way?
the united states has been actively involved in supporting the ongoing political - the negotiations that were taking place prior to today.
its diplomatic support.
hopefully, that includes engagement at the highest levels of the united states government.
and anticipate that that will be done in close partnership with leaders from the region, with the african union, with the united nations, with the united kingdom, with the united arab emirates, saudi arabia.
think these are all countries that have influence and interest in seeing a stable sudan and countries that a do 1l in reaching some of the people who are actually the ones who are creating the situation on the ground right now.
institute of peace, who has recently returned susan, thanks for your insights.
thank you.
we want to bring you some breaking news from mexico.
six adults and a child have been shot dead at a water park in cortazar.
local authorities say gunmen stormed the park.
the statement from officials did not provide any insight 114101 2 a ¢ in india, a former politician and his brother have been shot atig ahmed, who’s pictured here on the right with his brother ashraf ahmed, were taking questions from a journalist moments before they were shot.
atig ahmed was under police escort facing murder and assault charges.
last month, the supreme court declined to hear his petition, in which he alleged there was a threat to his life from the police.
to the , and 118 people have been have been arrested at the grand national — one of the most prestigious they were arrested on suspicion of criminal damage and public nuisance offences in relation to disruption.
a large number of police had been deployed to the ground after animal rights activists had warned they would to disrupt the race.
officers went onto the course to remove the protesters.
the start of the race was delayed for 14 minutes whilst the group were cleared, but it did eventually go ahead and was won by corach rambler ridden by the jockey derek fox.
our correspondent sharon barbour was at aintree racecourse.
well, it’s been a really tense day here at aintree, a day of high drama.
it began with the protesters animal rising which, all week, had threatened to disrupt that most important of races in the racing calendar, the grand national, which was due to start at 5:15pm.
everybody said that they couldn’t possibly.
there were so many police here surrounding the racecourse, the protesters arrived.
they began their rally, they began a protest.
they sat down on the ground and we spoke to them.
they were determined, they said, to disrupt the race, but still, it wasn’t believed that it was possible.
well, they did.
the race was stopped for around 15 minutes as they got nine animal rising protesters were arrested.
a little bit about that organisation — it was, until a few days ago, animal extinction.
it was a sister organisation to rebellion extinction.
we don’t know how many were here but certainly, they got onto the track.
they managed somehow to get through security and disrupted a race that’s so important not only here in liverpool, but right around the world.
500 million, the jockey club say, watch the race in 140 countries.
so, certainly, even though the race got underway, for the activists, it was a success in raising what they say are issues around animal welfare.
certainly, there are going to be a lot of questions not only about security and what they can do to now protect that race but also questions about what they can do, perhaps, about the safety of the horses taking part.
back to you.
iyp an update on our top story with regards to the clashes we have thing today in sudan and ccording to update we now according to the doctor’s tral committee in sudan, 56 have been killed in violence.
a laslols have been killed in violence.
we have a number of 595 people el=ys we have a number of 595 people wounded and you remember we seen clashes and violence the capital khartoum as well preading across the country.
just those updated ers, 56 people killed.
staying in the , and prime minister rishi sunak is to ban the construction of new smart motorways which use technology to requlate speed and traffic 14 planned smart motorways - including 11 that are already paused — will be removed from government road building plans.
the ’s panorama programme in 2020 investigated smart motorways, revealing 38 people have been killed on them over a space of five years.
that led to the government reviewing the smart motorway network.
here’s a snippet from the documentary by richard we put in a freedom of information request for one one warning sign was out for nearly a year — 336 days.
there was also a 20—fold rise in near misses — 72 in the five years with the hard shoulder, 1,485 in the five years without.
earlier, spoke to our political correspondent, damian grammaticas, and asked him how smart motorways work and what prompted the government decision.
yeah, so the way these work is that in order to to improve the flow of traffic on the motorways and keep traffic moving, what the government has done here over recent years is bring in these sort of measures.
now, some are simply electronic boards that advise you, they change the speed limit and to keep traffic moving.
the one that is most controversial is a scheme that exists already on quite a number of motorways where the hard shoulder — so the edge of the motorway, what would not be used in traditional motorways, if you had a problem — that had been converted on some motorways into an extra lane for permanent moving traffic.
now, the idea was that it’s monitored by cameras.
there are these billboards.
if you had trouble or a problem, you were told to stay in your car.
the traffic would be directed to slow down and go around you.
now, part of the problem was that there were accidents happening there, and as that panorama programme revealed, there had been some 30—plus deaths on some of those motorways in recent years.
so this had led to a safety review, a pause in the development of new areas of smart motorway.
and what we now get is this announcement that the projects that have been paused, so 14 of them have been paused or planned, will not go ahead.
two projects which are nearing completion will actually now be done.
but crucially, think it’s important to say the ones that are already in place will stay.
they will continue, with some safety upgrades, so those will not change.
so damian, is this actually the end, then, of smart motorways?
and can the government do this?
no, by any means it’s not the end.
so at the minute smart motorways cover already something like 10% of the motorway network, some 400 miles here in the , so the ones that are in place will stay in place.
for the sort of time frame you can look into, up to the end of the decade, all road building plans — and smart motorways are part of that — they’re now being removed from those plans.
nothing before the end of the decade, and it will continue to look at how users view this.
but it’s worth saying, too, this is not just about safety.
a large part of this is about cost — inflating prices for the work to convert motorways into smart ones.
the bill for the project upcoming is put at about the government is making.
so there’s a cost saving it can make here, as well as, it says, listening to or responding to public concerns about safety.
our political correspondent, damian grammaticas, breaking that down for us.
damian, thank you.
tens of thousands of people anl0 1 = - tens of thousands of people demonstrated in tel aviv, monstrating reforms that give government decisive control appoints judges.
critics it will hurt democracy.
ponents nuclear power have been celebrating ermany as shuts down been celebrating in germany as been celebrating in germany as it shuts down three nuclear ts, believe placed a quick tal-y plants, believe placed a quick nuclear power after the 2011 shima power disaster.
fukushima power disaster.
a survey show most germans oppose losures as they see nuclear power cleaner than fuels.
hundreds of fossil fuels.
hundreds of prisoners of fossil fuels.
hundreds of a 18 fossil fuels.
hundreds of prisoners of war have been a second day a freed in a second day a risoner exchanges between ring factions in yemen.
some tainees were released cording to the international munity of according to the international according to the international community of the red cross in eration that involved flights criss—crossing yemen audi to the state of minnesota, where the state’s largest populated city, minneapolis, has become the first major city to allow broadcast of the muslim call to prayer, adhan, to be heard over speakers five times a day, all year—round.
earlier, spoke with jaylani hussein, the executive director of minnesota’s council on american—islamic relations, the state’s leading muslim civil rights and legal advocacy organization.
o1 can you explain what is the c: call to prayer and can you explain what is the call to prayer and white is so =1l call to prayer and white is so important to be heard over the kers.
thank you for having me.
it’s a symbol of really islam and it’s a continuation of what other faith traditions do and so for muslims across the world, wherever they are, you see that that’s 1 you probably know that they’re muslims living because that call to prayer comes out.
just like most people would know that there a church nearby if bells are going off on sunday or on other holidays, so, it truly is a symbol of islam and most mosques across the world have the call to prayer and, unfortunately in america, we haven’t had that opportunity to see this being practised widely or even practised and so this step in minneapolis is not only historic and we hope that many cities across the country who have many mosques across america can i - 1t @i only it’s a freedom of religion issue but it’s really also making sure signs of inclusion, that muslims are actually part and parcel of our communities.
so what did restrictions look like before and how did this change come about, and now?
well, the state of minnesota actually had the policy that made sure that there wouldn’t be any violation of consitutionally protected practice of freedom of religion, so the city of minneapolis had a noise ordinance that specifically had allowed noise only from from 7am until 10pm and we live in the northern part of the country here, our prayers move pretty gradually throughout the year so technically only three prayers would be allowed throughout the year and so what we worked with, councilwoman aisha chughtai, who worked with our office, and one of our local mosques there, dar al—hijrah, and we were able to change that noise ordinance to make sure that it did allow for the call to prayer and really allow for any other type of practice of religion that may be limited by that noise ordinance from 7am to 10pm.
and how has this been received in the city, in the community?
i’ve received from our organisation, and just from what we’ve seen so far, an incredible amount of support and even in this process of requesting this, it was truly an interfaith effort.
we had our community members from all faith traditions that came in support of this effort and for the muslim community, had a member of our community who is a descendant of slaves, and never thought, she told me she never thought she would ever hear the call of prayer in america and it’s something that obviously we have a right to do, so this is incredible.
talked to families and individuals who said this their children never get to experience and for many of our neighbours and our community members who are not muslim, they are extremely welcoming and so tremendous support and excitement and think we have set a precedent spacex plans to carry out its first test flight on monday of starship, the most powerful rocket ever built, designed to send astronauts to the moon and eventually beyond.
starship is set to launch on monday at 7:00am, local time.
l1 carries crew and cargo and the first—stage super heavy booster rocket.
starship generates 17 million pounds of thrust, more than double that of the saturn rockets used to send apollo astronauts to the moon.
just reminding of the latest ig0 00 just reminding of the latest from sudan.
the doctors central nnlin from sudan.
the doctors central committee telling us that 56 have been killed, 595 people have been killed, 595 people injured after heavy ting between rival military tudlo 18l fighting between rival military i ons with the secretary 1 eneral calling for an mediate ceasefire.
fighting continued deep into the ight with government iesn - night with government airstrikes reported night with government koy airstrikes reported on o= airstrikes reported on positions in cities while the orce had i - =y positions in cities while the air force had earlier warned lians to stay inside.
stay with us here on news.
thank you for your company.
goodbye for now.
most of us got to see some sunshine on saturday.
suspect that sunday will be a cloudier affair.
that cloud rolling its way in from the west.
that saidq, if you do get some sunshine, it will feel relatively warm.
but those cloudier conditions, courtesy of this frontal system the west, even bringing some splashes of rain.
high pressure still holding firm just about, so we’re looking at mainly weather and where we are closest to the centre of the high across parts eastern england, a sunny but rather chilly start with some early fog patches.
further west, though, a lot of cloud, spots through the afternoon, northern ireland could well brighten up but that could spawn some pretty sharp showers.
north—east scotland, also seeing some spells of sunshine, lifting temperatures here to around 17 degrees.
generally values between 12 and 16 degrees.
as we move through sunday night, we keep some quite large areas of cloud.
the cloud will break in places but if you do see clear spells for any length of time, they could fill in with some patches of mist and fog.
and if it stays cloudy where you are, it will remain relatively mild but in the clearer spots, temperatures could drop relatively close to freezing.
into monday, still this patchwork of clear spells and cloudy areas.
it could well be that we see quite a lot of cloud rolling its way in from the north sea and that, coupled with a bit of a breeze from the north sea, will make it feel really rather chilly for some of our eastern coasts.
so temperatures in hull, for example, around 13 degrees, same sort of temperature for aberdeen but further west, glasgow, 17 degrees, in some spots up to 18 and as as we head deeper into the week, this area of high pressure stays with us, meaning it will be largely but with this high building to the north—east of us, this easterly wind will tend to strengthen a little.
so that breeze, quite noticeable coming in off the chilly north sea will make it feel rather cool for some of these eastern coasts.
we could see more cloud in the south developing on tuesday, maybe even giving rise to the odd shower.
some spells of sunshine elsewhere.
once again, the highest temperatures likely to be and west of the .
and that is a theme that will continue as we head deeper into the week.
always a little bit chilly the further east you are.
could turn quite cloudy around the middle parts of the week.
but there will always be some spells of sunshine and generally warmest in the west.
—: this is news.
we’ll have the headlines and all the main news stories for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
northern ireland, a small place of only 2 million people, once again capturing the attention of the world.
presidents and prime ministers past and present have been getting into the province to join in celebrations for a political agreement signed here 25 years ago.
syttototo lyo of northern ireland, protecting the peace, preserving the belfast good friday agreement is a priority.
it’s regarded as the day that helped and decades of violence here during the 1970s, '80s and ‘90s.
reactions to it being signed were largely positive.
for the generation to come, it be fantastic, one for the generation to come, it = 1 1 for the generation to come, it will be fantastic, one of the test things in our history, nyway.
some were not convinced.
don’t think we will ever see peace.
it’ll take something different.
have come to dromore, a town in county down, roughly 20 minutes outside of belfast, it’s also where grew up and went to school.
was born in 1998, the year the good friday agreement was signed here in northern ireland.
it means grew up after the troubles ended and didn’t have to worry as much as maybe my parents did, for example, about getting caught up in the conflict happening here.
me and others like me born after it was signed are known as ‘peace babies’ and i’m keen to find out where they think northern ireland could be in the next 25 years.
just across from where am now is my old school, dromore high.
there’s me!
left here in 2017, but it’s where was first taught about the good friday agreement.
i’m meeting some students who are in their last years the classrooms they study are the ones used to sit in.
the five of us sitting here right now were born in northern ireland after the good friday agreement was signed, so we are peace babies.
what does that term mean to you, that term?
haven’t heard much about it but suppose it’s something take for granted.
when have been talking to my parents about the troubles, mum was saying the other day, she just brought up a story about how she had to go to an army checkpoint.
really did not think that that would’ve happened in her time.
just — really, it took me by surprise, was not thinking about it.
it doesn’t mean much because we are very ignorant into the pain and suffering that our parents or grandparents went through.
mean, i’m glad have peace.
would not like to lived the life that my parents said they had to live.
when say the term ‘troubles,’ what you think of straight away?
derry girls.
are you a big fan?
even the army getting on board the bus, and they’re acting like it’s a normal thing.
everyone remained seated.
derry girls 1s a series set during the troubles in the 1990s and was filmed in derry.
what’s going on?
it looks at the conflict to the lens of five teenagers and aired on channel 4 for the first time in 2018.
it’s been praised by many in northern lreland for showing what it was like to grow up during the violence.
it’s been popular locally, as well as around the world.
if you were to imagine getting the bus to school and the army stopped i1t and got on, would with that be normal for you?
certainly wouldn’t be as unfazed as they were in the w.
but yeah, guess that’s at it was back then.
like, we never worry about violence.
we don’t get on a school bus and fear of our lives like people did.
think it 1s very separate 1 from us than it think it is very separate from us than it is for them.
it does just seem completely different world is what they are describing, compared to what we have now.
do you think northern ireland will exist in 25 years?
to be quite honest, if there is even the smallest sliver of a possibility that, if a united ireland happened, just this unrest and hatred would be put down, it would be so much better to live in a society where you don’t have to live in constant fear of saying you’re from the wrong side when you’re the wrong place.
is that something that you think still exist, like, do you fear to say whether you are a catholic or protestant in certain areas?
like, i’ve heard of friends of mine going to certain places catholic when they’re catholic, because they felt they would be under threat if they said otherwise, just because people in the environment they were in, and think it 1s still a thing that people do still feel under threat inn certain areas.
i’ve never been afraid to say i’m protestant.
a that’s what believe.
and i’m never been afraiq, because what are they going to do about 1t?
1 all about appreciating someone be different from you but that doesn’t mean you can’t be friends, that doesn’t mean you can’t work beside them, that doesn’t mean you can’t train beside them, because the reality of northern ireland everywhere you go, you are going to be with someone who’s a different religion than you, who has different ideas from you and that’s what you have to accept and move on from.
do you think people in the republic of ireland and in england, scotland and wales know enough about northern ireland and the complexities of what it can mean to live here?
don’t think any other country, other than us living here right now, g3 1a 0 the complexities of being a citizen in this country, but they are taught everything about what either side stood for, what they fought for.
they have never experienced what it is like to live in a country where you probably will fear to say what you believe in.
luckily, i’ve also never had to experience that because was born well after the good friday eit the good friday agreement, or the belfast agreement, was a deal to help bring an end to 30 years of the troubles iin northern ireland.
it involves northern ireland’s political parties, the british and irish governments.
negotiations took several years and ended on good friday, the 10th of april, 1998 — eight months before was born.
the agreement focused on areas such as culture and civil rights, as well as justice and policing.
the deal caused controversy, too, as it meant prisoners to the troubles were released early.
politicians agreed three main areas.
the first thing they agreed was to set up a parliament this would be the northern ireland assembly.
secondly, they set up a council to develop cooperation on areas like farming and health that would benefit both northern ireland and the republic of ireland.
lrges was a british—=irish council to promote the relationship between britain and ireland.
also in the deal was dual british and irish citizenship for those who wanted 1t, a return to peacetime security arrangements, and the removal of security installations.
all illegal paramilitary groups also had to destroy their weapons.
hereby give notice a referendum was held on both with the agreement being accepted by an overall majority.
i’m now on my way to dublin, crossing the border into the republic of ireland.
it’s about a 2—hour drive and i’m on my way to speak to some of the relatives of re one of the people responsible for giving so many hope back in 1998.
we in the concluded many years ago that we couldn’t lay the basis for agreement against a background of violence or disorder.
that 1s we entered into the process of dialogue, to do everything in our power to bring peace to our streets.
ollie, explain to me who your granddad is.
ah, well, my granddad is john hume.
he was a politician in northern ireland.
he worked during the troubles and worked during the peace process and on the good friday agreement, and he sort of helped bring the two sides together.
well, guess how knew him, he was always in the house in donegal and he’d always be sat in the — there’s, like, an armchair in the sitting room and he’d always be sat there and he’d always have the crossword out.
he loved petit filous.
the yoghurts?
yeah, the yoghurts, yeah!
think my granny had to hide all, like, the chocolates and sweets and yoghurts and basically anything with sugar in it ‘cos he’d hunt them down!
you’d go in, he’d be in his armchair and he’d have fallen asleep watching the .
and if you go to change the channel he’d be, like, " was watching that!
" yeah, and he’d always ask for his dessert before his dinner — always remember that.
before his dinner?
and he was just — don’t think really realised, cos was quite young, don’t think really realised how important he really was to the country until he died and he was on the news for, like, five days straight.
was, like, "oh, my god!
" like, have no idea because he was really just ‘granddad’.
what do you know about the good friday agreement as well?
guess know what it meant and that kind of what it — like sort of the ideas it brought in to northern ireland about peace and everyone getting along and all that i but, yeah how important do you think it is?
think it’s really important, yeah, definitely.
well, it kind of cements the fact that people don’t just want to keep on fighting in this day.
they want change, and people were looking for change, if people wanted it then, it’s a thing that we should stand by now.
how do you feel about what your granddad did 25 years ago?
honestly think it’s pretty good because i’d be in school and i’d be, like, just in history or whatever, and you would be looking through the textbook and there would just be, like, photographs of him and talking about him, and it’s, like, wow, he really did something important.
what’s the legacy like for you, ollie?
some of my friends were over here the other day and they saw the photo with bill clinton and the nobel prize, and they think it’s crazy.
like, some of them were sending photos of it to their parents.
and they were saying, "0oh, is this not weird, "having it in your house?
" to me, it’s just my granddad.
100 miles back up the road is belfast, northern ireland’s capital city.
during the troubles, it was the scene of many brutal attacks and killings but also, is where some talks were held and the good friday agreement signed.
today, it’s a modern city, attracting tourists from all over the world who want to learn about its past and the peace process.
but in some areas of the city, like here in west belfast, where walls that separate the two sides of the community tower over houses — and, in some cases, run through people’s back gardens — peace isn’t something that’s a certainty.
just two years ago, riots broke out by the peace line at lanark way.
police officers were attacked, petrol bombs thrown and a bus was set on fire.
police said paramilitary organisations were likely to have been involved.
it’s a different picture to where am now — the lyric theatre across the city — where i’ve come to meet some young actors rehearsing for their next big production.
but all loyal catholics have my protection.
all the ancient fathers baptised the very young.
baptism in the scriptures is for adults who come to jesus by their free will.
hello, guys!
: hiya!
sorry for interrupting.
aaron, you’re telling me you’re from the shankill area, ballysillan.
i e1 suppose, is quite famous, known for being, like, a unionist loyalist area.
well, tell me a bit about what it’s like growing up there.
was always quite insulated from, like, the sort of conflict, guess — like, my parents kind of kept it out.
like, didn’t really even know catholics were a thing until was about 10.
and remember my dad trying to explain it to me and just not having a clue about what he talking about.
those areas are quite underfunded or deprived some areas.
think they’ve been left behind a bit in some of the regeneration that’s gone on post the good friday eit would you describe peace as fragile in, you know, maybe the area that you grew up in?
think especially the last couple of years, especially think post—brexit has sort of started to put an awful lot - don’t know if was a couple of months or a year ago, can’t remember, there was all that trouble in lanark way and there was a bus stolen and everything else, and remember and the — the riot or whatever you want to call it, there was the old boys at the back sending the young lads at the front forward, do you know what mean?
so, think especially over the last couple of years, think there’s a perception among a lot of people in sort of the areas i’m from that the peace hasn’t necessarily benefited them.
so, where could the next 25 years, then, take northern ireland’s creative and arts industries?
we have a burgeoning film and industry here.
like, across the world, it’s almost synonymous now with northern lreland.
the last five years, you couldn’t open a finance magazine or a tech magazine that didn’t tell you the place to open a start—up because of the — whatever, the low land rates or whatever, is belfast.
it’s a tech hub of europe, etc, etc, etc.
none of that would have been possible pre the good friday agreement because none of — nobody would’ve wanted to come here and set up a business where somebody could just blow it to pieces.
it’s — it’s not a good business decision.
like, it’s simply not.
and that’s the good friday agreement is so important because you can interpret it in so many different ways as well, in terms of a historical document, a cultural document but it’s also an economic document in that it has helped us gain some semblance of peace here and a ceasefire which has allowed places to open businesses and, ultimately, do better for our country.
so, how does your immediate family and your friends and that react whenever you told them you wanted to pursue a career iin the arts?
my immediate family were all very supportive cos they used to come see my shows and stuff when was a kid, and they were all very supportive of it, but, i mean, worked for 1.
5 years in the shankill, and a couple of years back there, and sometimes people would ask, "what are you up to?
" and you tell them and they’d kind of be like, "oh, what?
what’s that?
" and think in some, like, loyalist communities, the arts is seen as quite a feminine thing because there’s sort of a more traditional style of masculinity in places like that.
what more can be done?
think policy changes.
people need to start voting based on actual policy and not just i’m going to vote for the most unionist people can, an to get the most unionist people out or to get the most nationalist people out, cos that is not constructive for anyone, cos then it’s just always sinn fein , and nothing’s changing because everyone’is too scared.
we just need to make it like, obviously, don’t like, am just a 19—year—old girl, but they need to they need to find some other way to structure it.
we’ve come to londonderry, or ‘derry’, northern ireland’s second city, with a population of about 110,000 people.
we’re on peace bridge right now, and peace is something we’ve talked a lot about, but i’m now keen to hear what other issues are on young people’s minds here.
my first stop iis the guildhall to meet bethany who works for a women’s organisation, and in her spare time, supports those having abortions.
it’s really hard for me to approach the 25th anniversary with this celebratory tone.
mean, there are a lot of issues to address within the north right now - we’re in a cost—of—living crisis, we’re in a healthcare crisis, people here still don’t have full access to abortion, as was promised when decriminalisation came in in 2019.
really think we have to look at all those social justice issues, so we have to look at, you know, proper healthcare waiting lists across the , - -v & a1zl health crisis here, you know, we’ve lost more lives to suicide than we did in the troubles, we need to look at, you know, diversity, the changing demographics, you know, ending violence against women and girls, champion relationships and sex education, doing that work on the ground to make sure that everyone here can not only survive, but thrive and live healthy, fulfilled lives.
mean, surely that’s what peace is all about.
so, those changes that you’ve said you’d like to see happen — how do they happen?
mean, think it’s difficult when you’re in a place that has just complete political stalemate.
we need a democratic voice here.
so think, you know, people are starting to look at amending the agreement.
you know, think we need some sort of political voice here.
whether that’s done through stormont or other means, and think it’s natural for people to start looking at alternatives when it comes to things like that as well.
just outside the guildhall and across the street is the peace flame garden, and it’s where meet donall like the rest of the , people are struggling financially.
like, the price of gas has gone up, the price of petrol bounces around, people are struggling to make ends meet.
like, for example, i’m on a salary, like, make a full-time wage in my job as a union officer, but still pick up shifts on the side at my local, still pull pints on the weekend.
part of that is because enjoy it, but part of that, as well, trying to make ends meet, trying to cover my rent.
what would your hopes be for where northern lreland could be in, say, maybe 25 years’ time?
i’d love for us to be in a position where we have a political system that represents our entire society, something that builds on the framework that was laid out by the good friday agreement 25 years ago to a point where we have a fair system where everybody feels they’re represented and where everybody’s views are represented.
it’s going to take a lot of work to get there.
don’t think we’re there yet, think we’re on the road there, but what we have now, our current powersharing system has some wrinkles that really need to be ironed out desperately.
the final person i’m meeting on my tour of derry is student elie—o at one of the city’s newest tourist hot spots, the derry girls mural.
so, ellie—o, you are a real—life derry girl.
we’ve got obviously the derry girls there, but you are a true born and bred derry girl.
yeah, born in derry, love it.
what other issues are young people in northern ireland concerned about at the minute?
we have no opportunity here.
we have a cap on the numbers of students who can attend our local universities, which think is just abysmal.
that we would actually rather them to go somewhere else.
so i’m seeing my friends leave year after year, and think, in general, how do we build a sense of community from that?
if we already have our own internal issues, we keep leaving.
who’s going to be left to rebuild things here?
northern ireland’s been without an executive now it’s not the first time this has happened.
what impact does that have on you and your friends and other young people?
i’m only 18 years of age.
actually don’t really know a functional stormont.
we only had it there for about two, three years before it actually broke down once again.
think when actually look at politics, what political leadership have seen, what actual politics have seen?
and it’s all been very disappointing.
like, actually don’t understand.
where do you think northern ireland could get to in the next 25 years?
john hume and other peace builders were once john hume and those peace builders at their peak wasn’t in my lifetime, so we do have that new opportunity.
think politicians need to realise that.
nobody is looking for another john hume, but want somebody of that magnitude that can build people together and kind of create a movement that can better us all, and that’s something in the next 25 years we could aim for.
but just days after speaking to bethany, donall and ellie—o in derry, and 25 years to the day since the agreement was signed, these were the scenes in the city.
people hiding their faces took part in an illegal republican parade, which soon turned violent, with petrol bombs being thrown at a police van.
tensions are flaring up again with republican and loyalist paramilitary groups, not just in derry.
but for the young people i’ve been speaking to, there’s still positivity, optimism and hope around their future on what the next 25 years could bring.
after what’s been a fairly wet and cool week for a large swathe of the , this weekend sees a transition to something drier and warmer underneath this area of high pressure.
this is the big picture, if you like, for sunday.
we start to develop more of a southerly wind and that will be pushing milder air across the but also some moister air as well, so we’re going to see a lot of cloud through sunday, also some drizzle for a time through the morning.
that will tend to become confined to the coasts through the day.
could see some mist and fog along some eastern coastal counties at first which will soon clear, allowing sunshine to develop and some of that will push its way further north and west.
when we get the sunshine, temperatures up to around 16 or 17 celsius on sunday afternoon.
of high pressure.
in fact, this is the set—up for the week ahead, although we do start to see more of an easterly wind settling in and as that does, it will bring something cooler for east—facing coasts but for many, mostly dry, spells of sunshine and away from eastern coasts, feeling a little warmer too.
still a fair amount of cloud around on monday, which will soon break across eastern areas and most will see some spells of sunshine through the day and some western coasts and northern ireland, perhaps hanging onto the cloud, maybe with a bit of drizzle at times.
in the sunshine, temperatures quite widely in the mid—teens, in the best of the sunshine and away from eastern coasts, temperatures could get up up to around 16 or 17 again.
as we head into tuesday, high pressure still the dominant feature, keeping atlantic fronts at bay, but notice the isobars start to come close together so we start to develop a stronger easterly wind.
once again, some coastal counties, eastern coastal counties, will feel cooler, more cloud pushing across southern counties of england, and perhaps wales too, but for many, day, good spells of sunshine, warm in the sunshine away from eastern coasts but most will have a day as well.
little change really as we head into wednesday.
if anything, the winds become a bit stronger on wednesday.
we are sitting on the edge of that area of high pressure.
once again, a fair amount of cloud across some southern counties and parts of wales, sunshine developing for many through the day but notice the strength of the wind on wednesday, quite a keen easterly wind blowing so despite some sunshine along eastern coasts, it will be feeling on the cool side, perhaps 12 or 13 away from eastern coasts, temperatures again in the mid—teens but not seeing the 16s and 17s we saw earlier and we keep the strength of the wind, we still keep that stronger windows we head into thursday.
mainly dry, good deal of sunshine but that noticeable easterly breeze taking the edge of temperatures but on thursday at the moment, a fine day, good deal of sunshine but we could start to see some showers pushing into parts of east anglia and south—east england as well and those temperatures will typically be between 12 and 14 or 15 so further on from there, as this high pressure continues to drift away a little bit further, we start to see areas of low pressure developing across central and southern parts of england and here 0 showers developing as we head through the weekend and into the early part of the following week but think, for many, where we’ve seen a fair amount of rain recently and things have been on the cool side, for the week ahead and then further ahead into the forecast, things are looking mainly and a little bit bit warmer.
bye—bye.
live from london, this is news.
the secretary—general calls for an immediate ceasefire in sudan after at least 56 people were killed in clashes between rival military factions.
china reduces its self—imposed no—fly zone to the north of taiwan, shutting down its airspace for 27 minutes as taiwan launches a rocket after days of military drills in the region.
a sacred, ancient symbol of scotland’s monarchy known as the stone of destiny will make the journey from edinburgh castle to westminster abbey for the king’s coronation.
hello, i’m luxmy gopal.
welcome to the programme.
a power struggle between sudan’s army and a notorious paramilitary force has rocked the country with at least 56 dead and almost 600 injured.
among the dead were three workers who were shot the united nations secretary—general has condemned the fighting amid fears it will derail the transition to civiian rule.
both the army and its opponents, the rapid support forces, claimed they had control of the airport and other key sites in khartoum, where fighting continued overnight.
and the united states - who’ve been backing the civilian transition process — have issued a joint statement calling for a halt to military escalation and a return to the framework agreement.
violence was reported around the country with eyewitness accounts of sudanese army air strikes in the city of omdurman.
the target is a base belonging to the paramilitary group, north—east of the capital khartoum.
zeinab salih is a journalist based in khartoum.
she has more on what’s been happening.
we’ve been hearing heavy gunfire all around the city, in estern part of the city the western part of the city in and remand.
we saw military flying over us, heading to he southern part of the city.
we’ve understood is they are oing to hit a military for the or the rapid pport forces so it’s been ike these clashes over between and saddam armed forces adan.
it started at the and saddam armed forces - the and saddam armed forces —— sadan.
it started at 9am in southern part of khartoum and eyse dal-e the southern part of khartoum and then quickly spread towards tegic places like the international airport, all of re khartoum city.
this 1s a moment from state in sudan.
the newsreader briefly appears, talking about the clashes.
but listen carefully and you can hear gunshots in the background.
as you see, the picture then froze and a short while later, the broadcast suddenly cuts off.
let’s get the very latest from the ’s emmanuel igunza.
what’s the outcome of the fighting from the latest hting?
we have seen the 1 1k fighting?
we have seen the death toll rising very sharply more than 50 people now, more than 50 people a1alannl-e now, more than 50 people confirmed to have now, more than 50 people = confirmed to have died following the clashes that ened yesterday.
the ituation remains very nfusing, especially about who controls what llowing these claims and following these claims and counterclaims that have been by the sudanese army and also made by the sudanese army and lso the rapid support forces, 0 claim to be in control of both claim to be in control of the main airport in the capital ther airports across the country.
also, the presidential and the chief’s esidents, they have been ving contradictory statements then again, the facto eader of sudan albira home has that he is going to feed could oresee that the t3 disbanded and will not gotiate with them but second—=in—command who ighting or power him fighting for power with him dagalo has seen the leader of is a criminal —— sudan is a criminal —-— al—=burhan.
so these it ifficult to see how they will escalation and we expect he conflicts be any escalation and we expect a1 illa i be any escalation and we expect the conflicts will go on for time despite the some time despite the international pressure coming them to cease the ighting and come to the gotiation table to continue talks that have stalled.
focus is very the talks that have stalled.
a i the talks that have stalled.
the focus is very much on rtoum but he fighting is across khartoum but the fighting is i the country, isn’t it?
is0 across the country, isn’t it?
how has this spilt over ewhere?
what is the impact tside of the apital?
this has been the concern for many that the fighting did people that the fighting did 1as in the capital and it was mainly in the esidential areas overnight, we heard reports 1 hat it has spread to other in the northern city of ara weight where the rapid pport forces have had a very stronghold, they have been going fighting there, there claims of controls, one of vital places in the imnar= the vital places in the northern city there but also in uffill region, it’s the duffill region, it’s a region that has known so many of conflict and we understand fighting has been ing there and with no signs = parties seemingly wanting to negotiations to end the a1 ditas have negotiations to end the conflict but also return the conflict but also return the country to civilian rule —— hern 4 city of meroe.
it will northern city of meroe.
it will seem that northern city of meroe.
it will 1 hat this will continue to seem that this will continue to escalate.
we’ve heard from the sure internationally to 0 lead towards deescalating but is there any response lote this but is there any response from both parties to that uest, to hat emerging from the international parties?
so =l r, we have not heard from oth the military leaders on ther there will be to whether there will be talks to end the fighting.
we know the african union and particularly have said they are ing to mediate.
there are willing to mediate.
there are other local leaders from sudan lf, those are within itself, those who are within the civilian factions which been negotiating with the to and bring the untry army to and bring the o111 army to and bring the country to civilian rule and ’ve said they want to talk 100 they’ve said they want to talk to these two leaders to to scalate and to bring de—escalate and to bring otz to the de—escalate and to bring r0 de—escalate and to bring them back to the table before re the nnn=ls them back to the table before before the former prime ister was ousted —-— he lannls minister was ousted —— the former premise was out of the and al—=burhan he is 2021 and al—burhan says he is 1 ee9% 2021 and al—burhan says he is happy to mediate but so far we not heard from the leaders = ether they will be agreeing 0 these offers or mediation to to these offers or mediation to stop the fighting and continue alks for civilian rule.
hank you for bringing us the est.
emmanuel igunza.
let’s get some analysis of what’s happening.
jonas horner is an expert on sudan and formerly at international crisis group.
thank you for joining us.
our correspondent mentioned the for de—escalation from the international community so far fallen on deaf ears have so far fallen on deaf ears what can we expect to happen ?
where do go from here, next?
where do we go from here, if , at the first hurdle, there much hope of both is not much hope of both parties listening to right, both parties are think both parties are currently locked into the spect of a military win here ato moo prospect of a military win here and one of prospect of a military win here 0 prospect of a military win here and one of them is likely to be g.
and, of course, you have he sudanese population and nomy and all the economy and all of the 01 a1 economy and all of the countries infrastructure swept this very damaging fight —— country’s.
up in this very damaging fight 1a up in this very damaging fight —— country’s.
think the focus international community 1\ really should be to engage with two leaders to point out they are perhaps isqualifying themselves from ure leadership in the ountry eete country through their future leadership in the country through their actions.
uld be great to see the rab eague meet, believe % hey will meet today, egypt saudi arabia have called for eeting, but hink the the meeting, but think the other important, pressing need he international community to take action on is really to to 1 ibal and ethnic appeal to tribal and ethnic groups further down the line to 4 1o groups further down the line to not get caught up in this to into a ivil war.
turn it into a civil war.
currently, this is a battle een the two sides currently, this is a battle i between the two sides of sedan’s military but you would a very different uch see a very different and much more worrying and nationalised 1o hnic sized conflict were ther and ethnic sized conflict were i g0 i getn and ethnic sized conflict were a i 1 and ethnic sized conflict were other groups from the states, the periphery to join one from the periphery to join one side of the other.
how easy be for them not to get would it be for them not to get caught up in his power uggle, given at this is struggle, given that this is spilling way beyond the ital?
es, well, my capital?
yes, well, my understanding is it’s really the rapid supports of just the rapid supports of forces and sydney support - were doing the fighting.
worry is sedan is full of alicious at an ethnic or ibal level or malicious at an ethnic or malicious at an ethnic or tribal level or what is to be opular efence forces i the popular defence forces which is a large group that fealty to lamist roups have fealty to islamist groups and have fealty to islamist groups and bringing them in with expand things and bringing them in with expand things dramatically and 4 was, would be uch think was, it would be a much uglier version of the war.
rently you can speak about in terms of it being an tra— military conflict 1 ¢ & intra— military conflict but 4 ink the next hurdle, the next to avoid, really, is to ake this less ugly and rsonal and social, you know, at would be far harder to put top w0 in and put a stop that would be far harder to put i a a stop in and put a stop to.
just briefly, give us the text.
what has prompted this scalation?
think it’s hard verestimate just how existential this all is for sides, the principles of al=burhan who ead of head of the al—burhan who is head of the armed forces and delgado who is of the rapid head of the rapid support forces.
but also we are talking 4 deep—-rooted sues within about deep—rooted issues within sudanese society.
the armed have on the whole forces have on the whole represented the centre of the where they are composed i of a large subsection of anese society that commanded a large section of islamist were formally with the vel ousted bashir hey epresent he centre.
on the ther side, you have the rapid ort forces who are really a onstruction of the peripheries have been marginalised throughout sedan’s history 1956 independence, so in since 1956 independence, so in the wake of vescio’s removal 018 the wake of vescio’s removal about four ago is the battle elningel about four ago is the battle for control of about four ago is the battle uree ange 0 for control of sudan —-— sudan’s these roups present arge onstituencies ithin the country represent large constituencies =1 represent large constituencies within the country and for them onally and collectively, it 3 1 an existential battle.
both 1a\ are currently claiming to ave control over the airport labroinsl- have control over the airport and other strategic locations.
urse, it’s very hard to have an accurate picture of is going on but from what what is going on but from what you understand, do you think more likely that one side or - i nal- it’s more likely that one side or the other realistically has 1ngell or the other realistically has control in the situation?
there een an ongoing debate within sudan, came out of re yself, but an ongoing there myself, but an ongoing debate for years about which of orces is in fact stronger, r-s tter positioned, because the reat of this conflict has held over the country’s been held over the country’s transitions and is basically eginning.
it’s hard to the beginning.
it’s hard to t2 y.
there is no real conclusion say.
there is no real ool l3le o0 say.
there is no real conclusion on this.
what say is conclusion on this.
what i 1 conclusion on this.
what would say is the rapid support have historically been r-s tter equipped at fighting in and peripheries in many ways and the danese armed forces have reater capacity in urban areas that could be how this ltimately falls whether the anese armed forces are sitting in urban areas and the support forces attacking otz rapid support forces attacking them from urban centres.
sorry, rural areas.
so, we are about to see exactly how this out.
the last thing would say on this though is the pect of a regional prospect of a regional intervention here, both of gentlemen and forces have ckers from the region, lking about egypt, south udan, chad, central african blic, libya and potentially thiopian, but this is the real cern also ethiopian, but this is the real e: ethiopian, but this is the real concern also beyond a wider a 1ol citation and civil war ethnic citation and civil war component here is egionalisation of this ditas regionalisation of this conflict because again both ers really have strong leaders really have strong o= o0y leaders really have strong o1l it leaders really have strong connections with key leaders the region.
thank you so for your analysis on this jonas horner.
we will bring you the latest on this developing situation as we let’s get some of the day’s other news now.
gunmen in central mexico have killed seven people, including a child, in an attack in a water park and spa in cortazar.
numerous families had been enjoying themselves at the park when about 20 armed men approached a group of people and opened fire.
the area has seen a surge in drug-related violence in recent years.
environmental campaigners in germany are celebrating the end of 60 years of nuclear energy production with the closure of the country’s three remaining nuclear power stations, but opinion polls suggest that most germans see nuclear energy as cleaner alternative japan’s prime minister fumio kishida says his country must do everything to ensure safety as foreign dignitaries gather for meetings of the g7 and prepare for a summit next month.
the japanese leader was evacuated unhurt on saturday following a suspected smoke bomb attack.
at least 12 inmates have been i at one of ecuador’s most dangerous prisons.
clashes between rival gangs broke out on friday at the litoral penitentiary.
on thursday, three female guards were killed by armed attackers outside the jail.
well, let’s go to taiwan, where tensions with china continue to escalate.
launch of a weather satellite has briefly stopped flies ween china has briefly stopped flies een china and taiwan.
china enforced a no—fly zone to the north of taiwan near a group of disputed islands called senkaku by japan and diaoyu by china.
the no—fly zone was initially planned to last two days it follows days of intense chinese military drills around taiwan, which have been seen as a response to in california last week.
for more, i’m joined by oriana skylar mastro from stanford university.
her research focuses on chinese military and security policy.
let’s just get your reaction to the latest development on this.
right now it really 100 think right now it is really to mathematics soon to tell has happened.
a lot of 1 what has happened.
a lot of people are saying that it was nternational pressure that used china to reduce this —fly one down from the three ays, and it is standard inese fare to deny no—fly chinese fare to deny the no—fly 4o ever chinese fare to deny the no—fly i ver existed.
but chinese fare to deny the no—fly zone ever existed.
but it really highlights that from the ide it is very hard for us as analysis to know what has ened in the decision—making ocess.
it’s so perfectly process.
it’s also perfectly possible that they change their for other reasons besides international pressure.
how is gone down at white house because imagine this is aps welcome news to the perhaps welcome news to the ted states?
generally speaking, the white house was to play down president trying to play down president tsai’s transit.
a lot of the tsal’s transit.
a lot of the messaging coming tsal’s transit.
a lot of the 10 tsal’s transit.
a lot of the messaging coming out was the that this was nothing new, is was president tsai’s seventh this was president tsal’s enth time this happened, ost two or three seventh time this happenedq, i n- y2 a seventh time this happened, almost two or three dozen times re in history with other taiwan presidents.
so china did these major military exercises in response to sident tsai transit and her i president tsal transit and her visit with the speaker of the kevin mccarthy, so a1 ¢ house kevin mccarthy, so & house kevin mccarthy, so think the hope was to keep this did not escalate to the degree that the exercises and is did after speaker pelosi’s crisis did after speaker l3l crisis did after speaker pelosi’s visit to taiwan last st.
and what does this say about what august.
and what does this say august.
and what does this say about what we can potentially in terms relations expect in terms of relations ween the united states and ina?
of course it is too arly tell anything ong—term, as you say, it’s an stage of development, but you were to speculate on hat this shows, what would thoughts be?
would say ourse there are some things 1 hat we are of course there are some things of course there are some things that we are more than ers, and one is chinese military become so much more pable.
over the past two ecades.
and the chinese ernment has become more eliant on the military, not to pursue its own foreign policy goals a signalling evice.
the party has positely said device.
the party has 1 i i device.
the party has oppositely said after august we should expect a higher mpo of these types of exercise around the island of an.
think their main goal 3 taiwan.
think their main goal is to normalise this type of viour, located in the south hina sea, the first couple of a chinese harassed ships here, these were major news ries.
now this happens lmost weekly and no—one covers so the 80 1 ormalise this type it.
so the normalise this type i behaviour it.
so the normalise this type a 0 =110 it.
so the normalise this type of behaviour and to have it a more of behaviour and to have it - 0l a of behaviour and to have it seen as more routine for the ese military to be chinese military to be constantly in close contact and ling and violating the air ok 0 circling and violating the air defence identification zone of an.
such but if the chinese taiwan.
such but if the chinese taiwan.
such but if the chinese government does decide to use e, it might be even more difficult for us to the difficult for us to tell the difference between a major cise and difference between a major - - ise and an actual exercise and an actual invasion.
thank you for your 6 ghts.
good to talk to you.
ank you for having me.
a sacred, ancient symbol of scotland’s monarchy known as the stone of destiny is to make the journey from edinburgh castle to westminster abbey for the coronation of king charles.
the exact details of when and how are a closely guarded secret, but new techniques are being used to find out more about the stone’s history.
our scotland correspondent, alexandra mackenzie, reports.
the stone of destiny or stone xxall the stone of destiny or stone obscuring was legally nsported from westminster 1% abbey to edinburgh castle on andrews day in 1996.
intricate arations cluding digital scans preparations including digital o= - a1 and 3—d—printed out are scans and 3—d—printed out are the final stages for its 34ilgn now in the final stages for its to london for the return to london for the uoe return to london for the coronation of king charles .
going to be eally it’s going to be a really momentous occasion.
if they a generation event, really.
and it’s really nificant that the macro well a1 10 1 significant that the macro well will continue its historic role coronation of monarchs in the coronation of monarchs i britain.
until it was in the coronation of monarchs of britain.
until it was seen by king edward amendment in and enclosed in the 1926 and enclosed in the coronation chair, the stone was in he of scottish used in the of scottish monarchs.
at westminster abbey hair is being prepared for he new king and the stone of stiny will again be placed in as it was for many coronations, including that of ate queen elizabeth .
the late queen elizabeth il.
so here you can see three a1 ferent chilmark stock market traditional treaty model of tone has been created for the the stone has been created for ilas time.
it can now be viewed and in greater detail ever fore.
the than ever before.
the 3—d-printed replica of the one also help in reparations or the ronation.
in terms of lanning on how to insert the into stone into the chat, the 3d printers have been used to get horeography done right, ’s a very precious object and happy, so to be able to very happy, so to be able to utilise the print physically in irst had ans the ctual the first had means the actual tone is in the best of hands its way mporarily on its way temporarily down south.
on its way temporarily down th.
for scottish students ole the stone from estminster bey on christmas ay in 1950.
months later it found.
some say the stone destiny should not be taken ndon leloalre of destiny should not be taken aleola araa: of destiny should not be taken to london for the crowning of charles ll.
but there is an greement that stone an agreement that the stone should only leave scotland for on should only leave scotland for a0 a = 010!
should only leave scotland for a coronation and then should only leave scotland for a coronation and then be returned here to a coronation and then be a coronation and then be returned here to andrew castle.
his don’t sit alongside the now this don’t sit alongside - crown jewels of scotland 1l the crown jewels of scotland but will soon be returned to riginal home in perth.
lexandra mackenzie, news, nburgh.
israelis opposed to government plans for a radical overhaul of the judicial system are holding a fifteenth week of protests across the country.
police closed roads in tel aviv and haifa, where the biggest demonstrations have reqgularly been held.
a counter—protest in favour of the government plans has been held in netanya.
the prime minister benjamin netanyahu has put the proposal on hold for now, so that talks can be held on reaching a compromise.
netanyahu said that recent events would not harm israel’s democracy or economy.
thousands of christians filled jerusalem’s old city on saturday for an important orthodox easter ritual, despite restrictions by israeli police.
the holy fire ceremony drew huge crowds to the church of the holy sepulchre, in occupied east jerusalem, where israeli police control security.
it sits on the site where christians believe jesus was crucified and buried.
police had limited attendance to 1,800 people inside and 1,200 outside.
church leaders urged christians to ignore restrictions and criticised the police presence at the event.
it’s 20—years since one a began in kent.
during that time, the creatures have been sinking their teeth into trees, plants and soil - and have transformed the landscape in the process.
chrissie reidy can tell us more.
v10 beaver really beaver really put their feet up and that’s my 20 years ago they lano l0lo=ns and that’s my 20 years ago they were reintroduced here at ham transform the land back wetland.
it was drying out, almost had dried up.
the eaties in background, treaties in the background, a1 at small bridge that was just there used to be that small bridge that was just - 1 over there used to be able to be able to be walked across.
an’t do be able to be walked across.
a1 an’t do that anymore.
that you can’t do that anymore.
that t3 a wetland site now.
we can 1 reefs are bad is a wetland site now.
we can a - n« is a wetland site now.
we can see reefs are bad but it risscrossed with all sorts of ver 2 channels and paul’s and ollows, and all filled with er.
by turning to nature is thread footage shows how beaver has this thread footage shows how i this thread footage shows how the beaver has created meanders stream, allowing other in the stream, allowing other habitats to develop.
we don’t eavering way for nothing.
say beavering away for nothing.
1n beaver really is a grafter building dams to digging ls, transporting water, even canals, transporting water, canals, transporting water, even slowing water down.
the is supersmart.
the beaver have credit canals, the have made dams, they have felled trees and they are water all around the - site.
and in doing so, a lot of ictories that were sucking the moisture the victories that were sucking - 01 ¢ the victories that were sucking irt i the victories that were sucking on the moisture out of the e, dried up, have started off.
but they have credit tats in their own right, standing dead, it’s been over ars, 111 what’s taken its 20 years, but what’s taken its place is lots lots of willow.
just happens to be the er’s favourite foodstuffs, pecially in winter when times tough, and also what they uild dams from.
build their ges from.
build dams from.
build their ¢ build dams from.
build their lodges from.
it is hoped the ess of this project in this success of this project in this part of kent will go some way restore other part of kent will go some way to help restore other wetlands around the country with beavers what they do best.
chrissie reidy, news.
government airstrikes were reported to have been carried positions of out on positions of the paramilitary rapid support 14 the city of undermine forces the city of undermine mark, across the nile from the tal of khartoum.
rival capital of khartoum.
rival ge- were extending artillery ires.
at least 60, 56 people died and hundreds more wounded.
the secretary eneral antonio guterres has led for an immediate a called for an immediate ceasefire and a return to ks.
we will have more on the veloping situation across the gramme so stay with us for the brief on that.
you can reach me on twitter — i’m @luxmy?
q.
most of us got to see some sunshine on saturday.
suspect that sunday will be a cloudier affair.
that cloud rolling its way in from the west.
that saidq, if you do get some sunshine, it will feel relatively warm.
but those cloudier conditions, courtesy of this frontal system pushing its way in from high pressure still holding firm just about, so we’re looking at mainly weather and where we are closest to the centre of the high across parts eastern england, a sunny but rather chilly start with some early fog patches.
further west, though, a lot of cloud, spots through the afternoon, northern ireland could well brighten up but that could spawn some pretty sharp showers.
north—east scotland, also seeing some spells of sunshine, lifting temperatures here to around 17 degrees.
generally values between 12 and 16 degrees.
as we move through sunday night, we keep some quite large areas of cloud.
the cloud will break in places but if you do see clear spells for any length of time, they could fill in with some patches of mist and fog.
and if it stays cloudy where you are, it will remain relatively mild but in the clearer spots, temperatures could drop relatively close to freezing.
into monday, still this patchwork of clear spells and cloudy areas.
it could well be that we see quite a lot of cloud rolling its way in from the north sea and that, coupled with a bit of a breeze from the north sea, will make it feel really rather chilly for some of our eastern coasts.
so temperatures in hull, for example, around 13 degrees, same sort of temperature for aberdeen but further west, glasgow, 17 degrees, in some spots up to 18 and as as we head deeper into the week, this area of high pressure stays with us, meaning it will be largely but with this high building to the north—east of us, this easterly wind will tend to strengthen a little.
so that breeze, quite noticeable coming in off the chilly north sea will make it feel rather cool for some of these eastern coasts.
we could see more cloud in the south developing on tuesday, maybe even giving rise to the odd shower.
some spells of sunshine elsewhere.
once again, the highest temperatures likely to be and west of the .
and that is a theme that will continue as we head deeper into the week.
always a little bit chilly the further east you are.
could turn quite cloudy around the middle parts of the week.
but there will always be some spells of sunshine and generally warmest in the west.
on saturday following a suspected smoke bomb attack.
this 1s news.
the secretary—general calls for an immediate ceasefire in sudan after at least 56 people were killed in clashes between rival military factions.
around 600 people have been injured in the violence.
the military launched air strikes on a paramilitary force’s base in the capital khartoum to reassert control over the country.
a chinese rocket launching a weather satellite briefly forces planes flying to and from northern taiwan ays some rocket debris did fall into the warning zone in the seas but had not affected the safety of the island’s territory.
it comes after days of military drills in the region.
a sacred, ancient symbol of scotland’s monarchy known ernment 70 of scotland’s monarchy known government in exico ave covid government in mexico have killed people including a child attack in waterpark —— gunmen in mexico have led 0 8 people, including a ild, in attack on a aterpark in exico.
now on news, click.
sit up straight!
the phones are taking charge, the robots are doing the cooking and the humans are — well, just lying around, really.
we’re in korea to visit the country’s best—known exports.
we’re in ukraine to meet the hacktivists trying to help win the war.
and if you’ve ever wondered where the sounds in your phone come from, prepare to beunderwhelmed.
that’s your new ringtone right there!
you know how it is.
you’re wandering through a bustling capital city and you fancy a coffee, so you call up an app, select your drink — ooh, iced banana latte, don’t mind if do — and send the order through so the barista can make 1t in advance.
and the barista’'s name is beat.
well, right now, i’m struggling to see the point of him.
all he’s done is put the cup on to the machine.
i’m in seoul, south korea, for the first time since the pandemic, and i’m looking for signs of this hyper—advanced nation’s continued push into - of which my banana latte is a small sign.
see, in 2020, the government at the time introduced a new policy called untact - that’s the opposite of contact — which aimed to promote economic growth by automating parts of society and removing human contact at the same time.
here’s a mobile shop where you can buy phones and sign contracts without dealing with a real person.
and here’s how you get airport information these days.
please give me the airline information.
will show you where it is.
please wear a face mask for the health of the people it’s no surprise this policy was given a boost by covid, when we were all encouraged not to touch anything or be near anyone.
mind you, i’m not sure it explains my chicken was fried by a robot yesterday.
how would you want yours done?
as one of the most high—tech countries on earth, south korea in a prime place to make these changes.
with nearly 100% of under—40s online, they love their technology here.
and untact was not the first government policy to and help this nation’s rise.
in fact, it was a government push towards industry, and later high—tech industry, that’s got it to where it is today.
in the last 60 years, this country has completely reinvented itself, going from one of the world’s poorest nations to an industrial and technological powerhouse.
a huge part of its success is down to the massive family—run businesses called chaebols that tower over seoul you’ll have heard of a few of them, i’m sure.
there’s , arguably the country’s king of home goods and, of course, those bendy tvs.
hyundai makes everything from electric cars and robo—taxis to one of the world’s biggest floating cranes, capable of lfting 10,000 tonnes.
and group has a firm grip on telecoms, 56, chips and semiconductors.
but all of these names are dwarfed by the country’s best—known brand, samsung.
its 1s a massive campus in the city of suwon and it’s certainly on a par with those of tech companies that i’ve seen elsewhere in terms of scale — although not every tech campus 've been to has a cimbing wall.
but these days, you do need to give your staff the freedom to work the way they want, and that includes new ways to achieve new heights.
c—lab stands for "creative lab".
all the samsung employees can submit their own idea.
once they are selected, they are excused from their assigned work and focus only on developing their ideas.
many big tech firms have seen the benefit of setting up iin—house accelerators b3 a1 in 2012, it’s supported over 500 start—ups.
every year, 30—40 projects are chosen, and lee dayoung’s was one of them - although she did have the help of a friend.
hey, say hi.
llhi.
ll piloto 1s a child’s smartphone companion and maybe a guardian, a friendly face with a cheeky sense of humour who meets kids y- normally, kids like to talk about toileting.
yeah, know.
i’ve got two.
they love it.
that’s the reason we put that scenario.
today, parents are using parental control apps, which means controlling the screen time or sensing what your kid’s watching on the screen.
wanted to give the opportunity to control themselves on their own and develop their self-regqulation skills, because it’s necessary to teach how to use the smart devices wisely.
if you smile, it also smiles.
amongst other things, piloto uses the phone’s camera to teach good screen technique distance, please, spencer.
and its gyroscopes to teach good posture.
sit up straight.
a3 and by learning to care about piloto’s teeth, kids might also learn to do the same for theirs.
now, if having children has made you want to pull your hair know the feeling — and another c—lab start—up has been working on a solution.
scanning, and then capture — video capture — with this button.
in all seriousness, many people suffer from hair loss for many different reasons and the becon device is a scanner that can help.
it analyses your scalp andg, using al, gives you a diagnosis to help you choose the best products and ingredients to treat your specific condition.
was actually suffering from the hair loss for 15—20 in korea, there are 4 million products to take care of the hair loss condition but people never know which product will do best, so we wanted to find out the right solution.
there’s even a hairline simulator, should you want to lose a bit of forehead.
so, this 1s what would look like if had more hair.
there we go.
and if lose more of my hair, would look like that.
=y you can’t unsee.
dayoung and minsuk say that being able to develop their ideas in the safety of a large company i - i budget—wise, people—wise, it’s really difficult to make a start—up because it requires a huge amount not only are the entrepreneurs given dedicated office spaces, but they can also recruit their own project members from other samsung employees.
having my own team, working with them full-time, concentrating on our dream was super good.
of course, at the end of a project, samsung has the right to retain ideas and integrate them into its own products or allow the project owner to spin off as a fully—fledged company.
we basically created this programme to stimulate a start—up ecosystem and promote job creation in samsung is yet another huge company that’s acknowledging that creativity often comes from being nimble, like a start—up, and is trying to find ways to incorporate that spirit into its enormous corporate ecosystem.
we’ll be back in korea later, but now to the .
in january, a company called flevenllabs released a trial version of its translation software intended for dubbing movies.
it went viral, but not in the way they’d hoped.
james clayton picks up the story.
yo, boys, may need some help.
found a room with a bunch of mob spawners.
’ : have you ever wondered what it would be like to be someone else?
technology, you can find out.
given a minute of anyone’s voice, the software can quickly put together an imitation.
within days, people were imitating celebrity voices, making them say things they’d never said.
just think would love to get ratatoied.
this 1s the point where tell you that you’re actually listening to an voice, but it wasn’t exactly the most convincing voice.
this 1s it.
: testing out my voice clone.
don’t think it sounds like me that much, but what do you think?
i’m going to record here, too, just to you know, to have more.
my producer ben and spoke to the and co—founder of elevenlabs, mati staniszewski, for the company’s first broadcast interview.
and, you know, it was sort of reasonably successful, although it seemed to have a bit of an australian accent.
the majority of our work is based on public domain data, where majority of the voices and the work that we have are actually - american accents.
so, iif ben did it, it might be more successful?
ben should definitely try.
the company’s terms and conditions are clear that you can only clone your own voice, but not everyone has abided by its rules.
on sites like 4chan, it’s incredibly easy to find people who’ve taken celebrity voices and made them say racist and hateful things.
elevenlabs accepts its platform has been used for hate speech.
99% of commenters are kind of positive, that we’ve seen, and for less than 1% of what was generated, it was usually against terms of service — whether it was hate speech or variations of that.
the company says only paid users can clone voices now and they’re developing a new tool to track down people but elevenlabs doesn’t just do cloned voices hold on, just give me a second.
the company has another tool where users can create a unique voice completely from scratch.
let’s use a female gender.
i’m going to do a middle age and think even more fitting with a british accent.
and i’m just going to click generate.
= : britain’s first live public broadcast was made from the factory of marconi’s wireless telegraph company in chelmsford.
it’s never been easier to imitate a politician’s voice.
sleepy joe, you have run this country to its absolute ground.
well, at least do run sometimes, if you know what mean.
mark nitzberg is a professor at berkeley’s research asked him whether we should presidential elections in 2024, we’ll very likely see many more deepfakes than we did in the last cycle, just 8 and i’m not sure what measures we are taking to counter what effect that might have.
there are plenty of other concerns around this tech, too.
for example — scams.
this could make them far more believable and far easier to execute.
the federal trade commission put out a statement in march, warning people that scams imitating relatives can now be incredibly convincing.
elevenlabs themselves say that as develops, and kind of the wider education is just making sure that people across know that as we think about audio, as we think about texts, as we think about images, a lot al—generated and it’s important to know that this might be — he case.
you know, one needs to, again, take this approach where we think about what we want in a society before we allow the release of these tools.
voice cloning for the public is here to stay.
it’s very difficult to see how this is going to be put back in 1its box now.
but this is clearly disruptive technology that can be used for both good and bad.
w1 i i higher, am a shiona mccallum with this week’s tech news.
many mistakes along the way?
of course.
think we are to a place where we are.
headed to a place where we are.
if someone offers you $44 lion for twitter now, would take ?
no, it depends on her.
if was confident that would regular pursue the uth, 1i’d be lad to have 0 al- truth, i’d be glad to have someone else.
truth, i’d be glad to have - - meone else.
don’t care 014 someone else.
don’t care about the money but do want lve some source of truth 1 that can count to halve some source of truth 11 to halve some source of truth that can count on.
tech giant aba plans to relate its own chatgpt style product.
the 01e but will ala chatgpt style product.
the 1r 1 alia chatgpt style product.
the chat but will be integrated alibaba’s website in the near future.
nasa has launched satellite to near future.
nasa has launched - 1 4 a new satellite to track air pollution over north america.
will keep a tab on temple will keep a tab on nitrogen dioxide, formaldehyde round—level ozone which are key ingredients for smog.
when the full-scale invasion of ukraine began, a second battle also got under way — a cyber war led by activist joe tidy has been to ukraine to speak to those who are fighting this 1s killmilk, the leader of a russian hacker army that’s been attacking ukraine and its allies since the invasion.
he’s rallied a telegram group of hackers and supporters, nearly 100,000 members strong.
he wouldn’t agree to a direct interview but, after weeks of asking, he sent us this video before breaking off communication.
and it’s not just russians who are hacking for russia.
i’m still carrying out attacks, yeah.
these two hackers, an american and a dutch national, have carried out disruptive but temporary attacks on ukraine and its allies, too.
was hijacking the ukraine embassy.
no target is off limits.
recently, killmilk called for attacks on hospitals in countries like germany that have donated tanks to ukraine.
but the lines are clearly being blurred on the ukrainian side, too, and no—one seems to be hiding it.
as the capital kyiv braced for attack, roman was helping carry out criminal hacks and building software for the war effort as part of a volunteer group.
you were a big part of — and one of the leaders of — stand for ukraine.
what happened?
look at you now.
i’ve met a guy who was responsible for the information war.
showed him all the data and all the things we’ve been doing.
he was amazed and he said, ", come on, come on, "roman.
"come on, we need it.
" even before he was recruiteq, roman confirms that his hacking team did work directly with the ukrainian authorities.
so, they basically started to give us some targets and say what to do, when to do.
what sort of targets were you going for in those early days?
telecommunication, erm service companies.
there were some disruptions in — in railway ticketing.
so, you took out the ticketing system for the southern russia railway?
like 20 hours or so.
20 hours?
so, no—one could get tickets from the machines?
no.
that’s a lot of disruption.
it’s the kind of attack that ukraine’s cyber military could never publicly carry out themselves as a responsible nation, but is seemingly oot yeah, .
for digital transformation.
as the full—scale war broke out, it was his department that do you think the lines have been blurred between what is and was criminal hacking and what is now accepted and encouraged by the government?
but is it your view that anyone hacking russia currently is not doing anything criminal?
at ukraine’s cybersecurity defence , they say they’re facing attacks from dozens of other groups, too.
so, already, you’ve had 2,186 — is that right?
viktor zhora is the leader of ukraine’s cybersecurity authority.
he accuses the russian military of working with groups like killnet - something killnet denies.
every day, we deal with up to ten severe cyber incidents.
they might think that the cyber a dltes what would you say to that?
of course, the impact of strikes of cruise missiles but the reason that cyber attacks can bring such impact to ukrainian infrastructure is also due to our cyber defending capabilities in case we were weaker, these attacks would be more destructive.
some predict that the severity of attacks will increase as russia struggles on the physical battlefield, and there’s a concern that hacktivists might cause serious harm if attacks get out of control are you in danger of gamifying hacking in this regard?
you’ve got a leaderboard up with the amount of attacks people are carrying out.
this isn’t playing, is it?
this is serious criminal activity.
talking from the standpoint of western laws, think, irl a1 but when war is coming to your country, everything is changing.
there are no good or bad ways to fight.
thankfully, the cyber war has proven to be less destructive than the physical war.
but the conflict is no doubt rewriting the rules of engagement online.
no, it’s not your but millions of people around the world might have just reached for their handsets.
in korea, samsung is king, and each generation of its mobile phones comes with a new version of this and while i’m in the country, i’ve popped in to chat to one of the people who composed it.
sound can deliver the message and sound can deliver the emotions.
the reason we enjoy music globally is music is universal, right?
so, sound design also has the grammar in which - it’s a universal language that everybody can understand.
and that’s what we have to do.
these days, phones can do loads of things, and for each thing, there’s a sound — many of them created here.
even something as simple as tapping the screen needs to sound like, well, something.
what do you think the sound really is?
don’t know.
you don’t know?
so, that that sound on the phone is actually tapping on wood?
gangnam station, samsung building, and it’s not it’s a doorframe.
did you go around knocking lots of different things, looking for the ideal knock?
am.
glass, stones and everything.
that’s called a foley recording.
myoung nam tells me that while some sounds were completely invented from scratch, it made sense for those linked to real=world actions to have a familiar feel now that your phone can be your credit card, for example, your in—phone wallet should sound like your real wallet.
would you hitting the card whenever you’re ready?
are there any sounds that just don’t work on a phone?
like, you know, particularly low or high sounds, like mean, the smartphone speaker cannot play the lower frequency, so we o100 8 in the beginning of the design.
can give you another sound?
yes, please.
thank you.
personally, think sound design is one of the underappreciated parts of movies, , and, as it turns out, technology too.
you can do a lot i it just has to be the right little, obviously.
that’s your new ringtone right there!
and that’s it from seoul in south korea for the moment.
but if you’d like to see more of our adventures in this amazing city, then check us out on the socials.
thanks for watching and we’ll see you soon.
most of us got to see some sunshine on saturday.
suspect that sunday will be a cloudier affair.
that cloud rolling its way in from the west.
that saidq, if you do get some sunshine, it will feel relatively warm.
but those cloudier conditions, courtesy of this frontal system the west, even bringing some splashes of rain.
high pressure still holding firm just about, so we’re looking at mainly weather and where we are closest to the centre of the high across parts eastern england, a sunny but rather chilly start with some early fog patches.
further west, though, a lot of cloud, spots through the afternoon, northern ireland could well brighten up but that could spawn some pretty sharp showers.
north—east scotland, also seeing some spells of sunshine, lifting temperatures here to around 17 degrees.
generally values between 12 and 16 degrees.
as we move through sunday night, we keep some quite large areas of cloud.
the cloud will break in places but if you do see clear spells for any length of time, they could fill in with some patches of mist and fog.
and if it stays cloudy where you are, it will remain relatively mild but in the clearer spots, temperatures could drop relatively close to freezing.
into monday, still this patchwork of clear spells and cloudy areas.
it could well be that we see quite a lot of cloud rolling its way in from the north sea and that, coupled with a bit of a breeze from the north sea, will make it feel really rather chilly for some of our eastern coasts.
so temperatures in hull, for example, around 13 degrees, same sort of temperature for aberdeen but further west, glasgow, 17 degrees, in some spots up to 18 and as as we head deeper into the week, this area of high pressure stays with us, meaning it will be largely but with this high building to the north—east of us, this easterly wind will tend to strengthen a little.
so that breeze, quite noticeable coming in off the chilly north sea will make it feel rather cool for some of these eastern coasts.
we could see more cloud in the south developing on tuesday, maybe even giving rise to the odd shower.
some spells of sunshine elsewhere.
once again, the highest temperatures likely to be and west of the .
and that is a theme that will continue as we head deeper into the week.
always a little bit chilly the further east you are.
could turn quite cloudy around the middle parts of the week.
but there will always be some spells of sunshine and generally warmest in the west.
good morning.
welcome to breakfast with ben thompson and nina warhurst.
our headlines today: a ban on any new so—called smart motorways — campaigners welcome the move but say they want the hard shoulder to be returned to all roads.
it doesn’t - 2= it doesn’t cover the existing roads and the existing roads are killing is half he battle but us so it is half the battle but there is half the battle to go.
more than a hundred arrests, as animal rights protesters storm aintree racecourse, and disrupt the start of the grand national and when the race did get going, it was the favourite who won the day.
corach rambler proved a bargain for his owners — a scottish syndicate who bought him for just the largest military parade in 70 years — more than 6,000 members of britain’s armed services will take part in next month’s coronation.
and the weather, a lot more cart around today compared to yesterday, rain in the but it patchy rain in the west but it will wall all the patchy rain in the west but it will - 11 patchy rain in the west but it will fill wall all the details and 4 look coming up after breakfast.
ust as she will feel warm.
it’s sunday, 16th april.
our main story: motoring groups have welcomed the government’s decision to cancel the construction of new smart motorways, but insisted the announcement does not go far enough.
existing stretches of smart motorway in england will remain, but more emergency stopping places will be put in place.
the has called for the hard shoulder to return on all roads.
aruna lyengar reports.
o1+ it i1s not quite the end of smart motorways.
plans for 14 ill be apped, including 11 that had lready een paused.
it was a £1 lion but existing smart motorways ich make up 10% of england’s orway network will remain.
it is ood ews and is good hat it is gone as far that has to cover tes are ready currently being ilt.
did not expected to that r.
but obviously it does not cover ting roads and it is the existing roads and it is the existing roads that are killing us.
half the battle but there so it i1s half the battle but there t3 still half the attle to go.
irst introduced in 2006, smart orways were controversial from tart.
they supposed to reduce congestion by using technology, ving he hard shoulder removing the hard shoulder completely to create an extra lane a1 of traffic.
but this is what can happen.
they do have mergency bays a car stops in a live lane, a sign displayed to close it.
her types involve keeping = shoulder opening it up at peak times xtra lane.
he panorama as an extra lane.
the panorama programme in 2020 found that 38 had been killed on smart people had been killed on smart motorways over a space of five years ere was this finding from a freedom of information request lving one stretch of the m25.
iinvolving one stretch of the m25.
one warning sign was out of ction nearly a ar.
336 days.
there as also a 20 fold rise in he sses, 72 in the five with a i \ 4 hard i 4 hard shoulder, i \ 4 hard shoulder, 1485 misses, 72 in the five years with a hard shoulder, 1485 in the five without.
campaigners say they re pleased government is acknowledging the public’s lack of dence in smart motorways.
is policy was to widen motorways on the and all the evidence from back 2006, cheap and all the evidence from back lin 06, 2011, actually shows that ficials knew there be officials knew there would be greater risks by actually only emergency refuge areas every 1.
5 miles.
people knew there would a1 s.
and think that is be risks.
and think that is the scandals of smart motorways, they olled out with any car — at were rolled out with any car — at without were rolled out with any car — at 111 any consultation.
meanwhile any upgrades on smart motorways will ad providing 150 more go ahead providing 150 more emergency stopping places across a and also better technology to network and also better technology detect vehicles that are broken n.
aruna lyengar, news.
our political correspondent, damian grammaticas, explains what prompted the government’s decision.
14 of them have been paused or planned, will not go ahead.
some of them was to convert