welcome if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
our top stories: a high court in pakistan orders police to halt their operation to arrest former prime minister imran khan until thursday following clashes between police and his supporters.
shares in the swiss banking giant credit suisse fall to a record low silicon valley bank.
the chancellor sets out his spring budget in parliament.
extra help for childcare and scrapping the limit on tax-free of the government’s plans.
conflicting accounts from washington crashes into the black sea, we a russian fighter jet.
and a small number of wolves settle in belgium for the first time hello and welcome to news.
in pakistan, authorities have orarily stopped the operation to arrest the former prime minister imran khan.
police have clashed with his supporters outside his residence in lahore.
unrest has continued through the night, enforcing a court order.
pakistan’s infoermation minister said the government had nothing to do with the move, but the court was only trying to enforce the arrest warant in connection with a corruption case.
carrie davies reports.
police have now left the stretch by zaman park.
lice might have left but the remnants of what happened have not lost can remnants of what happened here have clae not lost can see the charred remains of burned chairs, rocks on the r.
we know from eyewitnesses that there were rocks and sticks m5!
by the supporters.
we also the supporters used water 1a non and tier gas and it is that gas you can still sense in the 1 you can it in the back of air, you can feel it in the back of your eyes air, you can feel it in the back of your eyes and throat.
this is because the police arrived yesterday noon, saying intended to 1o afternoon, saying they intended to a8 khan and that is because hey say he id not turn up to ultiple court appearances.
imran has said didn’t appear t8 khan has said he didn’t appear because of security concerns.
he was 1 about his own safety, worried about his own safety, turning up to those caught earances.
we had from the minister of information olice operation has temporarily spended and that is because the kistan super league, cricket urnament, ngoing and here is tournament, is ongoing and there is due to be a semifinal happening in re tonight.
at the moment, there % is alot isruption has eant the city supporters who have not suggested carrie davies reporting from stan.
financial markets are down across europe, as turmoil continues in the banking sector.
shares in credit suisse have fallen as much as 25% to a record low, for the second consecutive day.
investors remain on edge after the collapse of silicon valley bank.
this, after credit suisse’s largest investor, saudi national bank, said it could not provide the swiss bank with any further financial assistance.
let’s get more on this with our business presenter ben thempson.
let’s wind back a bit and remind selves what happened last week?
anking on the financial services ustries in spotlight because of hose problems of ilicon valley ank.
that essentially was caused run.
many ople remember similar enes at northern rock which ompted the financial crisis of 08.
they’re some of the largest 4 to collapse since 2008, the d5 largest bank in the .
this me it is very fferent, we should clear.
this a very specific 334 a0 leatla i3 be clear.
this is a very specific rlgat 01 set of circumstances but it is all lad related to the fact interest rates are rising.
we know that.
central arocund world are aising banks around the world are raising interest rates to and keep a lid ing prices, to keep inflation down.
that essentially causes lems for how banks operate.
what banks tend to do is borrow in led banks tend to do is borrow in the short term and are lending the long they make oney by paying a term.
they make money by paying a ertain amount term.
they make money by paying a a 1o term.
they make money by paying a certain amount of interest on term.
they make money by paying a a certain amount of interest on what we save with them certain amount of interest on what ie1a certain amount of interest on what we save with them and charge rest on what you might borrow i8t interest on what you might borrow from them.
as soon as the gap starts row, it causes problems for eir business model.
so there is a of attention on their business model.
so there is a a attention on the banking lot of attention on the banking industry right now.
that was one of oblems but silicon valley bank.
we should the problems but silicon valley - the problems but silicon valley bank.
we should be clear for the problems but silicon valley bank.
we should be clear for credit suisse, it is a different set of lems.
hey ave been facing problems.
they have been facing issues for a problems.
they have been facing for a number of years.
this relates to some of issues for a number of years.
this a relates to some of their investments, some mismanagement.
ere caught ina they were caught up in a money-laundering money-laundering scandal is that ade record losses 2022.
the they made record losses in 2022.
the bus is midway through a restructuring, they have laid off tge-ts 9000 staff and forced to sell off ome of their crown jewel assets to for it.
credit suisse is in a different position but all of this, said, related to the fact as you said, related to the elad anks are suddenly under fact banks are suddenly under scrutiny fact banks are suddenly under iny and if people want to take their money out, those that are ady looking a bit dicey might it a it difficult.
but if credit suisse’s largest investor is don’t look credit suisse’s largest investor is a g0 credit suisse’s largest investor is saying don’t look to us, what are supposed to do?
that is the sue.
saudi national bank bought a ake in credit suisse in 10% stake in credit suisse in october 10% stake in credit suisse in ber of last 10% stake in credit suisse in 51 10% stake in credit suisse in october of last year.
what they have they are not prepared to put more money in to increase their e.
so it is very difficult to where state.
so it is very difficult to where we go because the swiss vernment, swiss central bank, it might decide it needs to prop up if eds to it needs to step in to save the bank.
you will be aware of phrase big to fail.
we are not hat stage yet but nonetheless, scrutiny right now is what ppens to it?
and whether they have cash ready cash, and that is the issue ere, liquid cash, to meet obligations should people want money.
that is when his all 1y tarts to fall apart, is of 3 0 starts to fall apart, is of investors start going to the bank sking for their money.
they are at that stage yet but there is a and of scrutiny in not at that stage yet but there is a lot of scrutiny in credit suisse and that that is we have seen their fall, at that is we have seen their i a that is we have seen their shares fall, at one point down about looked at the numbers, they 25%.
looked at the numbers, they 0t 4 bout 18% lower on the day but 4 it sort of gets us to a very ilatlid it sort of gets us to a very difficult position and there will be ople looking for a lot of now people looking for a lot of i now people looking for a lot of answers.
we have heard from a slid answers.
we have heard from the chief executive of credit suisse who hey are stable and can meet heir demands but nonetheless, none looks good right now when there is a lot of nervousness by the industry.
ben thompson, thank you.
the and russia are giving conflicting accounts about how an american surveillance drone plunged into the black sea.
before striking a propeller.
russia’s ambassador to the has denied any collision took place and claimed the aircraft’s presence i here’s our north america correspondent, peter bowes.
an american -9 drone and two russian fighter jets.
their encounter, according to the pentagon, lasted up to 40 minutes in international airspace.
they were over the black sea, where tensions have risen ever since russia’s annexation of crimea in 2014.
and where surveillance airdraft have been flying regularly since the start of the war last year.
the pentagon says one of the russian jets moved in front of the drone and eventually forced the unmanned aerial vehicle, or , to crash into the sea.
we are continuing to assess exactly what happened but think, based on the actions of the russian pilots, it was clear it was unsafe, the actions speak for themselves.
what we saw, again, were fighter aircraft dumping fuel in front of this and then getting i that it actually damaged the propeller on the -9.
we assess that it likely caused some damage to the russian aircraft as well.
russia’s ambassador to the called the drone’s presence a provocation.
he said the aircraft’s transponder, i collisions, was switched off and it had violated what russia calls regime, established since the says the russian pilots were reckless.
but was it deliberate or a careless mistake that caused the drone -t escalating tensions between washington and moscow.
the pentagon is engaging in diplo speak here, but it’s clear that if you are flying in front of the drone, slowing down to match speed, dumping fuel on it, this is a deliberate attempt to bring down the drone, absolutely.
had these kind of incidents but it the first time the russians have attempted to bring the drone this is the first publicly acknowledged confrontation between the and russia since its invasion of ukraine.
for now, it’s led to a war of words but the longer-term consequences are far from clear.
11t news.
robert fox, defence editor at the evening standard newspaper stage what to believe.
the fact is the american account has been consistent and the russians have changed their version.
first of all, they seemed to admit that there had been a contact and damaged the propeller of the drone and then that there hadn’t been.
something rather ominous in the russian statement, in that they are saying this is a temporary violation of their temporary regime of airspace which they have declared over crimea and its adjacent waters.
more problems could be on their way.
how great is the activity at the moment in this part of the world and by whom?
really huge.
it’s pretty huge.
there’s a lot of w118 we know that the has been down they are watching all the time.
there is a very well organised nato patrol along the borders of parancia on the part of moscow, in that they are being continually restricted and looked at and the sense of paranoia will be reinforced if finland joins nato, which is expected very soon.
so how does this situation get de-escalated and by whom?
well, think it’s very difficult to see because there is no doubt that things like the drone are very important in building up the intelligence and the digital picture of what’s going on in a hot conflict, in ukraine.
this is the way intelligence is gathered, coordinates are gathered, so they can see where reinforcements are coming up to the russian forces, along that area which is terribly and bitterly contested at the moment, the donbas, and two or three other battle grounds as well, they’re passing on the infermation.
it’s a vital intelligence asset to the ukrainians, so think they will to aveid from this a further confrontation because it does mean a nato military piece of military equipment being damaged or attacked or aggressed, one might say, by russia.
and that really is very risky.
of the varying political views of how this should be appreached in the united states?
in the united states because know that the military command a =n of complexion, particularly in the lower house, the house of representatives, where you are getting an almost isolationist wing of the new republican right, so it will be softly softly from here.
robert fox, = robert fox, the defence editor at he london evening standard it’s a big day in politics with the country’s spring budget unveiled in the house of commons by the chancellor jeremy hunt, the first since the political turmoil that proceeded rishi sunak becoming prime minister.
hunt said the will aveid a recession and he hailed a british for more on this, i’m joined by sir steve webb, former minister of state 18 the coalition government.
lie1l @0 thank you very much for coming n.
he reason we have thank you very much for coming in.
thank you very much for coming in.
the reason we have invited you in is has been a the reason we have invited you in is i has been a hit of a the reason we have invited you in is i € there has been a bit of a shock on pensions today in the budget.
just in if you would what has been explain if you would what has been announced.
that is right, there is a ime limit on how much can lifetime limit on how much you can build up in a pension and enjoy tax on your pension relief on your pension a8 aglo relief on your pension contributions.
it was rumoured that be increased contributions.
it was rumoured that be increased after a decade of would be increased after a decade of the chancellor said cuts and the chancellor said am going to increase it but scrap altogether.
so there is now no fetime limit, only nual limit and lifetime limit, only an annual limit and that has gone up as well.
what reaction been in and that has gone up as well.
what 4s is the reaction been in the industry and politically?
over the last 24 this has and politically?
over the last 24 - and politically?
over the last 24 hours this has been trailed in «f1g icular today, people have been shocked.
we got so used to the idea reaks on pensions would be cut very year.
will he cut tax free sums?
lump sums?
after successive lump sums?
after successive chancellors have done this year year, this is a screeching -turn, some would say 18 months ore an election u-turn, some would say 18 months ad n0t u-turn, some would say 18 months before an election but partly driven doctors.
here is an argument by the doctors.
there is an argument that says senior doctors had retiring early because of ax limits and he seems to have dealt that problem.
but that will not ust enefit doctors, will it?
they adline reason for this is from a onomy oint of view, the econemy point of view, the government says they want to get 8 economically inactive people into more economically inactive people the workforce.
how likely back into the workforce.
how likely it that this measure will do t, do think?
think with the that, do you think?
i think with the exception of doctors who are a ifics case, the evidence is eople who re retired don’t want to me t3 ack.
they are said, no, no.
the people who are out of work and to back at the people who are out of work and & the people who are out of work and want to be back at the long term and disabled and although there were some budget members for that p, £1 billion spent.
so the group, £1 billion spent.
so the ficiaries are people whoe re lready quite well off that might eln i ome back to work but what is led fla not come back to work but what is the impact on the treasury come on he taxpayer?
ultimately it will 1y be £1 billion less tax enue.
if people shovel money nto their pensions, that ney that doesn’t taxed and that is less money the general population and for ger people in particular, who in sense are subsidising relatively off people, shovelling more ney into their sions.
sir steve =11 money into their pensions.
sir steve webb, thank you 18 11 3 at least 17 people have died in iran while celebrating a fire festival which the authorities disapprove of.
the authorities say the deaths were caused by home-made fireworks.
parham ghobadi reports.
"for freedom™, they sing, burning their headscarves.
but this year, to also protest.
scenes like these can potentially lead to your arrest in iran.
dancing in public, especially without a hijab, is not tolerated by the islamic regime.
like these girls, who were immediately arrested last week they were released after making a public apology.
but iran’s generation z, who has been at the forefront of anti-government protest which swept the country in september, has shown no fear.
in this video, verified by persian, protesters in the capital, they tried to move in.
the iranian authorities have given a muted response, focusing on the number : this year, at least 26 people were killed, which is five more than last year.
the protests started after the death of a young kurdish woman, mahsa amini, in police custody for allegedly not wearing her hijab properly.
"woman, life, freedom" is the chant.
young people have not forgiven or forgotten.
leader, ayatollah khomeini, will be overthrown this year.
they say they want an end to the clerical establishment.
parham ghobadi, news.
more than 200 people are now known to have been killed in malawi - in one of the most powerful storms dozens of children are among the dead, and almost 20,000 people have been displaced.
the country’s already battling one of the worst cholera outbreaks in two decades, with warnings it could now get worse.
storm freddy has struck southern africa - previously hitting neighbouring mozambique and madagascar before reaching malawi.
the rain is expected to continue for a few days still, hampering the efforts of aid organisations.
human rights watch says the united arab emirates is arbitrarily detaining up to 2,700 afghan asylum seekers in increasingly miserable conditions.
the campaign group says many afghans are suffering from problems and their children lack adequate education.
interviewed detainees complained of overcrowding in insect-infested makeshift housing, with strict 11 8" am joined by aalia farzan of the afghan service.
you you have been speaking to some of he refugees, what have they been ling ou?
so as spoke to some the refugees from the camp, they the ad me exact stories.
they told us the same exact stories.
they 0l us that they are living in a ison, as they describe.
hey say that do not have he permission get out the camp whenever we want to go to do shopping, get eries whenever we want to go and groceries or whenever we want to go groceries or whenever we want to go and have fresh air, they do not let lso, as spoke to one mother who has been living there for more a year, she said that she has been very orried about children’s education and in been very worried about her children’s education and in that =1l they do not have access to any 0g roper educational courses or i 1 4o 1t centres.
also, as it came in proper educational courses or centres.
also, as it came in the rt, she said centres.
also, as it came in the i t3 he said they are living in report, she said they are living in small rcoms with bugs and insects, he was ery worried about her children.
also spoke to another rson the camp, he said that they been dealing with anxiety i tress_ it is all because their i ale and stress.
it is all because their a a1 tion is not clear and stress.
it is all because their a and stress.
it is all because their situation is not clear and they do now what comes next.
now this not 5 not just happening in the , is here else are afghans finding hey 44 stuck?
is not the only untry that afghans fled as as country that afghans fled to.
so as their country collapsed, many le, thousands of afghans fled to neighbouring countries, iran and tan.
have been speaking to them like every day they have rible stories.
they are short on ney, hey cannot find a proper b.
even they cannot rent homes ause most of their visas have expired and they have the access to renew their visas.
they are living in tough situations.
you evacuated from anistan only last august.
when ear these stories, what does it a mind you of, what memories does it ing up for ?
actually, it is bring up for you?
actually, it is very sad.
sometimes think if n’t have the privilege to work with didn’t have the privilege to work grg0 the and been didn’t have the privilege to work with the and been evacuated to 0 with the and been evacuated to the , that could be me and would nging out with those people in refugee amps.
the sad thing is when peak with hem, as ave with you speak with them, as have with ' family back in afghanistan, even they are living in tough though they are living in tough situations, they think about their ies back in afghanistan.
spoke to one of em, a gentleman had evacuated without his amily.
said, don’t care hat pyet family.
he said, don’t care what am doing here and what am going ugh, think out my family through, i think about my family back in afghanistan.
it’s very sad kind and it kind of makes me feel about he situation in afghanistan, the situation of those people.
inally, tough situation of those people.
10 tough situation of those people.
finally, what are the host countries this is happening, what are hey saying about they are not them more freedom?
actually, maybe it is their own policies that what happens to the people in \ , they waiting for their ases to improved or they are iting for the to respond to and ave the way for their evacuation them and pave the way for their ale 1a them and pave the way for their oi evacuation and evacuate them to ther countries.
this may surprise you.
the number of wolves in europe and the area that they roam in is growing.
some people, such as conservationists, welcome the news.
others, including farmers, say it’s deeply alarming.
around 19,000 wolves are thought to be living across 27 european countries.
the impact on farmers has led some members of the european parliament to push to reduce the legal protections presently in place for wolves.
this report from our correspondent, jessica parker.
on heathland in the east of belgium, a pack of wolves is on patrol, searching for signs of wolves in the area, jan, a researcher, knows exactly what to look for.
so, this is wolf faeces?
eah.
are their numbers growing in europe and rt3 the reason they are back is mainly legal protection.
from the early ‘90s, really a lot has happened in europe and the wolves really started to disperse all over the continent.
the wolves sometimes roam here in this forest, and this is one of the cameras that is keeping an eye on them.
there’s up to 40 of these across this part of eastern belgium and it tracks the wolves’ movements, their well being, whether they might have been injured, as well as their numbers lawmakers to challenge the wolves’ protected status.
joan, a farmer, says he’s lost dozens of sheep and that current to find some sheep killed.
some people might say you just need to build a better fence.
yes, we can use more wires, use more sticks, but don’t think - a wolf-proof fence exists.
the wolf is so smart, he over runs every fence.
here, in its jaws, a wolf holds a baby wild bear.
its mother gives chase a wolves are predators, with warnings their growing numbers in europe cannet go unchecked.
here we have another wolf print.
but are they a positive thing?
1 that they’re back?
well, first of all, of course, you need to maybe also ask if everything has to have a positive effect on the way we see it as humans.
some animals also just have a right to exist, not just but across this densely-populated region, their presence jessica parker, news, belgium.
let’s just remind you of the big political news here in the .
the cellor jeremy hunt has been etting chancellor jeremy hunt has been x3 a1 chancellor jeremy hunt has been setting out his budget in his spring ments.
he has delivered it statements.
he has delivered it to he house of commons in parliament, that it will draw people back nto the workforce.
the emphasis on growth.
the opposition, for eir part, have responded by saying government is out of touch and utting the country on a of managed decline.
the chancellor grees, though.
trying to disagrees, though.
he is trying to raw people back by offering more -free pension contributions and e1a tax-free pension contributions and free childcare for lie1l @0 thank you for watching.
hello.
this week we are seeing some swings in temperature from day to the next.
we had a very cold start to the morning with temperatures down at minus ten.
but over the next 24 hours or so, milder air will be pushing right the way across the , bringing a big jump in our temperatures.
degrees celsius pretty widely.
but if you take a look at the highs in londonderry, we’re going from eight today to about 15 degrees celsius tomorrow.
before we get there, though, as say, today is a relatively cold day with temperatures below average, a sunny and frosty start.
i starting to cloud over.
and in northern ireland, we’re seeing rain moving in, and there have been a few flakes of snow just on the leading edge of this weather front across some of the hills in northern ireland.
bumps into the cold air, we could see a spell of snow across the hills of northern england and scotland, the snow lasting longest and could bring some localised areas of disruption.
but then later in the night, push of much milder air as the next band of rain works in.
and so temperatures will be climbing significantly.
8 nine or ten degrees celsius pretty widely and even across northern scotland will see temperatures climbing well above freezing.
now for thursday, we’ve got that mild flow of southwesterly winds, but it will be quite a wet and quite a windy kind of day.
the rain heavy enough to cause some localised surface water flooding issues, the weather slowly brightening up but with the risk of some heavy and thundery showers later in the day.
even northern scotland, ten in aberdeen, still relatively cold though in lerwick.
for friday, we might see some fairly prolonged outbreaks of rain affecting eastern areas of england.
otherwise, think it’s going to be a cloudy day with some heavy oi i the heaviest probably across western areas of the , maybe even a bit of thunder mixed in.
still mild, temperatures could go as high as 16 degrees a and then for the weekend, still lots of cloud around on saturday with bursts of rain, sunday probably showers, a few brighter spells in between, but still overall, quite a lot of cloud expected.
and then if we take a quick look at the weather into next week, well, this is news, the headlines a high court in the pakistani city of lahore has ordered police to halt their operation to arrest main opposition leader and former following clashes between police and his supporters.
shares in the troubled swiss banking giant credit suisse fall to a record low as investors remain worried about the problems it faces and signature bank.
the limit on tax-free pension savings are part of the government’s plans to draw people drone crashes into the black sea we russian fighter jets - ukraine’s foreign minister says incidents like this are inevitable until russia leave crimea.
you’re watching news.
the chancellor jeremy hunt has been setting out his budget - pledging "build for the future”.
to shrink this year - is to fall from above 10% - to just under 3% by the end of 2023.
but the labour leader, sir keir starmer, accuses the government of "dressing up stagnation as stability”.
well, let’s look at some of the key moments of the budget: energy bills for a typical household 1 ala to be capped at £2,500 until the end of june.
for another year.
the duty on draught pints has also been frozen to help - soar by 10.
1% in august - in line with inflation during the peak of the cost-of-living crisis.
the lifetime limit on tax-free pensions savings will be abolished.
in addition, the annual tax-free pension allowance will rise and free childcare of 30 hours a week for working parents in england is being expanded to cover one and two-year-olds - but will only be fully implemented by september 2025.
let’s get more on this with shaun ley who’s welcome to you and everybody watching at westminster.
the big tion is, it deliver is back question is, did it deliver is back to nee budget, a for growth?
carrie rutland is a partner in , an accountancy and business advisory firm.
let’s deal with a couple of points.
the - v01u on the taxation side, the let’s deal with a couple of points.
on the taxation side, the changes he taxation, some of which he made to taxation, seme of which he 10 id were designed to encourage ople back into the workforce, discourage them from leaving ogether, senior doctors were used example, retiring from the s, itis a assive disadvantage to a8 if they carry on because there pension will be penalised.
don’t people actually retire because of their nsion pot, think people retire because of the pressure and in the if are picking doctors, stress in the if we are picking rs, or because they want to do other things, so it is a nice ure but do other things, so it is a nice r4 a 4 measure but do not think it will lve the problem.
the other focus on the abolition of solve the problem.
the other focus a on the abolition of the lifetime allowance which presumably pension allowance which presumably again hoping to make sure some of discrepancies caused by the a ation system interact are minated and labour will clearly tack this as a thing which will our i attack this as a thing which will favour the wealthiest people.
does ela other impact on public it have any other impact on public finances?
one of the things which overnment announced and they re doing it in the autumn is lowing pension companies to invest in high-tech companies and in he economy, so that will boost in the economy and that was a ng-term good measure, and allowing ple to put more into the pension will trickle down to those h-tech companies who need the nding.
etween the long-term easures, in ense this is the oblem that 4 problem that the chancellor measures, in a sense this is the problem that the chancellor has, has been anaemic, he is growth has been anaemic, he is going, well, we avoided recession, growth figures are pretty but the growth figures are pretty anaemic, and the economy will shrink lightly, although not hit the very slightly, although not hit the technical measure of two quarters in ssion restriction which succession of restriction which ould make it a recession.
but the pencilled in is not that trong and it not that strong you get beyond the next lection in months’ ime?
he key thing that businesses is stability and there was stability and there was a lot of about a ead map for reducing talk about a road map for reducing axes but it looks llike we are in tax economy and incentives relief designed to encourage innovation and capital innovation and capital spend, so we nded up ith a ore complex have ended up with a more complex tax tem it when we are not necessarily tax system it when we are not 1a \ tax system it when we are not 1!
tax system it when we are not necessarily -- and not necessarily ability and certainty that the stability and certainty that 4 the stability and certainty that businesses were looking for.
the cellor in 2010 talked about ax mplification and a flatter system ation where basically of taxation where basically everybody knew where they stood and these a lot of these wrinkles were eliminated.
we seem to have added definitely there’s more complexity and the budget adds to that.
good for accountants!
us in news for accountants!
keeps us in business!
the government documents about simplification so if ook at ax regimes aligned into regime, but we are a long way 8t getting there, so may be in the future.
what would ave liked the chancellor to do today?
you are tial and the chancellor to do today?
you are impartial and you do not care who is ernment, as long as there is a government and are making cisions, so what would you have ked to have seen that he did not this year he might consider further down the line?
in the tumn or the last budget before face the ters again?
more funding for innovation and y-stage ompanies because al, vinter, life sciences, are the ¥ 1ed heart bleod of the econemy for intact.
heart blood of the economy -- for &ladl think a heart blood of the economy -- for t.
think a more targeted intact.
think a more targeted relief in those areas.
thanks for ing us.
we are going to talk to political correspondent the chancellor spoke for an hour, and he those statistics, but he tressed hat it was a budget of news and that the fact is, are good news and that the fact is, since october things are heading again, but it looks better than would have looked before october, hat he forgot to explain, i’m sure he did not forget, but what he not to explain is the reason hat borrowing costs spike is the called cal and -- that borrowing costs spike is the - so-called fiscal and -- event delivered by his predecessor, which rkets reacted to, delivered by his predecessor, which - delivered by his predecessor, which the markets reacted to, and then liz was iven from office.
less truss was driven from office.
less than six months ago those raordinary than six months ago those a rdinary political events that made it the shortest serving prime ter of modern mes, and saw a minister of modern times, and saw a spike in borrowing costs, mortgage or the extra pressures spike in borrowing costs, mortgage a 1 cost, or the extra pressures that re added to the other things like war inflation.
things have the war and inflation.
things have calmed down but, waters are not ssarily leaving the government happier political position?
=1 la; in a happier political position?
-- in a happier political position?
-- calm waters.
they are still wading problem is if you like, to xtend your metaphor, and what this out, cast your mind back, you ad the big problem, the big mess the kamikaze budget, it was alled, remy hunt brought in to tabilise hings, this is about ntinuing that to to say, :l continuing that to to say, we etting back on course, trying start to are getting back on course, trying = to deliver, so you see to start to deliver, so you see things on child care and trying to eople into the workforce or them in the orkforce, but essentially the figures are not ty.
you look at what has been ked about, living standards, ncomes, still far 027, incomes, still far out, 2027, looking like we still won’t be any & than back in 2020 better off than back in 2020 according to the figures that came out with this budget.
the figures, the pamphlet that comes gside it.
2022-2024, figures, the pamphlet that comes 22 lirl alongside it.
2022-2024, on average 18 will have fallen in real 18 incomes will have fallen in real terms by about 5.
8% which is a big people already being hit by ther things like inflation.
yes, ctly, and that is what is driving .
right now what people are ling is the it.
that will be, ings will be better, but much etter, so the question is oing to be for people at home, und the , they are going to around the , they are not going to feel very different, really, in ple of ears down the line, and the measures in this, they might some impact, the measures in this, they might the measures in this, they might have some impact, in terms of ing people into the workforce, but those will ake ime, so the childcare thing is a big deal, urse.
it is also about getting enough eople into the childcare iness, as well, and we will hear ore about that shortly.
over more about that shortly.
those over he age of 50, trying to tempt them in, that is another issue, and he opposition parties will focus rything in on abolition of everything in on the abolition of limits on lifetime, the amount money can into your pension tes of money can pay into your pension pot, which affects a relatively proportion of the population presumably they will say, you doing something for them, what re you doing everybody else?
hat is the difficulty with that ause that that is the difficulty with that g0 118 because that particular bit of the changes we are seeing, the ability i 1 changes we are seeing, the ability to remove or limits you can pay into 1 your pension pot for later in life, as designed to fix one problem that was designed to fix one problem ich is senior doctors who re leaving the profession because they ached the limit and leaving the profession because they b4 have reached the limit and it is not worth them staying on because any they put into the pension pot taxed, they re out.
he guestion is, changing that, it a1 efits doctors and very rich benefits doctors and the very rich 1 the expense of others and only a very at the expense of others and only a very small number of people really so question there, should ave designed something ecifically for medical specifically for the medical profession?
for the older age ps, the criticism has been, that airly limited measure, what out everyone else?
the childcare spectrum staff at the other end of the age spectrum for new parents will take beyond the next election to really put that into place -- the n3t dcare stuff.
and really put that into place -- the 1e stuff.
and where are the childcare stuff.
and where are the 1 ildcare places going to be?
it is it difficult to find anywhere if you are a parent.
so big problems of delivering this.
it can bring people into work but the igures at were produced alongside i i it, the figures that were produced alongside it, the number crunches, saying the of people who uld end up number of people who could end up back in work is really uncertain 8t heirs, ywhere from 50,000 up from theirs, anywhere from 50,000 up 0 250,000.
-- uncertain from this.
8 economically inactive of working age group, is what 7 million yes, if you do not count plus?
yes, if you do not count students, think, because they add couple of million.
another couple of million.
real 1y another couple of million.
real uncertainty and that is where you get the opposition criticism hich is, where is vision which is, where is the big vision and the big transfer made -- big sformation behind this?
they do one and they say there uld be a bigger shift that the vernment could be g, bringing government could be doing, bringing to the economy, not these measures, is is a big thing, tr4 big things but this is a big thing, they are big things that will impact on ing parents and people will working parents and many people will welcome them.
thanks for joining us.
he other challenges the one of the other challenges the chancellor was trying to address was ng-term challenge of reforming the long-term challenge of reforming and changing the way the economy a tions, growth to come from new ndustries, new energy opportunities renewables or also clear in terms of renewables or also lear because he talked about he new programme the government will els for small modular nuclear power stations rather than the kind stations that we have at sraanall of giant stations that we have at zewell or hinkley carla denyer is co-leader of the green party in england.
there is a green down in brighton, of course, with caroline , and would like have lucas, and would like have everal more at lucas, and would like to have a i more at the next election.
ere was a rallying for enewables from the chancellor and about the world leading he talked about the world leading position of the in terms of hore wind.
but he did not talk out onshore wind offshore wind.
but he did not talk a offshore wind.
but he did not talk about onshore wind which has been a atite about onshore wind which has been a difficult issue for the difficult issue for the conservatives and the situation has but planning opportunities ay take years to work through hough he did about nuclear although he did talk about nuclear and trying to find ways to speed up uclear energy programme.
did &4 the nuclear energy programme.
did not think there was much in budget for the vironment, actually.
budget for the environment, ela y- 16 budget for the environment, actually.
a lot of overreliance on ologies ike carbon capture and storage is commercially viable yet rather than for example, nwide home insulation scheme a nationwide home insulation scheme as we have pushed for over many s.
that was in there until 2010 it died a death years.
that was in there until 2010 years.
that was in there until 2010 but it died a death because of erity.
the conservatives killed the result is that.
the conservatives and the liberal ine1 democrat coalition, to be fair.
has got the bleakest homes in pe, we ould have an insulation to reduce carbon emissions but also down bills -- leakiest.
you bring down bills -- leakiest.
you have got to spend the money first?
but the vernment could have yes, but the government could have hosen to do that using effective hnologies but they are putting hopes on carbon capture and orage hich is politically viable or the but nuclear storage which is not politically viable for the but nuclear is viable?
look at the deal george is the start of the coalition bonded at the start of the coalition government and it now looks like he ood deal in terms of how much did a good deal in terms of how much the government would pay in terms of are getting from hinkley what we are getting from hinkley tetd -- the deal george osborne did 1 point -~ the deal george osborne did at the start of the correction.
nuclear is very slow to get off the and you can be a lot quicker with wind and solar projects and are hundreds of projects that lready have planning permission.
me about because of 80% came about because of the conservative government, he said.
the tage of the that is the stage of the technological developer, they cannot uch personal responsibility play much persenal responsibility for that.
in terms of your i spects, you want to change the politics is in this country and also nge the economy at the ame time.
does this and also change the economy at the a = me.
does this help you, the same time.
does this help you, the sense of what the government has doing, does it help in the run to into the next election?
we are finding that voters have had enough onservatives and they do not of the conservatives and they do not really see much promising from what bour party are offering either so on the doorsteps people are ning to the green party in great mbers and we are looking forward the local elections in may where are defending more seats than i 5 we are defending more seats than ever and we are expecting to make s.
going back to the budget, as disappointed, as well as not on he environment, there was also not much much on the envireonment, there was i much on the envireonment, there was much on the envireonment, there was also not much on public sector pay really wanted to see an inflation matching pay for for public tor workers but we did not hat.
for now, thanks for oining us.
we have a couple of gas who can talk joining us.
we have a couple of gas & 101 joining us.
we have a couple of gas now who can talk about the impact of the impact of the incentives hat exist as a result of decisions that that exist as a result of the a a eta - that exist as a result of the decisions that the chancellor makes ave couple of guests now.
torsten bell is chief executive at the resolution foundation, which focuses on ways to improve the living standards of people on low and middle incomes.
in the past, he’s worked at the treasury and for the labour party.
you you are starting to see promises of he universal childcare is system ela i r4 that will kick in as maternity the universal childcare is system that will kick in as maternity comes nd.
we have een asking this or many years and we had these versations for many years and we had these versations for many years but now have seen it as one of the most ificant parts of the spring udget and that is such a change and we know that parents are going so happy to see this at iiaair-ned to be so happy to see this iian to be so happy to see this commitment so they can work and children can get a good their children can get a good education.
the chancellor said there a % decline in he space has been a 9% decline in the space of the year in terms of the number ople working as childminders 2 -t and he wants to create an incentive or them to register and therefore into workforce.
if you add that ogether with the wraparound emes make sure that schools help parents from eight in the ing until at night, talking morning until six at night, talking about dropping them off and picking p, taken altogether, do you them up, taken altogether, do you know how many numbers of people that bring back into work?
it is would bring back into work?
it is hard to say.
hildminders are on boverty because it does poverty wages because it just does make sense financially which is have seen it so many leave he workforce are giving them this -off ayment of the workforce are giving them this a 0 ¢ the workforce are giving them this one-off payment of £600 is not going nge a lifetime poverty to change a lifetime of poverty wages so i’m not too convinced that going to change the is really going to change the dynamics in terms of the number dminders we dynamics in terms of the number ldminders we are seeing.
tall your organisation tries to come up with eas for improving the uality-of-life and living standards and middle, families, did you see much to for low and middle, families, did = for low and middle, families, did you see much to help that the et?
it is a very budget ith is a very big budget with a budget?
it is a very big budget with a 1 better forecast even if hey re a bit grim on public inances, so it is good news to 11 finances, so it is good news to avoid a technical recession, and the measure stands up as being the area where we have progress, but the are focusing on, the free hours of bit you are focusing on, the free aol a8 bit you are focusing on, the free hours of childcare will mainly fit middle and higher income ouseholds but it a good focus evertheless.
some people take a eer break and they never come ck.
we invest in training people then we kind forget them.
and then we kind of forget them.
absolutely.
a lot of people do 8 inue working but they are paying hrough the for childcare but he more important thing for poorer holds is changes to universal redit, paying up the childcare port ather than arrears which many people find to be a big rier.
what about in terms of the act there was nothing on, the debate we are having at the ent, public sector pay, am off a train to devon tonight because is no way can get there there is no way can get there lagey there is no way can get there tomorrow to visit my elderly because there are no trains, and is the same for everyone around he country, but there was not much his debate on ese issues?
in this debate on these issues?
unusual budget which is the country is wrestling with short-term problems, really big costs, squeezes on living standards and wages falling, and the i chancellor is more focused on longer-term term reforms to boost h, by getting activity down or ctivity up, growth, by getting activity down or ela a1 t3 1o growth, by getting activity down or activity up, and there was some t-term help, the delay in the ergy price guarantee happening in , which will make a difference to households and duty has been 1 crapped, the increase.
to both of , thanks for joining us.
by the y, how old is baby now?
eight years.
hat tells you how long it been going on.
thank you.
to england’s black country now, the birth place of the industrial revolution.
consul described the region as black by day and red by night - now there is the haden hill leisure centre in cradley heath and my colleague phil mackie.
we have been here all day talking to a lot of people initially with their and fears of the budget and we are talking about reactions.
here in one of these we are here in one of these achis we are here in one of these important election battlegrounds although labour have held it for a long time, two of its pounds tituencies voted conservative he first time in living memory he the last time -- two of its four constituencies.
labour would want to back if they are to win the election so win it back if they are to win the election so it is interesting see what have next election so it is interesting 0 next election so it is interesting to see what have to say about the and so far are fairly mixed eaction.
-- what they have to say the budget.
you run a nursery.
announcement about nurseries, ourse, and the first thing is, an you cope with this massive lux of parents with children you might have because he new a you might have because of the new free provision?
not really.
there a massive influx and there will be a massive influx and there 3 no room for extension, we would extra funding which is not here, the extra funded places it will not there, but the extra funded places will not cover the costs of means it will not cover the costs of olliin the nursery either.
running the nursery either.
nurseries are suffering, the funding not cover the staffing it does not cover the staffing osts, and resources we need, to - cate the children, all of this ill have a negative impact on how a sery can run.
siness said it nursery can run.
business said it will help if we can get more people the workplace because their s’d nursery costs are going down hem because it nursery costs are going down for because it will be cheaper but are saying that the problem is tle there’s not the infrastructure in a0 the first place to there isn’t.
great that this is helping lies and eople back into work but families and people back into work if nurseries have to close, re will not anybody even there will not be anybody to even tl: ese places, so there will not be anybody to even -n there will not be anybody to even run these places, so it is a bit tless really.
at my run these places, so it is a bit a a run these places, so it is a bit pointless really.
at my nursery it deminantly a pointless really.
at my nursery it i predominantly a privately paid nursery, so if take on more funded s, lose money.
the nursery loses money.
businesses already shouting, especially around dwell, they cannot stain sandwell, they cannot sustain the costs —— already been shouting.
-- tting.
us bout what you shutting.
tell us about what you make of the budget.
you are a t-up and you make of the budget.
you are a make of the budget.
you are a start-up and you are doing quite locally, what will you take i8t well locally, what will you take from the budget?
as an industry we manufacturing company, and we reasonably all, the are reasonably small, so the key 1 are the physical ones, the orporation tax going from 19 to small ompany is neither here there and the recovery of capital investment is a nor there and the recovery of capital investment is a restatement was repackaged holding what of what was there before and repackaged holding what was the i deduction from the previous years so no change, helpful, no ange.
from the excise point of ew, that is good change.
from the excise point of change.
from the excise point of view, that is good for beers in pubs does not help anybody else and but it does not help anybody else and the rest of the hospitality is4 and the rest of the hospitality industry did not get a lot of the g- other benefits g- her benefits it was looking industry did not get a lot of the other benefits it was looking for, 8 adls port it was looking for like support with engaging practices.
so a great budget?
everything ends on what people feel.
you anted a bigger boost for the pitality industry?
yes.
you know of businesses in the black untry you had a bullet oints right up the of the ion is export, we did not region is export, but we did not a0 xport much, where are hear export much, where are the market going to be?
with export market is going to be?
with brexit, immigration, hospitality, say hey cannot get the people say they cannot get the people, no mention of immigration or ction of.
tholes, that was a reduction of potholes, that was interesting.
don’t know how that ffect anyone, but the other thing, will affect anyone, but the other ing, getting people into work, and big thing, getting people into work, referred to the , doctors and increasing their pension ributions, that was interesting, 8 in terms of levelling up, heard but in terms of levelling up, but in terms of levelling up, heard the word bidding pick -- but is not a heard the word bidding pick -- but that is not a word like because that means competition and we lost that regard last time out.
here was good news for tipton.
yes, good.
and there are devolved that is good.
and there are devolved 01 ers, but where is the detail or devil is in powers, but where is the detail or 10 the devil is in the detail.
we heard about the promise from the a llor that inflation will be elow 3% by the end he year but have not heard from anyone who lieves he an do hat.
various commentators have said, and for ness, we cannot business, we cannot predict three 4 down the road, so how you can redict the end of the year, what it like, interest rates, how can redict that?
business wants rtainty but i’m not sure there was e1118 ainty and think today was more bout pragmatic rather than a ionary budget.
inflation, if that op, that would help, wouldn’t it?
calms emotions and it gives a bit more hope that there is ore stability.
they can get it one, that might help?
yes, that is nature of the beast.
done, that might help?
yes, that is i .
1 re of the beast.
but the the nature of the beast.
but the oblem for you is that you need are investment?
we need more ney into he business to stay and and to pay for lots of costs, staff aining, getting quality staff, and education, we educate the hildren need to have esources but is not there.
and it is not ing to come if we have to provide funded places.
mixed emotions i8t rom everyone today.
a bit of good, i bad, bit of uncertainty.
bit of bad, bit of uncertainty.
the last year with three prime inisters and a number of ncellors, you are looking for tability?
he has achieved that in the fact it a standstill terms of the fact it is a standstill budget, not an electioneering et, that is for next year, where will happily give that away if he other 15 illion.
from an has another 15 billion.
from an entrepreneurial perspective, there much there, but maybe that was not much there, but maybe that 3 14 next year.
thanks was not much there, but maybe that was not much there, but maybe that is for next year.
thanks for joining hose doing exercises behind us.
those doing the exercises behind us, we have really worn them out!
coming on the budget now more coming up on the budget by now we have the weather forecast.
today is a relatively cool day.
but in the west, cloud thickening.
outbreaks of rain pushing into northern ireland.
temperatures for most around seven or eight degrees celsius today.
that is below average for march.
but then overnight tonight, we’ll see that rain push inte the cold air.
a spell of snow over the high ground in northern england and scotland could bring one or two localised disruption issues, the snow lasting longest to the north but the rain will eventually spread to all of us during the night time and will be bringing much milder weather conditions.
so temperatures overnight around 8-10c, still a little bit cooler across the very far north of scotland.
now for thursday, we’ve got some heavy outbreaks of rain around that could bring some localised surface water flooding issues, some brighter weather for northern ireland for a time.
a mild day tomorrow with highs up to 15 degrees.
welcome if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
i’m martine croxall.
our top stories: a high court in pakistan orders police to halt their operation to arrest former prime minister imran khan until thursday - following clashes between police and his supporters.
shares in the swiss banking giant credit suisse fall to a record low silicon valley bank.
the chancellor sets out his spring budget in parliament - extra help for childcare and scrapping the limit on tax-free of the government’s plans.
conflicting accounts from washington crashes into the black sea, after an encounter with russian fighter jets.
a small number of wolves settle in belgium for the first time where authorities have temporarily stopped the operation to arrest the former prime police have clashed with his supporters outside his residence in lahore.
unrest has continued through the night, after the authoroities made another attempt to arrest him - enfoercimng a court order.
pakistan’s infoermation minister said the government had nothing to do with the move - but the court was only trying to enforce the arrest warant in connection with a corruption case.
our pakistan correspondent carrie davies reports.
the police might have i a of what happened here have not.
you can see the charred remains of burned chairs, you can see rocks on the floor.
we know from eyewitnesses that there were rocks and sticks used by the , which is imran khan’s 1a oole1g =160 we also know the police used water cannon and tear gas and it’s that tear gas you can still sense in the air, you can feel it in the back of your eyes and throat.
that he did not turn up to multiple court appearances.
now imran khan has said he didn’t appear because of security concerns.
he was worried about his own safety, turning up to those courts.
we’ve heard today from the minister of information for punjab, that the police operation has been temporarily suspended and that is because the pakistan super league, alo l= is ongoing and there’s due to be a semifinal happening in lahore tonight.
at the moment, this sort of disruption has meant the city the supporters here have not suggested that they intend to go anywhere.
uzair younus is the director the atlantic council in washingten.
he says cricket often dictates the tempo of politicial events in pakistan.
cricket has become a convenient excuse over the last few days in lahore, first to stop imran khan and his political party from having their rallies, which is their constitutional and democratic right, and now to pull back the police.
as been pulled back primarily because of the court’s and their repression was on full public display so it became very challenging for the government to maintain this stance.
we should not lose sight of the fact that this ongoing repression and attempts to arrest imran khan are part of a long-standing issue in pakistani politics, which has to do with the military’s role in politics, it picking favourites, and then when these politicians what imran khan right now is basically showing is that he is resisting these attempts and has popularity in punjab, the heartland of pakistan, and pakistan’s government in islamabad and its military establishment are finding it very difficult to bring and cut down imran khan to size.
uzair younus from the atlantic uzair younus from the atlantic council in washington.
financial markets are down across europe, as turmoil continues in the banking sector.
plunged to record lows, over its financial reporting, saying they had found - the saudi national bank - credit suisse’s largest investor - said it could not raise its stake in the bank any further.
stock markets are worrying about the health of the weakest and signature bank.
let’s bring in our international business correspondent, theo leggett.
what is happening, it was different anks last what is happening, it was different ast week and now it is here banks last week and now it is here in europe?
basically it is the week coming under the spotlight, as bank coming under the spotlight, of the weakest.
trouble as bank coming under the spotlight, one of the weakest.
trouble is that credit suisse one of the weakest.
trouble is that suisse are nothing new.
this credit suisse are nothing new.
this financial institution, even t’s the second biggest in switzerland, it’s been three though it’s the second biggest in switzerland, it’s been three scandal scandal.
it lost money in the collapse of fund.
it was ught up in the fallout from the lapse greensill capital, a ritish financial institution, that hed its reputation more than already been the case.
it got up in ond selling scandal caught up in a bond selling scandal in mozambique and was fined hundreds usands of ollars by of thousands of dollars by requlators and so on.
so this is no anger to trouble.
it lost $8 llion ast year, so financially it not the healthiest billion last year, so financially it is not the healthiest and that is n-1ge is not the healthiest and that is 1 the concern at the moment.
because has happened is we have had the ollapse of icon valley bank and signature bank in the united states, ame out of the blue, it was expected, and it focused attention he underlying health of banks in ral.
it caused a certain lack of 8 i onfidence among investors and eed among the depositors at these about their financial banks about their financial help.
he problem with the banking sector people think something is is when people think semething is going wrong, they withdraw money, ake away their investments 3 = it can rapidly come a serious oblem.
that the concern, problem.
that is the concern, really, concerning credit suisse at ment.
it is seen as a weak the moment.
it is seen as a weak the moment.
it is seen as a weak bank.
there are concerns about ealth of the banking sector in eral and therefore credit suisse as a target.
how is it up if he saudi natienal bank shored up if the saudi national bank x1 shored up if the saudi natienal bank saying, we can help you any further?
moment, there no real at the moment, there is no real reason to say it desperately needs funds.
the problem with the saudis are saying they will not rvene is if credit suisse een to need oney in the coming s, weeks months, the saudi national bank is no longer there is a potential pillar of support.
it y- " it doesn’t want to ncrease its hareholding requlatory reasons.
at ndermines confidence a little it more.
so now reportedly, credit has asked the swiss national ank to make an expression of 8 port, to and rebuild some ort of confidence, to say there are alks here in case they are bowl walks there in case they are eded and that people shouldn’t about health of credit suisse.
because as panic about the health of credit - sse.
because as said, the oblem with banking is that if ople think there is a problem, rapidly you can get a problem.
omebody needs to steady the ship ith a1 ome wise words_ bsolutely and 3 with some wise words.
absolutely and is because this general lack of it is because this general lack of confidence we are seeing that shares not just that credit suisse , barclays, across the beard ay we are seeing banking shares ving a really bad day.
theo, thank much.
the head of russia’s security council says moscow will to retrieve the wreckage of the american surveillance drone that crashed into the black sea on tuesday.
the says russian fighter jets intercepted the dreone, causing it to crash - something moscow denies.
nikolai patrushev says he isn’t sure russia can recover the high-tech drone, 8 a senior official in washington says i whether it can retrieve the drone - which is in very deep waters.
our correspondent in kyiv - james landale - has been speaking the foreign minister of ukraine, kuleba, about this incident.
as long as russia controls crimea these kinds of incidents will be inevitable and the black sea will not be a safe place.
so the only way to prevent such incidents is actually to kick russia out of crimea.
do you fear escalation?
because of this specific incident?
no, i think it’s just nlals is happening from time to time.
but you don’t fear it might make cautious, that the americans might think we’ve really got to avoid this thing getting out of control?
it should certainly demonstrate - 1e but don’t have a feeling this a1 the mood is not to escalate, right, but nor is the mood to lean under the pressure, physical pressure of russia.
let’s get more from patricia lewis, international security research director at chatham house.
good to see you, thank you very much or joining us.
to what extent was a of time that something like this happened in this region of the ?
yes, obviously there is a huge amount of activity.
it is on the edge the war zone.
there a lot data collection going n.
there is a is a lot of data collection going a on.
there is a lot of normal l0 ipping as well, once you have that a\ of level of shipping as well, once you have that a 18 shipping as well, once you have that sort of level of activity you are to get accidents.
but in this se, it might not have been an eals ident.
it might have been a iberate interference with the a1 deliberate interference with the a zone or an inadvertent interference with zone or an inadvertent interference rfon zone or an inadvertent interference with the zone and distinguish ween as 4 with the zone and i distinguish with the zone and distinguish between accident and inadvertent.
lpful would it to the how helpful would it be to the russians if they managed to retrieve y4 one?
well, that would be very this drone?
well, that would be very las this drone?
well, that would be very unfortunate for the united states.
is a huge amount this is a there is a huge amount this is a surveillance drone, right?
so a ive amount surveillance drone, right?
so a 0 surveillance drone, right?
so a massive amount of surveillance nology hich is highly secret on board hese drones.
so the race to recover is now another potential spot, if you like, for escalation.
terms of he significance of his diplomatically, how proeblematic t, given what is going on in ukraine?
it, given what is going on in ukraine?
mean, it is the very or ambassador in washington, the ssian ambassador, has been in rect discussions with russian ambassador, has been in a i russian ambassador, has been in direct discussions with the state tment.
so don’t think it is true there is in any high-level discussion going on, there discussion going on, there really ere here are lots ack channels is.
there are lots of back channels that the united nation’s in ork, geneva and vienna on all s- hese issues, all of the time.
think that where this gets difficult 3 a1 1 so is in terms of is it also is in terms of consistency.
when consistency.
when iran shot down a , for example, there were ladle sanctions pressed on iran.
there 08 cyber attacks against the abilities of iran to be able to launch missiles.
so what does the y4 re?
and launch missiles.
so what does the launch missiles.
so what does the do here?
and think a great deal on how they interpret what ppened.
was this the mistake of a pilot in training?
getting i y4 rookie pilot in training?
getting too close?
was it a deliberate back noeuvre, too close?
was it a deliberate back v-1 noeuvre, as they are doing all off manoeuvre, as they are doing all he time, just off manoeuvre, as they are doing all & off manoeuvre, as they are doing all the time, just a neck escalation a i off move question what was it ecause here was something very nsitive going on which meant there eightened tension?
all of these hings have factored into any ighly highly calibrated response.
patricia lewis from chatham house, you very much for your time.
now it’s a big day in politics.
the spring budget has been unveiled in the house of commons by the chancellor jeremy hunt - the first since the political turmoil that proceeded rishi sunak becoming prime minister.
hunt said the will aveid a recession and he hailed a british sir steve webb, who explained exactly what’s been announced.
and still enjoy tax relief oh your pension contributions.
it had been rumoured that would be increased after a decade of cuts and the chancellor stood up and said, i’m not going so there is now no lifetime limit on the pension pot you can build up and still enjoy a tax break, only an annual limit and that’s gone up as well.
what’s the reaction been in the industry and politically?
over the last 24 hours that this has been trailed and particular today, people have been quite shocked because we got so used to the idea prior to every budget, there was speculation - will he scrap tax-free lump sums?
will he cut the limits and so on, and after successive chancellors have done that year after year, this is a sort of screeching u-turn.
some would say 18 menths before an election, perhaps, but partly driven by the doctors.
so there is an argument that says senior doctors had perhaps been retiring early because of tax limits dealt with that problem.
but that isn’t just going to benefit doctors, is it?
economy point of view, the government says they want to get more economically inactive people how likely is it that this measure will do that, do you think?
think with the exception of doctors, who are a specifics case, the evidence is people who have already retired they’re surveyed and they say, no, thank you very much.
i’ve worked this out, it works for me.
back are generally the long term sick and disabled and although there were some budget measures for that group, clearly £1 billion spent on tax breaks on pensions is €1 billion not available for cutting mental health waiting lists and all those kind of things.
so the beneficiaries are people who are already quite well off treasury, on us, the taxpayer?
well, ultimately, it’ll be £1 billion less tax revenue.
that money that doesn’t get taxed - it certainly doesn’t get taxed now - and therefore that’s less money for the general population and for younger people in particular, who in a sense are subsidising relatively well off people, shovelling more money into their pensions.
well, while jeremy hunt handing down that budget, protestors including thousands of members of the teachers union have been taking part in a demonstration in central london over demands for higher pay.
it’s part of a strike today and tomorrow in england.
our reporter nick johnson sent this from trafalgar square.
it has felt very much like a rnival or a it has felt very much like a val or a festival atmosphere 1d hroughout the heart of central don teachers we understand in heir tens of thousands gathering at ark a little earlier today, hyde park a little earlier today, then walking masse through the of central london, making a of noise, waving flags and acards to demonstrate their point they culminated here in falgar square.
what has felt like und zero for industrial action 1s - re-ta ground zero for industrial action here in central london today.
not have had members from the national educational union but the ion and of ourse junior union and of course junior ors have also union and of course junior i - doctors have also been scattered among the crowd to lend their ort to the cause re.
but it is support to the cause here.
but it is cela ers who have made up that most teachers who have made up that most of the crowd here today and they with a very important message that is the government needs to vest in the future of teaching and the future of the classroom.
with teacher eve from a primary chool in south-east london.
me is teacher eve from a primary a school in south-east london.
tell me you are here today.
triking because eserve to be paid better than are.
the overnment paid better than we are.
the government have made choices about how to spend money.
should a pay cut because of that, real terms pay cut?
also, our ools eed to terms pay cut?
alse, our schools nel terms pay cut?
alse, our schools a terms pay cut?
alse, our schools need to be funded better.
lained my year class that explained my year five class that or the pay rise we just got, that they get less money which is fair = they understood that he ad five children.
so the schools to funded had five children.
so the schools be funded better and need to be funded better and we need to a paid better.
the government " ays it is committed to funding ools aying it puts in an says it is committed to funding i schools saying it puts in an extra 2 billion into schools and as also 0 aid it has £2 billien into schools and has also i has asked the any you to said it has asked the any you to pause its strike action so it can real proper negotiations he is determined to trike?
well, that had to go through a work to well, that had to go through a well, that had to go through a 8 work to get to this point lot of work to get to this point with with the strikes and 4 with the strikes and think they ould be wrong to pause it without = i commitment from the government hat hey will actually talk about we want them talk about.
and what we want them to talk about.
and 0td about things that matter, not ust 4tle 40 talk about things that matter, not just what is going to grab the lines.
you have talked about pay aie is not just about pay but nde but it is not just about pay but resocurces.
tell me a ittle i a1 0td about resources.
tell me a little 1o 1t about resources.
tell me a little a bout one of the most important hings your & things in your school at the moment of how it is struggling.
01 in terms of how it is struggling.
well, about pay, sorry, what you ioned earlier, the reason they re investing so much as the cuts chose to make during austerity ago.
they chose to make during austerity ars ago.
that is the - funding is going up, because 13 years ago.
that is the funding is going up, because they down so low.
at our brought it down so low.
at our school, we are seeing tas, not as in classrooms.
just generally here seems to be less money around.
a very committed senior leadership team, teaching staff, tas and all the other people who work in who just want to go in and a school who just want to go in and jobs.
but it is getting do our jobs.
but it is getting 11 er.
what do you say to the parents the children who having to face two days of ruption this week after ple a couple of years worth of disruption because id?
haven’t had of covid?
haven’t had conversations like that with of rents, it’s only my parents, it’s only been positive of that one of my parents is on arch today.
was hoping would into them march today.
was hoping would u1 march today.
was hoping would bump into them but haven’t.
n’t had any negativity from any or hildren.
and we have heard that parents who are the classroom.
and we have heard as i ¢ well that parents who are not eachers have been to well that parents who are not - teachers have been to the march today, as well as young people.
to ad some of the placards we want to read some of the placards we have seen today, if few examples of can’t put pupils first that you can’t put pupils first if you put teachers last.
another one, run out of glue sticks but 10 we are sticking together.
the urces in the classroom another sticking issue today.
nick big sticking issue here today.
nick johnson big sticking issue here today.
nick i nson reporting from trafalgar quare.
since the taliban takeover in august 2021, playing and listening to music in public in afghanistan the taliban say it is "un-islamic” and they locked the doors of the afghanistan national institute of music in kabul when they returned to power in 2021, forcing the students of the music school to flee the country.
now, this determined group of young musicians are back on the international stage fighting to keep afghan music alive.
shekiba habib reports.
these are the students of afghanistan’s most prestigious music institute, after fleeing from their country.
this is the start of their 2023 tour of europe.
: never imagined the taliban could take over and ban music within a day.
: when the taliban came, was sad because wasn’t able to continue studying.
was a prisoner at home.
and status as professionals.
but when the taliban returned, everything regressed.
after breaking all their instruments, the taliban locked years of dedication and passion were destroyed in seconds.
but the school’s former students irit their actions go unnoticed.
we will play our music even louder.
these musicians flourished in afghanistan before the taliban it they might have lost their stage, their music school and their musical instruments but what’’s remaining is their art and their resilience.
now living as refugees in portugal, their orchestra and their mission.
how do you feel before going to the stage?
which piece do you like the most?
the one that’s about afghanistan?
to be just like them - uneducated and without progress.
i fie : when the taliban are gone, will go to afghanistan to teach music to girls and boys.
to the sea because of coastal 1 weekend three houses were demolished after high tides - and two more are earmarked to be pulled down in the sea-side resort of hemsby.
on wednesday, around 2,000 tonnes of rock are expected to arrive to to shore up the coastline, as black reports.
for decades, this part has been slipping away.
for the residents here in hemsby, coastal erosion is nothing new.
but sometimes mother nature can be unpredictable and the recent bad weather and high tides have an & over the weekend, sections of these chalet style houses started to go into the water and some were totally demolished before that could happen.
school teacher sue saw her house pulled down at the weekend.
she knew erosion was a problem and couldn’t get insurance for the property, but loved living in this location.
the water, like said, 99% of the time the erosion was very, very slow.
it was a very unique place to be.
at that point, he had 50 metres of sand dune behind his property.
a year later, he dragged his house forward and now he’s hoping to do it again to escape the threat of the sea.
i’ve heard this morning that i’ve been put doewn as number one on the demolishing list, which is a bit worrying and upsetting, obviously.
can only work as fast as people can get the machinery to me.
we are actually, at the moment, demolishing people’s homes.
whether it be a second home or your main home, and the devastation that causes, the upset and everything, do really feel sorry for these people.
but obviously, safety comes into play.
in the last ten years, 20 properties have gone from these if the damage to this road gets any worse.
1,900 tonnes of rock will be brought into slow the erosion.
a temporary measure and a bigger wall of rock planned for the future.
the government has allocated £36 million over six years in places like north norfolk to help communities adapt to a changing climate.
black, news, in hemsby.
the queen guitarist brian may has received a knighthood for services to music and charity.
at buckingham palace.
it comes less than a year - a appeared on screen tapping out the beat of we will rock you over tea with paddington bear - the song was famously written by brian may.
and before we go, an early spring treat for visitors at tokyo’s ueno park - who have been enjoying cherry flowers blooming early in the season.
japan announced the official a as in past years, the country’s meteorologists have linked the increasingly early blooms to climate change, and temperatures in tokyo have been unseasonably mild in recent days.
igs much more on ocur main tories, , the ale much more on our main stories, the situation in pakistan, where the a ities have halted the arrest authorities have halted the arrest of the former prime minister imran khan.
also, if you are interested in budget, plenty more on our i website as well after the chancellor jeremy hunt announced plans to the economy.
you are atching to boost the economy.
you are atching news.
this week we’re seeing some big swings in temperature from one day to the next, we had a very cold start to the morning with temperatures down at minus ten.
but over the next 24 hours or so, milder air will be pushing right the way across the , bringing a big jump in our temperatures.
degrees celsius pretty widely.
but if you take a look at the highs in londonderry, we’re going from eight today to about 15 degrees celsius tomorrow.
before we get there, though, as say, today is a relatively cold day with temperatures below average, a sunny and frosty start.
i starting to cloud over.
and in northern ireland, we’re seeing rain moving in, and there have been a few flakes of snow just on the leading edge of this weather front across some of the hills in northern ireland.
bumps into the cold air, we could see a spell of snow across the hills of northern england and scotland, the snow lasting longest and could bring some localised areas of disruption.
but then later in the night, push of much milder air as the next band of rain works in.
and so temperatures will be climbing significantly.
8 nine or ten degrees celsius pretty widely and even across northern scotland will see temperatures climbing well above freezing.
now for thursday, we’ve got that mild flow of southwesterly winds, but it will be quite a wet and quite a windy kind of day.
the rain heavy enough to cause some localised surface water flooding issues, the weather slowly brightening up but with the risk of some heavy and thundery showers later in the day.
even northern scotland, ten in aberdeen, still relatively cold though in lerwick.
for friday, we might see some fairly prolonged outbreaks of rain affecting eastern areas of england.
otherwise, think it’s going to be a cloudy day with some heavy oi i the heaviest probably across western areas of the , maybe even a bit of thunder mixed in.
still mild, temperatures could go as high as 16 degrees a and then for the weekend, still lots of cloud around on saturday with bursts of rain, sunday probably showers, a few brighter spells in between, but still overall, quite a lot of cloud expected.
and then if we take a quick look at the weather into next week, well, our top stories: a high court in the pakistani city of lahore has ordered police to halt their operation to arrest main opposition leader and former following clashes between police and his supporters.
shares in the troubled swiss banking giant credit suisse fall to a record low as investors remain worried about the problems it faces and signature bank.
the limit on tax-free pension savings are part of the government’s plans to draw people drone crashes into the black sea we russian fighter jets - ukraine’s foreign minister says incidents like this are inevitable until russia leave crimea.
where the british finance minister or chancellor, has been setting out his tax and spending plans, amidst what’s thought to be the biggest day of strikes since a wave of industrial action began last year.
chancellor jeremy hunt handed down his spring budget - saying the government was taking steps to help people deal with the cost of living crisis - increasing the provision of free childcare and continuing to subsidise household energy bills hundreds of thousands of workers in britain are holding mass walkouts let’s go live to our political correspondent rob watson.
thank outside the parliament.
you.
was about to make : thank you.
was about to make a small suggestion that maybe they hold budgets at a different i could hold budgets at a different time of year, maybe when it was less bad with time of year, maybe when it was a time of year, maybe when it was a bit less bad with the wind and rain & ’s crack on any way with the but let’s crack on any way with the budget.
i’m joined by jonathan olds, the senior spekesman for the main opposition reynolds, the senior spokesman for 0 the main opposition labour party.
if you win power, you could hold it at i ent time of year?
a lot of a different time of year?
a lot of things would be better under a government!
gave you at a railway line with that one.
what ain critique with what you ad today?
-- a throwaway line.
our are better off they were people are better off than they were 13 years ago and the answer for most ple is no.
-- are that people is no.
-- are people that re.
the chancellor says we are not to accept being the worst going to accept being the worst rforming major economy in the g7, recognise the fact we are the \ major economy has not as not i only major economy that has not to its pre-pandemic level we re going to correct that and they be hope and ambition but it is ore of will be hope and ambition but it is - aie more of the same.
we will come onto your ambition in a second but when was nothing about what you which picked your interest?
about the heard which picked your interest?
a - what about the tax incentives for business invest and some of the measures encouraging people who are king age but not working?
as there on of working age but not working?
as i of working age but not working?
as i here on the front bench, there were a few ideas that felt that had burgled from the next labour manifesto, the points on childcare epayment meters, we wanted hat o0 0e8 and prepayment meters, we wanted that support with people’s bills to 4 with, but on business begin with, but on business n3t estment and this is top of my investment and this is top of my list because the country has the lowest rate of business investment in the g7 is the direct cause of the roductivity high axes low productivity and high taxes and poor 9 ublic services that has been story the last decade, so the story of the last decade, so watched with the story of the last decade, so with interest on what watched with interest on what has watched with interest on what has been announced but of course what out, announced for three years so that will stands out, announced for three stands out, announced for three years so that will bring forward a1 stment decisions, according to modelling, but for most businesses, vestment outline is longer their investment outline is longer than three years, you need the ility.
22 changes over the orporation tax regime in this liament alone and that is not ood enough and holds us back, 8 the lack of stability is the number mplaint for business in the k.
what a lot of people struggle % nderstand is what exactly is it labour do differently?
that labour would do differently?
all as far as know, you are suggesting something radically erent about the size of different about the size of the tate or the role of the state and are not suggesting we rejoin the single market, even though one of ings that the constantly 4 refers back to, as one of the the things that the constantly refers back to, as one of the causes 1 albums for he and we of the albums for the and we re under it’s the fact of the albums for the and we of the -- one of the causes of he performance by the .
would it be different under labour?
we be focused on jobs and wages nergy bills crucially, a much and energy bills and crucially, a a much better and more competitive that ag: attract the much better and more competitive a a3t much better and more competitive that will attract the investment so 4 stance, look at the big for instance, look at the big industrial news, job cuts at ford ritish eel and industrial news, job cuts at ford and british steel and astrazeneca has gone to ireland so our growing perity plan is a big response to inflation reduction act which ave seen in and the net the inflation reduction act which we have seen in the and the net zero ftas the , and we are not for rejoining the because the ability will cause further stability, although we would prove the deal.
brexit hit a hit that has got to take the chin?
ecision has been made, but we an rejoin the horizon science gramme, and improved exports to from he single market, making re mutual professional ualifications are recognised, that a ade better with a stronger employment rates during rights, and it is a omprehensive and 1ile1 think it is @ comprehensive and ae-1g think it is @ comprehensive and i think it is @ comprehensive and much better offer to invest in business already here and that is hange of direction we need.
overrunning whatever time we have a4 allocated but let me ask you out the public sector, and one of things we see in about the public sector, and one of 1 about the public sector, and one of the things we see in the forecasts ive year squeeze on public 1fe is a five year squeeze on public spending, which means will be spent cation i health, and that is on education and health, and that is 1 a time when we note there are numbers of strikes today, so you were to win next iif you were to win the next election, it would be if you were to win the next 442 if you were to win the next election, it would be tricky, would ahead and implement what might be called austerity light?
we ould not be might be called austerity light?
we 1d might be called austerity light?
we would not be for austerity but growth is it means the whilst growth is low it means the burden of taxation is high and services are not performing to our onception of high standard if you look at the , what we uld have had in budget, is the bolition would have had in the budget, is the i 2 ion of the non-dom rule, abolition of the nen-dom rule, over £3 billion of revenue, which we spend on £3 billion of revenue, which we i £3 billion of revenue, which we would spend on more doctors and i es, getting people the health care they need but etting more care they need but also getting more people back to work, that is the answer to people back to work, that is the 0le people back to work, that is the real answer to labour market tivity, making sure people get the treatment they need if they and getting back into work.
we have got to wrap up but thank you much or your time.
there we very much for your time.
there we re.
that is the word from the main 0 osition labour party.
these oises opposition labour party.
these oises in your head can be very oying at times!
rob watson there the houses of parliament.
people have died in iran - while celebrating a fire festival.
authorities say the deaths were caused by home-made fireworks.
parham ghobadi reports.
"for freedom™, they sing, burning their headscarves.
but this year, to also protest.
scenes like these can potentially lead to your arrest in iran.
dancing in public, especially without a hijab, is not tolerated by the islamic regime.
like these girls, who were immediately arrested last week they were released after making a public apology.
but iran’s generation z, who has been at the forefront of anti-government protest which swept the country in september, has shown no fear.
in this video, verified by persian, protesters in the capital, they tried to move in.
the iranian authorities have given a muted response, focusing on the number : this year, at least 26 people were killed, which is five more than last year.
the protests started after the death of a young kurdish woman, mahsa amini, in police custody, for allegedly not wearing her hijab properly.
"woman, life, freedom" is the chant.
young people have not forgiven or forgotten.
leader, ayatollah khomeini, will be overthrown this year.
they say they want an end to the clerical establishment.
parham ghobadi, news.
let’s return to college green with rob watson - who’s got more on the budget.
just wish just wish had a a better coat on.
nyway, what can you do?
i’m going to next couple of quests.
i to get to my next couple of guests.
antonio jennings from the scent of cal economic strategists and ake from plaid cymru onia ben lake from plaid cymru -- antonia jennings from the centre.
and for verseas viewers, plaid cymru lieves welsh independence.
irst of all, can explain what he centre does, and gather you a great fan of the government?
we advocate for ressive local development and we what can appen on local level what can happen if good public vices are funded well and 3 services are funded well and councils really work their policies efit the community.
politics 101 in is country is an uncontroversial ught that what he needs is more equal elopment than london the and the south-east, which has been richer me time, what do you make for some time, so what do you make of the budget?
does it address this?
sn’t, does not ake up or it doesn’t, it does not make up for years of underdevelopment and nat a1 years of underdevelopment and underinvestment and local government cuts the tune of £15 has had cuts to the tune of £15 ion since 2010 if you are just hat billion since 2010 if you are just that for inflation that is £40 ion.
hat we have seen billien.
what we have seen with levelling up is billion.
what we have seen with > so levelling up is £2 billion offered it so that is like me levelling up is £2 billion offered 1srg i levelling up is £2 billion offered it so that is like me offering you you taking a pound back and £20, you taking a pound back and then us trying to figure out whether in i can be in the same position that was ten was ten minutes before the exchange, nothing goes anywhere close making up for those years of erinvestment.
is there anything hat he government could do now thin the financial envelope that faces that ould make a i x4 the faces that would make a difference?
a lot of things, if vered, ould make a fference, delivered, could make a difference, and we saw trailblazer devolution announced and we the deal is announced and we saw the etalaeoalw-tn1l0118 deal is announced and we saw the a1 a1 announcement of the 12 investment and announcement of the 12 investment and think if announcement of the 12 investment zones and think if the investment zones turn cut to be along the lines anary wharf which is what jeremy unt suggested.
that is a financial rict in london.
hunt suggested.
that is a financial i igln l% hunt suggested.
that is a financial a1 strict in london.
that will not do nything the kid in tower anything for the kid in tower hamlets who is in poverty but if make sure of good quality local obs and make sure that the sinesses within them procured from local community then possibly.
have our competing umbrellas ere, tangling up.
you are no friend government, what is your of the government, what is your of the government?
was oping there might have been more isive action with hoping there might have been more a action with measures to tackle the cost decisive action with measures to tackle the cost of living crisis.
do opposition party politicians really hat?
we do, actually, because we cannot afford this in hope that?
we do, actually, because a1 1 hope that?
we do, actually, because we cannot afford this in action and ave ard a lot of government we have heard a lot of government spin saying that the retention of nergy price cap is a good the energy price cap is a good thing, and yes, of course, it is ome but do not forget, it welcome but do not forget, it ntains prices at welcome but do not forget, it - - welcome but do not forget, it maintains prices at an already htened level that many people re finding unaffordable and if you esent place that has 74% of represent a place that has 74% of households not represent a place that has 74% of a households not connected to the mains gas grid like myself, there hat much 11 port for this, so not that much support for this, so here is disappeintment on that ont but also there is disappointment on that but also in terms of the longer term perspective, there was ortunity for the government to 334 set out a vision an opportunity for the government to a vision for the , set out a vision for the , levelling up, where was that?
where bold thinking in terms of enewable energy?
we have great ential in wales for offshore wind the cross-party committee has a 4 and the cross-party committee has made a lot of recommendations that unlock a lot of that would unlock a lot of that development and preduce green and ure energy sources for the for next 50 years.
there was no iale a the next 50 years.
there was no mention of that.
one of the unifying in british politics is that 4 country faces a problem with and people say that the is growing as well as some of the not growing as well as some of the furozone countries and the and g7 ountries, we have not other g7 countries, we have not unced back from the pandemic, so holds growth back?
you could reak it down what holds growth back?
you could i all what holds growth back?
you could break it down into a couple of es, es, productivity problem i issues, productivity problem when it to the productivity of labour and also productivity of capital.
but is that?
because we ore as have more services rather than yel stuff?
it is the lack of a making stuff?
it is the lack of a a8 herent plan.
look at the roductivity bour as an productivity of labour as an example, you have the home secretary insistent on reducing net migration and talking potentially ing the number of international reducing the number of international r4 universities and on r4 students studying in the universities and on the other hand the treasury wishing they ould increase growth in bour could increase growth in the labour market, so you have different rtments state competing in 4 departments of state competing in different ways on this major issue and it stems because of the government does not have a coherent what it once the economy to look like.
evelling least look like.
levelling up at least offered some sort of outline of what ould do in terms of addressing this regional inequality they could do in terms of addressing 0 they could do in terms of addressing this regional inequality but that been cast asunder and thrown verboard and we have nothing left.
slogan, though, levelling up, nobody could disagree with it.
we are probably running out of time, there was one thing you but if there was one thing that you could do for growth, something that he grow like other countries, made the grow like other i 1 made the grow like other countries, what would it be?
the arocund owth has been debate around growth has been reductive debate around growth has been ctive and simplistic and growth 1 oes not tell you anything about erty levels or anything about the spread of growth and we really poverty levels or anything about the spread of growth and we really need npacking in light of the to be unpacking in light of the i ' to be unpacking in light of the climate emergency what is growing in ture and who is benefiting the future and who is benefiting tee i8t the future and who is benefiting from that growth and what democratic nisms are behind it what we ant to grow.
thank you both very and am now going to hand back the studio.
there we much and am now going to hand back i to the studio.
there we are.
thank you very much.
we are impressed that 4 got matching umbrellas.
rob atson in rain, as you would xpect in the spring the .
the creators of the viral artifiical intelligence platform, the upgrade means it can respond to images as well as words, suggesting recipe ideas from a picture of ingredients captions and descriptions.
used the original chat a late last year.
popular requests have included asking it to write songs, poems, website copy and even school essays.
it will initially be available through subscription from microsoft which has invested billions in the new technology.
let’s catch up on the latest business news now.
fallen as much as 30% to a record low, for the second consecutive day.
this - after credit suisse’s largest investor - saudi national bank, said it could not provide the swiss bank with any further financial assistance.
but the banking sector across europe is under pressure.
with other major banks like and societe general suffering falls.
all adding to downward pressure on markets still jittery from the fallout from the collapse of silicon valley bank.
michelle fleury is in new york for us.
there are still jitters even though ntral banks and we have heard from it suisse’s hoss oday aying credit suisse’s boss today saying everything is fine but the worries st?
it is astonishing and it hows shows you the volatility we are in he banking sector.
yesterday we oke about the rebound he stocks in regional banking ares and to date we haven’t een those tters returning -- and today ave seen those jitters returning specially in urope and we are lking about credit suisse with the price down around 20%.
earlier was down 30%.
the situation is that apparently management at redit suisse have appealed to the central bank credit suisse have appealed to the a4 & swiss central bank to issue some of statement reassuring 3 0 sort of statement reassuring investors about the health of this it gives you a nse of how bank.
it gives you a sense of how 10\ idly things can move.
the stocks ebound in yesterday today, yet again, we talking about the bank ocks under pressure.
we have done is or far too long and we remember he 2008 financial crisis was brought about by similar easons but this time it 4 ifferent because this is about erest rates going up which means banks are finding it hard to the numbers add xplain the make the numbers add up.
explain the correlation.
a lot of banks hold which lost value assets which have lost value because at of the recent increase in interest and typically banks will hedge risk and they can buy a roduct their risk and they can buy a =1 0 their risk and they can buy a product and protect them against product and protect them against that but as customers rushed to the to take out their money, they banks to take out their money, they rced to raise more capital so hey ell some of he assets at a - and in they sell some of the assets at a they sell some of the assets at a loss and in the case of silicon bank they re not good at valley bank they were not good at protecting themselves against such a als and that is they ran scenario and that is they ran into trouble.
investors have been around since casting their looking around since casting their eye across the banking sector, say, has these problems with who else has got these problems with unrealised losses?
attention has 18 on credit suisse.
what is interesting is we have ad had interesting is that we have had comments from interesting is that we have had eld interesting is that we have had comments from the chair today ng, we have strong capital base, ave a strong regulation, we are a good position, but the fact you at in a good position, but the fact you have these comments from its biggest saying it will not be able to lend any more money if it runs to trouble, at has spooked vestors right now and it will be teresting to see how central kers respond because you have got meeting and expected to ise rates by 50 basis points morrow, which was before this pened, and then the federal serve in he having its policy setting meeting next week.
all this is ppening amid an of this is happening amid an talat - 1 of this is happening amid an i ironment where central banks of this is happening amid an environment where central banks are saying they had i =l = saying they had got to raise rates a lid on prices to keep lid on prices and to keep inflation down.
so there are two licting demands and it is hard know which one they will pay most dlene to know which one they will pay most 1 tention to.
if you look at to know which one they will pay most attention to.
if you look at what is happening in the , the expectation now is that the federal reserve will probably pause raising interest and christine lagarde at the omorrow, she had hinted that it was you could a 50 basis likely you could see a 50 basis point increase but likely you could see a 50 basis i a - a point increase but now there’s talk of an she do that in he face of of can she do that in the face of hat is happening to banking stocks?
he scale back or even hit the pause button?
but the panic inues to spread and if want continues to spread and if you want to draw parallels to 2008, one of hings we talked about then was instrument which made against bank losses and in the case insurance policy regarding edit uisse, the prices for those 1 roducts are at levels not seen since the last financial isis, that indicates that is re is a level anic crisis, that indicates that there is i of panic right now.
i’m hoping you can hear me now.
michelle, thank you.
we cut you off prime but thanks for joining .
i’m hoping you can hear me at me.
to the now, where the chancellor jeremy hunt has been unveiling his first budget.
billed as the back to work budget, hunt offered up extra childcare provision and pension tax changes - among other incentives to get britain growing again.
but another tool in his box was an eye catching move towards a high tech future for the , with the pharmaceutical sector getting particular attention.
we are lucky with the to have one of the most respected drugs regulators in the world.
indeed the very first anywhere to license a covid vaccine.
from 2024 they will move to a different model, which will allow rapid, often near automatic signoff for medicines and technologies already approved by trusted regulators in other parts of the world, such as the united states, europe and japan.
at the same time, they will set up a swift new approval process for the most cutting edge medicines i ¢ joining me now is hugo - a a developer biotechnology.
thanks for jeining us.
we heard from he chancellor, enhanced tax relief , what does this mean for you?
afternocon.
for a rate, what does this mean for you?
i - good afternoon.
for a small research n4 but a very ambitious company like ourselves where we are really on the research in the like ourselves where we are really i focused on the research in the field of nfectious diseases for lnerable populations, we develop ibodies, and companies ours antibodies, and companies like ours %1\ 1 antibedies, and companies like ours really welcome this boost.
because lief which is essentially a overnment reinvestment in what we our sector, allows us to go deeper nto the cience, longer into science it llows us to the science and it allows us to 103 loy more scientists and it gives high probability of success in ching our which is reaching our goal which is developing these very innovative ines for vulnerable medicines for vulnerable populations.
medicines for vulnerable oi a 4 tions.
it is the idea of incentivising risk-taking and ally might be averse to risk taking part in an industry like that crucial that is how you will find the big thing and it that your research does not ay off but when it does it can be life changing, can’t it?
it solutely can.
the infectious diseases that we are focused on are € vid and flu and we have seen the vastating effects of those 0 eases especially on hose where vaccines diseases especially on those where diseases especially on those where vaccines have limited value and l1 times not at all because the populations do not the immune response so you have to put tibody in hem.
we are an antibedy in them.
we are successful, we hope that there will fewer patients being be far fewer patients being hospitalised these ectious diseases, 50 you an imagine the mpact this can have.
the tax relief does, it gives onger runway and a higher probability of and of ucceeding.
hugo, so success and of succeeding.
hugo, so good to talk to you.
thanks for ing us.
the weather forecast and eadlines ming up or you very shortly.
that is all from me.
this week we’re seeing some big swings in temperature from one day to the next, we had a very cold start to the morning with temperatures down at minus ten.
but over the next 24 hours or so, milder air will be pushing right the way across the , bringing a big jump in our temperatures.
degrees celsius pretty widely.
but if you take a look at the highs in londonderry, we’re going from eight today to about 15 degrees celsius tomorrow.
before we get there, though, as say, today is a relatively cold day with temperatures below average, a sunny and frosty start.
i starting to cloud over.
and in northern ireland, we’re seeing rain moving in, and there have been a few flakes of snow just on the leading edge of this weather front across some of the hills in northern ireland.
bumps into the cold air, we could see a spell of snow across the hills of northern england and scotland, the snow lasting longest and could bring some localised areas of disruption.
but then later in the night, push of much milder air as the next band of rain works in.
and so temperatures will be climbing significantly.
8 nine or ten degrees celsius pretty widely and even across northern scotland we’ll see temperatures climbing well above freezing.
now for thursday, we’ve got that mild flow of southwesterly winds, but it will be quite a wet and windy kind of day.
the rain heavy enough to cause some localised surface water flooding issues, the weather slowly brightening up but with the risk of some heavy and thundery showers later in the day.
even northern scotland, ten in aberdeen, still relatively cold though in lerwick.
for friday, we might see some fairly prolonged outbreaks of rain affecting eastern areas of england.
otherwise, think it’s going to be a cloudy day with some heavy oi i the heaviest probably across western areas of the , maybe even a bit of thunder mixed in.
still mild, temperatures could go as high as 16 degrees a and then for the weekend, still lots of cloud around on saturday with bursts of rain, sunday probably showers, a few brighter spells in between, but still overall, quite a lot of cloud expected.
and then if we take a quick look at the weather into next week, well, welcome if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
i’m reeta chakrabarti.
our top stories.
the chancellor sets out his spring budget in parliament.
extra help for childcare and scrapping the limit on tax-free of the government’s plans.
our top stories.
today, we build for the future.
with inflation down, debt falling and growth up, the declinists are wrong and the optimists are right.
like millions across our country, this budget leaves us stuck in the waiting room with only a sticking plaster to hand.
of managed decline, falling behind our competitors, the sick man of europe once again.
shares in the swiss banking giant credit suisse fall to a record low silicon valley bank.
a high court in pakistan orders police to halt their operation to arrest former prime minister imran khan until thursday, following clashes between police and his supporters.
conflicting accounts from washington after an encounter with russian fighter jets.
and a small number of wolves settle in belgium for the first time we start here in the - where the chancellor jeremy hunt has been setting out his budget, pledging to "build for the future™.
to shrink this year, to just under 3% by the end of 2023.
but the labour leader, sir keir starmer, accuses the government of "dressing up stagnation as stability”.
let’s look at some of the key moments of the budget.
energy bills for a typical household 1 ala to be capped at £2,500 until the end of june.
the 5p cut to fuel duty on petrol and diesel has been frozen for another year.
the duty on draught pints has also been frozen to help - but people drinking at home will see tax on other alcohol products - like wine and spirits - soar by 10.
1% in august, in line with inflation during the peak of the cost-of-living crisis.
the lifetime limit on tax-free pensions savings will be abolished.
in additien, the annual tax-free pension allowance will rise to £60,000.
and free childcare of 30 hours a week for working parents in england is being expanded to cover one and two-year-olds, but will only be fully implemented by september 2025.
i’m joined now by david milne, financial adviser hello to you.
thank @' hello to you.
thank you for jeining us.
can we talk specifically about ons?
you give financial advice pensions?
you give financial advice to people who help handle their ions and their tirement plans.
pensions and their retirement plans.
at do you make of the proposals in budget?
it was quite a surprise.
id expect an the budget?
it was quite a surprise.
- xpect an increase in the lifetime allowance, did expect an increase in the - 4 lifetime allowance, but was very surprised when it scrapped entirely.
increase in the annual but the increase in the annual allowance is good as well, and a ificant change.
not ones that ere widely anticipated.
how do you people you are advising are going to think people you are advising are to react to this news?
what ort of extra going to react to this news?
what i a1 going to react to this news?
what sort of extra flexibility or leeway ive them?
well, it’s quite broad.
there certainly implications for tax planning.
can the government are doing this, they’re desperate to get back to work, particularly in ical professions.
did wonder they didn’t ecifically rget rget this the medical profession they didn’t specifically target i l, this at the medical profession and hroad here.
the amount you were 50 broad here.
the amount you an put inte a pension over a lifetime is unlimited, so can put into a pension over a lifetime is unlimited, so there’s plications of.
but we know big implications of.
but we know the chancellor and the overnment government are what the chancellor and the government are trying to do, they to get lder people to stay in a4 want to get older people to stay in & and they want to attract people of retirement.
they’re targeting gher earning doctors out of retirement.
they’re targeting 1 out of retirement.
they’re targeting the higher earning doctors who said ave been retiring early