that’s it, goodbye.
: australia!
there’s a bright future.
can’t believe we’re actually doing this.
here we go, then, the start of our new lives.
g’day, new arrivals!
welcome to paradise.
it’s like a prisoner—of—war camp.
we can have a wonderful life here, are you ready?
not you, mate!
you lot!
it’s time to show the world how we host.
i’ve got it all under control.
4 get ready was born ready.
because this year telk - now, come on!
provide more details of it later at a news conference and keep across this story and bring you the latest 1nlon and bring you the latest information on news.
it’s the most common form of dementia — alzheimer’s — and there is currently no cure for it.
but there is now hope there could soon be new drugs to treat it.
after major clinical trials, an experimental drug has been shown to slow down the progress of the disease significantly.
our medical editor, fergus walsh, has the details after decades of failed trials, there are now two antibody drugs which can slow early stage alzheimer’s disease.
the latest one is donanemab, which is given as a infusion.
it works by clearing a rogue protein called amyloid, which builds up in sticky clumps in the brains of alzheimer’s patients.
in a trial, it slowed cognitive decline by around 35% over 18 months in a group of nearly 1200 patients with early stage alzheimer’s, the best results reported so far.
but there were some a at least two volunteers died as a result of brain swelling.
now, in november, another antibody treatment, called lecanemab, was the first drug aver to show it could slow the progress of alzheimer’s disease.
dementia researchers say we’re now entering a new era - -1 12 we really see that we’re at a revolutionary point in how we treat alzheimer’s disease.
so what we now need, when we have the full results, is for the regulators to make quick decisions so that patients that could benefit from these treatments are able to benefit.
now we don’t know how much donanemab will cost, but lecanemab is over £20,000 a year per patient in the , where it’s already licensed.
dementia specialists say we’ll need a complete overhaul of alzheimer’s services here, including access to specialist brain scans if patients are to benefit from these new drugs.
the remains of a man who went missing on a fishing trip have been found inside a crocodile.
65—year—old kevin darmody went missing in far north queensland over the weekend.
after a 2—day search of the area, police euthanised two large crocodiles before finding human body parts.
spoke to our correspondent in australia, phil mercer and asked just how common these crocodile attacks are.
in the state of queensland, monica, extremely rare.
since record—keeping began back in the mid—1980s, there’s only been over a dozen fatal attacks.
what we do know about kevin darmody 3r =1 fishing with friends in far northern queensland, on cape york over the weekend.
his friends didn’t see the attack, but they certainly heard it - they heard a yell and a very large splash, and this was a group fishing along the river bank, when they got to the scene, the missing man wasn’t there, but the only thing that was left were his shoes, his flip—flops.
and the authorities, over the course of the next 24 hours, hunted down two large one was four metres, both were shot dead and human remains were found inside one of those large reptiles.
but wildlife authorities believe that both crocodiles were involved phil, darmody was an experienced fisherman, so do we know what exactly provokes a crocodile to want to eat someone alive?
crocodiles are a direct link to our prehistoric past.
it’s estimated they’ve been on the planet for 65 million years, they have evolved to be almost the perfect predator.
they are patient, they are cunning, and they are stealthy.
and some research estimates they can hold their breath up to eight hours.
so it’s not really a question of provoking these animals — they are always there in those rivers and creeks, and water holes in tropical northern australia, and the advice is to stay away from waterways.
doing that, so the authorities do say that people should take o= 0iues around waterways in tropical northern australia at night, dusk, and dawn when these fearsome predators, the world’s largest reptiles are at their most active.
more now on preparations noa - 0 a0 king charles ill this weekend.
big ben is being lit up every night between now and sunday to mark the coronation, with the colours of the union flag and the national flowers of all four home nations.
hundreds of soldiers, many on horseback, marched down from buckingham palace past trafalgar square and downing street to westminster abbey.
many of us had some beautiful late spring sunshine on wednesday.
in fact, in bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours of sunshine, a glorious day.
but top temperature, well, that was in south wales, in gwynedd, just of 20 celsius, and it felt very pleasant indeed.
now it’s not out of the question that we could see 20 celsius on thursday, but the weather story is certainly on the change with low pressure starting to move in from the southwest.
so as we go through the day on thursday, it’s a tale of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off the north sea, affecting eastern england and northeast we’ve got rain pushing into the southwest — and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best of the sunshine is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll see the best of the warmth.
the breeze still coming from an east direction, so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight edge to things.
a little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough with highs of 19-20 celsius perhaps in the southeast.
now, as we move out of thursday into friday, that weather front will continue to push its way steadily north.
it’ bring outbreaks of rain as it does so, and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
so on friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving 1 england, into scotland.
sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
but unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
- that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily north as we go through the day.
so not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
and the wider picture throughout the bank.
holiday weekend — saturday will be the wettest of the days, sunday and monday, sunny spells and scattered showers.
some of them on monday could be quite heavy.
take care.
the federal reserve hikes rates 0 heir highest level in 16 years.
to their highest level in 16 -g we look at the impact on years.
we look at the impact on the economy, and beyond.
i’m monica er.
we begin with the 11 miller.
we begin with the federal reserve’s decision to interest tes for the raise interest rates for the 10th consecutive time in 10th consecutive time in just one year.
america’s over one year.
america’s central over one year.
america’s - aine: 04 over one year.
america’s central bank increased its key rest ate by a quarter ercentage point and is a is a move percentage point and that is a 1o that was expected.
the 4 ost of move that was expected.
the of borrowing is now at its cost of borrowing is now at its highest in 16 years, but is the inally done rate fed finally done with rate y4 kes?
the ’s amir hussein eports from new york.
flation remain steadily high.
and get the cost of iving back down to more normal els the federal reserve, 1 merica’s central bank, has sed interest rates ten america’s central bank, has a0 raised interest rates ten times in a little over a year, and it seems it may ady to now it seems it may be ready to perhaps take a pause.
the mittee will take into account the cumulative htening of monetary policy, he legs with which it lacks ulon the legs with which it lacks inflation and economic and ncial developments.
—— the gs.
we will make that termination meeting by eeting.
the rate rises have wed economic growth in the ited states by making it more ensive to borrow money and flation is starting to come 01 n, but they have been some unexpected knock—on effects of ate hikes.
they played a part in the banking crisis, three banks collapsed in where three banks collapsed in y3 than two months.
so far, he fed has been successful in wing the economy and ces prices without plunging the country recession.
but without plunging the country 3 a a into recession.
but the 3 ickiest moment may have rrived.
at some point, icymakers have to decide if have done ough to keep they have done enough to keep ulon they have done enough to keep inflation falling, while ving the economy with enough etary pace to keep monetary space to keep expanding.
they didn’t think were there at this meeting, but it they were there at this meeting, but it seems likely they will be there soon.
that they will be there soon.
you have heard some error king about the knock—on at ffect of the fed’s aggressive tening, particularly in the anking sector, while shares of ional banks have again come el-a regional banks have again come under pressure after this est rate hike.
patois stocks particular is down 50% in rading and reports that the is exploring options, including le.
earlier spoke to chief economist, told me now might be a ood time for the fed to pause 8 good time for the fed to pause and consider its options.
today a chair powell —— indicated this may the last hike in is his tightening cycle but be the last hike in this tightening cycle but still left oor open to some monetary policy flexibility going ward i a a 18r 1t oin policy flexibility going forward and that speaks to the a1 tata enon fact that inflation remains elevated.
now, one way to deal this igh and sticky with this high and sticky ulon with this high and sticky inflation may be to stay with rest rates here they are now, but for longer than we are to during tightening cycles.
another one may be that a cycles.
another one may be that if inflation remains strong and lerates in he coming accelerates in the coming months, they could be another two hikes coming down he = one or two hikes coming down the line, but think the king assumption for the fed ight 0 now is that the hard part he claim is right now is that the hard part - claim is done.
interest of the claim is done.
interest 1121 have of the claim is done.
interest - of the claim is done.
interest rates have increased by about percentage points since five percentage points since last year, and so from here ards, last year, and so from here vg0 last year, and so from here onwards, think there is some xibility, but not a ore more flexibility, but not a lot more tightening to be done.
we were ing at what is happening in looking at what is happening iin the banking sector rtainly interest rates have ayed a role in all a played a role in all of that.
morning we see another egional bank that looks like be in trouble, pack 1o it might be in trouble, pack west.
so what do you see moving ard, is what fed doing, forward, is what the fed doing, are we facing a credit crunch nan 1 alecs are we facing a credit crunch and american banks?
think will be the key question eed to answer this will be the key question - - 01 i this will be the key question we need to answer for the rest is year.
you have of this year.
as you have mentioned earlier, monetary works with long lags and policy works with long lags and we are seeing the interest rate itive sectors of the 1 economy show economy show that effect sensitive sectors of the economy show that effect of tening monetary policy at expeditious pace last year, the regional banking ino and so the regional banking sector is now undergoing nificant tress, and think are going to that in the we are going to see that in the amount of loans they are 0 amount of loans they are able to extend to businesses over oming quarters, and the key is hat the regional nking sector in the is closely tied with small medium—sized companies, ich provide about alf the jobs the economy, so the jjobs in the economy, so i jobs in the economy, so think the effects of the credit lhuloln think the effects of the credit condition tightening will be in the real economy but history suggests this typically ens with a lag, so it is 018 happens with a lag, so it is not something that happens diately but is coming iimmediately but it is coming down line, and think this also it so important the fed, now that interest have eached 5%, to have ook around and see how much it needs to do.
let’s 4 & more it needs to do.
let’s stick with inflation, and they stubborn levels of the us other parts of the rld, and in his taking a ajor toll on the elderly, who trying to survive.
the international group, help page, a tes inflation has estimates inflation has affected millions of people the world from pakistan 0 across the world from pakistan to ethiopia, leaving them uggling to afford food and 11 medical care.
earlier spoke ’s global population orrespondent, ricardo sember, he told me how the plight i of the elderly and other nerable groups, has gone unnoticed.
this is how experts ribe this group, are describe this group, they are invisible when it comes to anitarian aid to rgency humanitarian aid to emergency help, and also to data, as mally children and those in he workforce are the main rgets for these.
and i’ve speaking with other ple in several regions, the middle africa, asia, atin east, africa, asia, latin a east, africa, asia, latin america and also here in 0 to understand the impact on particular group, and the 1 tories are really strong, and heard stories of people having one meal a day, etimes even hat.
people sometimes not even that.
people pping medical treatments, ecause they an’t afford 1 ransport to the hospital and harmacies, and as you say, those nterviews, they reflect new esearch of help age international.
have done 200 interviews in ten untries 1200 interviews in ten a 1200 interviews in ten - untries and the findings nclude an increase of countries and the findings countries and the findings include an increase of up to /t =y 1o include an increase of up to a - i include an increase of up to 70% in health care costs.
ple resorting begging for he a people resorting to begging for lea = 1s people resorting to begging for the first time in their lives 80 years old, and a rowing sense of shame and miliation, as mental health came a key issue in this risis for older people.
a1 crisis for older people.
the former mastercard chief .
former mastercard chief executive a banker will be the lel bank’s ext president.
world bank’s next president.
the & ank’s board of governors elected him after he was ominated to the post by esident joe biden, he eplaces the departing world chief, david malpass.
spain is known for its many s.
in fact the ountry has 280,000 of them, according to cial statistics, and such their importance that the ntry’s parliament has agreed 0 debate a roposal to make as wers in small towns to debate a proposal to make 01180 1a borrowers in small towns and villages eligible for special idies and benefits.
this subsidies and benefits.
this 1ol subsidies and benefits.
this report from subsidies and benefits.
this i subsidies and benefits.
this report from central spain.
the heartland central rural heartland of central spain.
after decades of ration towards cities, these ast agricultural reliant areas he country are sparsely populated.
they’ve become known ptied spain.
the divide as emptied spain.
the divide a elle1 as emptied spain.
the divide i a1 een rural and urban is more ronounced here than in most opean countries.
90% of spaniards inhabit larger towns ities.
the rest are here.
open macro nearly half of spanish towns are at risk of depopulation.
them, this one in the agon region, pulation 36.
aragon region, population 36.
as is the case in so many lages, the bar is villages, the bar is the heart of the community.
: it is a place for people to gather because erwise you wouldn’t see people.
it means we have a ting place.
: of people are involved in bar, and its maintenance reates jobs, says this woman, are needed to make sure ple stay work here.
but with few customers, many ral bars are struggling.
: the bar is not a ble business.
we have to rganise all sorts of other vities, and that’s because he bar activities, and that’s because a1 does not pay for the bar does not pay for itself.
so you have to find sources income itself.
so you have to find i - other sources of income in order order to make a profit.
or rather just to break even.
a tical movement, political movement, representing rural spain, has campaigning for the been campaigning for the repopulation of areas like , and calling for an i uehle this, and calling for an improvement in public improvement in public services.
hoping to have an act it is hoping to have an impact o0 the national political bate by performing well in pcoming local elections.
this wants to make bars in towns party wants to make bars in with fewer than 200 w010 towns with fewer than 200 inhabitants eligible for cial economic support from state, because of the ocial role they play.
spain’s liament is considering the n.
: we are fighting to improve lives in illages, to i our villages, to improve rastructure, have better services, better internet ections improve our connections and improve our roads, which are very bad.
the nitiative to save bars is aimed at preventing villagers suffering abandonment, which has already been the fate many.
but those who live in emptied spain, know that the are till stacked against odds are still stacked against them.
before we go, let me tell you how the british government is on action against some noying unsolicited calls that 1 all get every once in while.
he is imposing a an all cold alls selling financial products as part of a onal crackdown on scams.
at is it for this edition of sia business eport.
am onica miller.
thanks for ching.
picking out an outfit for the prom.
a mum and daughter well aware of just how much an outfit can set people back.
hundreds.
you even see them second—hand online for hundreds and when you are struggling to pay it 1s that moment when you look and you think, you want it to be right, so think this is a really lovely thing to do.
people can come along and take away a donated dress, for free.
it is run by a charity, which identified a desperate need.
children can’t go to the prom, because they cannot afford it, or because their parents are getting into debt, or have had phone calls from people who have been harrassed by doorstep moneylenders, and all of the awful ways that they get money back, so it is done just to stop that, just to make sure that the prom is inclusive and everybody can go.
last year, they helped almost 500 people with dresses.
this year, they hope i 8 hello.
am alice with the catch up.
tonight, a drone ack attempt in russia.
can big sam save leeds, and love island star in cancer scare.
at i irst, climate change could amatically reduce life in the pest parts of oceans for he deepest parts of our oceans for the rich by sunlight.
entists are warning that life in them could be uced by as uch as 40% by the end of century.
some he of the a1 the century.
some of the stories now.
russia says it azys stories now.
russia says it a0 ine 80 0o stories now.
russia says it downed two drones last night , —— targeted its vernment in moscow, known he kremlin.
unverified footage on social appeared to show an object ing over fore a small flying over before a small explosion.
russia accused ine of attempting to kill president putin, but ukraine it had nowt president putin, but ukraine a b0 a president putin, but ukraine said it had nowt to do with it adeleine cann’s arents ave madeleine mccann’s parents have said she is still very much ssed.
today marks the 16th 8 iversary of her anniversary of her disappearance in portugal.
love star is having tests for hyroid cancer, after o0 a thyroid cancer, after fans tted a lump on her neck ile she was the villa.
the while she was in the villa.
the 23—year—old from london says 1 aaitlne 23—year—old from london says even her mum didn’t notice it.
sam back in and big sam is back in the big league.
he’s been named leeds for the final four matches the mier league season.
dug out better and joins he yorkshire the dug out better and joins i rkshire giants, who are the yorkshire giants, who are outside the yorkshire giants, who are -0 8 the yorkshire giants, who are outside of the relegation zone difference.
time now to you with ten seconds of escape.
a police officer in the ate virginia was inches state of virginia was inches from death as a speeding driver out control, collided spun out of control, collided with 018 ther car and nearly hit hem.
luckily, no one was hurt.
is you all caught up.
oodbye for now.
have a good ening.
hello, i’m qasa alom from the sport centre.
coming up on the programme: manchester city striker erling haaland breaks the record for goals in @ premier league season.
where next for lionel messi, as the world cup winner announces he’ll leave paris germain at the end of the season.
ryder cup stars sergio garcia, lan poulter and lee westwood won’t play in this year’s event — find out why.
manchester city striker erling haaland broke the record for goals in a premier league season as his side went back to the summit of the table by beating west ham.
the norwegian scored his 35th league goal of the campaign in @ 3—nil win to move past alan shearer and andrew cole’s previous best of 34.
haaland, in his debut season in english football, was given a guard of honour at full time by his teammates as he set the new record of the year.
city are top again by a point - hda a game in hand.
22 years old.
we’re still five games left.
how many times make a substitution after a hat trick at 60 minutes?
otherwise, maybe we had to score more.
but at the same time, maybe we get injured.
because it’s a special with this boy, you have to be all the time like a watch.
congratulations to him, for all the team to help him, of course, to achieve it.
and yeah, it’s really good.
have him.
that’s what the team played really well tonight.
really disappointed.
we lose our first goal to a set piece because, you know, we are pretty good at defending them.
and so i’m really disappointed with that.
against man city.
they might have scored a goals and we carried a little bit of luck at times when the ball hit the inside of the post and didn’t go in.
but thought we deserved it.
thought we’d done a good enough job to to warrant and we wanted to come out in the second half and do liverpool kept alive their outside hopes of qualifying for next season’s champions league after mohamed salah scored the only goal in a 1—nil win over fulham.
salah scored for the eighth home game in a row as liverpool won for the fifth successive premier league game to maintain their late—season form.
jurgen klopp’s side stay fifth in the table, four points behind fourth—placed manchester united, who have two games in hand.
if newcastle, and especially man united, if they win all their games, then you have no chance.
so and we have to keep and that’s already not, i i hands as well i =ty g1 if brighton wins all the games then they are ahead of us.
so that’s the situation we have just to win football games.
and in the end, we can have a look at the table.
and i’m in this moment really happy with the development, with the direction we go into.
think we deserve more from the game.
i’m proud of our players and we played this evening the fourth game in 12 days we showed that, and our quality in some moments of the game, of course, as of all, we deserve much more from the game.
sam allardyce says he was shocked to be asked to take over as manager of leeds united and that some people have called him mad to take the job.
he took his first training session with the squad on wednesday after spaniard javi gracia was dismissed after just 10 weeks and 12 games in charge at elland road.
allardyce is tasked with quiding leeds to safety with four games remaining.
they are currently out of the bottom three but only on goal difference.
a tough first game for him though against leaders manchester city on saturday.
that’s probably the biggest challenge because of the shortness of games that are left.
like, mean, think that, you know, there needs to be points picked up in.
and the difficulty is, you know, you look at the fixtures, you know what mean?
we start with an easy one on saturday and, you know, mean, can’t get any easier than manchester city away, can it?
but enjoyed the game so much and and to and be able to save this club and and put it back and keep it in the premier league is a big responsibility because of who leeds united are.
in italy just 6 points separate 6 teams from 2nd a i midweek round of serie a matches.
juventus beat lecce against sassuolo to ensure they stay 2nd and 3rd.
inter milan thumped verona 6-0 to move up to 4th place though after disappointing 1 all draws for roma and milan against monza and cremonese.
atalanta’s 3—2 win against spezia keeps them a as well for next seasons champions league as well.
- o1g atletico madrid leapfrogged their city rivals, real madrid, to go second after a51 victory against cadiz.
and getafe beat celta vigo 1-0.
and in germany, eintracht frankfurt will face leipzig after a dramatic 3—2 win in their semi final against stuttgart.
iro7ctg1 a goal down early to tiago tomas but came back through goals from evan ndicka, daichi kamada and french forward kolo muani to set up the showdown with the reigning champions on june 3rd.
could lionel messi’s time at paris saint germain be up?
he’s been suspended him for two weeks unpaid for an unathorised trip to saudi arabia.
he’s an ambassador for the saudi tourist authority who say the trip included feeding gazelles and visiting a luxury shopping centre.
he’ll be free again for the final three games of the season, as look to retain their ligue 1 title, but speculation’s growing that we won’t see him in @ shirt again.
so where could he go next?
there’s two other options, of course.
saudi arabia.
an offer has arrived for around £400 million.
yes, you heard.
well, for one year, for 100 million.
the idea is to put together cristiano ronaldo and leo messi in the same league, and the have always been there.
they cannot afford that kind of money.
but they said whenever you want to come to the , inter miami, we’ll open the doors for you.
and he knows that.
the sanctions it recommends against the six former yorkshire players found to have used racist slurs at the club.
it follows the allegations made by azeem rafiq.
here’s our sports editor dan roan.
now, charges that have been issued all stemmed from allegations made by the former yorkshire spinner azeem rafig, now a seventh former yorkshire player.
the ex—england captain, michael vaughan, he was cleared by the panel.
as for the other six, well, they’ve had to wait until today to discover what kind of punishments they may face.
the former england and yorkshire batsman gary ballance, who had admitted a charge of using racist language towards rafiq and who had apologised to him.
the today revealed that they were recommending that the panel issue him with an eight week suspension that would only apply if he came out of retirement.
he announced his retirement last month and that he received an £8,000 fine.
now, as for the other former yorkshire players who were found to have used racist or discriminatory language, the recommended 7500 pound fines for both the former england star matthew hoggard and the former yorkshire player and coach andrew gale.
£5,000 fines for england’s former player tim bresnan and yorkshire’s former all rounder john blain and a400 £0 fine for another former yorkshire player, richard the also said today that they wanted all six individuals to go on an educational course and to be reprimanded.
staying with cricket, pakistan successfully defended a 287-run total as they beat new zealand by 26 runs in a one—day iinternational to take an unassailable 3—0 -a imam—ul—haqg and babar azam hit half—centuries as pakistan scored 287/6 in karachi.
tom blundell top scored for new zealand with 65 and cole mcconchie was 64 not out but they fell short with two matches still to play in the series.
meanwhile, at the , mumbai indians chased down a mammoth 215 to beat the punjab kings.
it meant liam livingstone’s 82 not out including seven fours what seemed like an improbable chase, mumbal were up against it mohali when skipper but suryakumar yadav and ishan kishan hit fifties before tilak varma and tim david’s late runs took mumbai over the finishing line.
they won the game by six wickets.
and lucknow super giants and chennai super kings were forced to split points as their indian premier league match was called off due to rain.
with incessant rain lashing the ekana stadium, even possible after the home team had made 125 for seven in 19 point 2 overs.
four golfers including lee westwood and lan poulter will no longer be eligible to play in this year’s ryder westwood and poulter have starred in a number of famous out of the reckoning to take on team along with richard bland and sergio garcia — after the quartet missed wednesday’s deadline of paying a fine for breaking world tour rules and playing in the opening golf tournament last july.
reigning champion carlos alcaraz is through to the semi finals of the madrid masters after beating the russian karen khachanov in straight sets 6—4, 7-5.
the spaniard has been in brilliant form throughout the tournament and will now play croatian borna coric iin the final four at the clay court event.
the 19 year old needs to defend his title in order to replace novak djokovic as the world number one.
and that’s the latest from me.
take care, goodbye.
i’ll speak to you soon.
many of us had some beautiful late spring sunshine on wednesday.
in fact, in bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours of sunshine, a glorious day.
but top temperature, well, that was in south wales, in gwynedd, just of 20 celsius, and it felt very pleasant indeed.
now it’s not out of the question that we could see 20 celsius on thursday, but the weather story is certainly on the change with low pressure starting to move in from the southwest.
so as we go through the day on thursday, it’s a tale of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off the north sea, affecting eastern england and northeast we’ve got rain pushing into the southwest — and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best of the sunshine is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll see the best of the warmth.
the breeze still coming from an east direction, so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight edge to things.
a little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough with highs of 19-20 celsius perhaps in the southeast.
now, as we move out of thursday into friday, that weather front will continue to push its way steadily north.
it’ bring outbreaks of rain as it does so, and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
so on friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving 1 england, into scotland.
sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
now, as we move into the start of the weekend, that southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north but unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
- that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily north as we go through the day.
so not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
and the wider picture throughout the bank.
holiday weekend — saturday will be the wettest of the days, sunday and monday, sunny spells and scattered showers.
some of them on monday could be quite heavy.
take care.
live from washington, this is news.
welcome to viewers on in america.
ukraine denies it’s behind any attack on moscow or president putin, after footage emerges of drone strike on the kremlin.
the federal reserve raises rates once again, but could it be the last hike in a while?
a teenager is arrested, after eight children and a security guard are shot dead at an elementary school in belgrade.
i’m sumi somaskanda.
welcome to our show.
first — breaking news out of ukraine — as the capital kyiv comes under attack.
our correspondent — hugo bachega — who’s currently bunker — hugo bachega — sald that in the past hour, the air—raid alert in the capital went off, at around 02:20am, local time.
the team heard at least one loud explosion, and the city’s air defence has been activated.
inn an attack on kherson.
missile strikes hit a market, a railway station, a petrol station and residential buildings.
it comes as ukraine’s president zelensky denied that his country carried out an alleged drone attack on the kremln.
russia says it was an attempt on vladimir putin’s life.
this video, which appears to show the drone attack, remains unverified.
our analysis editor ros atkins has been taking a closer look.
russia claims ukraine to vladimir putin in the ours of wednesday.
this the first video we have.
in moscow.
we see an object ay in from the left explode.
now let’s object lay in from the left and explode.
now let’s pause here.
now is is moscow because we know this is moscow because 1 his is red square.
this is a cent icture of the ame recent picture of the same place with the kremlin wall in ackground and stands for the background and stands for y4 year’s victory parade.
you see those stands in the itel-yo can see those stands in the video too, meaning it is also nt, and video too, meaning it is also = a 1 nt, and if we play the recent, and if we play the vitel-yo recent, and if we play the video on an pause again, there object flying towards he 0 n0lc is the object flying towards 0t of the senate palace, the dome of the senate palace, moments before it explodes we can see people on the dome.
we don’t know who they are for they are doing.
now russia ays it attacked by two nmanned aerial vehicles, in words drones.
we can’t e1al88s other words drones.
we can’t nil other words drones.
we can’t confirm that, and if that is ideo, here are three more.
one video, here are three more.
111 is a map of russia, this i1s a map of russia, with moscow = est, and all of moscow and the west, and all of i ese videos show this part of city.
here is the second.
’s the city.
here is the second.
i i 1u the city.
here is the second.
the ’s verification team has —— confirmed it was posted at 315 scow time on ednesday morning.
we see the dome ith smoke rising same dome with smoke rising from it.
the words of the name local telegram nnel of a local telegram channel that of a local telegram channel posted the video.
this y4 next video that posted the video.
this a 0y that posted the video.
this next video shows the that posted the video.
this next video shows the senate palace dome with fire clearly ble, then this shows an visible, and then this shows an object visible, and then this shows an i\ ect flying in from the - right.
again, we = right.
again, we see an losion.
russia says all right.
again, we see an explosion.
russia says all of 81 is was a planned terrorist =180 this was a planned terrorist act and an assassination empt on the president, but provided no evidence to o4 back that up.
ukraine says it staged by russia.
as for adimir putin, the kremlin ays he wasn’t ere at he says he wasn’t there at the time says he wasn’t there at the a of the incident and these pictures reuters on wednesday showed the dome king undamaged.
and while we to work out what exactly it these videos show, both des say the other carried it 1 the reaction in the west has been to urge caution on any russian claims.
secretary of state antony blinken said he would take anything the russia presidency said with a "very large the white house press secretary pointedly avoided inflamatory language.
since the beginning of this a1aitan since the beginning of this conflict the since the beginning of this l= e=ys since the beginning of this conflict the united states are ainly not encouraging, or abling ukraine to strike beyond its borders.
we have very clear from here out about that been very clear from here about ial o101 been very clear from here about that but again don’t want to nto speculation from here 018 iaa get into speculation from here about the authenticity of this rt, so i’m just not going report, so i’m just not going 0 peculate from here.
let’s get some perspective now.
to retired lieutenant general steff twitty, formerly the deputy commander of european command, and now at the washington—based center for european policy analysis.
show.
what is your first impression of hearing of these osions in key?
a couple - i things would like explosions in key?
so a couple of things would like to add ieenalnal alnc1nels of things would lke to add to what the commentator just about —— in kyiv.
as you take a look at the eo, you ato take a look at the video, you tice you do not see a large plosion, and that tells me there was not a missile attached to this drone.
mally if you’re going to go ter someone normally if you’re going to go a 0 = - a normally if you’re going to go after someone and execute normally if you’re going to go a - after someone and execute an assassination, it’s going to be sile ssociated with that, a missile associated with that, like a hellfire missile to a that particular wte individual, target that particular individual, and it is normally to have its going in going to have its eye going in a window, or not a window, a 708 a window, or not a window, a aotsare 8 a window, or not a window, a door or something of that ure.
so in this case we didn’t see that happen.
in regards to the attacks on kyiv, of the things we to need to also one of the things we need to 4 one of the things we need to also think about is he ukrainians have said hey they are ing to do a counterattack, are going to do a counterattack and ussia started last week upping their ile attacks started last week upping their a1 o1 started last week upping their missile attacks on kyiv itself, think they continue to and think as they continue to do this, this is the russians to throw or distract the krainians from their counter ensive, put ukrainians from their counter ukrainians from their counter offensive, put their mind somewhere else, have them have other things instead of to do other things instead of initiating this counter ensive.
keep them busy, in other words.
so general, ying with the plosions we staying with the explosions we are hearing about in kyiv, also attack we mentioned are hearing about in kylv, also that attack we mentioned in curse on, where 21 people were ed, you are saying this killed, you are saying this is russia stepping up those ikes.
it is ukraine in a ood position to end this good position to fend off this 3701 good position to fend off this type of russian attack with its efence?
when you have multiple missiles coming in, reds of missiles, it is hundreds of missiles, 1t is hard to fend hundreds of missiles, it is a =ns hundreds of missiles, it is hard to fend them off, so the inians have done a pretty ukrainians have done a pretty job by destroying many of these missiles good job by destroying many of 1 good job by destroying many of these missiles that are coming 010 0 = these missiles that are coming in, but some of these missiles flight missiles that will are low flight missiles that nvade the ukrainian air will invade the ukrainian air defence systems and are bound - through, so as they to get through, so as they pqate 1ol ¢ to get through, so as they knock down 75, 25 may get ough, and so they are still 0= 1 at the through, and so they are still a l1 the position where they not at the position where they have a layer of defence that be totally secure for could be totally secure for the people out there, as a result me of these missiles of some of these missiles evading air defence systems was you think these extracts to do you think these extracts could be a distraction to do you think these extracts - lan inu could be a distraction for ukraine as it prepares as you for this counteroffensive?
solutely.
ytime that you absolutely.
anytime that you have to focus elsewhere, such king sure that as making sure that i inai i as making sure that infrastructure is as making sure that i a 1 infrastructure is straight, making sure that you are ting he family members and he kids hat are being mpacted by these missiles in kers, and king sure bunkers, and making sure you are putting them in hospitals abro 01 of harm’s way, you take and out of harm’s way, you take that attention of the and out of harm’s way, you take that attention of the things that you need to do to prepare no a=tz for this counteroffensive.
so what should ukraine be doing, , to prepare?
well, ink then, to prepare?
well, think 3% have done well over this ast year, and they articularly have been silient, with all hese missiles attacking.
what we to do is continue to get the i tselis 11 need to do is continue to get i 1 18 need to do is continue to get the additional air defence ems in there, and the systems in there, and the ukrainians have sounded that are going to ukrainians have sounded that they are going to do this counteroffensive.
my assessment they are probably not initiated this counteroffensive ouple of reasons.
number for a couple of reasons.
number i e, the weather, it is still aining there, ou’ve got raining there, so you’ve got muddy terrain and so forth.
a two, they are still number two, they are still waiting for much of the unition that has waiting for much of the - ammunition that has been romised from the west, and so hey have new recruits coming in, and much of the ipment still coming in.
so ink, as these conditions as art to mature, we ill see the ukrainians conduct this nce, which will help with offence, which will help with 1 the missiles and stuff alling them, because they be able to go in and will be able to go iin and a4 ack much these attacks that hey are enduring right .
general, you mentioned ukraine waiting for ammunition.
the announcing it is we saw the announcing it is sending ukraine another $300 ion in weapons out of the million in weapons out of the jglils million in weapons out of the spring offensive.
if those ons arrive, do you think the ukrainian forces will be to push back russian ighters?
well, the ukrainians shown that they are apable of doing anything they 4 31 capable of doing anything they put their minds to, you know?
a look at kyiv, take a take a look at kyiv, take a 0 4 at what they have done in kherson, and what they are tinuing to do in mahmoud.
the conditions they have asked the rate roops, they are for, the rate troops, they are capable of not only pushing the ians back across that 400 russians back across that 400 miles of disputed area, but are also capable of taking rimea they are also capable of taking - a as well.
general, one crimea as well.
general, one t4 ick last question, want to 1o 4 quick last question, want to come back to this drone strike is re attack that of this drone attack that russia of this drone attack that 1 of this drone attack that russia is calling an attack.
you 1 & indeed you mentioned russia is calling an attack.
indeed you mentioned you are ure of russia’s accusation ere, that ukraine was behind the says russia has 1aal- it.
the says russia has 8u - it.
the says russia has carried out many false flag ations was the what do you operations was the what do you actually happen?
well, =0 on’t want to speculate, but as now, russia is known for a8 their disinformation campaign, will just have to wait so we will just have to wait and see.
there is a report re that this may have happened by there that this may have happened by russians, russian isan groups, so we will just have to wait and see how thing unfolds but don’t want to speculate whether aine executed this or not.
just don’t know at this oint.
thank you so much for ining us the .
thank you.
around the world and across the , this is around the world and across the 1 i there was a musical start to the well dressing celebrations.
is an tradition.
it is a gan tradition, and was to thank the gods at the time for ift of water, so the crops would grow, and hence you get his 101 beautiful greenery around on the all this beautiful greenery -l all this beautiful greenery around on the wells.
and this main village well.
all he designs are onto clay the designs are drawn onto clay boards and their natural erials are used to complete pictures.
all the designs year have a oronation this year have a coronation =y e.
each involves hours of painstaking work by volunteers.
are fabulous, aren’t they?
are ppropriate because of ialos they are appropriate because of the coronation next they are appropriate because of the coronation next week.
the dressings will be on splay here display here until turaay.
it is a chance to bring community together and to ire hese unique pieces of ocal art.
11 you are watching news.
the federal reserve on wednesday raised interest the fed lifted its benchmark interest—rate by a quarter of one percentage point, pushing its overnight interest rate range to five to 5.
25%.
during the press conference, chairman jerome powell signalled that they might be ready to take a pause on rate hikes.
the committee will take into account the cumulative htening of monetary policy, he lags with which monetary icy affects economic activity and inflation and an mic and financial economic and financial developments.
we will make that rmination meeting by eeting.
earlier, spoke to jason furman.
he’s the former chairman of the white house council of ecnomic advisors.
jason, thanks for joining us.
are these rate hikes actually ing to stabilise the working to stabilise the economy?
hope so, think but we economy?
hope so, think so, i can’t be sure, because but we can’t be sure, because we on’t know what the atzimsi we don’t know what the counterfactual is.
the good is inflation expectations emain nchored.
inflation sn’t ising, and that’s obably a lot better than what uld have happened if the fed n’t taken these aggressive ps.
the bad news is that flation, underlying inflation least you subtract out food and energy, isn’t really ing, so we haven’t seen " much of any progress in derlying inflation yet.
at’s what jerome powell said, a0 nflation is still too gils that inflation is still too high.
this is the 10th hike in and high.
this i1s the 10th hike iin 14 months and the fed did ignal that it might cause - - 01 0 signal that it might cause increases.
would that be the step?
ave no idea, right step?
have no idea, well has no idea, and the eason reason is that we need to see what’s going to happen in the omy.
you know, a year ago, t3 was clear that interest 0 tes needed to it was clear that interest eeded to be a lot rates needed to be a lot higher, and so they were on a to go up, no matter what path to go up, no matter what the dataset, they will still be at upward path.
right now, on that upward path.
right now, we on’t know on that upward path.
right now, a0y loy on that upward path.
right now, we don’t know how tight credit be as a result of the banking situation, we don’t the trajectory for unemployment, we don’t know ’s good happen to what’s good happen to inflation, and so the fed is opriately think ying we appropriately think saying we are oing to collect more formation, make that decision we’re iinformation, make that decision 0 re done with telling you and we’re done with telling you in advance what we are going to ecause we ourselves don’t 0y now in advance will be going o.
what are he economic indicators you are looking at what should be e?
to know what should be done?
obviously, the most important flation.
that is is inflation.
that is ultimately what they are rying ring own.
the problem is to bring down.
the problem is that 0 nflation is probably one he most lagged indicators at there is.
a lot of the ulon that there i1s.
a lot of the inflation elieve it is anating emanating from the ery tight our market, so looking at the e8 road suite of things, you ess the tightness of the labour market, most importantly nderpayment rate, but also many workers are quitting jobs, how many job penings, and then finally just a enl i a a4 openings, and then finally just how much work is the banking oil doing for the d?
how turmoil doing for the fed?
how much of the fed’s job is it ng, how much is edit doing, how much is credit actually contracting?
so there een of course some has been of course some o0 has been of course some criticism of the fed raising again, want to tell rates again, and want to tell 1 what elizabeth warren weeted earlier today.
what do you think of some democrats calling for a stop to rate hikes?
of all, these rate hikes?
first of all, would say by the - would say by the way, these rate hikes?
first of all, would say by the way, most nomists who are coming from 1a economists who are coming from the democratic side actually that inflation is a problem, and think that inflation is a problem, and have broadly been ortive of the supportive of the rate hikes.
a number of the different doves economic debates have in the economic debates have been less dovish, and think for good reason, because 3% it’s for good reason, because they understand that doing more an be - ealllets they understand that doing more now can be much less costly letting the problem grow, tting inflation get ntrenched, and then it is much der to deal in the harder to deal with in the =1 harder to deal with in the future, and so think doing ittle today is what would too little today i1s what would risk millions millions of s.
that’s what the fed is rying to control and ink hink 3% trying to control and think they are doing a good job of but again, these rate hikes have an effect on households usinesses?
absolutely, and wish there and businesses?
absolutely, and & and businesses?
absolutely, and wish there was another way to inflation down but there bring inflation down but there isn’t.
again, if we go a little slowly and your time, more slowly and take your time, inflation will rise and it will harder and more be even harder and more costly 0 o- be even harder and more costly get it down.
do you want it down?
it benefits the erican economy.
low and table inflation american economy.
low and a 1 rie american economy.
low and stable inflation for decades ood for workers and businesses and it led the act really aggressively to at 0 the last couple of recessions.
we like to get that , paying the price now for 1 it is a mall price than he price we would to pay if did it later on.
you in al=tel we did it later on.
you mentioned the current banking ation, raising rates while 1 seen three major banks that failed.
we seen three major banks that we seen three major banks that have failed.
think these were eal outliers in banks were real outliers in terms banks were real outliers in erms of their poor management risk profile.
they were the that right after silicon lley bank had a goblin and new about the problems are republic and signature so hink this is the end of this phase of the ing crisis.
phase of the banking crisis.
no—one knows for sure but here thing, the fed has more han one tool it can ange than one tool, it can change erest rates but it also has a -1 a a set of interest rates but it also has interest rates but it also has a set of lending facilities, has programmes, and a1 the has programmes, and a4 53 the has programmes, and that’s what they are and should inue to use to contain any further continue to use to contain any alan her issues in the banking system, while further issues iin the banking system, while keeping their focus on an objective which is policy focus on an objective i is price stability.
the which is price stability.
the aim is to avoid a recession.
we?
certainly hope so.
will we?
certainly hope so.
& the odds of a recession think the odds of a recession ver the next year are 50-50 hey are much higher than but they are much higher than 3% would normally be.
great you on the show, thank 1 you very much.
eight children and a security guard have been killed in a school shooting in the serbian capital belgrade.
tonight, tributes have been laid for the victims of the shooting.
in a televised address to the country, president aleksandar vucic described the attack as "the most three days of national mourning have been declared.
police arrested a 13—year—old boy and said he’d been planning the attack of the children he wanted to kill bethany bell reports.
a 13—year—old boy is led away by police.
he’s the main suspect in a mass shooting at one of the best state schools in belgrade.
he came to school with two guns.
he fired at the security guard and three girls standing in the hallway.
: was walking up the stairs and while was walking up could hear a sound, it was maybe boys, some kids throwing firecrackers and that they were having fun.
and the sound was coming from in front of the school and then saw the security guard falling to the groung, so quickly ran from where was.
didn’t want to go upstairs any more.
didn’t know who was up there.
he then walked into a history class where he shot the teacher before turning his weapon police say the shooter planned the attack a month in advance and had drawn up a list of children to target.
the 13—year—old has been put in a specialist facility.
he is alleged to have used two guns belonging to his father.
both his parents have since been arrested.
all day, people have come to pay their respects there is a deep sense of shock and sadness here.
this is normally a lively part of town, but the people who live here say it’s never felt so quiet.
they are struggling to understand how a day at school turned into a nightmare.
with candles and flowers, this city is mourning its dead.
bethany bell, news, belgrade.
police and the state of police and the state of georgia say they’ve arrested a pect in nnection with suspect in connection with shooting at a medical facility lanta on wednesday.
24—year—old on atterson is custody after five women shot in the hospital aiting room.
one of the tunls8ls waiting room.
one of the victims have died.
lisa ested the wife and friend of uspect accused of killing ive his neighbours in quigley end, texas.
—— leveland, exas.
she was lready facing charges for ering prosecution of a hindering prosecution of a -\ l= hindering prosecution of a felon.
a friend will be charged helping the suspect leave with helping the suspect leave the neighbourhood where the 4 took place.
an brazilian crime took place.
an brazilian ice raided the home of police raided the home of former president —— president bolsonaro as part of an jair bolsonaro as part of an investigation into his covid—19 rds.
police allege that his vaccination status was forged could enter the .
hones have been seijzed ong other things.
he says he has ing to hide.
people in the are beginning their preparations for the coronation of king charles, which will take place next saturday.
families of other nations to see what lessons they might documentary europe’ss royals revealed.
it’s great to see you.
for your new documentary you had the able job of going to - meet.
someone to do it.
oing to meet europe’s her royal families and seeing how live including norway, you had an exclusive interview.
she ascinating and quite controversial is a fascinating and quite 0 0ol is a fascinating and quite controversial woman.
she is the child of harald and oldest child of king harald and she should have been cleaned by but norway’s succession laws won’t change until she was nager so younger brother will nherit the a teenager so younger brother lne - a teenager so younger brother will inherit the throne.
she what they call in royal language a spare which is how harry refers to himself string of other controversial businesses, a where she taught people 0 talk school where she taught people & to angels and she to talk to angels and she describes herself as a irvoyant.
a boyfriend who is iritual guru, a shame and all this has been pretty 1n a3 in all this has been pretty controversial in the norwegian s.
it’s not the controversial in the norwegian i i .
it’s not the kind of press.
it’s not the kind of things royals are expect to do.
interested to things royals are expect to do.
17 things royals are expect to do.
was interested to talk to things royals are expect to do.
@o - was interested to talk to her 0 ind out how the norwegian royal amily has handled her things kind of doing things kind of differently.
there have been arisons with prince harry comparisons with prince harry and meghan.
my fiance and the egian people and everybody as decided that norwegian people and everybody - norwegian people and everybody i norwegian people and everybody has decided that it is best for step down cause of is me to step down because of his 014 me to step down because of his views about things.
but what has been amazing through is whole cycle has been the versations this whole cycle has been the 0n i i sations with all had conversations with all had through it conversations with all had i a1 it all, from a very through it all, from a very oung age remember my mum and the king and queen saying at we have to stick together, have to talk things through, if it’s we have to talk things through, it’s hard.
we have to put all even if it’s hard.
we have to 1t =1 1 even if it’s hard.
we have to put all the cards on the table use we are family and we ave to work things through, ough all the turmoil, ecause through all the turmoil, - use there has been so many turmoils.
taking fferent e1 path than being a traditional .
this will run ahead of he coronation king charles.
you are suddenly to send him for his reign and verybody course is looking the queen, everybody of course is looking everybody of course is looking from the queen, who is so l=known from the queen, who is so a1l from the queen, who is so well—known and loved.
0l 001002 8 well-known and loved.
remember my game grandfather, of life, he was such a king of life, he was such a - oved king.
—— king laf.
father.
loved king.
—— king olaf.
my loved king.
—— king olaf.
my father.
going into that role up ine because how could he to him because how could he fill those shawls?
and think ’s the point, you don’t ill his hoes.
king charles be different fill his shoes.
king charles i - i fill his shoes.
king charles will be different from queen abeth?
absolutely, you can’t copy somebody else.
did notice that when she lked about taking a different and being a different oyal, it reminds me of harry eghan.
can you remind me about and meghan.
can you remind me 010 4 and meghan.
can you remind me about how her family tetals 1 about how her family has handled all of this publicly?
escribes herself as she describes herself as somebody has done things out of ox and in a way, prince harry does as well.
of the things she’s done have caused roversy in norway because controversy in norway because there have been suggestions of uleld there have been suggestions of ict of interest.
was she using her royal title to make from her businesses in he norwegians didn’t like at.
the big difference is hat hasn’t aused a rift in that it hasn’t caused a rift in the family.
they sat down and about it and wanted to spoke about it and wanted to 12t 4 out spoke about it and wanted to out her story, didn’t want check out her story, didn’t i check out her story, didn’t to think it was just want her to think it was just me telling of want her to think it was just want her to think it was just me telling of this and spoke royal correspondent for big tabloid magazine in rway has been ready critical 0 ome of the things martha 1 louise is done but said exactly elull louise is done but said exactly the same in, family loves each and hey come of this other and they come out of this much stronger, had these versations and been honest ith each other and there a clear affection between all of slo clear affection between all of the members of the family so though martha louise has even though martha louise has been sort of, in a way, the ublesome royal child who asn’t fit into the box, done differently, the family as ate things differently, the family has not been torn apart by it.
ess that’s the big guess that’s the big at guess that’s the big difference between the house of 8 dsor and the house of windsor and the royal house of norway.
and when the house of ay says we love each other, the norwegian population ieves them.
katty’s documentary europe’s royals revealed is available on select here in the and canada, which is distributed on amazon prime video, apple , and the roku channel.
stay with us here on news.
many of us had some beautiful late spring sunshine on wednesday.
in fact, in bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours of sunshine, a glorious day.
but top temperature, well, that was in south wales, in gwynedd, just of 20 celsius, and it felt very pleasant indeed.
now it’s not out of the question that we could see 20 celsius on thursday, but the weather story is certainly on the change with low pressure starting to move in from the southwest.
so as we go through the day on thursday, it’s a tale of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off the north sea, affecting eastern england and northeast we’ve got rain pushing into the southwest — and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best of the sunshine is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll see the best of the warmth.
the breeze still coming from an east direction, so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight edge to things.
a little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough with highs of 19-20 celsius perhaps in the southeast.
now, as we move out of thursday into friday, that weather front will continue to push its way steadily north.
it’ bring outbreaks of rain as it does so, and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
so on friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving 1 england, into scotland.
sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
now, as we move into the start of the weekend, that southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north but unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
- that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily north as we go through the day.
so not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
and the wider picture throughout the bank.
holiday weekend — saturday will be the wettest of the days, sunday and monday, sunny spells and scattered showers.
some of them on monday could be quite heavy.
take care.
the federal reserve hikes rates to their highest level in 16 we look at the impact on the economy, and beyond.
plus, from pakistan to ethiopia, how the cost—of—lliving crisis is taking a toll on the elderly around hello, and welcome to asia business report.
i’m monica miller.
we begin with the federal reserve’s decision to raise interest rates for the 10th consecutive time in just over one year.
interest rate by a quarter percentage point and that is a move that was expected.
the cost of borrowing is now at its highest in 16 years, but is the fed finally done - the ’s samir hussein reports from new york.
inflation remain steadily high.
to and get the cost of living back down to more normal levels the federal reserve, america’s central bank, has raised interest rates ten times in a little over a year, and now it seems it may be ready to perhaps take a pause.
the committee will take into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the legs with which it lacks inflation and economic and financial developments.
we will make that determination meeting by meeting.
the rate rises have slowed economic growth in the united states by making it more expensive to borrow money and inflation is starting to come down, but they have been some they played a part in the banking crisis, where three banks collapsed in less than two months.
so far, the fed has been successful in slowing the economy and prices without plunging the country into recession.
but the trickiest moment may have arrived.
at some point, policymakers have to decide if they have done enough to keep inflation falling, while leaving the economy with enough monetary space to keep expanding.
they didn’t think meeting, but it seems likely that they will be there soon.
you have heard some error talking about the knock—on effect of the fed’s aggressive tightening, particularly in the banking sector, while shares of regional banks have again come under pressure after this latest rate hike.
patois stocks iin particular is down 50% in trading and reports that the bank is exploring options, iincluding a sale.
earlier spoke to chief economist, and she told me now might be a good time for the fed think today chair powell indicated this may be the last hike in this tightening cycle but still left the door open to some monetary policy flexibility going forward and that speaks to the fact that inflation remains elevated.
now, one way to deal with this high and sticky inflation may be to stay they are now, but for longer than we are used to during tightening cycles.
another one may be that if inflation remains strong and accelerates in the coming months, they could be another one or two hikes coming down the line, but think right now is that the hard part - interest rates have increased by about five percentage points since last year, and so from here onwards, think there is some flexibility, but not a lot more tightening to be done.
we were looking at what is happening in the banking sector and certainly interest rates have played a role in all of that.
this morning we see another regional bank that looks it might be in trouble, pack so what do you see moving forward, is what the fed doing, are we facing a credit crunch and american banks?
think this will be the key question we need to answer for the rest of this year.
as you have mentioned earlier, monetary policy works with long lags and we are seeing the interest rate sensitive sectors of the economy show that effect of tightening monetary policy at an expeditious pace last year, and so the regional banking sector iis now undergoing significant stress, and think we are going to see that in the amount of loans they are able to extend i 1 i the coming quarters, and the key is that the regional banking sector in the is very closely tied with small and medium-—sized companies, which provide about half economy, so think the effects of the credit condition tightening will be felt in the real economy but history suggests this not something that happens immediately but it is coming down the line, and think this is also it is so important for the fed, now that interest rates have reached 5%, to have a look around - a0y a0 o1 more it needs to do.
let’s stick with inflation, and they are at stubborn levels of the and other parts the international group, help page, estimates inflation has affected millions of people across the world from pakistan to ethiopia, leaving them gtteo utats =n aege food and medical care.
earlier spoke to the ’s global population correspondent, and he told me how the plight of the elderly and other vulnerable groups, has gone unnoticed.
this is how experts describe this group, they are invisible when 1t comes to humanitarian aid to emergency help, and also to data, as normally children and those in the workforce are the main targets for these.
and 've been speaking with other people in several regions, the middle east, africa, to understand the impact on this particular group, and the stories are really strong, and i’ve heard stories of people having one meal a day, sometimes not even that.
medical treatments, because they can’t afford transport to the hospital and to pharmacies, 2 those interviews, they reflect this new research of help age international they have done 1200 interviews in ten countries and the findings to 70% 1n health care costs.
people resorting to begging for the first time in their lives over 80 years old, and a growing sense of shame became a key issue in this crisis for older people.
the former mastercard chief executive a banker will be the world bank’s next president.
the bank’s board of governors has elected him after he was nominated to the post by president joe biden, he replaces the departing world bank chief, david malpass.
spain is known for its many bars.
in fact the country has 280,000 of them, according to official statistics, and such is their importance that the country’s parliament has agreed to debate a proposal to make borrowers in small towns and villages eligible for special this report from central spain.
the rural heartland of central spain.
after decades of migration towards cities, these vast agricultural reliant areas of the country are sparsely populated.
they’ve become known as emptied spain.
the divide between rural and urban is more pronounced here than in most european countries.
90% of spaniards inhabit larger towns the rest are here.
nearly half of spanish towns are at risk of depopulation.
among them, this one in the aragon region, population 36.
as is the case in so many villages, the bar is the heart of the community.
: it i1s a place for people to gather because otherwise you wouldn’t see people.
it means we have a meeting place.
: lots of people are involved in the bar, and its maintenance creates jobs, says this woman, so bars are needed to make sure people stay and work here.
but with so few customers, many rural bars are struggling.
: the bar is not a viable business.
we have to organise all sorts of other activities, and that’s because the bar does not pay for itself.
so you have to find other - = to make a profit.
or rather just to break even.
a political movement, representing rural spain, has been campaigning for the repopulation of areas tke this, and calling for an improvement in public a1 it is hoping to have an impact on the national political debate by performing well in upcoming local elections.
this party wants to make bars in towns with fewer than 200 inhabitants eligible for special economic support from the state, because of the social role they play.
spain’s parliament is considering the villages, to improve infrastructure, have better services, better internet connections and improve our roads, which are very bad.
the initiative to save bars is aimed at preventing villagers from suffering abandonment, which has already been the fate of so many.
but those who live in emptied spain, know that the odds are still stacked against them.
before we go, let me tell you how the british government is taking on action against some annoying unsolicited calls that we all get every once in awhile.
-1y on all cold calls selling financial products as part of a national crackdown on scams.
that i1s it for this edition of asia business report.
am monica miller.
thanks for watching.
-1y putting their skills to the 34 st.
it was about accuracy the hopeful that this we an’s iscipline called auto lo.
it is that you can do on rmac or on grass and it is control so iving around car control, so driving around 111t car control, so driving around a course with cones, different lenges, against the clock, against competitors.
12 drivers part at the event at vista took part at the event at vista heritage the prize, two places grabs to race all season up for grabs to race all season 018 free.
motorsport moved oxfordshire 2020 and i ilts to oxfordshire in 2020 and hoping events like this can how accessible driving can e.
great see there is tuff going on for disabled people, ing 0 people out and involved showing them that they can back into competitive sport.
hi there.
i’m ellis with the catch—up.
tonight, a drone attack attempt in russia.
can big sam save leeds?
and a love island 1 but first, cimate change could dramatically reduce life in the deepest parts of our oceans that are reached by sunlight.
by as much as 40% by the end of the century.
some other stories now.
russia says it downed to drones last night targeted its government in moscow, known as the kremlin.
unverified footage on social media appeared to show russia accused ukraine of attempting to kill president putin, but ukraine said it had nowt to do with it madeleine mccann’s parents have said she’s still very much missed.
today marks the 16th anniversary of her disappearance in portugal.
love island star sami richie is having tests for thyroid cancer after fans spotted a lump on her neck while she the 23—year—old from london says even her mum didn’t notice it.
and big sam is back in the big league.
he’s been named leeds boss for the final four matches of the premier league season.
the dug out veteran joins the yorkshire giants who are outside of the relegation zone on goal difference.
time now to leave you with ten seconds of escape.
a police officer in the state of virginia was inches from death as a speeding driver spun out of control, collided with another car and nearly hit them.
luckily, no one was hurt, but he all caught up.
bye for now.
have a good evening.
hello, i’m qasa alom from the sport centre.
coming up on the programme: manchester city striker erling haaland breaks the record for goals in @ premier league season.
where next for lionel messi, as the world cup winner announces he’ll leave paris germain at the end of the season.
ryder cup stars sergio garcia, lan poulter and lee westwood won’t play in this year’s event — find out why.
manchester city striker erling haaland broke the record for goals in a premier league season as his side went back to the summit of the table by beating west ham.
the norwegian scored his 35th league goal of the campaign in @ 3—nil win to move past alan shearer and andrew cole’s previous best of 34.
haaland, in his debut season in english football, was given a guard of honour at full time by his teammates as he set the new record of the year.
a game in hand.
22 years old.
we’re still five games left.
how many times make a substitution after a hat trick at 60 minutes?
otherwise, maybe we had to score more.
but at the same time, maybe we get injured.
because it’s a special with this boy, you have to be all the time like a watch.
congratulations to him, for all the team to help him, of course, to achieve it.
and yeah, it’s really good.
have him.
that’s what the team played really well tonight.
really disappointed.
we lose our first goal to a set piece because, you know, we are pretty good at defending them.
and so i’m really disappointed with that against man city.
they might have scored a goals and we carried a little bit of luck at times when the ball hit the inside of the post and didn’t go in.
but thought we deserved it.
thought we’d done a good enough job to to warrant and we wanted to come out in the second half and do liverpool kept alive their outside hopes of qualifying for next season’s champions league after mohamed salah scored the only goal in a 1—nil win over fulham.
salah scored for the eighth home game in a row as liverpool won for the fifth successive premier league game to maintain their late—season form.
jurgen klopp’s side stay fifth in the table, four points behind fourth—placed manchester united, who have two games in hand.
if newcastle, and especially man united, if they win all their games, then you have no chance.
so and we have to keep and that’s already not, i i hands as well i =ty g1 if brighton wins all the games then they are ahead of us.
so that’s the situation we have just to win football games.
and in the end, we can have a look at the table.
and i’m in this moment really happy with the development, with the direction we go into.
think we deserve more from the game.
i’m proud of our players and we played this evening the fourth game in 12 days we showed that, and our quality in some moments of the game, of course, as of all, we deserve much more from the game.
sam allardyce says he was shocked to be asked to take over as manager of leeds united and that some people have called him mad to take the job.
he took his first training session with the squad on wednesday after spaniard javi gracia was dismissed after just 10 weeks and 12 games in charge at elland road.
allardyce is tasked with quiding leeds to safety with four games remaining.
they are currently out of the bottom three but only on goal difference.
a tough first game for him though against leaders manchester city on saturday.
that’s probably the biggest challenge because of the shortness of games that are left.
like, mean, think that, you know, there needs to be points picked up in.
and the difficulty is, you know, you look at the fixtures, you know what mean?
we start with an easy one on saturday and, you know, mean, can’t get any easier than manchester city away, can it?
but enjoyed the game so much and and to and be able to save this club and and put it back and keep it in the premier league is a big responsibility because of who leeds united are.
in italy just 6 points separate 6 teams from 2nd a i midweek round of serie a matches.
juventus beat lecce against sassuolo to ensure they stay 2nd and 3rd.
inter milan thumped verona 6-0 to move up to 4th place though after disappointing 1 all draws for roma and milan against monza and cremonese.
atalanta’s 3—2 win against spezia keeps them a as well for next seasons champions league as well.
- o1g atletico madrid leapfrogged their city rivals, real madrid, to go second after a51 victory against cadiz.
and getafe beat celta vigo 1-0.
and in germany, eintracht frankfurt will face leipzig after a dramatic 3—2 win in their semi final against stuttgart.
iro7ctg1 a goal down early to tiago tomas but came back through goals from evan ndicka, daichi kamada and french forward kolo muani to set up the showdown with the reigning champions on june 3rd.
could lionel messi’s time at paris saint germain be up?
he’s been suspended him for two weeks unpaid for an unathorised trip to saudi arabia.
he’s an ambassador for the saudi tourist authority who say the trip included feeding gazelles and visiting a luxury shopping centre.
he’ll be free again for the final three games of the season, as look to retain their ligue 1 title, but speculation’s growing that we won’t see him in @ shirt again.
so where could he go next?
there’s two other options, of course.
saudi arabia.
an offer has arrived for around £400 million.
yes, you heard.
well, for one year, for 100 million.
the idea is to put together cristiano ronaldo and leo messi in the same league, and the have always been there.
they cannot afford that kind of money.
but they said whenever you want to come to the , inter miami, we’ll open the doors for you.
and he knows that.
the sanctions it recommends against the six former yorkshire players found to have used racist slurs at the club.
it follows the allegations made by azeem rafiq.
here’s our sports editor dan roan.
now, charges that have been issued all stemmed from allegations made by the former yorkshire spinner azeem rafig, now a seventh former yorkshire player.
the ex—england captain, michael vaughan, he was cleared by the panel.
as for the other six, well, they’ve had to wait until today to discover what kind of punishments they may face.
the former england and yorkshire batsman gary ballance, who had admitted a charge of using racist language towards rafiq and who had apologised to him.
the today revealed that they were recommending that the panel issue him with an eight week suspension that would only apply if he came out of retirement.
he announced his retirement last month and that he received an £8,000 fine.
now, as for the other former yorkshire players who were found to have used racist or discriminatory language, the recommended 7500 pound fines for both the former england star matthew hoggard and the former yorkshire player and coach andrew gale.
£5,000 fines for england’s former player tim bresnan and yorkshire’s former all rounder john blain and a400 now, as for the other former yorkshire players who were found to have used racist or discriminatory language, the recommended £7 500 fines for both the former england star matthew hoggard and the former yorkshire player and coach andrew gale.
£5,000 fines for england’s former player tim bresnan and yorkshire’s former all rounder john blain and a400 £0 fine for another former yorkshire player, richard the also said today that they wanted all six individuals to go on an educational course and to be reprimanded.
staying with cricket, pakistan successfully defended a 287-run total as they beat new zealand by 26 runs in a one—day iinternational to take an unassailable 3—0 -a imam—ul—haqg and babar azam hit half—centuries as pakistan scored 287/6 in karachi.
tom blundell top scored for new zealand with 65 and cole mcconchie was 64 not out but they fell short with two matches still to play in the series.
meanwhile, at the , mumbai indians chased down a mammoth 215 to beat the punjab kings.
it meant liam livingstone’s 82 not out including seven fours what seemed like an improbable chase, mumbal were up against it mohali when skipper but suryakumar yadav and ishan kishan hit fifties before tilak varma and tim david’s late runs took mumbai over the finishing line.
they won the game by six wickets.
and lucknow super giants and chennai super kings were forced to split points as their indian premier league match was called off due to rain.
with incessant rain lashing the ekana stadium, even possible after the home team had made 125 for seven in 19 point 2 overs.
four golfers including lee westwood and lan poulter will no longer be eligible to play in this year’s ryder westwood and poulter have starred in a number of famous out of the reckoning to take on team along with richard bland and sergio garcia — after the quartet missed wednesday’s deadline of paying a fine for breaking world tour rules and playing in the opening golf tournament last july.
reigning champion carlos alcaraz is through to the semi finals of the madrid masters after beating the russian karen khachanov in straight sets 6—4, 7-5.
the spaniard has been in brilliant form throughout the tournament and will now play croatian borna coric iin the final four at the clay court event.
the 19 year old needs to defend his title in order to replace novak djokovic as the world number one.
and that’s the latest from me.
take care, goodbye.
i’ll speak to you soon.
many of us had some beautiful late spring sunshine on wednesday.
in fact, in bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours of sunshine, a glorious day.
but top temperature, well, that was in south wales, in gwynedd, just of 20 celsius, and it felt very pleasant indeed.
now it’s not out of the question that we could see 20 celsius on thursday, but the weather story is certainly on the change with low pressure starting to move in from the southwest.
so as we go through the day on thursday, it’s a tale of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off the north sea, affecting eastern england and northeast we’ve got rain pushing into the southwest — and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best of the sunshine is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll see the best of the warmth.
the breeze still coming from an east direction, so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight edge to things.
a little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough with highs of 19-20 celsius perhaps in the southeast.
now, as we move out of thursday into friday, that weather front will continue to push its way steadily north.
it’ bring outbreaks of rain as it does so, and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
so on friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving 1 england, into scotland.
sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
now, as we move into the start of the weekend, that southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north but unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
- that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily north as we go through the day.
so not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
and the wider picture throughout the bank.
holiday weekend — saturday will be the wettest of the days, sunday and monday, sunny spells and scattered showers.
some of them on monday could be quite heavy.
take care.
have a good evening.
live from washington, this is news.
ukraine denies it’s behind any attack on moscow or president putin following unverified footage of a drone strike on the kremlin.
brazilian police raid former president jair bolsanoro’s home, as they investigate his covid vaccine records.
and ahead of the coronation, advice from royal families of other nations for britain’s new king.
hello i’m sumi somaskanda.
we start with breaking news out of ukraine, our correspondent, who’s currently sheltering in an underground bunker, said 4y air raid alert in the capital went off at around 02:20 local time.
the team heard at least one loud explosion, and the city’s air defence has been activated.
earlier today, ukraine says at least 21 were killed inn an attack on kherson.
missile strikes hit a market, a railway station, a petrol it comes as ukraine’s president zelensky denied that his country carried out an alleged drone attack on the kremln.
russia says it was an attempt on vladimir putin’s life.
our russia editor steve rosenberg sent this report from moscow.
what appears to be a drone.
over the kremlin.
this footage is unverified, but the kremlin says that overnight, two drones targeted the residence risl moscow blames ukraine, but says that no—one was injured.
on russian state , a dramatic start to this talk show.
the presenter announces breaking news.
"there’s been an attempt," he says, "to assassinate putin.
” in daylight down at the kremlin, we couldn’t see any obvious signs of the explosions.
lots of questions remain unanswered about what happened here last night.
ukraine has denied involvement.
a ukrainian drone attack, an attempt to kill the president in the very heart of moscow, that is hugely embarrassing for the authorities here.
after all, where was the security?
this is supposed to be one of the most heavily—quarded seats of power in the world.
last weekend, russia accused ukraine of launching a drone strike on a fuel depot in russian—occupied crimea.
days later, bombs detonated and derailed two freight trains in a part of russia near the ukrainian border.
already cancelled military parades planned for the 9th of may, victory day, when russians mark the defeat of nazi germany.
for now, the kremlin continues to insist that the big red square parade in moscow will go ahead despite last night’s explosions.
but there iis red square has been closed to the public since the end of april.
that 1s unusual, and reflects 1 more than 14 months since the kremlin launched its full—scale invasion of ukraine, the war is feeling much closer to home.
the reaction in the west has been to urge caution on any russian claims.
secretary of state antony blinken said he would take anything the russia presidency said with a ‘very large shaker seth jones, director of the international security program at the center for strategic and international studies.
how do you assess russia’s claims that this was an assassination i putin?
well but we are waiting for here in washington is more of a statement, right now.
public statement, right now.
individuals in the 710 rnment, the intelligence gencies are still trying to 1al88s agencies are still trying to confirm their assessment of who ucted these attacks so @i conducted these attacks so think it is a conducted these attacks so conducted these attacks so think it is a little early to who was olved in this.
know who was involved in this.
they would just say very efly that russia is in no osition to accusing nyone position to be accusing anyone i these kinds of activities multiple assassination ttempts on lensky, the ukrainian leader and then ading his country, so ometimes things like this come when you take those kinds of actions.
we’ve heard military saying 1 his could be some military saying ould be a false flag this could be a false flag operation led by russia itself, what do you think of that?
it is possible at this point.
it is probably unlikely 1 but think 1 i 10 &= think it is probably unlikely but think at this point we can’t rule anything out.
the very least, this was unlikely to be a serious at assassinating vladimir putin, because he is ikely, he wasn’t there at not likely, he wasn’t there at the time, he wasn’t likely to been there, doesn’t spend a lot of his time there.
much likely that if this was ukraine, again we don’t know, this probably more of ychological attack to get dia annon a attack to get = o= a0e!
a attack to get media attention and to cause fear in moscow and if that the case, it some fear in moscow and if that - case, it has already had that effect, to egree.
that effect, to some degree.
what do you think this says he kremlin’s defences?
is essentially supposed to a fortress.
it is essentially supposed to fortress.
it is supposed 0 a1 be a fortress.
it is supposed to be a fortress although if ooks at the last two one looks at the last two decades, was in moscow a ber of years ago ing the number of years ago during the subway suicide bombings, we’ve ttacks against a theatre had attacks against a theatre in moscow, these were connect chechen war is and winlhl to the chechen war is and coming from church, it is not nceivable that these kinds ttacks could have urred.
of attacks could have occurred.
- ave had drones get shot down around white house in washington, so nothing is impenetrable, these days.
we have seen ukraine and russia cally pointing fingers at other for what happened, 1 each other for what happeneq, - can the do here to ensure that hings don’t r0 calate even further?
ensure that things don’t a ensure that things don’t escalate even further?
think the things that the needs to do and one of the things that the do and what it has needs to do and what it has done since this needs to do and what it has needs to do and what it has done since this war began is to publicly its own come out publicly with its own 00 = a1 come out publicly with its own assessment of who perpetrated ttack and then second, to caution from ukraine, to mit or stop these kinds of otentially alatory attacks and then also to signal to the ians that they to be russians that they have to be g% careful in escalating as we mentioned that there well.
we mentioned that there have been these explosions overnight in kyiv have been these explosions heard overnight in kyiv and ther cities in ukraine and we also seen the strike that rainians have reported any where 21 people were lled .
— kherson.
have we - seen a step up attacks ow?
i’m not sure are seeing a major in peace and sian strikes, and various w16 points of the wall we see the ians target bullion areas russians target bullion areas i ukraine and again, terestingly with these nes, they interestingly with these drones, they didn’t tell i drones, they didn’t tell anybody but the russians have killing civilians in ukraine over the past year, and a again, think ukraine over the past year, and again, think this is probably in preparation for what likely to be a ukrainian unter—attack is likely to be a ukrainian a1 & is likely to be a ukrainian counter—attack in the next couple of weeks or so.
is ukraine ready for this nter—attack?
have been counter—attack?
we have been hearing that ammunition is ing out, that weapons have rrived, how well-placed kraine to unch a ukraine to launch a counteroffensive?
think ine does have a sufficient mount ukraine does have a sufficient eyano 010 material the bigger amount of material.
the bigger issues frankly are going to be it have clever enough strateqy, leadership, itiative at lower levels of ukrainian military to break rough what are increasingly fensive structures.
was ust looking at some satellite gery of russian iimagery of russian ir0 1 a imagery of russian i = i imagery of russian reinforcements with dragon’s and burns and deep teeth and burns and deep o= nches, the russians are reparing, will be difficult 0 break through those lines 30 une 0 lals/ to break through those lines and to surround russian forces, 14 it less for me about think it i1s less for me about rial and uch more about a material and much more about a clever strategy.
if we do speak 8 iaa the material here, we about the material here, we r0y the has announced another big package of weapons.
the international ommunity, he ’s partners, they need to step up as ell?
think do they need to step up as & do they need to step up as well?
think the likelihood is ing to be a war so is going to be a long war so do is going to be a long war so a 111 is going to be a long war so do think over the next eral weeks do think over the next v- do think over the next several weeks and months, that of western countries need to a range of western countries - ieo anu a0l a range of western countries need to continue providing stance to ukraine, these are munitions, these are pons systems that are going reak down weapons systems that are going a0 to break down over the next 1 0 to break down over the next couple of weeks.
these are aid, ning, intelligence, so for is less about stepping up me it iis less about stepping up and more continuing.
eth nes, thank you again for oining us.
thank you.
to sudan now, where clashes between rival military factions have continued, despite both sides agreeing to a seven—day truce starting on thursday.
more than a 100,000 people have already fled to neighbouring countries amid warnings of a humanitarian catastrophe that could affect the entire region.
more witnesses to the conflict have desribed the scale of the violence in sudan.
one british—sudanese man, mohamed, described the moment he and his family were caught in the crosshairs of the fighting in khartoum.
they were shooting, me and the kids would stay here because the safest rea for us to it’s the safest area for us to stay.
we had the army behind us he if in front us and the if in front of us and they were shooting at each and we ere in the middle other and we were in the middle so that was the hardest point whole situation.
we laid and was talking to them stantly, explaining, we are ite safe here, ’re on the quite safe here, we’re on the ground, nothing is happening to ’m looking at around us, i’m looking at and around 0 children say we are in danger —— i’m not going to around to my children and we are in danger.
mohammed and his children have now been evacuated to england.
our africa correspondent andrew harding has more - i no head yet of the current ceasefire really sticking and yet about the seven—day easefire that is supposed to into orce.
we’ve had a visit from two come into force.
we’ve had a 0 visit from two senior officials to port sudan which pidly becoming the hub for he is rapidly becoming the hub for the emerging humanitarian onse, real frustration expressed by ose officials ying that they urgently need level detailed guarantees 018 bout access, concern about the ting six trucks, food looting of six trucks, food 3 that were delivering aid 0 die for.
that of of real concern to die for.
that is of real alel to die for.
that is of real concern and a broader sense a lot more needs to be that a lot more needs to be done to facilitate support for itals in done to facilitate support for done to facilitate support for hospitals in particular we know eing targeted dely in are being targeted widely in khartoum and darfur.
and the us, tens of thousands of civilians heading north, ding outh, heading east and est in fact, all the borders udan, continues.
1400 competitors, 46 teams, from 18 european countries.
all together in birmingham coming together in birmingham 018 for the plus union cup nament.
this has coincided the 200th anniversary of itself, so to bring this ternational tournament head he west midlands is to the west midlands is eladie \ to the west midlands is actually really special.
the was originally meant to have been hosted here by the ingham bulls four years ago was postponed due to covid.
anisers say it was important include organisers say it was important clude a women’s tournament well.
people are so warm and coming and you feel like everyone is so united.
and it ped the event will help to break down rriers.
you’re live with news.
brazilian police have raided former president jair bolsanoro’s home on wednesday morning as part of an investigation into his covid vaccination records.
police suspect his vaccine information was falsified to gain entry into the .
three of bolsonaro’s assistants have been arrested and his phone has been seized.
the ex—president denies any involvement and says he has we have our latin america regional editor mimi swaby what do police expect to find on jair bolsanoro’s phone?
is hoped this investigation help answer the many questions on how jair sanoro, a covid sceptic who as vowed bolsanoro, a covid sceptic who bolsanoro, a covid sceptic who has vowed never to get a cine was registered on ublic records that were leased in february that he accinated, and the lice was vaccinated, and the police was vaccinated, and the police are expect to was vaccinated, and the police a was vaccinated, and the police are expect to find evidence of they are calling a what they are calling a criminal alliance, showing the rtion false data into razilian public health cords.
investigators are king into a group including he bolsanoros to see if they forged these ake ards, have forged these fake cards, 81 is includes bolsanoro’s aughters, his assistance and assistant’s wife fake aforotlanl a0 his assistant’s wife fake laa - a1 als his assistant’s wife fake documents and this is all into he and at this time when bolsanaro arrived in last year 1 still the last year the still ovid restrictions in place i of.
on december the had covid restrictions in place u4 of.
on december the 21st, bolsanaro was registered as inated.
this entry in a public health office in rio iro was later removed, just a janeiro was later removed, just one week later it was taken off went back to being unvaccinated, so there are many tions to be answered in questions to be answered in 81 is latest investigation.
what bolsanaro saying about all this?
has come out and said has confirmed his of this?
has come out and said 0 a1ne ale 0 of this?
has come out and said he has confirmed his home was ed, his mobile was seized, says that has no idea of forging of document and maintained the fact that he never taken a vaccine and nor has his daughter.
bolsanaro’s wife reaffirmed , she posted on her social this, she posted on her social media on instagram saying that usband has never been vaccinated.
the her husband has never been - ated.
the head of the vaccinated.
the head of the naro political party came out on social media saying we a1 out on social media saying we ust that all legal doubts ill - - cleared up and it will roven that bolsanaro did 8 commit any illegal acts.
this is just one of the many scandals around bolsanaro currently.
he is also investigated some being investigated for some ose at a ledger devoted ppression, for embezzlement foreign suppression, for embezzlement foreign gifts among many ther things so again, another matic turn other things so again, another i a or irio other things so again, another dramatic turn for bolsanaro.
interesting story.
thank the federal reserve on wednesday raised interest the fed lifted its benchmark interest—rate by a quarter of one percentage point, pushing its overnight interest rate range to 5—5.
25%.
meanwhile on capitol hill, the federal government could be unable to pay all of its bills on time as soon as june 1, threatening the future of economy.
earlier spoke to wendy edelberg, the director of the hamilton project at brookings institution and former chief economist at the congressional 05 i o- wendy, thanks very much for joining us.
this is the 10th hike that have 0 rate hike that we have seen in and resort jerome 14 months and resort jerome - signal it may be the last hike at least for a while.
think that there are do you think that there are more hikes to come?
believe hen they say that the them when they say that the decisions they make going ward ill be entirely data dependent.
think that there hance that there is another is a chance that there is another hike or two in the 01 re, but like sufficient vidence that very ubstantial and very speedy hikes that they have put in place over a little over a are slowing the onomy in year are slowing the economy in the united states.
what 1 nce are you seeing?
because inflation does remain bornly high.
ctors most stubbornly high.
sectors most sensitive stubbornly high.
sectors most 1 itive are responding to the terest ate hikes, so the iinterest rate hikes, so the housing market the united tes is slowing substantially.
investment is ing.
then, of course, we r0y know the banking sector is one primary places about monetary policy has an effect hese rate hikes are having a effect on the assets of the ance sheets of the banks and hat is tightening credit elin that is tightening credit i that is tightening credit conditions.
if we look that is tightening credit a - 10 that is tightening credit conditions.
if we look at what crats are saying we are democrats are saying we are seeing some saying that this is ing painful average americans.
it is making eir bills americans.
it i1s making their rt3 higher, their ortgage bills higher, their mortgage payments higher.
isn’t that a n= 1l payments higher.
isn’t that a real concern for the fed as l?
of course it is, but what also appening to households ross the , and particularly income households, as they suffering from inflation far too high, so that is he fed’s primary concern, and 0s say the labour market should say the labour market right 3 is still quite strong so think on balance ouseholds are doing remarkably all considering and hold hopes for a soft landing.
ink there is a chance that the fed think there i1s a chance that he fed can pull his off.
what the concerns about a recession?
do you think we slip into a recession?
think we might slip into a recession?
1 might slip into a recession?
think we are properly in might slip into a recession?
i i might slip into a recession?
think we are properly in for a of quarters of ving couple of quarters of moving sideways, whether or that that light contraction or just taying above zero.
think the outcome staying above zero.
think the a a1 staying above zero.
think the best outcome is that we are 5 to move sideways a little and able to move sideways a little - able to move sideways a little bit and that is enough to bring ation down.
of course, if debt ceiling vines and the ited states does not pay its ls, all bets are off.
would think congress should do to rove the economic outlook to void iimprove the economic outlook to avoid a recession?
he primary they can do is raise the debt ceiling and low taxpayers to our bills.
so, guess it is the old adage, 3 irst, do no harm.
" you "first, do no harm.
" do you atls 4 "first, do no harm.
" do you think this fight could impact long—term?
am immensely ustrated.
there nothing on the downside the debt ceiling doesn’t bind and the treasury finds itself in a ition where there is not enough money in checking ccount to pay all the bills has to do some juggling.
111 this would be an unforced or, and it would certainly — even if it just lasted a 0 ouple of days — for an 888101 1 couple of days — for an a0 do couple of days — for an enormous blow to financial ets that enormous blow to financial 01 enormous blow to financial markets that would speedily its way through to the ¥ eal economy, but if work its way through to the real economy, but if it lasts than a couple of days, more than a couple of days, y00 0t\ more than a couple of days, am worryingly quite confident it would tip us into recession.
how do you think it impact the global would impact the global economy?
can only imagine other countries and what what other countries and what = ernational investors must be thinking right now about the government and congress.
it ust be enormously frustrating.
an, treasury, it is perhaps the most portant arket across the entire ternational financial system, 0s sure that the and am sure that the treasurer will follow treasurer will follow the ybook that they laid out in 201 to continue to make interest payments on time.
so that, as long as they are able 3 hey would not strictly to, they would not strictly defaults on treasury ponds, ven given that, am but even given that, am a1 ate=1n but even given that, am but even given that, am a a = a but even given that, am confident that the bond market the globe would respond a across the globe would respond and to be quite worried about treasury not being able 0 to pay all of its bills, and re the legal challenges would come quite swiftly and sure how the courts ould respond, and suspect this would increase the borrowing cost this would increase the wing cost for evermore, borrowing cost for evermore, it it might also just create a neral lack of confidence that be quite persistent.
wendy, thank you very much for ing us.
yeah, happy joining us.
yeah, was happy to.
people in the are beginning their preparations for the coronation of king charles, which will take place next saturday.
i i been meeting with royal families of other nations to see what lessons they might have for britain’s new king as a part of her new documentary europe’s royals revealed.
katty, it is great to see you.
for your new documentary, you had the enviable job of going to meet someone had to do it.
0f going to meet europe’s other royal families and seeing how they live including norway, you had an exclusive interview with princess martha louise.
tell us about her story.
she is a fascinating and quite 0 0ol she is actually the oldest child of king harald and queen sonia and she should have been queen by rights but norway’s succession laws weren’t changed until she was a teenager so her younger 1r the throne.
she she is kind of what in royal language they call the "spare”, which is how prince harry refers to himself and she had string of other controversial businesses.
she had a school where she taught people to talk to angels, and she describes herself as a clairvoyant.
she has a boyfriend who is a spiritual guru.
he’s a shaman, shaman durek.
in the norwegian press, pretty controversial.
these are not the kind of things royals are expected to do.
so was really interested to talk to her to find out how the norwegian royal family has handled her doing things kind of differently.
here’s what she said.
there have been comparisons with prince harry and meghan.
my fiance, shaman durek, and the norwegian people, guess, everybody has decided that it is best for me to step down but what think has been amazing through this whole cycle has been the conversations we’ve all had through 1t all.
from a very young age, remember my mum and dad, the king and queen, saying that we have to stick together, we have to talk things through, even if it’s hard.
we have to put all the cards on the table, we have to, because we are family and we have to work things through, through all 1" because there has been so many turmoils with me, going, taking a different path than being a traditional royal.
this will run ahead of the coronation of king charles.
if you were suddenly to send him wishes for his reign, and everybody of course is looking =y i a1l remember my grandfather, king olaf, he was such a loved king.
my father feared going into that role after him, because how could he fill those shoes?
and think that’s the whole point, you don’t fill his shoes.
so king charles will be a= a1 absolutely, you can’t copy somebody else.
katty, really did notice that when she talked about taking a different path and being a different royal, it does remind me of harry and meghan.
so tell us about how her family has handled all of this publicly?
she very much describes herself as somebody has done things out of the box and, in a way, prince harry does as well.
and look, some of the things she’s done have caused controversy in norway, because there have been suggestions of a was she using her royal title to make money from her businesses?
and the norwegians didn’t really like that.
think the big difference is that it hasn’t caused a rift in the family.
as she said, they sat down and spoke about it and wanted to kind of check out her story, '‘cause didn’t want to think it was just her telling of this, and spoke to the royal correspondent for a big tabloid magazine in norway who has been pretty critical of some of the things martha louise has done, but said exactly the same the family loves each other.
katty’s documentary europe’s royals revealed is available on select here in the and canada, which is distributed on amazon prime video, apple , l1l it 1s all part of our culmination coverage which will he .
do tune culmination coverage which will -1 stay with us here on news.
many of us had some beautiful late spring sunshine on wednesday.
in fact, in bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours of sunshine, a glorious day.
but top temperature, well, that was in south wales, in gwynedd, just of 20 celsius, and it felt very pleasant indeed.
now it’s not out of the question that we could see 20 celsius on thursday, but the weather story is certainly on the change with low pressure starting to move in from the southwest.
so as we go through the day on thursday, it’s a tale of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off the north sea, affecting eastern england and northeast we’ve got rain pushing into the southwest — and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best of the sunshine is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll see the best of the warmth.
the breeze still coming from an east direction, so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight edge to things.
a little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough with highs of 19-20 celsius perhaps in the southeast.
now, as we move out of thursday into friday, that weather front will continue to push its way steadily north.
it’ bring outbreaks of rain as it does so, and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
so on friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
now, as we move into the start of the weekend, that southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north but unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
- that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily north as we go through the day.
so not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
and the wider picture throughout the bank.
holiday weekend — saturday will be the wettest of the days, sunday and monday, sunny spells and scattered showers.
some of them on monday could be quite heavy.
take care.
—: this is news.
we’ll have the headlines and all the main news stories for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
was at home when got a phone call from the director of news at the saying that’s the queen was gravely 1ll he didn’t stand on ceremony or offer any small talk — "clive, how are you?
" he simply said "the queen and was preparing to to italy on a filming trip the next day and thought should go in.
was in the newsnight office because we’d had wind, obviously with a note being passed through the house of commons, that something was happening.
that we send our best wishes to her majesty the queen and that she and the royal family are in our thoughts and prayers at this moment.
and of course there’s this big protocol, obviously, if the queen had passed away then newsnight wouldn’t be going on.
but simultaneously was getting calls, as we were waiting to see if this event was going to unfold, got a call from don macinnes who was running the events coverage and he said "look, would you be able to get yourself to balmoral?
” so as soon as we heard that the queen had in fact died, newsnight was obviously cancelled, so got on the train and then rushead home, threw all the black clothes could find in the car — because didn’t know how long was going to be away — and put my foot down in the car and sped to balmoral.
and it was extraordinary because was going through the most rugged to get there, was thinking - this is extraordinary.
what moment in history, i’m going through the long road at the spittal of glenshee 1y not only for scotland and the but for the world.
my colleague kirsty wark iis at - = yes, think what you see behind me is almost in marked contrast to what was happening at buckingham palace because hundreds of people have been coming forwards and backwards all day, laying flowers, making tributes, but there is an air of real peace and respect and dignity.
when got to balmoral it was just — went to find the point and it was just 1 period of time, and that started to unfold, where was talking to people who are coming in, where they were coming from, a lot in europe because, you know, walking down a where she walked regularly.
everybody brought their dogs, that was a great thing, everybody had their dogs.
and there were tiny children, and there were much older people, and there were people in wheelchairs, and this continued all through the day until can remember left at about 11:25.
and there were still people coming with their iphone torches in wheelchairs, and walking, to deliver flowers or just to stand and be there.
so, all through the day was really watching what people were doing and listening to them and there were hardly talking.
thought 1t was so incredibly moving — they wanted to come to be near her.
her relationship with scotland was one of family, certainly, being a girl that had been at balmoral since she was a baby, and in fact, think there was a case that the queen had only ever taken two summer holidays anywhere other than scotland.
her thread of ancestry goes all the way back to robert the bruce’s and then through mary queen of scots and so forth.
you know, she was a truly scottish monarch.
she was elizabeth the first in scotland because of course, she was at the elizabeth of scotland, she was the first in scotland — but think it was just about her sense of place and her sense of belonging and think she felt that sense of belonging very strongly.
people would come up and ask me, you know, if they were spanish or perhaps, you know, from another country, would come up and ask me, what does this mean?
you know, what happens next?
and are the royal family going to come out?
are they going to look at the flowers?
mean, didn’t know, was keeping in close touch with the palace and kind of knew that the younger members of the royal family were really desperately upset so really didn’t expect them to come out and look at the flowers and look ras i so, the members of the royal family have completed their service of prayer at crathie kirk which of course is the kirk the family all knows so well sometimes when you’re reporting on a grieving family, think when you’re in a time of grief as a commentator reporter, it’s about choosing the moment to speak and not, as it were, blanketing the whole thing with your words.
so think you’ve got to be able to take a pause sometimes.
and let— really let what you’re seeing in front &y tonally, it’s incredibly important not to be gushing.
who wants gushing, you know?
all thought about was this was someone’s mother and grandmother.
and last year they lost their father and grandfather.
and what we expect of them is to be so public.
grief is grief, whether you’re the richest person in the world , it’s grief.
and think everybody that watched those young royals at that gate that day was thinking that.
was very moved.
wouldn’t like to have to do that.
and then there was a moment where as we went back through the gates, the younger, the grandchildren, the children of the grandchildren, stood and turned and waved at the crowd and the crowd waved back.
it was amazing.
i’m also conscious when you’re reporting on grief stricken times and events, you can reflect their grief, you can empathise with their grief because you’ve had your own grief with parental death, but it’s not your grief.
emoting particularly.
so i’m very conscious of taking a step back, not iin any form of coolness or anything, but, you know, i will always — tear up now always makes me cry, is the pipes.
when the pipes came down from edinburgh castle, it was extraordinary.
what was really extraordinary for me, and do love the pipes, is that went a= to the wedding of my daughter where there was a piper.
you know, ‘cause iit’s so much part of scottish culture.
punctuating big moments.
on the whole time.
you’re thinking, you’re writing things, you’re thinking of phrases.
there’s still the producer in me that’s trying to grab people and get people to come up to the microphone and tell their stories and do all that running around stuff, trying to find food — iailal i you know, going to the loo, finding a port—a—cabin, morning until night.
all of us were passing each other bits of bananas.
think a lot of people came to scotland hoping they would be able to file past and see the queen here, thinking that actually the crowds wouldn’t be so great.
the royal mile to giles, that was an extraordinary time, with the children walking behind it.
and thought, you know, this place has witnessed john it’s seen so many things, and now it’s seeing probably and were you on air while that was happening?
yes, we were on air, intermittently with london.
we were doing the 6:00pm and 10:00pm news as well.
you’re scribbling on pieces of paper, because i’m afraid that’s all we had.
the queen was a symbol of stability, continuity, and almost the last line of defence against the shattering of this country.
and saw an element of that shattering during covid, and will never forget the queen’'s broadcast, we should take comfort that, while we may have more still to endure, better days will return.
we will be with our friends again.
we will meet again.
in the moments of crisis, she kept us together, and think it’s important even for republicans to remember that.
was never introduced to her, but was in the same room as her.
she was — don’t know, maybe two metres, three metres away from me.
it was in south africa.
was the africa correspondent, and she was there for a commonwealth heads of government meeting in durban.
but my mother, who was a school teacher in jamaica before to meet the queen.
: the queen, who is the guest of the governor during her stay, visits sabina park, where 35,000 schoolchildren wait to welcome her.
their eyes shine the queen has come from a far—off land to see them.
it’s a moment they will cherish all their lives.
spoke to my mum a couple of nights ago.
she said that, you know, she was really sad that what did she say?
she said the brightest jewel in the crown jewels is no more, and my dad told me that he cried when he heard said, "you felt that much emotion?
" he said, "yes, because she never had a bad word to say about anyone.
” he never heard her say anything bad about anybody.
and in an age where mouthing off is what you do to get and he respected that.
there i1s no doubt in my mind that, if the queen could have chosen somewhere, it would have been balmoral and in fact, obviously her health was failing, and she was always at balmoral for that period in the summer, so maybe you don’t know what happens when people are near death.
you don’t know what happens, and you don’t know if it’s just a letting go, and it is possible that that is where she wanted to let go.
what did she mean to you?
it’s my mum, who died a number of years ago at exactly the same age as her.
she even looked like her.
so think that idea of generationally knowing where my mum was coming from and where the queen was coming from — think she’s been the most extraordinary negotiator for this country.
the diplomat par excellence.
so how do you wind down after this, especially given that personally there is a lot going on with your daughter’s wedding?
drove back to glasgow, put my black clothes away, filled the car with all the flowers and candles and everything that we were taking to my daughter’s wedding and drove up there.
mad week 1in the office.
- ¢ of planning — obviously you plan as much as you can for most eventualities — i’m not sure it was clear the proclamation was going to be televised.
good morning to you, sophie.
there’s a little bit of a chill in the air here at james’s palace.
the cloud of early morning has been shifting, moving above us, but thankfully the incessant rain over the last few days when it became clear that it was going to be televiseq, then preparations had to be put in place in order to do that, because it’s the public declaration that charles is king.
obviously as soon as the queen passed away, charles did become king, but the public declaration of that came at the proclamation ceremony.
it wasn’t the day before.
this moment has never - that has never been made public, what goes on inside that room.
just do a bit of research and get it right.
and on the balcony there, the trumpeters, the state trumpeters, of the household cavalry and the serjeant—at—arms will make the first and principal proclamation.
you’re talking about an ancient ceremony that goes back hundreds of years, but outside, you had a load of people who wanted to see the spectacle, who had selfie sticks and iphones.
so there was a sort of a weird sort of mix there between the ancient a - eare laa at the end of the day, at the proclamation of a new king you’re remembering, to a degree, the former monarch, the queen who has died.
and indeed, it is also where prince charles first officially declares to the world that his my lords, ladies and gentlemen, it is my most sorrowful duty to announce to you the death of my beloved mother, the queen.
know how deeply you, the entire nation, and think the irreparable loss - a i it is the greatest consolation to me to know of the sympathy expressed by so many to my sisters and brothers, and that such overwhelming affection and support should be extended to our whole family.
he fashioned it as a moment to be looking forward, and that tempered the way that covered the story.
it was less sombre than if was talking mentioned that brought my own phone up to take a picture, because no—one’s ever photographed it.
no—one’s ever been present at this moment.
and there’s about 1,000 people here, and as soon as the trumpeters came out on the balcony, just before the proclamation, a huge "ooh" went right through the crowd, everyone ready for that proclamation of a new king.
and have to say, i got my phone out too.
and felt that tone was right for that moment, because you’re looking forward.
you then go back to the ceremony and the pageantry at rest in edinburgh, i ¢ aldermen and citizens of london and others do now hereby, with one voice and consent of tongue and heart, publish and proclaim that the prince charles philip arthur george is now, by the death of our late sovereign of happy memory, become our only lawful what did you take a picture of?
trumpeters, and then the guy in all the regalia coming out is king charles .
god save the king that’s when all the selfie sticks went up, because someone publicly declaring "long live the king," when that hasn’t been said since 1952 in this country, in the united kingdom, was quite a moment.
hip—hip hooray!
hip—hip hooray!
hip—hip hooray!
one has got used to sort of having a ringside seat to various huge events, and do take that responsibility pretty seriously — that am a viewer’s eyes and ears on a particular story.
tonight at 10:00pm, russia warns it will launch strikes on the capital, kyiv, telling residents to and iit’s important that there is someone doing that, so it might as well be me.
international correspondent.
the latest information — explain we’re down here in the basement.
life has gone increasingly underground in kyiv you to find the objective truth, and it’s not about my bias or my ideas on russia or ukraine or whatever.
one country has invaded another, and it shouldn’t have done it, and that’s the story.
and that is how you report it - you find the objective truth.
is there anything you’d do with hindsight?
uhnot that can think of.
damian grammaticas is standing nearby at buckingham palace.
damian, the news a little bit earlier on today said the doctors in scotland were concerned about the queen’s health, coming as liz truss was making a rather important statement concerning the future of energy bills.
that, of course, insignificant now given the gravity of the situation we seem to be experiencing with her majesty.
we saw that you tweeted about the line around the cost of living.
is there anything that you would have said differently?
8 people see what they want to see and read what they want to read.
if people don’t think the best of you then they really do read what they read into it, because they’re reading into it the way they want to, there’s nothing you can do about that, and that’s something that doesn’t concern me in the slightest.
everyone can have an opinion.
are two a penny.
it’s finding that truth that perhaps the majority of people and that’s vital, absolutely vital, because we’re in this big debate about the role not just of the monarchy now but the role of the - you know, the licence fee jadal but if we’re not trying to find an objective truth, i’m not sure what the point of this is.
who do you imagine is watching when you are thinking about how you’re delivering the news and the tone that you’re using?
= you know, am thinking about me at home watching.
what is it that would expect from an organisation like the in covering a story like this?
what would expect?
think about how would feel, actually, a lot of the time.
and that has been, frankly, a lodestar throughout my career in judging — trying to judge the mood when cover a story.
we will have a look at the coronation we will have a look at the a a i in just a moment.
there is cold air on wednesday and we will his weather air on wednesday and we will a1 see this weather fronts encroaching.
between that he diminishing area of high sure we have a stronger pressure we have a stronger nd.
and esau high easterly bringing cloud to eastern in wind bringing cloud to eastern scotland and the northeast of and and that brings but england and that brings but ain into south—west england, 11 wales and increases the rain in lreland so is ill be rain in ireland so this will be 01118 rain in ireland so this will be i with a stronger wind for stern scotland and the idlands and particularly the theast midlands and particularly the utheast will be warmer than wednesday.
temperatures of even these could a 19 but even these could see a bit 8 rain into the evening that whether bit of rain into the evening is a aranelals bit of rain into the evening is that whether front pushes thwards into the area of high pressure.
stronger winds ace on friday in scotland ere we will find in place on friday in scotland 1 where we will find this rain easing, pushing its way further into scotland and following on from that the see sunshine but also owers and they could be happy otentially thundery as ell the winds are lighter, rom he south or south—west, 2 —=17 and we till have the long wind of scotland so peratures wer here.
let’s temperatures lower here.
let’s head into the coronation kends and it is a mixed bag.
at the moment weekends and it is a mixed bag.
- ale an - a weekends and it is a mixed bag.
a i 3 weekends and it is a mixed bag.
at the moment it looks like we see better weather arriving on saturday.
the her on sunday before heavy showers return on monday.
no doubt showers return on monday.
no 01010 nal: showers return on monday.
no doubt the detail and timings hange but this is the may change but this is the general pattern that we have we head into saturday.
again, more weather fronts in from the south—west coming in from the south—west we will coming in from the south—west 4 will seek cloud so we will seek cloud thickening.
outbreaks of rain ushing northwards across parts of england and ales.
may turner drive from south later in the day.
in the south later in the day.
scotland and northern ireland eeing sunshine but also are seeing sunshine but also showers and those are typically 7 degrees.
that does move 15— 17 degrees.
that does move away overnight as the weather edges out to the north sea and then we have got a tle ridge of high pressure shing in from atlantic so pushing iin from the atlantic so that means a day sunday.
will be a few showers around but not as many, not as y.
a lot of places will be with ome sunshine at times ad of 4 with some sunshine at times ahead of the next weather system ahead of the next weather inih ahead of the next weather system coming in from the antic so a window of i 11 atlantic so a window of opportunity on sunday.
you are a picnic and the having a picnic and the temperatures could reach 18, 19 in the southeast of may be 19 in the southeast of england.
but then we saw the end of rain coming into next bend of rain coming into which next bend of rain coming into 1 will sweep eastwards which will sweep eastwards overnight and into monday ning together with a 14 morning together with a stronger west to southwesterly .
the ain bad stronger west to southwesterly a0y 213 wind.
the rain bad moves through followed by quite a few ers and some of those could heavy on monday so more oud on be heavy on monday so more be heavy on monday so more cloud on the monday and the nce of some arena so emperatures not quite so high, 0y down to 14—-16.
temperatures not quite so high, temperatures not quite so high, back down to 14—-16.
a lot oing ver the coronation weekend.
rain in on over the coronation weekend.
13 1s some rain in the forecast and looking further ahead into week going to a cool north—westerly wind for a time 100l ome showers before that and some showers before that high—pressure noses high—pressure noses in and some showers before that high—pressure noses in from the ntic and produces showers head of some rain coming in a ahead of some rain coming in from the atlantic so nothing icularly settled for the particularly settled for the outlook and nothing ticularly warm either.
these emperatures are near or below average for the me a of year.
it will be esent enough when the sun is 01 but every now and then we ould see a shower or two.
that t.
goodbye.
live from washington.
this 1s news, welcome to viewers on in america.
ukraine denies it’s behind any attack on moscow or president putin after footage emerges of drone strike on the kremln.
the federal reserve raises rates once again, but could it be the last hike in a while?
a teenager is arrested after eight children and a security guard are shot dead at an elementary school in belgrade.
hello, i’m sumi somaskanda.
first, news out of ukraine, with explosions heard in the capital of kyiv.
our correspondent hugo bachega, who was sheltering underground, when the air raid alert in the capital went off at around 02:20 am local time.
the team heard at least one loud explosion and the city’s air defence has been activated.
earlier today, ukraine says at least 21 were killed inn an attack on kherson.
missile strikes hit a market, a railway station, a petrol it comes as ukraine’s president zelensky denied that his country carried out an alleged drone attack on the kremln.
russia says it was an attempt on vladimir putin’s this video, which appears to show the drone attack, remains unverified.
our analysis editor ros atkins has been taking a closer look.
russia claims ukraine to kill vladimir putin in the early hours of wednesday.
this is the first video we have.
we see an object in from the left and explode.
now let’s pause here.
we know this i1s moscow because this is red square.
place with the kremlin wall in the background and stands for next year’s victory parade.
you can see those stands in the video too, meaning it i1s also recent, and if we play the video on and pause again, there is the object flying towards the dome of the senate palace, moments before it explodes we can see people on the dome.
we don’t know who they are or what they are doing.
now russia says it was attacked by two unmanned aerial vehicles, in other words, drones.
we can’t confirm that, and if that is one video, here are three more.
this is a map of russia, with moscow in the west, and all of these videos show this part of the city.
here 1s the second.
the ’s verification team has confirmed it was posted at 315 moscow time on wednesday morning.
we see the same dome with smoke rising the words of the name of a local telegram channel that posted the video.
palace dome with fire clearly visible, and then this shows an object flying in from the right.
again, we see an explosion.
russia says all of this was a planned terrorist act and an assassination attempt on the president, but has provided no evidence to back that up.
ukraine says it is all staged by russia.
as for vladimir putin, -l lils says he wasn’t there at the time of the incident and these pictures from reuters on wednesday showed the dome looking undamaged.
and while we to work out what exactly it is these videos the reaction in the west has been to urge caution russian claims.
he would take anything the russia presidency said with a "very large shaker of salt", while the white house press secretary pointedly avoided inflammatory language.
since the beginning of this conflict, the united states are certainly not encouraging, or enabling ukraine to strike beyond its borders.
we have been very clear from here about that but again don’t want to get into speculation from here about the authenticity of this report, so i’m just not going to speculate from here.
earlier, spoke to retired european command, and now at the washington—based center for european policy analysis.
what is your first impression of hearing of these explosions in kyiv?
so a couple of things would like to add to what the commentator just talked about.
as you take a look at the video, you notice you do not see a large explosion, and that tells me that there was not a missile attached to this drone.
normally if you’re going to go after someone and execute an assassination, it’s going to be a missile associated with that, like a hellfire missile to target that particular individual, and it is normally going to have its eye going in a window, or not a window, a door or something of that nature.
in regards to the attacks on kyiv, one of the things we need to also think about is the ukrainians have sald that they are going to do a counterattack, and russia started last week upping their missile attacks on kyiv this is the russians trying to throw or distract the ukrainians from their counter offensive, put their mind somewhere else, have them have to do other things instead of initiating this counter offensive.
keep them busy, in other words.
so what should ukraine be doing, then, to prepare?
well, think they have done well over this past year, and they particularly have been resilient, with all these missiles attacking.
what we need to do 1s continue to get the additional air defence systems in there, and the ukrainians have sounded that they are going to do this counteroffensive.
my assessment is that they are probably not initiated this counteroffensive for a couple of reasons.
number one, the weather, it is still raining there, number two, they are still waiting for much of the ammunition that has been promised from the west, and also they have new recruits coming in, and much so think, as these conditions start to mature, we will see the ukrainians conduct this offence, which will help with all the missiles and stuff falling on them, because they will be able to go in and attack much of these attacks that they are enduring right now.
general, you mentioned ukraine waiting for ammunition.
we saw the announcing it is sending ukraine another $300 million in weapons ahead of the spring offensive.
if those weapons arrive, do you think the ukrainian forces will be able to push back russian fighters?
well, the ukrainians have shown that they are capable of doing anything they put their minds to, you know?
take a look at kyiv, take a look at what they have done in kherson, and what they are continuing to do in bakmut.
they are capable of not only pushing the russians back across that 400 miles of disputed area, but they are also capable of taking crimea as well the federal reserve on wednesday raised interest the fed lifted its benchmark interest—rate by a quarter—of—one percentage point, pushing its overnight interest rate range to five to 5.
25%.
during the press conference, chairman jerome powell signalled that they might be ready to take a pause on rate hikes.
the committee will take into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation and economic and financial developments.
we will make that determination meeting by meeting.
earlier, spoke to jason furman.
he’s the former chairman of the white house council of ecnomic advisors.
jason, thanks for joining us.
are these rate hikes actually working to stabilise the economy?
hope so, think so, but we can’t be sure, the good news is inflation expectations remain anchored.
inflation isn’t rising, and that’s probably a lot better than what would have happened, if the fed hadn’t taken these aggressive steps.
the bad news is that inflation, underlying inflation at least, when you subtract out food and energy, isn’t really falling, so we haven’t seen very much, if any, progress in underlying inflation, yet.
that’s what jerome powell = i is still too high.
this 1s the 10th hike in 14 months, and the fed did seem to signal that it might pause increases.
would that be the right step?
have no idea, powell has no idea, and the reason is that we need to see what’s going to happen in the economy.
you know, a year ago, it was clear that interest rates needed to be a lot higher, and so they were on a path to go up, no matter what the data said, they would still be on that upward path.
right now, we don’t know how tight credit will be as a result of the banking situation, we don’t know the trajectory for unemployment, we don’t know what’s going to happen to inflation, and so the fed is, appropriately, think, saying, we are going to collect more information, make that decision and we’re done with telling you in advance what we are going to do, because we ourselves don’t know in advance what we’ll be going to do.
what are the economic indicators you are looking obviously, the most important is inflation.
that is ultimately what they are trying to bring down.
the problem is that inflation is probably one of the most lagged indicators that there is.
a lot of the inflation, believe, it’s emanating from the very tight labour market, so looking at the broad suite of things, you assess the tightness of the labour market, most importantly the unemployment rate, but also how many workers are quitting their jobs, how many job openings, and then, finally, just how much work is the banking turmoil doing for the fed?
how much of the fed’s job is it doing, how much is credit actually contracting?
so there has been, of course, some criticism of the fed raising rates again, and want to tell you what elizabeth warren tweeted earlier today.
what do you think of some democrats calling for a stop to these rate hikes?
first of all, would say, by the way, most economists who are coming from the democratic side actually think that inflation is a problem, and have broadly a number of the different doves in the economic debates have been less dovish, and think it’s for good reason, because they understand that doing more now can be much less costly than letting the problem grow, letting inflation get entrenched, and then it is much harder to deal with in the future, and so think doing too little today i1s what would risk millions and millions of jobs.
that’s what the fed is trying to control and think they are doing a good job of it.
but, again, these rate hikes have an effect on households and businesses.
absolutely, and wish there was another way to bring again, if we go a lttle more slowly, and take your time, and more costly to get it down.
do you want to get it down?
i the american economy.
low and stable inflation for decades was good for workers and businesses, and it let the fed act really aggressively to combat the last couple of recessions.
we’d like to get that back, paying the price now for it i1s a smaller price than the price we would have to pay if we did it later on.
you mentioned the current banking situation, raising rates, while we seen three major banks that have failed.
is that dangerous?
think these banks were real outliers, in terms of their poor management and risk profile.
they were the ones that, right after silicon valley bank had a problem, we knew about the problems at first republic and signature, so think this is the end of this phase of the banking crisis.
no—one knows for sure, but here’s the thing — the fed has more than one tool — it can change interest rates but it also has a set of lending facilities, and should continue to use, to contain any further issues in the banking system, while keeping their policy focus on an objective which is price stability.
certainly hope so.
think the odds of a recession over the next year are 50-50, but they are much higher than they would normally be.
great to have you on the show.
thank you very much.
eight children and a security guard have been killed in a school shooting in the serbian capital belgrade.
tonight, tributes have been laid for the victims of the shooting.
in a televised address to the country, president aleksandar vucic described the attack as "the most three days of national mourning have been declared.
police arrested a 13—year—old boy and said he’d been planning the attack of the children he wanted to kill bethany bell reports.
a 13—year—old boy is led away by police.
he’s the main suspect in a mass shooting at one of the best state schools in belgrade.
he came to school with two guns.
he fired at the security guard and three girls standing in the hallway.
: was walking up the stairs and while was walking up could hear a sound, it was maybe boys, some kids throwing firecrackers and that they were having fun.
and the sound was coming from in front of the school and then saw the security guard falling to the groung, so quickly ran from where was.
didn’t want to go upstairs any more.
didn’t know who was up there.
he then walked into a history class where he shot the teacher before turning his weapon police say the shooter planned the attack a month in advance and had drawn up a list of children to target.
the 13—year—old has been put in a specialist facility.
he is alleged to have used two guns belonging to his father.
both his parents have since been arrested.
all day, people have come to pay their respects there is a deep sense of shock and sadness here.
this is normally a lively part of town, but the people who live here say it’s never felt so quiet.
they are struggling to understand how a day at school turned into a nightmare.
with candles and flowers, this city is mourning its dead.
bethany bell, news, belgrade.
around the world and across the , putting their skills to the test.
it was all about accuracy for this weekend’s hopefuls at vista in the discipline called auto solo.
can be it’s something you can do on tarmac or grass and it’s car control driving around the course with cones, different challenges against the clock, against competitors.
12 drivers took part in the event at vista heritage, the prize?
two places up for grabs to race i - motorsport moved to oxfordshire in 2020 and is hoping events like this can show how accessible driving can be.
great to see that there’s this stuff going on for disabled people, getting people out, getting people involved and showing them they can get back into competitive sports.
you’re live with news.
the secretary—general has called on the warring factions in sudan to stop the fighting, before the conflict escalates into an all out war.
the comments come as the final flight, carrying british nationals wanting to escape the fighting in sudan, took off, ahead of a new seven—day ceasefire between warring military factions.
more than 100,000 people have fled to neighbouring countries.
the fighting needs to stop and 0 top now stop aid must be allowed to stop now stop aid must be to stop now stop aid must be -l allowed in and we need secured an immediate access to give to people who most.
there’s new reason for hope in the battle against alzheimer’s.
after major clinical trials, an experimental drug called donanemab has been shown to slow down the progress of the disease significantly.
the world health organization estimates that more than 55 million people are living with dementia, the most common form of which is alzheimer’s.
by 2030.
and it will spike to 139 million, a 1 the alzheimer’s association in the says more than 6 million americans are 1 the disease.
our medical editor fergus walsh has been looking into the new drug, and has more.
like this is like a highly significant oment.
there are two antibody drugs which can - a0 low early stage can slow early stage alzheimer’s disease.
the drug lled donanemab and it’s is called donanemab and it’s given given is a infusion.
it orks by clearing a rogue otein called amyloid which up in sticky clumps in he 18 rains of lzheimer’s patients.
in a trial, it slowed itive decline by around 35% ver 18 months in a group of q7t nearly 1200 patients over 18 months in a group of nearly 1200 patients with ly—stage alzheimer’s.
the est 1 results seen in trials so but there were some ious erious 3 far but there were some serious side effect.
these two unteers died as a result of ain swelling.
in november, another antibody brain swelling.
in november, another antibody treatment was irst drug ever to show it could slow the progress of heimer’s disease.
dementia esearchers say we are now tering a new era where alzheimer’s is treatable.
we really are seeing a volutionary point in how we at our sinus disease so we ave the full results, the gulators need to make quick isions so regulators need to make quick 163 regulators need to make quick decisions so patients that dierane decisions so patients that could benefit from these 810 atments are able to benefit.
don’t know how much it will ost but and and over cost but luck and over £20,000 w0 year per patient wrote is lready licensed.
entia already licensed.
dementia specialists say we will need a lete overhaul of services complete overhaul of services g0 complete overhaul of services including access to specialist scans if patients here re to enefit from ese new police in the state of georgia say they’ve arrested a suspect in connection with a shooting at a medical facility in atlanta on wednesday.
24—year old deion patterson is in custody after five people — all of them women - were shot inside a hospital waiting room.
brazilian police raided former president, jair bolsanoro’s home on wednesday morning, as part of an investigation i &y vaccination records.
police suspect his vaccine information was falsified to gain entry into the .
three of bolsonaro’s assistants have been arrested and his phone has been seized.
the ex—president denies any involvement and says he has preparatiopns by the government and the people are under way @r of king charles this saturday in london.
but not all royals are made equal.
families of other nations to see what lessons they might have for britain’s new king.
it’s all a part of her new documentary ‘europe’s royals revealed.
'" spoke to here ahead of the release.
katty, it is great to see you.
for your new documentary, you had the enviable job of going to meet someone had to do it.
0f going to meet europe’s other royal families and seeing how they live including norway, you had an exclusive interview with princess martha louise.
tell us about her story.
she is a fascinating and quite 0 0ol she is actually the oldest child of king harald and queen sonia and she should have been queen by rights but norway’s succession laws weren’t changed until she was a teenager so her younger 1r the throne.
she was is kind of what in royal language they call the "spare”, which is how prince harry refers to himself and she had string of other controversial businesses, she had a school where she taught people to talk to angels, and she describes herself as a clairvoyant.
she has a boyfriend who is a spiritual guruy, he’s a shaman, shaman durek, and all of this has been, in the norwegian press, pretty controversial.
it’s not the kind of things royals are expected to do.
so was really interested to talk to her to find out how the norwegian royal family has handled her doing things kind of differently.
here’s what she said.
there have been comparisons with prince harry and meghan.
my fiance, shaman durek, and the norwegian people, guess, and everybody has decided that it is best for me to step down but what think has been amazing through this whole cycle has been the conversations we’ve all had through 1t all.
from a very young age, remember my mum and dad, the king and queen, saying that we have to stick together, we have to talk things through, even if it’s hard.
we have to put all the cards on the table, we have to, because we are family and we have to work things through, through all 1" because there has been so many turmoils with me, going, taking a different path than being a traditional royal.
this will run ahead of the coronation of king charles.
if you were suddenly to send him wishes for his reign, and everybody of course is looking =y i a1l remember my grandfather, king olaf, he was such a loved king.
my father feared going into that role after him, because how could he fill those shoes?
and think that’s the whole point, you don’t fill his shoes.
so king charles will be a= a1 absolutely, you can’t copy somebody else.
katty, really did notice that when she talked about taking a different path and being a different royal, it does remind me of harry and meghan.
so tell us about how her family has handled all of this publicly?
she describes herself as somebody has done things out of the box and, in a way, prince harry does as well.
and look, some of the things she’s done have caused controversy in norway, because there have been suggestions of a was she using her royal title to make money from her businesses?
and the norwegians didn’t really like that.
think the big difference is that it hasn’t caused a rift in the family.
as she said, they sat down and spoke about it and wanted to kind of check out her story, '‘cause didn’t want to think it was just her telling of this, and spoke to the royal correspondent for a big tabloid magazine in norway who has been pretty critical of some of the things martha louise has done but said exactly the same things, the family loves each other and they come out of this much stronger, had these conversations and been honest with each other and there is a clear affection between all of the members of the family, so even though martha louise has been, sort of, in a way, the troublesome royal, the troublesome royal child who hasn’t fit into the box, done things differently, the family has not been torn apart by it.
guess that’s the big difference between the house of windsor and the royal house of norway and when the house of norway says, "we love each other,"” the norwegian population believes them.
katty’s documentary europe’s royals revealed is available on select here in the and canada, which is distributed on amazon prime video, apple , and the roku channel.
many of us had some beautiful late spring sunshine on wednesday.
in fact, in bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours of sunshine, a glorious day.
but top temperature, well, that was in south wales, in gwynedd, just of 20 celsius, and it felt very pleasant indeed.
now it’s not out of the question that we could see 20 celsius on thursday, but the weather story is certainly on the change with low pressure starting to move in from the southwest.
so as we go through the day on thursday, it’s a tale of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off the north sea, affecting eastern england and northeast we’ve got rain pushing into the southwest — and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best of the sunshine is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll see the best of the warmth.
the breeze still coming from an east direction, so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight edge to things.
a little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough with highs of 19-20 celsius perhaps in the southeast.
now, as we move out of thursday into friday, that weather front will continue to push its way steadily north.
it’ bring outbreaks of rain as it does so, and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
so on friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving 1 england, into scotland.
sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
now, as we move into the start of the weekend, that southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north and the wider picture throughout the bank.
holiday weekend — saturday will be the wettest of the days, sunday and monday, sunny spells and scattered showers.
some of them on monday could be quite heavy.
—: this is news.
we’ll have the headlines and all the main news stories for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
welcome to hardtalk, i’m sarah montague.
it’s more than 60 ince the dalai lama fled years since the dalal lama fled 0 = a years since the dalal lama fled to bit and set up a government ile, hopeful of one day oing back.
since then china banned any mention of the ritual leader in his homeland, and there are reports despread human rights abuses.
my guest today is the ident of hat self—declared a7 president of that self—declared government in exile, penpa ing.
will ever get to tsering.
will he ever get to see his ancestral homeland, let govern it?
lol penpa tsering, welcome to hardtalk.
thank you.
what is ream, what it you want the dream, what is it you want 018 tibet?
considering the reality for tibet?
considering the reality of the situation and ommon inl reality of the situation and i i reality of the situation and the common interests of people, are asking for autonomy, now we are asking for autonomy, rather than independence, ine autonomy not only in 8 name but also essence, that is what we are looking for.
to resolve the sino to bit aitan resolve the sino to bit a resolve the sino to bit conflict with nonviolence eful means through egotiation should be mutually eficial and lasting.
just to clear the chinese foreign istry spokesman said the called government in exile 1 an out and out separatist litical group, you say you re no onger that you accept 1 7 are no longer that you accept type it is part of china?
—— to whether it is part of china in future as a future to —— be resolved then we can bruce —— be resolved then we part of china, can be part of china, historically it has een a independent try, what we independent country, what we are asking for, , considering he lity are asking for, considering the =102 i are asking for, considering the reality of the situation inside t, whether the tibetan dentity will remain alive for so to prevent the us, so to prevent the typewritten identity, lanquage, igion, way of life and the nvironment, that is more &1l is environment, that 1s more important for us.
we will come that in a moment, want 0 onto that in a moment, want to make clear about your goals use there isn’t a country because there isn’t a country in the world that dispute na’s claim in the world that dispute 18 china’s claim to sovereignty ver tibet.
do you still spute that because that one of the reasons they say re no point having there is no point having conversations?
china always, used to put this they used to put this precondition for his holiness tibet as been part of to say tibet has been part of ina since antiquity, but that not the case, that is not he ras uth.
tibet iis not the case, that i1s not the truth.
tibet has iis not the case, that i1s not at the truth.
tibet has been independent to communist china aded tibet.
so that is the lity, but we eave he reality, but we leave the independent status of tibet 1 but ask for china aside but ask for china autonomy, for the benefit of ardtalk autonomy, for the benefit of v&l autonomy, for the benefit of the hardtalk and the few —-— he in the future.
that autonomy what autonomy what does that tibet in the future.
that autonomy what does that look , does that look like hong ng?
o\ 0l like, does that look like hong kong?
not necessarily, hong people are completely a1 fferent to kong people are completely a erent to tibetan people, we are not hong kong chinese.
does ok like taiwan, they are chinese people?
they are also ese people.
but they have chinese people.
but they have more independence, this onomy you talk about, how on cannot work?
when we say, are talking about avoiding eme polarities, the extreme polarities, the polarities in this case is the pendent status of tibet, on als independent status of tibet, on the one hand and the present lhuloln the one hand and the present als iao 8 the one hand and the present condition of chinese occupation bet on he other hand so we need to find iddle way.
ndeed but your middle way i’m ing to envisage how it would & ork with you as a president of utonomous region working ongside and with the chinese vernment?
that is what his oliness said, autonomy means willing to live within he we are willing to live within a = autrnon we are willing to live within iao a ara the constitution or the a 1eal 0 4 the constitution or the framework of the chinese stitution.
can you see that rking?
autonomy means we are lling to live within the a 1eal 0 4 willing to live within the framework of the chinese stitution.
can you see it orking, it is all very well 1 that, the reality?
this, talal08 saying that, the reality?
this, cannot say what form of onomy will shape up, but 81 this is something that we need iscuss this i1s something that we need i this is something that we need to discuss with china and then find out what is possible.
it is just that he you are 1 is just that he you are accepting something that arly is not really the dream, your dream is an ependent ibet.
you have 0 iindependent tibet.
you have accepted it, perhaps because 1959, hen the dalai ama since 1959, when the dalai lama vyot into exile, that dream is only went into exile, that dream is a1y gotten further and went into exile, that dream is =l only gotten further and further away.
you accept that?
no, the present circumstances, yes, but we eve 1 in impermanence, things ave to change, in a too, things will have to change.
in the way they have changed over ast six years, your dreams a1 got further away.
your only got further away.
your orts at realising it had failed?
failed, don’t , w, western view, if ave failed would be nowhere, wouldn’t peaking to you today.
there are tibet and tibetans.
there are some very big claims made about is happening in tibet.
you id it is dying low death said it is dying a slow death under chinese sald it is dying a slow death - under chinese rule, the republican representative chris alks about it as a smith talks about it as a ongoing genocide, the tibetan 15t ist richard gere talks activist richard gere talks 018 activist richard gere talks about what is going on as ching the efinition of a0 matching the definition of crimes against humanity.
what talking about that you x\ say is such hreat?
politically, there is no space soever poltically, there is no space - 8 poltically, there is no space whatsoever for the tibetans to ess their elings, let express their feelings, let alone, do other things, itical activities.
so all 1y political actions are nked to the welfare of your ear dear ones.
committed iolation today have two hink many times, may die scarred for life but may get scarred for life but that is my kin and may get scarred for life but may get scarred for life but that is my kin and friend that suffer cause of that.
will suffer because of that.
just to if you set yourself on , one of the reasons not to alo fire, one of the reasons not to hat is who fire, one of the reasons not to i fire, one of the reasons not to do that is who would suffer you ave gone?
that is after you have gone?
that iis what the after you have gone?
that is he chinese government what the chinese government does, all your actions are ked to the welfare of your near linked to the welfare of your - 1als linked to the welfare of your near and dear ones, that is the lock system, people don’t ave, you have to think many =1s mes as mentioned, 157 ibetans have self immolated so , hoping against hope the chinese government to pay some ntion to chinese government to pay some ntion to their plight, attention to their plight, hoping against hope ernational community will ome to rescue.
that’s not happening.
we are in a strange ation because you have situation because you have een to tibet?
that’s 0 never been to tibet?
that’s ettt lfil my emotional needs 143 to go to in to be on oard as much as possible to tibet from board as much as possible to a - seek tibet from the other side.
what you know about what it is there, you make claims, claims are talking about, do know how the welfare of the ple of tibet is best served?
ear, we have betans we hear, we have tibetans winlhl we hear, we have tibetans coming out we hear, we have tibetans 00 1 we hear, we have tibetans coming out from tibet, we have rmation, so we study the information, so we study the situation inside tibet.
we know ’s happening there.
painters a picture of the kind ings you are talking of things you are talking 1ol 1 t, which are eradicating the identity of tibetans?
just every other like every other culture, the tibetan buddhist culture is based on tibetan anguage.
today, the chinese government cies and programmes are all aimed at eradication policies and programmes are all a in alo policies and programmes are all aimed at eradication of the tan language.
at one time ally used to fear, democratic ression from china because ere are more chinese in tibet tibetans.
now they have 0 and tibetans.
now they have changed the tactic another have ted colonial style boarding chools, where children from 3-— years old, few years six years old, a few years back it was only several hundred and ding schools.
there are more chinese boarding schools.
there are - chinese in tibet than tibetans?
more chinese in tibet than i 1 s?
there are three and tibetans?
there are three and half million people in tibet?
also pends on how that also depends on how you define ibet geographically.
in the autonomous region of tibet understood the autonomous region of tibet a ale no irz the autonomous region of tibet i a3 the autonomous region of tibet it is understood there are 3.
5 lion eople, how any are million people, how many are tibetan and how many are nese?
roughly, we still have roblems counting military and temporary labourers who keep moving in and out but erwise, the ole of tibet, the quote, traditional bet, we are counting tibet, we are counting about 7 ion tibetans.
but that was million tibetans.
but that was around the world and in na, what ’m wondering is that in tibetan utonomous region, area that we re talking the area that we were talking about, you said, that there are chinese about, you said, that there are - inese than tibetans but here aren’t, are the?
not ording to the census.
the census, again if you look according to the census.
the i 1 census, again if you look at the chinese census of 2020, how nitive it is in terms of definitive it is in terms of fining residences rofessor andrew fisher a tibet ert at he hague, he looked at the census says the hand inese population is creasing but from a very —— low base but it still small minority he country, the nation?
that’s how much —— that depends on how uch you trust the chinese mbers.
you think there has a deliberate policy of = been a deliberate policy of allowing chinese and to move e?
there has been but now there a not as much as we ared, hat is what have een ointing out, that is are changing the policy to these boarding schools.
he boarding schools are for t, tibetan children who get ent i\ away?
who are sent to arding schools, and in these rding schools, then you are aught chinese, the medium of truction as mandarin, you taught chinese story the are taught chinese history the chinese are taught chinese history the version of history they are taught a version of munist china, then - - communist china, then you are taught a version of communist china, then you are how to maintain your allegiance to the communist all that and tibetan lanquage is only four classes a as they claim.
china says, at actually what has happened the region is that you double digit onomic growth ere over quarter of a tury, there over quarter of a w10 1 there over quarter of a century, that poverty has uced by 80%, that people live longer, it was 35 in the ¢ and now people live until 1950s and now people live until 3% are 70.
and they cite hese things as reasons china enefited tibet?
if tibet been left alone by themselves or for themselves, uld have approached a it would have approached a certain level of development.
think it is necessarily 018 don’t think it is necessarily for china to don’t think 1t i1s necessarily an to come to tibet to for china to come to tibet to claim such development, of se, every time when there are alks the chinese say oh, eveloped tibet so much, so re tibetans complaining, problem with the chinese leadership they fail to 3= 00 leadership they fail to understand the real aspiration tibetan people.
it is a8 of the tibetan people.
it is not just economic development, for china in problem or 01 fos it 1s for china in problem or solution is economic elopment.
they don’t think 018 about and their aspirations.
is it too late, when a reuters rnalist was taken there on a 1 journalist was taken there on a tour and admitted it closely guarded and gquided, he to a monk at the historic spoke to a monk at the historic 8 mple, and when he was asked was spiritual leader was he the chinese president.
she nping.
you know the situation tibet, if you don’t abide by ords of the chinese - the words of the chinese leaders you have a problem and an also that chinese you can also see that chinese - ers are communist but leaders are communist but 1 gul 4o leaders are communist but forcing their pictures from tom, their pictures are ully displayed.
there are no tures of the dalai lama in monasteries or anywhere?
they allowed monasteries or anywhere?
they v- allowed in the tibetan are not allowed in the tibetan autonomous region.
= autonomous region.
are you ting for something that can no ety no longer exist because tibet oved on?
cannot either has moved on?
cannot either 011y has moved on?
cannot either summing up no has moved on?
cannot either has moved on?
cannot either summing up no longer exists use because tibet has moved on?
no longer exist?
as a people?
no, ulture.
longer exist?
as a people?
no, -l lture.
whether you are the culture.
whether you are 010 ate.
whatever the rights too late.
whatever the rights and wrongs of your claim, 60 on, are you too late?
are years on, are you too late?
are you fighting for something that nger exists?
it’s been no longer exists?
it’s been eroded, it’s been decimated.
does necessarily an that does not necessarily mean 0 ay that does not necessarily mean t\ say that it no longer ists.
course, every ommunity moves n, every country moves on hat is country moves on and that is why, in exile, we have strived hard over the last 63 ears to re—establish most of ale - i the monastic institutions in e, in india, pal, in exile, in india, nepal, in bhutan and elsewhere and other of world.
you’ve said previously, he said a couple of ago that they were back channels with china that ained active, despite there eing no official ommunications between the two.
hey still active, do spill eak to he chinese?
——do you ll?
yes.
what purpose do 3% they serve?
if the tibetan, tibet conflict needs to they serve?
if the tibetan, a sino tibet conflict needs to be resolved, there sino tibet conflict needs to be sino tibet conflict needs to be resolved, there is no other way by talking to the chinese dership.
abby spoken to the inese leadership?
back annels, yes.
which presumably you have.
yes?
what do ask for?
first we have to ild the contacts.
we are not this stage.
we have to build at this stage.
we have to 17w at this stage.
we have to rebuild the contact, it’s too to talk about right now.
early to talk about right now.
one thing you early to talk about right now.
early to talk about right now.
one thing you did want to tion is one thing you did want to on is for the dalai lama 0 mention is for the dalai lama to be allowed to go back to et.
we’re talking about omebody in late 80s.
is there chance that you can any chance that you can conceive any chance that you can 1 conceive of that happening?
in the next months, yes, we are hoping it will be able 0 go back to tibet.
that , esn’t mean you will stay back ine bed.
if he gets the pportunity to go to china, bet, he will go but he will turn i ¢ back to india.
what’s aking you hopeful he will be 5 to making you hopeful he will be able to go there, even on a ead visit?
always remain short visit?
we always remain positive and hope.
if there is pe, we would be here no hope, we would not be where we are today.
right.
want to about the dalai lama now and talk about the dalai lama now etee 110 talk about the dalai lama now a at is done because the and what 1s done because the lyo g-1¢: 18 and what is done because the secretary for debate cosmic rtment education said, department education saidq, since dalai ama defected, he sn’t done ything good for the tibetan people.
what do you about that?
that’s the tibetan people.
what do you a think about that?
that’s what 3% always say and we all know his holiness has been oing ver the last 63 what his holiness has been doing over the last 63 years.
inside tibet, there is no way an do anything other than 13 inspire people and it’s because that desisting from of him that tibetans are desisting from any kind of v- violence.
it’s desisting from any kind of violence.
it’s not because hey not ake up violence.
his cannot take up violence.
his holiness said, if you take up ence, will not violence, will not be responsible for the cost.
that is the influence of his holiness on he tibetans and roving the situation ide nside tibet is in is hands but tibet 1s not in his hands but in exile, over the last 63 rs, we managed to ablish years, we managed to establish contact communities and in compact communities, we these compact communities, we have monastic institutions, ural institutions and so cultural institutions and so on.
that’s how we survived ay.
let’s talk about what appened in february when the i lama, at a public and dalai lama, at a public and iilse dalai lama, at a public and 1s event kissed a young boy on he lips and said to him, " my ongue.
" how do you explain that?
this is a little of the way.
not bit out of the way.
have not - his holiness in that sense my 25 years of ociation.
in my 25 years of association.
you were surprised?
when the came out, was surprised.
clip came out, was surprised.
shocked?
clip came out, was surprised.
o3 clip came out, was surprised.
shocked?
not shocked, because oliness intended, he is his holiness intended, he is someone who has been practising hism over the last 87 years buddhism over the last 87 years and there is no instance or and there 1s no instance or track record of his oliness ing done anything of that sort, having done anything of that a - 1a having done anything of that sort, and in having done anything of that - 1 having done anything of that sort, and in that sense, having done anything of that - - and in that sense, was sort, and in that sense, was a8 hocked, was not even not shocked, was not even l=ne not shocked, was not even not shocked, was not even = not shocked, was not even worried but of course, people have their opinion and 3% they have the right to their ion.
it’s not surprising, it?
an 87—year—old man says ine—year—old boy" to a nine—year—old boy" suck my tongue”.
it’s not surprising are shocked.
if you people are shocked.
if you a people are shocked.
if you watch the whole video people are shocked.
if you i watch the whole video which have.
you will know whether is a grandfatherly love or st.
suck my tongue.
in the of the survivors network words of the survivors network those abused by priests, which organisation, they seen 7—year—old man asking ung oung boy to perform a atantly exual act in a public setting ery disturbing.
suck my i0 tongue.
maybe or terners, tongue.
maybe for westerners, it’s a sexual thing but into when we were younger, we bed, when we were younger, we to be kissed, we used to served forward, elders would and give food to the younger ones.
that is natural.
his "suck my tongue" is but this "suck my tongue” is more like eat my tongue.
the video starts with, i’m not whole video starts with, i’m a1s whole video starts with, i’m not trying to blame the boy, it with his holiness arriving and the boy giving the lin as an coconut as an auspicious welcome to him coconut as an auspicious a - loa = a0 coconut as an auspicious welcome to him and the his iness sits there and the boy also given the responsibility to was also given the responsibility to present to to his holiness.
indeed.
give to his holiness.
indeed.
13 the boy comes back and asks 18 or a ug.
watching the whole equence of it, one eft sequence of it, one is left thinking, that was very ange, hat was very strange arguably, people will 13 uggest, look, this is somebody is, what, suggest, look, this is somebody 4 suggest, look, this is somebody who is, what, 877 87, going to 8 and there are one of be 88.
and there are one of the things that has been talked is he plan, there is about is the plan, if there is i a one, about is the plan, if there is -8 a one, for his such a one, for his reincarnation.
he has said he appoint a lama when he is 90.
how is will appoint a lama when he is will appoint a lama when he is 90.
how is that going to work?
is a totally different this is a totally different subject.
this is about his iness eincarnation.
the only official document that is lable right now the 2011 available right now is the 2011 september document and that irya hat when his holiness says that when his holiness reaches says that when his holiness i ches the age of 90, he will take certain decisions.
87, to be 88 and in another i 4t two years’ time, we going to be 88 and in another two years’ time, we will go ough certain procedures inalle through certain procedures within the community and then oliness, when he reaches 90, will be organising of tings including religious eads.
the reason ask this is he has been ivotal that he has been a pivotal gure among tibetans in exile, paigning around the world.
can’t travel so much now.
ver takes on that position be very powerful or they uld be a could be very powerful or they 1 could be very powerful or they could be a young boy unable to volved for, what, 20 ears, or indeed, a young girl, american, or is it or an american, or is it possible that somebody as a bit older could be nointed as lama?
those options still pen.
his holiness, are still open.
his holiness, when he is asked whether it a woman, he says yes, could be a woman, he says yes, it could be a woman.
it could a1 i merican who is in their be an american who iis in their 3057 105 be an american who iis in their 30s?
it could be ybody.
it might 30s?
it could be anybody.
it not necessarily be a tibetan.
if he is from india, ill be called indian.
if he 3 is born in america, he will be erican.
and when hina an american.
and when china declares a llama as is expected , what happens there?
on’t know, because the estion is, keep chiding my inese iends, saying, let us whether his holiness the i lama outlives the dalai lama outlives the communist party of the 018l communist party of the communist party outlives the i lama.
when the time dalali lama.
when the time comes, if china ecides whether around or not, whether he time comes, if china ides to choose one in the tibetans choose one, tell the ese government, do you want lifelong problem on hands?
do you hands?
do you think you a lfelong problem on your hands?
do you think you will see tibet you were born ever see tibet you were born ide the country.
really z1as outside the country.
really look forward to it.
think be able to go would be able to go back look forward to it.
think would be able to go back stop istically, when?
nobody realistically, when?
nobody knows.
realistically, when?
nobody ows.
if can tell that, ould.
knows.
if can tell that, uld.
there is a plan.
5-50.
it ive years, is it 50 ears?
i’m is it five years, is it 50 is it five years, is it 50 years?
i’m not into numbers, ore into practical things.
1 in the practical next steps for overnment in exile want?
the government in exile want?
reach out to the chinese rnment and see we can government and see how we can resolve this and reach out to nternational community and xplain the situation to them.
you very much for coming ardtalk.
many of us had some beautiful late spring sunshine on wednesday.
in fact, in bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours of sunshine, a glorious day.
but top temperature, well, that was in south wales, in gwynedd, just of 20 celsius, and it felt very pleasant indeed.
now it’s not out of the question that we could see 20 celsius on thursday, but the weather story is certainly on the change with low pressure starting to move in from the southwest.
so as we go through the day on thursday, it’s a tale of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off the north sea, affecting eastern england and northeast we’ve got rain pushing into the southwest — and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best of the sunshine is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll see the best of the warmth.
the breeze still coming from an east direction, so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight edge to things.
a little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough with highs of 19-20 celsius perhaps in the southeast.
now, as we move out of thursday into friday, that weather front will continue to push its way steadily north.
it’ bring outbreaks of rain as it does so, and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
so on friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving 1 england, into scotland.
sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
now, as we move into the start of the weekend, that southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north but unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
- that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily north as we go through the day.
so not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
and the wider picture throughout the bank.
holiday weekend — saturday will be the wettest of the days, sunday and monday, sunny spells and scattered showers.
some of them on monday could be quite heavy.
take care.
no longer exist because tibet has moved on?
live from london.
this 1s news.
hours after russia accuses ukraine of carrying out a drone attack on the kremlin, explosions have been are heard in kyiv.
a serbian teenager is arrested after eight children and a security guard are shot dead at an elementary school in belgrade.
the ’s humanitarian chief says the two warring parties are keen to continue fighting despite hopes of a ceasefire.
it a it 1s a shocking crisis, first, because as you have heard, and have now eard, the eyes have now heard, the =0 les of traumatic atrocity.
and the most difficult years of his career.
the billionaire businessman sir richard branson tells the he thought he was going to lose his entire empire in the pandemic.
hello, i’m sally bundock.
a new wave of russian airstrikes is under way in ukraine, with reports 4\ and the southern cities of zaporizhzhia and odesa.
the raids come a day after russia accused ukraine of carrying out a drone attack on the kremlin it what it claimed was an attempt to assassinate president putin.
ukraine has rejected accusations that it was responsible.
vincent mcaviney reports.
flying in s\ flying in from the left, what appears to be a drone, then an osion over the kremlin.
explosion over the kremlin.
111 footage is nverified but this footage is unverified but the kremlin says early on nesday orning, two drones wednesday morning, two drones targeted the residents of the ident.
moscow quick to blame ukraine saying that one was injured.
on russian tate a dramatic nterpretation on this talkshow erday stop the presenter announced breaking news, an he says assassinate attempt he says to assassinate president putin.
president on a visit to finland denies any ukrainian olvement.
we don’t attack sident putin or moscow, we on our territory, we are ending our villages and ities.
we don’t have, enough pons for this.
in daylight there as no obvious signs of age to the kremlin.
but lots i of questions still, who nched the drones, with what m, it was this an internal eration or a false lag operation or even a false flag event, whatever arrative pursues, the united 0 states is urging caution.
st, have seen the reports, eei first, have seen the reports, can’t in any way validate m, we simply n’t now.
them, we simply don’t know.
second, would take anything out of the kremlin with r0 coming out of the kremlin with a very large shake of salt.
week in russia accused kraine of launching a drone on a fuel depot on russian occupied crimea.
days bombs detonated and derailed to freight trains on a of russia near the part of russia near the ukrainian border.
citing 1 urity concerns several russian regions have now nselled military parades anned for may nine, victory when russians mark the ictory over nazi germany.
but 4 the kremlin continues to insist the big red square ade in oscow will go ahead 0 spite the explosions last ht, unusually though red square has been closed to the since he end of april, public since the end of april, reflecting a sense of riness.
whatever did ladie \ weariness.
whatever did actually happen above the mlin, supposedly one of the secure seats kremlin, supposedly one of the - secure seats of power in he orld, it is likely to ntensify this conflict.
vincent mcaviney, news.
let’s go to california now and speak to colonel brendan kearney, military analyst and a former chief of staff good to have you on the programme.
what do you make of alleged drone attack on this alleged drone attack on the a4 emlin?
good to this alleged drone attack on - this alleged drone attack on the kremlin?
good to be with i’m a sceptic, on a you, i’m a sceptic, on a 8 iety of the options being aid out, in terms of what this a1 410 laid out, in terms of what this might be.
number one, don’t was an assassination attempt on the part of the ainians.
number two, think might an assassination empt by some of president in’s russian opponents.
hree, false flag was mentioned correspondence, that’s possibility, you provide an ant justification for the ssians to go after president ensky.
so that is three hings of the top my head, q, 1l things of the top of my heaq, all on said topics, but it’s an situation that continues ugly situation that continues between russia and ukraine.
it it comes to incentive when it comes to the incentive 018 the ukraine to carry out this kind for the ukraine to carry out i a kind of attack on the ussian capital, what incentive have?
would be hard would it have?
would be hard pressed to come up with one ause literally what would ppen here as we know hat 81 this war is happen here as we know that i happen here as we know that this war is not popular in sia, we know esident putin 3 is under a great deal of ssure, from some of his former friends, and from the ian military over this war.
so this type of an sassination so this type of an i a a1 ¢ so this type of an assassination that was cessful, could very well i 0 successful, could very well prove to be a catalyst support he russian efforts, and 4 that ukrainians must be hinking along lines, so thinking along those lines, so it just doesn’t make sense to to the krainians, me as to the ukrainians, if 3% were attempting to ssassinate president putin, they would do it.
there is 1 they would do it.
there is variable positive payback from a successful delivery.
as always the intervention from as one a=a the as one of great always the intervention from the as one of great caution part of the as one of great caution = on the part of president zelensky.
we will support sident zelensky president zelensky by exercising caution, he is not in ukraine understand even in ukraine as understand it he is in finland, nterestingly interestingly there 1a - a 1ty interestingly there have been that president putin is 18 in moscow, and anybody ows where he is on a pretty egular basis, it is the rainians.
ink america’s ukrainians.
think america’s wise to not be judgemental lel=g wise to not be judgemental under these, under the cumstances we are aware circumstances we are all aware i right now.
police in serbia say a boy who shot dead eight pupils and a security guard at his school in the capital, for a month.
the 13—year—old suspect has been detained, along with his parents.
last night thousands of people attended a candlelit vigil at the school.
from belgrade, bethany bell reports.
a 13—year—old boy is led away by police.
he is the main pect in a mass shooting at suspect in @ mass shooting at of the suspect in @ mass shooting at the best state schools in belgrade stop he came to ool with guns, he fired school with two guns, he fired the security guard three girls ding in the doorway.
was walking up the stairs and while walking up the stairs and while i was walking up could hear a 10 = 1a 18 was walking up could hear a sound, and thought it was be boys, kids throwing irecrackers and they were ving fun.
then could hear close in the sun was coming front of the it close in the sun was coming it close in the sun was coming from in front of the school and the curity uard had the security guard falling to the ground so quickly ran from falling to the ground so quickly ran from where was, ant to go upstairs did want to go upstairs anymore, did want to go upstairs =l ymore, didn’t know who was there.
he then walked into a story class where shot the r0 history class where he shot the teacher before turning his on on his fellow students.
weapon on his fellow students.
parents rushed to the scene, ing in agony for you news waiting in agony for you news i waiting in agony for you news of their children.
police say einc of their children.
police say that shooter planned the attack a1 18 that shooter planned the attack in advance and had a month in advance and had up a list of children to 1y target.
officials said the ect is alleged to have used suspect is alleged to have used two guns belonging to his her.
his ather has not been rrested.
his mother is also in ention.
—— ‘s ather has detention.
—— ‘s father has now been arrested.
at 13 years nger than the age criminal sponsibility in serbia but serbian president says he be placed in a specialist cility.
people been coming to pay their espects to those who were t.
there a deep sense of shot.
there is a deep sense of qatee ¢ als shot.
there is a deep sense of shock and sadness here, this is ally lively part of town, normally a lively part of town, but the people who live here has never felt so quiet.
say it has never felt so quiet.
they are struggling to erstand they are struggling to tlatel 1a ale i they are struggling to understand how a day at school into understand how a day at school rned into a nightmare.
andles and flowers, this city orning it’s dead.
let’s get some of the day’s other news millions of people will go to the polls today in england to vote in the local elections.
more than 8000 council seats are being contested at 230 local authorities.
voters will be asked to show photo for the first time in england.
at least 130 people have died in rwanda after floods and landslides in parts of the country.
officials say heavy rain hit northern and western provinces early on wednesday morning, causing homes to collapse while people slept inside.
rescuers are searching for survivors who remain trapped.
deaths have also been reported in neighbouring uganda, where six people have died following landslides.
at least two people have been killed in floods in northern 1\ torrential rain caused the extensive flooding which saw rivers bursting their banks.
roads and rail services were badly affected by the severe weather.
the rain follows months of drought with low water the world food programme and have suspended food deliveries in tigray in northern ethiopia following the discovery that relief aid had been stolen.
said food shipments had on the local market.
the ’s humanitarian chief martin griffiths has told the he has asked sudan’s rival military leaders to meet him face—to—face in the coming days to discuss urgent protection for the delivery of aid.
he said 1t will be difficult to secure an end to the fighting as the warring parties are keen to keep it going.
griffiths spoke exclusively to our chief international correspondent lyse doucet just after he visited port sudan on sudan’s red sea coast.
i it a it 1s a shocking crisis first.
because as you have heard, and ave now heard, details of traumatic atrocity that we have , they have en, is seen, they have seen, is lighting up, are pretty aralleled.
that is unparalleled.
that is appalling.
and as people so will lead to a that will lead to a generational problem of onciliation anyway.
the econd, think really, really pening concerning aspect is speed which is going the speed at which it is going viral and the speed at which it is going and the way in which viral and the way in which efforts to get local 11t 1ty efforts to get local or porary ceasefires have all tumbled.
stumbled presumably the igid existential fat over the rigid existential fat that there is a war —— those at are keen to war are keen to keep going.
it has all the makings of a gedy global relevance and lobal significance.
and that’s this is an opportunity for this i1s an opportunity for the international community to we 1 018 are about africa.
show we care about africa.
1g show we care about africa.
your time in port sudan had telephone conversations two warring leaders, what id you hear from them?
what surances did you get?
what assurances did you get?
what r0 to them was this, said 81 this is specific otections 8 this 1s specific protections 0 i 1a b0 this 1s specific protections for the move and of aid kers, persons, people, and ods and supplies.
going down rtain roads at certain times, rlift being protected from ing shot wn, very concrete being shot down, very concrete requests.
but you need to give ose assurances, want to us those assurances, want to eet you to go through those surances, so meet you to go through those nces, so they were both assurances, so they were both obviously separately very uent their attachment to humanitarian principles and rations, on the question of here and when can we meet, and obviously urgent and this hould be it 1s obviously urgent and this 0 it 1s obviously urgent and this a - be done in the it 1s obviously urgent and this a4 it 1s obviously urgent and this should be done in the next day , we are working on or so, we are working on it.
in 1y darkest moments do you hink these generals see this bite to the finish?
hink we as a bite to the finish?
i & 113 as a bite to the finish?
think we all worry about that, the well is always it is the well, it is always the well that is the swing ctor.
in yemen we are about see he beginning of the changing of circumstances.
in sudan we haven’t seen that, have we?
we heard from the secretary general who said the iled to stop this war that failed to stop this war that 1 did not see the warning 8 igns.
there is uge sense of responsibility signs.
there is a huge sense of onsibility for this crisis?
am =taalale1d responsibility for this crisis?
am not directly familiar with the has or has not been what the has or has not been doing on the political side.
the agency said they were surprised by and scrappy?
hat means you are o= a i behind with scrappy?
that means you are behind with humanitarian work didn’t that coming?
and you didn’t see that coming?
11814 and you didn’t see that coming?
think that’s unfair, re are a of people who didn’t it coming, a lot of people in sudan that didn’t see it ing.
maybe were derelict in 1s responsibility, fine, that esterday, what we’re talking about today is doing thing that consistent something that is consistent with our values, as near as sible meets the needs of the danese people.
around the world and across the , i there was a musical start to the well—dressed celebrations wbury.
this an age—old in newbury.
this is an age—old tradition.
it is a pagan dition and it was to tradition.
it is a pagan 11 ¢ tradition and it was to thank the gods at the time for the of water so that the crops would grow and hence you get his would grow and hence you get all this beautiful greenery nd.
and this the main around.
and this is the main well .
the designed a draw on boards and national materials are used to complete ictures.
each has a oronation the pictures.
each has a a i inda 0l the pictures.
each has a 0 n0 = a = ihd a 0 i coronation theme with hours of painstaking work by volunteers.
are fabulous, aren’t they?
are ppropriate because of coronation next week.
the coronation it next week.
the well dressings will be on lay until saturday.
it is a display until saturday.
it is a hance to bring the community ether and admire these ieces together and admire these 0 ieces of local art.
you’re live with news.
sir richard branson says he thought he was going to lose his entire empire in the pandemic.
the boss of the virgin group says the problems left him depressed for the first time in his life.
he’s been speaking to amol rajan about what he says have been three of the most difficult years in his career, which has spanned more than half a century.
2l he has had one of the most colourful careers in business, creating virgin records to setting up trans lactic - 2 setting up a trans am lactic airline.
now his new venture the cruise line business space travel.
sir richard ranson has been a survivor but pandemic left him fighting 8 his empire from his aribbean caribbean island.
how uch did lose through the pandemic?
id you lose a lot of money rsonally?
the answer is yes.
iously it cost us a big percentage our network.
ybe 1.
5 billion.
so, there as a time maybe 1.
5 billion.
so, there a maybe 1.
5 billion.
so, there was a time when it really looks we were going to lose verything.
we had 50, 60 nes all on the ground, and the health planes all on the ground, and 1100 planes all on the ground, and the health clubs all closed, otels all closed, and the west would the hotels all closed, and the - uld have been 60,000 west would have been 60,000 people are in the streets.
but, onally, was rtunate in personally, was fortunate in that managed to get to sland, our grandkids got 0 the island, our grandkids got to the island, grandkids got the island, our grandkids got to the island, and although rienced may be a couple of experienced may be a couple of months experienced may be a couple of tere 0 aol experienced may be a couple of of what people must feel months of what people must feel 0= they are pretty low, and never experienced that people fall in my life do 1 mean for the irst time in 1y you mean for the first time in your life you are depressed?
certainly a little will certainly a little depressed.
your reputation ook of a hit depressed.
your reputation took i - a hit in the early a bit of a hit in the early phase of the pandemic because 8 an 0o as phase of the pandemic because senior members of your team had to the government saying been to the government saying 3% need hundreds of millions pounds in government loan save the company and save irline, and there was your airline, and yet there was coverage of people saying, on.
branson is a "hang on.
branson is a billionaire and lives on an and in the ribbean.
surely island in the caribbean.
surely he can alsl the money.
" had he can find the money.
" had never really had any coverage as painful as that.
quite as painful as that.
really?
and it is complicated alnt difficult to explain so it is difficult to explain when everyone is hurting.
they pretty well families were pretty well know families that when hurting.
but what we concerned to do that when hurting.
but what we & that when hurting.
but what we were concerned to do was to - government support, not ifts from government but derwriting = underwriting loans.
in the days of his career sir richard used glamour and licity stunts as a part of divergence marketing.
when you at some divergence marketing.
when you a i - at some of the campaigns look at some of the campaigns 0 ome look at some of the campaigns a1 of that make you wince?
to some of that make you wince?
0as to some of that make you wince?
or do you just think it was fit he time?
think would ake me wince if felt that 00tz make me wince if felt that the women were make me wince if felt that - anineluez1o10s make me wince if felt that the women were uncomfortable at don’t think the women were uncomfortable at i all.
don’t think that ever t3 anybody feel meet anybody feel uncomfortable.
it was just in days it made them smile, 1 those days it made them smile, you know, like kate moss for ance.
she laughed.
she knew hat was coming.
but, today, ously, hink people would t\ obviously, think people would feel uncomfortable with ething like that.
so, it has hanged.
now at 72 sir richard he discussed this uccession planning with his but is still in family but he is still in feo family but he is still in control of the virgin group and still as competitive as he is still as competitive as r.
it is not checkmate yet.
we’re now just two days away from the king’s coronation, with millions of people across the world preparing to celebrate the ceremony.
some royal fans are so desperate for the best view of the procession, they’re already camping out on the mall near buckingham palace.
charlotte gallagher’s been to meet them.
the tense art pitch, the flags ir0 being hung and there is ven hance for elfies are being hung and there is a a even a chance for selfies with the new king.
people outside ingham palace are ready to buckingham palace are ready to ebrate the coronation.
great ritain celebrate the coronation.
great =tl a i celebrate the coronation.
great britain and america.
for donna he and mary jane from @ for the and mary jane from it is also a chance to the it i1s also a chance to get ogether with friends.
they 1s at the wedding of the rince and princess of wales 12 ago and have attended oyal events together ever nce.
we started yesterday, we will be here through turday night.
and what have brought with you to keep going?
well, we brought nts, sleeping bags, air ttresses, winter coats, hats, rfs, gloves, you know, ater, granola bars.
everything we eed!
the royal family have been rehearsing their in the coronation ceremony.
the ene here at ceremony.
the scene here at westminster abbey.
the security ation in central london is uge.
these are just a ful ndful i huge.
these are just a handful of the more than 11,000 icers working this week.
they are preparing for huge lol a they are preparing for huge crowds and the foreign nitaries who will be scending on the capital.
the itary is getting ready to.
re than military i1s getting reaady to.
e100 6000 men and miltary is getting ready to.
r0 0o lol more than 6000 men and women from across the and -1 commonwealth will be from across the and @ anlano - i - commonwealth will be involved in saturdays events.
and have had a special visitor.
1 cess and has met with troops at wennington barracks, steps away from just steps away from buckingham palace.
and outside the palace is a tent fit for a there is a tent fit for a princess.
just enjoying being and seeing the people.
have you made friends with 010 ple?
yeah, and people people?
yeah, and people passing by as well.
thousands bill line at this route on more bill line at this route on saturday for a oment in 13 story that many want to fenns history that many want to witness.
charlotte gallagher, ews, buckingham palace.
and staying with the coronation, big ben will be lit up every night between now and sunday to mark the coronation, with the colours of the union flag and the national flowers of all four home nations.
a rose, thistle, daffodil and shamrock will be projected on to the london landmark.
s0, yes, there is so much going o0 in the capital surrounding oronation on in the capital surrounding 1a on in the capital surrounding the coronation and in windsor and elsewhere.
we will be across it all for you here on ews.
now let’s you to film and television writers have taken part in a second day of strikes that has thrown hollywood into chaos.
higher pay as well as future safeguards around the use of artificial intelligence.
as the industry grapples with the streaming boom.
here’s our west coast correspondent sophie long.
this is e, this 1s day two of the strike.
am just outside paramount ios here now, the studios in in hollywood, close ether.
just a stones throw ay is the studio where a i tflix is based and there were dreds of picketing hundreds of picketing i8 hundreds of picketing protesters outside of their all morning and yesterday as this morning and yesterday as well and think it is fair to ay that say that the mood was well, and think it is fair to say that the mood was very h.
they are disappointed.
the writers guild, that they had to take this action are defiant and will probably be aware that the last there was a right struck in it lasted 100 days so at the l=lals in it lasted 100 days so at the moment this is day o.
as he said your introduction it has already taken late—night shows of the r.
those talk shows of the air.
those are the shows which staff ers for prescription drugs ust hours before they go to they have seen an impact.
if the air — they have seen an impact.
he strike continues it is ikely to have an impact the autumn releases of popular pted chozas well.
it is not ust the riters who have been t.
we have seen actors come in support.
where am e, rob owe came out here, rob lowe came out yesterday.
his son is a writer came out to show support and he came out to show support and set as actors we are only as the writing we get.
the studios have said, the 0 13 and the streamers on studios and the streamers on the her side of this dispute, have aid they made a very nerous offer, not just on mpensation but streaming iduals.
but as one of the sticking points here — the iduals, the royalties that ters use to get paid from a0 8 3 writers use to get paid from networks are much less under aming networks.
they said made a generous offer.
poke to the president of the a and she said that simply as not accurate and and she said that simply - - a was not accurate and the offer 1 as not generous and what they not engaged on and his is one major sticking is the one major sticking point is the use of artificial intelligence.
the writers guild, they want it contractually based they will use in that they will not use in form of written material.
moment any form of written material.
any form of written material.
at the moment am told by the that all streamers have committed to an ual meeting.
far far as he is committed to an annual meeting.
= as far as the is concerned that not good enough.
two russian cosmonauts have carried out a space walk on the international space station.
the two left the space station to move what called an ‘experiment airlock’ = the two men have already carried out eight spacewalks between them during their stint in space.
the cosmonauts have been on the space station since september last year.
she at next — the top business stories.
ever, the central bankers dominating the ness headlines.
the fed did raise rates as expected, but x4 now?
will be back with ir0 1 what now?
will be back with an expert view and the other ness stories.
see you a business stories.
see you a zla 1 many of us had some beautiful late spring sunshine on wednesday.
in fact, in bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours of sunshine, a glorious day.
but top temperature, well, that was in south wales, in gwynedd, just of 20 celsius, and it felt very pleasant indeed.
now it’s not out of the question that we could see 20 celsius on thursday, but the weather story is certainly on the change with low pressure starting to move in from the southwest.
so as we go through the day on thursday, it’s a tale of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off the north sea, affecting eastern england and northeast we’ve got rain pushing into the southwest — and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best of the sunshine is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll see the best of the warmth.
the breeze still coming from an east direction, so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight edge to things.
a little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough with highs of 19-20 celsius perhaps in the southeast.
now, as we move out of thursday into friday, that weather front will continue to push its way steadily north.
it’ bring outbreaks of rain as it does so, and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
so on friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving 1 england, into scotland.
sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
now, as we move into the start of the weekend, that southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north but unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
- that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily north as we go through the day.
so not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
and the wider picture throughout the bank.
holiday weekend — saturday will be the wettest of the days, sunday and monday, sunny spells and scattered showers.
some of them on monday could be quite heavy.
take care.
live from london, this is news.
rate hike number ten.
the federal reserve raises the cost of borrowing again — to a 16—year high.
but has it finally done enough to tame inflation?
also coming up — more controversy in the pipeline as oil giant shell announces another multi—billion dollar quarter.
plus — deserted by a changing economy.
the towns and villages in rural spain that are battling for survival hello, i’m sally bundock with the top business stories.
and we start in the united states where the central bank, the federal reserve, has raised the cost of borrowing for the tenth time.
the quarter—percent rise puts the fed’s main interest rate at between 5 and 5.
25% — the highest it’s been in 16 years.
but has it done enough or with banks struggling and recession looming, has the fed gone too far?
our north america business correspondent samira hussain reports from new york.
inflation remained stubbornly high, to inflation remained stubbornly g% inflation remained stubbornly high, to to get the cost of 4 back down to more normal living back down to more normal levels the federal reserve has i - a 0 raised interest rates ten times in a little over a year, now it it may be ready seems it may be ready to perhaps take a pause.
the mittee will take into account the cumulative htening of monetary policy, erwi 4y tightening of monetary policy, legs with which policy affects an mic activity and inflation and economic and financial well g.
we will make that determination meeting by ting.
the risers have slow 10 growth in the united states by it more xpensive to making it more expensive to borrow money and inflation is ting to come down but re there have been some unexpected ck—on effects of the rate hikes, they played hikes, they played a part in anking crisis with three banks collapsed in less than onths, so hile the two months, so while the 11 two months, so while the federal reserve has been cessful federal reserve has been 3311 federal reserve has been successful in slowing the nomy and prices without economy and prices without plunging the country into ession, the trickiest moment ay have arrived, at some point cymakers had to decide if have done enough to eep ulon they have done enough to keep inflation falling while leaving conomy with enough the economy with enough monetary space to keep anding.
they didn’t think were there at this eting but it they were there at this meeting i i a - 00 they were there at this meeting but it seems likely they will let’s speak to price — principal at the business consultants ergo intelligence in new york.
what do you think about this latest move on the part of the ral reserve, it was widely pected, priced and, is it the step take?
yes, it is right step to take?
yes, it is the right step to take if you orried bout inflation but are worried about inflation but inflation is only one of three that central banks are rrently worried about, of ourse inflation means higher ces and that is bad but here are prices and that is bad but there are there are voices saying what about stability and inancial markets doing our financial markets doing what they should, and loyment, can people get jobs.
the federal reserve has thing economist think is broadly a good in terms of broadly a good idea in terms of containing inflation it could cause containing inflation but it -l ndelc i could cause further distress banks and financial with banks and financial markets.
we will find out in about at we saw a huge time about that we saw a huge 47108 time about that we saw a huge sum of student banks on ancial market the , but olicymakers unanimous in pport of this decision is time to support of this decision this 1 raise rates the range time to raise rates the range i five and five and a quarter they re hitting the %, now they are hitting the pause button to see the impact, you think the next few onths will look ike the economy?
most economists expect kind of downturn or recession, the definition of a 8 ssion in the is somewhat recession in the is somewhat subjective but think will ably be a recession and it probably be a recession and it will be a mild recession the and financial markets for ensions can maintain the neral level of stability is in jerome powell said it is a8 again jerome powell said it is not entirely clear what the uence will be of the above influence will be of the above 59, nterest rates, some bank re at interest rate risk, 1 may see some banks in i i a may see some banks in trouble, at happened ere will be if that happened there will be a much deeper recession in the sticky will flation .
how sticky will inflation be, 8 hat is the concern that is ere jerome powell is where jerome powell and his focus has been on the level of and the worry that prices and the worry that 034 prices and the worry that doesn’t come down quickly ugh how then will they a t4 enough how then will they oiyaalll enough how then will they tackle this?
i’ tell you a ret economists n’t eally secret economists don’t really understand inflation, we like end we do pretend we do but we don’t, understand inflation, we like pretend we do but we don’t, in spring 2021l thought said in spring 2021 thought inflation might be a problem, nows if that was a lucky who knows if that was a lucky guess, inflation is something really understand once the ata comes in, only really understand once the 1 only really understand once the data comes in, that is the ral reserve says it is data ead, 1l think inflation will ain quite sticky for the 14 rest this year into next.
some ict in the where our inflation is still double it come down significantly with energy prices falling ificantly at this —— as 1 significantly at this —— as this year progresses that will rally reduce quickly but are looking at that and hinking, that wishful hinking?
double—digit ulon thinking?
double—digit inflation is a thinking?
double—digit i oi 1 inflation is a major problem, because of inflation is a major problem, cause of a thing called 0 i 1o because of a thing called expectations, and it does what it says on the in, want inflation is ten or people expected to 11% and people expected to 8 main there were if not get orse that expects the real haviour of people who set 0 ices in your local shops and arger chains.
ten or % in to larger chains.
ten or 11% in the at home is a big problem would expect that be a and would expect that to be a and harder problem in the 5% we are eing in the , 70 ven the 70% we see in the area.
—— 7%.
let’s stay with interest rates because households and businesses across europe will almost certainly be facing higher borrowing costs later today.
the european central bank, which sets monetary policy for the 20 countries that use the euro currency, widely expected to raise its main interest rate let’s speak to fiona cincotta from the brokerage city index here in london.
interest rates in europe are a 3 lower than the now, 3-3 -1 are we expecting them to .
5%, are we expecting them to up again today?
yes, that is 3 simple answer, we have had some ata from the eurozone garding patient this week, ation in the euro so inflation in the euro so remains very sticky, it went a 138 to remains very sticky, it went a7 1 remains very sticky, it went higher to 7%, and core lation, which is one of the eurozone llows osely which 1 strips out volatile items such ewed in full went as viewed in full, went g111\ as viewed in full, went i\ lower to 5.
6 off the ecord lower to 5.
6 off the yoo 1l lower to 5.
6 off the record hi.
still it is well ove he target ate, above the target 2% rate, the big question will be will a 25 it be a 25 basis point rate hike for a 50 basis point rate , we think with the growth i of 0.
1%, really that is lled, and have een stalled, and we have seen ue-to i loan stalled, and we have seen - i alel stalled, and we have seen credit loan demand in lending eady ightened, there is his ready tightened, there is probably a larger chance of a sis point rate hike today from he .
it is a tricky on part of the it is so ery the economies share hare the euro currency, comparing any to ltaly or pain, what germany to ltaly or spain, what a8 eir needs are, are very fferent?
completely and 1 think that was highlighted different?
completely and think that was highlighted in ieinlee a think that was highlighted in the inflation data we saw on day, luxembourg had tuesday, luxembourg had ulon tuesday, luxembourg had inflation of 2.
7% you have via ith inflation of 15%, there a huge difference ere, and as you said within he economy of the eurozone omy you have very service ctor focused economies and nomies focused on economies focused on manufacturing, so very big rse range the has to contain.
we have the bank of and were —— meeting next england were —— meeting next ek, all eyes on the central bank open the fact our ation is so high, economy inflation is so high, economy 3 stuttering, we expect other 1 ate rise, assume?
- yes, another rate rise, assume?
v-v i 1151 another rate rise, assume?
yes, think with inflation and le—digit esn’t leave the double—digit doesn’t leave the bank of england much choice, hike rates again.
they but to hike rates again.
they do say they inspect inflation across the second art i to cool across the second part of the year but right now lation is just too high be 010 too risky the bank of england to leave it where it let’s stay in europe — because in the next hour or so oil giant shell is expected to reveal another quarter of huge profits.
it’s expected to have made almost $8 billion inn the three months to march.
billion it made this time last year.
but it’s unlikely to ease the pressure on the company and its rivals over the amount they are profiting from soaring energy prices — caused by the war in ukraine.
naeem aslam is chief investment officer at the financial research and trading house zaye capital markets here in london, are va1 a are you expecting these bumper earning most predict in nearly llion?
believe there are $8 million?
believe there are two ferent perspectives when look at shell, is he we look at shell, one iis the shareholder erspective and the is the consumer perspective.
hareholder perspective, yes, they want bumper numbers, in its 15 year history we are expect the company to produce the best still expect the company to 1 still expect the company to produce the best and the most lar numbers for the start the year.
or the second best least so they want to see continuation at least so they want to see lal r0 4 at least so they want to see the continuation of that back and continuous initiation of commitment to wable assets and renewable assets and investments and not just estment and buying cheese iinvestment and buying cheese but making strategic estments, from onsumer investments, from a consumer perspective this is where can become quite cky.
things can become quite tricky.
we are all struggling with the of living crisis, any number produced by shell like ave seen going to be you have seen is going to be winlhl you have seen is going to be coming into the spotlight, will be looking at that people will be looking at that and saying that there’s another the teeth, while we are kick the teeth, while we are 1 struggling with the cost of crisis, with the living crisis, with the a7 living crisis, with the government ending the support into next month.
as you correctly pointed out earlier, ent being double digits and 18 not likely to come down nificantly, even towards the a3 significantly, even towards the end of this year, there should re access or these type be more access for these type i companies but how much tax really be on these will really be put on these particular companies.
—— texas.
tock market resilient if the stock market resilient which it is today despite the ure of hose banks, it is failure of those banks, it is because of the earnings from ech giants and the energy the tech giants and the energy ector.
as we head towards eneral election, which is, it be a year away, the may be a year away, the narrative on this will get der and ouder, have local elections taking place later y, with the leader of the opposition party keir starmer that has to be an saying that has to be an 1 rease in taxes on the 1 profits of big oil and other lar companies.
what does similar companies.
what does = hell and who have had ults out shell and who have had =y shell and who have had results out earlier this week in terms of investing, doing in terms of investing, capital expenditure, they are these huge amounts of money, we would hope at least are investing that in renewables, in renewables, in the future greener technology?
these anies are getting a massive tax break, 91p on the pound, so that investment is being ade, you want to acquisitions of either new t—ups or being the leaders the new renewable space or ticular companies coming up their own ventures, so far with their own ventures, so far =n yes, there is a stance, narrative among these ticular companies especially rom where they are moving hifting away from eir commitments.
and that is going to be ceived by not going to be received by 1r lol ders very well shareholders very well especially from pension funds are shareholders of these accounts because they want like these to continue invest more, for a number of asons, number one nobody to reasons, number one nobody - to see fossil fuels i wants to see fossil fuels continue, and secondly oil are not where they used 0 prices are not where they used be.
a huge debate that could and on.
thank go on and on.
thank you very much for your take on shell’s around the world and across the , there was a musical start to the well-dressing celebrations.
this 1s an ancient tradition.
it is a pagan tradition, and it was to thank the gods at the time for the gift of water, so the crops would grow, and hence you get all this beautiful greenery and this 1s the main village well.
all the designs are drawn onto clay boards and their natural all the designs this year have a coronation theme.
each involves hours of painstaking work by volunteers.
they are fabulous, aren’t they?
they are appropriate because of the well—dressings will be on display here until saturday.
it is a chance to bring the community together and to admire these unique pieces of local art.
you’re live with news.
et’s continue with our business let’s continue with our business coverage.
to india now, where the central bank the reserve bank of india, says the nation will need a $1 trillion in financing by 2030 to combat the effects of climate change.
it comes as indian—born ajay banga is elected as the new head of the world bank = first indian—=american to hold the prestigious role.
the bank is trying to pivot its activities towards helping developing nations cope with climate change.
et’s discuss this with runoday mukharji who is in our eau in delhi.
arunoday, this is interesting.
a is appointment on he day.
tell me what is required.
we have een through this in report so far and been through this in our report 1 - «la been through this in our report out so far and the kind of 0 ctions that we got from 01113 reactions that we got from various sections of the globe they have said the edge monger is perhaps in many ways ight candidate cause the right candidate because there are a the right candidate because ere are a lot of expectations he is someone who can nderstand needs of a understand the needs of a developing economy like india balancing out the commitments while balancing out the nalaalrn while balancing out the commitments to green energy and ensuring an economy a1n a1 also ensuring an economy continues to grow —— ajay ga.
that is one of the major allenges that india has faced because of india’s huge liance on fossil fuels in its empts to borate to alternative means of 1t 1 alternative means of fuel as india remains the 1 well.
india remains the third—largest carbon emitter hat these aspects and that is these aspects are all the and that is these aspects - and that i1s these aspects are all the more important and said the reserve bank of india has come up with that log in which it has red report in which it has red flagged concerns and flagged some concerns and ideas, saying that policy erventions are the needs of hour if india is to achieve net zero emissions by by 2070.
for that, and yet needs end 2.
5% of the to spend 2.
5% of the annually on green financing by which announce to about $1 2030 which announce to about $1 trillion, as said.
he has also ahead and said that if india does enact a policy ervention at this stage that could seriously impact dia’s gross tput in the india’s gross output in the run and also trigger inflationary concerns in the run as well.
india has maintained for a very long time it is one of those that it is one of those countries that it is one of those ial that it is one of those countries which is sproportionately affected 0 to climate change, but it also to cater to its growing needs to cater to its growing population.
india has overtaken a as well in that regard, q, so this remains concern and could be interesting to how things really pan out from this point onwards.
oday, thank you.
arunoday, thank you.
interesting.
let’s stay with climate change, but move to france, where farmers across the country fear a repeat of last summer’s destructive drought is now almost certain.
an unusually winter and spring, with reduced snow cover in the alps, has led to sights of dried up river beds and shrunken lakes usually only seen in the height of summer.
et’s talk to sebastien indsor 018 let’s talk to sebastien windsor about this, president of nce’s chamber of agriculture, from palace.
good ing.
ook us through the morning.
took us through the situation in france currently.
concerned is summer are you concerned this summer will be worse than last summer p?
good morning.
it depends at part of france.
the estpark had a rainy winter and water tables are quite gils the water tables are quite high.
the spring was also quite so the westpark of france not going be too much of problem.
if you at the north, we quite winter so water = 1 had a quite winter so water tables are low, but we had in and april quite a lot of rain, am not too much l=ne rain, so am not too much i aal- i rain, so am not too much worried for these areas.
where ery concerned use of the am very concerned use of the southeast of france.
in some s, like around pinyon, we parts, like around pinyon, we had in the last year less than illimetres of rain, 200 millimetres of rain, so that means we are in a ation close to the middle t4 v- a8 situation close to the middle east in terms of rain.
these s, we have no ater areas, we have no water reserve, areas, we have no water a2 erve, no water table vailable for irrigation, and a very spring, so in these areas, yes, very much these areas, yes, am very nal- these areas, yes, am very much worried.
am these areas, yes, am very 01t l0 as - p10 l0 aal- these areas, yes, am very much worried.
am worried for ypes production.
am all types of production.
am l=ne all types of production.
am i aal- i all types of production.
am worried for vegetable and food ction but am also very much production but am also very sl- miels production but am also very much worried for grass for production and for capacity to feed the cattle.
will you be ing on the government for calling on the government for help?
well, actually, the nment helped us to government helped us to 1s government helped us to implement a new insurance tem this year.
so, hope 81 is system will work i1\ this system will work efficiently to help the mers.
this is an insurance where the farmers, this is an iinsurance where the farmers, for a available price, can get this rance and the government help he insurance 0 to work, so really will help the insurance system to work, so really hope that 8 4 will work in the short term.
what eed to do and where really need the help he government is to be able 0 to build of the government is to be able uild some reserve, to be ble to stop water in winter eas, to be able areas, to be able to stop ater in winter areas, to be able to stop water from snow and rivers.
coming from snow and rivers.
wwhen we have ome coming from snow and rivers.
we have some in the ivers to able to tore it for imilar production we we =x\ similar production and we really expect some help on the —term from the government able to long—term from the government 01 long—term from the government to be able to build such tallations.
given what you perience last year, what is ppening this year, farmers france and other countries across europe and for example a ell, you spain for example a swell, you will have to rethink the way ork, won’t you, in terms i of storage water, irrigation, etc?
yes.
we have ok at the ay that we to look at all the way that we 1t 51 are running farming.
of course, we have to look at the way that ter.
we have to look at not we water.
we have to look at 1t taa 4 we water.
we have to look at not pumping the water from the 2 table but to be able to tore he water in water table but to be able to as store the water in the short periods where we do have lots in, that just goes away in a few days, so we have to be 5 to - able to store this more i1\ iciently than what we did in gher volumes than what we d, but we also have to look what we did, but we also have to look 18 did, but we also have to look at what we can change in the we are running our farms.
maybe we will have to change of the production we are running on the farm.
we have to the way we do some change the way we do some irrigation to go to drop by irrigation, rather than a and open irrigation, and have two, four cattle, to be to bring water to the attle, even in outback because we are running out of r.
sorry to interrupt you there, sebastien.
thank you for aining the situation in explaining the situation in france.
sebastien windsor with atest on farming in - to spain now, where thousands of rural towns and villages are struggling for survival as people leave in search spain’s parliament has agreed to debate plans to give financial support to keep bars and cafes open to and stop some villages from being abandoned altogether.
guy hedgecoe reports from central spain.
the rural heartland of central spain after decades of ration towards cities, these ast agriculture reliant areas he country are sparsely populated.
they have become as empty spain.
the divide between known as empty spain.
the a1 known as empty spain.
the divide between rural and urban re pronounced here than in more pronounced here than in most european countries.
90% of iards inhabit larger towns and cities.
the rest are here.
half of spanish towns re at isk of depopulation.
mong them is one with pulation 36.
as is the case so any villages bar is in so many villages the bar is the heart of the community.
: it is a place for people together because erwise would not see otherwise he would not see people.
it means we have a ting place.
meeting place.
: a lot meeting place.
108v - meeting place.
: a lot of people nvolved in the bar and its maintenance creates jobs.
so, are needed to make sure people stay and work here.
but so few customers, many removal bars are struggling.
: the bar is not a viable business.
we have to nise all sorts of other activities, and that is because does not ay for the bar does not pay for = tself, so you have to find her sources income itself, so you have to find i - other sources of income in order to make a profit, or just eak even.
a political aal0 2= 0l=1s10 to break even.
a political movement representing rural has been campaigning for he repopulation of areas like s, and calling for an i uehle this, and calling for an improvement in public improvement in public services.
hoping to have an act it is hoping to have an impact o0 the national political bate by performing well in upcoming local elections.
a party wants to make bars in ith fewer than 200 towns with fewer than 200 w010 towns with fewer than 200 inhabitants eligible for cial economic support from state because of the social that they play.
the rliament is considering the an.
plan.
: we are fighting to ove lives in our villages, 0 improve lives in our villages, to improve infrastructure, have services =t better services and better = oun o0 better services and better internet connections and rove our roads which are g% very bad.
the initiative to bars is aimed at save bars i1s aimed at a save bars is aimed at preventing villages from fering abandonment which has eady een the fate of so many.
but those who live in tied spain know that the are emptied spain know that the - are still stacked against hem.
a quick look at asian markets which are reacting to the 11 federal reserve decision.
a mixed picture across the board we quickly show you wall street ell pack west shares plummeted in after hours on wednesday.
this is the 10 trade on wednesday.
this is the californian mid—sized bank that eking a financial is seeking a financial lifeline.
you are up to the siness stories.
will see many of us had some beautiful late spring sunshine on wednesday.
in fact, in bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours of sunshine, a glorious day.
but top temperature, well, that was in south wales, in gwynedd, just of 20 celsius, and it felt very pleasant indeed.
now it’s not out of the question that we could see 20 celsius on thursday, but the weather story is certainly on the change with low pressure starting to move in from the southwest.
so as we go through the day on thursday, it’s a tale of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off the north sea, affecting eastern england and northeast we’ve got rain pushing into the southwest — and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best of the sunshine is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll see the best of the warmth.
the breeze still coming from an east direction, so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight edge to things.
a little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough with highs of 19-20 celsius perhaps in the southeast.
now, as we move out of thursday into friday, that weather front will continue to push its way steadily north.
it’ bring outbreaks of rain as it does so, and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
so on friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving 1 england, into scotland.
sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving, but because the winds are lighter coming from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang around for a little bit longer.
still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher in scotland, but highs likely of 18 celsius by friday afternoon.
now, as we move into the start of the weekend, that southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north but unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
- that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily north as we go through the day.
so not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
and the wider picture throughout the bank.
holiday weekend — saturday will be the wettest of the days, sunday and monday, sunny spells and scattered showers.
some of them on monday could be quite heavy.
take care.
join us to celebrate the coronation of their majesties king charles and queen camilla.
witness history in the making with a weekend of special events, including live coverage of the coronation service at westminster abbey, and front—row seats to the coronation concert, featuring some of the biggest acts in music.
australia!
there’s a bright future.
can’t believe we’re actually doing this.
here we go, then, the start of our new lives.
annie?
this i1s kate.
met her on the boat.
charmed.
well, you don’t see that in stockport.
g’day, g’day, new arrivals.
welcome to paradise.
it’s like a prisoner of war camp.
they lied to us.
they showed us whitewashed houses and huge gardens.
we’ll make 1t work.
you brought us here for a reason, for me.
you make your own world.
you can leave the past behind.
we came here for our family, lamilint we can have a wonderful life here but we need to embrace it.
good morning.
welcome to breakfast with charlie stayt and naga munchetty.
our headlines today a day after russia accuses ukraine of trying to assassinate vladimir putin in a drone attack, the ukrainian capital kyiv is hit by airstrikes.
vigils in belgrade for the eight children killed in a mass good morning.
shooting by a classmate - a - - i ¢ energy giant shell is due to announce billions of pounds of profit in the first three months of this year.
it follows last year’s record amounts and comes as households and businesses struggle with rising fuel bills.
i’ll be looking at the numbers.
good morning.
sporting history i1s made by erling haaland.
he gets his 35th, to break the record for the number scored in @ premier league seasom, as manchester city return to the top of the table.
there’s just two days to go 0 0 aar is building on the mall, as people camp out celebrations culminate on monday with the big help out.
it should this weekend.
will have the full cast.
today it is but zy.
the full details ing breezy.
the full details coming up on it’s thursday, the 4th of may.
our main story.
russia launched a wave of air strikes on the ukrainian city of kyiv early this morning — the largest attack on the capital the country’s military described it as a "comprehensive air strike" with more reports of explosions in zaporizhzhia and the black sea port of odesa.
the strikes come after the kremlin said it might retaliate for what it claimed was an attempt to assassinate president putin, with a drone strike on the kremln.
what appears to be a drone, then an explosion over the kremlin.
this footage is unverified, but the kremlin says that early on wednesday morning, two drones targeted the residence risl moscow was quick to blame ukraine, claiming they were downed by defences and that no—one was injured.
show yesterday.
the presenter announced breaking news.
"there’s been an attempt,” he says, "to assassinate president putin.
” president zelensky, on a visit to finland, denies any ukrainian involvement.
we don’t attack putin or moscow.
we fight on our territory.
we are defending our villages and cities.
we don’t have, you know, enough weapons for this.
in daylight, there was no obvious signs of damage to the kremlin, but lots of questions still.
with what aim?
was this an internal operation, or even a false flag event?
whatever narrative moscow pursues, the united states has urged caution.
first, i’ve seen the reports.
can’t in any way validate them.
we simply we simply don’t know.
second, would take anything coming out of the kremlin with a very large shaker of salt.
last weekend, russia accused ukraine of launching a drone strike on a fuel depot in russian—occupied crimea.
days later, bombs detonated and derailed two freight trains in a part of russia near the ukrainian border.
citing security concerns, several russian regions have now cancelled military parades planned for may the 9th — victory day when russians mark the defeat of nazi germany.
for now, the kremlin continues to insist that the big red square parade in moscow will go ahead despite last night’s explosions.
unusually, though, red square has been closed to the public since the end of april, reflecting perhaps a sense of wariness.
whatever actually did happen above the kremlin, supposedly one of the most secure seats of power in the world, it’s ukely to intensify a vincent mcaviney, news.
we’re joined now by our correspondent, hugo bachega, who’s in kyiv.
good morning to you.
tell us a little more good morning to you.
tell us a o010 good morning to you.
tell us a a0 good morning to you.
tell us a little more about the strikes in overnight.
also understand ere have been explosions sewhere.
good morning.
it was