for Scotland and Northern Ireland, probably staying cloudy,
still with the threat of outbreaks of rain but still mild,
temperatures generally into double figures.
Further south, across England and Wales, we are
closer to an area of high pressure and that should mean,
generally, although there’s still quite a bit of cloud around,
you’ve got a better chance of seeing some bright or sunny spells.
But in the short term,
watching out for those strong winds to come through on Friday.
There is @ moment, just before you do something...
R Bl i Ya
And you think, "Is this really happening?”
AN S of your many toys... #
"Am | really going to do this?”
And then suddenly, it’s done.
And your whole world... shatters.
In a flash, everything changes.
Welcome to BBC News, I’m Lisa-Marie Misztak.
Our top stories...
On the Tuurkish border, QT R RS L]
refugees try to cross back into their home country
after last week’s earthquakes.
The combined death toll climbs ORI AR R
Commotion in court, as the 19-year-old gunman
who killed ten black Americans at a grocery store in Buffalo
New York is sentenced to life in prison without parole.
An Italian court acquits the former prime minister,
Silvio Berlusconi, of bribing witnesses to Lie about his
"bunga bunga” sex parties.
Antarctic glaciers may be more sensitive to
changes in sea temperature than previously thought.
We have a special report.
The first time anyone has tried to drill down
through this glacier.
Beneath the 600 metres of ice A AR R
important point of all, RN R [ R G R
meets the ocean water.
AR R N EIne I R R I
# Till it’s shining just like a dime...#
And the Hollywood film star and model Raquel Welch
has died at the age of 82.
Hello and welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
Thousands of refugees who fled the war in Syria
RGN (R T GG E arrived at the border hoping to
go back to their home country after last week’s earthquakes.
Turkey has said it will I R - iR Ry
for up to six months.
LRI LI T R R G R (L in Turkey and Syria has climbed
to more than 41,000, and milliocns are in need
L LR-1: SR TR 1le {1 has been to Antakya close
to the Turkish border, where desparate Syrian families
continue to arrive.
The last time these Syrian families crossed this border,
It was with dreams NN dhe
Their homeland has been ripped AR CI
Their new life in Turkey lies in ruins after the earthquake.
So once again, they are on the move,
carrying whatever they have left.
Reem has lived in N ELSZR N L
Her children were born there, IS R S R 1 s
towards Syrians RS KT
s worse since the quake.
TRANSLATION: We’ve RN
We try to find another place to stay.
But they kept chasing us away, asking us to return to Syria.
ULV GRS &R B G TR (TS with my children?
Where should we go?
The Turkish government has said Syrians can come
But many ask, what do they have to come back to?
This is a broken city, full of loss and fallen concrete.
It’s no longer a home.
Those who choose to stay have nowhere else to go.
Mohammed knows there’s little here for him and his family,
but he’s nothing left in Syria.
R
LGB YN0 B R G114 about the children a lot,
about their situation LR Rl T T
RO R R R Bl their night turns into terror.
| fear for them more than | do myself.
It Is rare, but survivors are still being found.
74-year-old Shamil Kach RO Y2 R e
after the earthquake struck.
Earlier today, three people were rescued
And tonight, they believe there are signs of life in that
building and they are continuing to work away,
which was the even amid the amount of human despair
AR in the last ten days.
There’s still noe sign of light.
-- There’s still sign of light.
Laura Baker, 1 LW N EISZD
The self-declared white supremacist, Payton Jen-Dron
-- The self-declared white R e e
has been sentenced to life in prison without parole -
NI g AL N EGR New York State -
for a racially-motivated mass killing.
He drove more than 200 miles to the store,
which is in a predeminantly African-American
part of Buffalo.
Before sentencing, a relative of one of the victims
was giving a statement - when someone tried to attack
Gendron - have a look.
You don’t know a damn thing about black people!
We are human.
We like our kids to go to good schools.
We never go in no QUL LI T
to take people out.
LA ANV e rm 2
The Eerie County district attorney, John Flynn,
spoke at a news conference after the sentencing.
| would characterise what happened today
as the end of a beginning.
That while what happened today puts a legal closure
to the criminal proceedings...
Let’s put aside the federal matter for our purposes here.
..puts a legal closure to this tragic incident
on May 14 of 2022, IR g I A L R ]
put any closure on what we need to do as a society
and as a community going forward.
With more details - here’s our correspondent
in New York, Nada Tawfik.
This was an incredibly emotional hearing,
from a relative lunging at Payton Gendron in the court
room before being restrained to then the families hearing
from the teenage white supremacist themselves.
This sentence really was a foregone conclusion.
It was the mandatory sentence for that charge.
One of the charges he faced, domestic terrorism
motivated by hate.
And the judge said that he wouldn’t be given any mercy
or sentenced as a youth because he had meticulously
planned, researched, AR AN T I ET T
and executed this heinous crime, streaming shooting
black Americans shopping for groceries, live streaming
that on the internet, on a social media platforms.
So the judge said that he would not see the light of day
again as a free man.
But this was really, this whole hearing, an opportunity
for family members who lost AR R e
survivors to directly e el
We heard from one calling him a cowardly racist, another
woman telling him that he will never understand black
Let’s take a look at some other stories
LRI of the World Bank will step
down from his post in June, LENL LR GG EREE LT
almost a year before his term was due to end.
David Malpass announced his decision on social media,
without providing a specific reason for his departure.
The head of Nato has called on member countries
to ramp up the production N e R e -]
Jens Stoltenberg said member countries were making more
artillery shells to help Kyiv’s forces fight Russia’s invasion,
but he warned they cannot guarantee there will be enough.
The governor of the US R AL N e R g - s
residents living near the site of a toxic train derailment
gl A R 5
The cargo train crashed 12 days ago, causing a major fire
and triggering the release R AR
The first tourists have returned to Machu Picchu -
the famous World Heritage site in Peru.
The area had been closed off by demonstrations demanding
QN T R the former president.
M RGN TER] the capital, Lima, and other
regions in the south.
A court in Italy has acquitted the former prime minister
Silvio Berlusconi of bribing I R e i)
about his notorious "bunga bunga” parties.
The billionaire politician, who is 86, was accused
of paying people to provide false testimony in a previous
trial where he was charged with paying for sex
with a 17-year-old I e L e
Mr Berlusconi had denied wrongdoing.
Our reporter Sofia Bettiza has been following the story.
She joins me in the studic now.
Can you
LR TRD
ELRTRTE Gl
Can you just tell us a bit more Y]
Can you just tell us a bit more Y e -l Tl et
Can you just tell us a bit more YR e ldee el
Can you just tell us a bit more about the ocutcome of this
about the outcome of this aar1kd
about the outcome of this I K
about the outcome of this trial? So, this verdict is the
trial? So, this verdict is the culmination of a legal batty
culmination of a legal batty cash
culmination of a legal batty LR e )
culmination of a legal batty SR L i R
culmination of a legal batty LR L R E A E R |
culmination of a legal batty R E R G AR
cash battle that lasted 11 years
cash battle that lasted 11 RN
cash battle that lasted 11 UL
cash battle that lasted 11 years and made headlines around
years and made headlines around )
years and made headlines around R e dlsh
years and made headlines around R el
years and made headlines around R 3 ]
years and made headlines around the world. It started in 2010
the world. It started in 2010 Y
the world. It started in 2010 when Silvio
the world. It started in 2010 LR IR E B
the world. It started in 2010 when Silvio Ballas Tony who was
when Silvio Ballas Tony who was then
when Silvio Ballas Tony who was R aes ]
when Silvio Ballas Tony who was then Prime Minister
when Silvio Ballas Tony who was NG InR E
when Silvio Ballas Tony who was then Prime Minister of Italy
then Prime Minister of Italy Ty
then Prime Minister of Italy was charged with paying for sex
was charged with paying for sex with
was charged with paying for sex ]
was charged with paying for sex with an underage qirl.
was charged with paying for sex with an underage girl. She was
with an underage girl. She was Y
with an underage girl. She was a 17-year-old dancer known by
a 17-year-old dancer known by g
a 17-year-old dancer known by her stage name Ruby the hearts
her stage name Ruby the hearts Ry
her stage name Ruby the hearts stealer. After that happened,
stealer. After that happened, judges believe that Berlusconi
judges believe that Berlusconi paid off 24 people, mostly
paid off 24 people, mostly young women, so they would lie
young women, so they would lie 3
young women, so they would lie MRS
young women, so they would lie TR GE
young women, so they would lie in previous trials about his
in previous trials about his so-called bunga bunga parties.
so-called bunga bunga parties. M i ]
so-called bunga bunga parties. Prosecutors described them as
Prosecutors described them as 1
Prosecutors described them as sex parties
Prosecutors described them as W R )
Prosecutors described them as sex parties where women were
sex parties where women were paid to attend. Now Ruby was
paid to attend. Now Ruby was )
paid to attend. Now Ruby was N
paid to attend. Now Ruby was R
paid to attend. Now Ruby was one of the people accused of
one of the people accused of lying and she was in court
lying and she was in court today when the verdict came in.
TRANSLATION: | need time to process this great joy.
This i1s an encrmous liberation.
Many people know nothing about my life.
At the moment, speaking e e IRl
top of my priorities.
The first person | will speak to is my mum.
So
N oo
STVRULCNI
So we just heard that there but Berlusconi
So we just heard that there but Y M IR
So we just heard that there but Berlusconi was acquitted, why
Berlusconi was acquitted, why s
Berlusconi was acquitted, why is that?
Berlusconi was acquitted, why I3 BTG
Berlusconi was acquitted, why is that? Judges said
Berlusconi was acquitted, why IR G TGO R I
Berlusconi was acquitted, why is that? Judges said there just
is that? Judges said there just Ik
is that? Judges said there just I RN
is that? Judges said there just I R NG R LY (e
is that? Judges said there just wasn’t enough evidence, this
(R OEIE TG IEEIL R G LICR T wasn’t enough evidence, this is
wasn’t enough evidence, this is %1\
wasn’t enough evidence, this is really significant in Italy
really significant in Italy T )
really significant in Italy R G
really significant in Italy N R G R el
because this scandal a8 gl sl
because this scandal contributed to Silvio
contributed to Silvio Berlusconi’'s
gl T LRGN Berlusconi’'s downfall in 2011
Berlusconi’s downfall in 2011 as
Berlusconi’s downfall in 2011 YN I Y
Berlusconi’s downfall in 2011 as Prime Minister, his
as Prime Minister, his reputation
as Prime Minister, his NI
as Prime Minister, his reputation abroad was
reputation abroad was 3SR
reputation abroad was ST e
reputation abroad was destroyed, but this whole time
destroyed, but this whole time Y
destroyed, but this whole time YT
destroyed, but this whole time he has denied
destroyed, but this whole time N EILR GG Y
destroyed, but this whole time he has denied any wrongdoing
he has denied any wrongdoing and
he has denied any wrongdoing Y
he has denied any wrongdoing LR
he has denied any wrongdoing IR i LR ]
he has denied any wrongdoing and he has been saying that
and he has been saying that ey
and he has been saying that these bunga bunga parties were
these bunga bunga parties were actually just elegant dinners.
actually just elegant dinners. So, he
actually just elegant dinners. TR
actually just elegant dinners. So, he feels vindicated and in
So, he feels vindicated and in Y
So, he feels vindicated and in FR e
So, he feels vindicated and in TR )
So, he feels vindicated and in R A CRTI R
So, he feels vindicated and in R I
So, he feels vindicated and in R R I EV
So, he feels vindicated and in R AR I M R Rl
a tweet he said, | have finally ]
a tweet he said, | have finally been acquitted after more than
been acquitted after more than |l
been acquitted after more than (IR’CEL
been acquitted after more than NI
been acquitted after more than IR R LR
been acquitted after more than 11 years of suffering, of
1 years of suffering, of political
11 years of suffering, of political damage, and of having
political damage, and of having 1)
political damage, and of having VR
political damage, and of having my name dragged through the
my name dragged through the mud. So what is next for Mr
mud. So what is next for Mr Berlusconi?
mud. So what is next for Mr PN T K. e
mud. So what is next for Mr Berlusconi? Mr Berlusconi has
Berlusconi? Mr Berlusconi has (It
Berlusconi? Mr Berlusconi has dominated Italian public life
dominated Italian public life e
dominated Italian public life T ]
dominated Italian public life IR ORI EE
dominated Italian public life for the past decade
dominated Italian public life RGN R LR
dominated Italian public life for the past decade as a media
for the past decade as a media 3
for the past decade as a media tycoon, as a football club
tycoon, as a football club e
tycoon, as a football club owner, you know, he was Prime
owner, you know, he was Prime R
owner, you know, he was Prime TGRSR
owner, you know, he was Prime IS QRO
owner, you know, he was Prime IS R G I |
owner, you know, he was Prime IS R GRS
owner, you know, he was Prime R G L L
Minister three times, and he is 86
Minister three times, and he is S REE L)
Minister three times, and he is 86 years old
Minister three times, and he Is S B[R Gl 01
Minister three times, and he Is 86 years old but you still in
86 years old but you still in politics
86 years old but you still in G« NT)
86 years old but you still in politics and he has made
politics and he has made political comebacks before.
political comebacks before. Actually, at the moment, he is
Actually, at the moment, he is YL e
Actually, at the moment, he is leader a centre-right party
leader a centre-right party that
leader a centre-right party G A
leader a centre-right party that is playing a key role in
that is playing a key role in e
that is playing a key role in Italy’s coalition
that is playing a key role in Italy’s coalition government,
Italy’s coalition government, )
Italy’s coalition government, SO NOW
Italy’s coalition government, AL e
Italy’s coalition government, I R
Italy’s coalition government, so now that his name has been
so now that his name has been a1
so now that his name has been cleared, Berlusconi is likely
cleared, Berlusconi is likely to
cleared, Berlusconi is likely el e e ]
cleared, Berlusconi is likely to continue playing a very
to continue playing a very Tyl achis
to continue playing a very e e )
to continue playing a very important role in Italian
gL AGCRLRIENE]D o idf=
important role in Italian U]
important role in Italian politics and society. Thank you
politics and society. Thank you e
politics and society. Thank you TR
politics and society. Thank you for that update.
SN AVIGRTEE BBC News, still to come...
Hollywood actress Raquel Welch, often credited with paving
the way for modern day action heroines, has died
at the age of 82.
Nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into Afghanistan
the last Soviet troops were finally coming home.
The withdrawal completed in good order but the Army
defeated in the task it was sent to perform.
Malcelm has been murdered.
That has a terrible effect for the morale of the people.
I’m terrified of the IO LRI RO R O
One wonders who 15 next.
As the airlift got under way there was no let-up
in the eruption itself.
Lava streams from a vent low in the crater flow down
to the sea to the east of the island, away from
the town for the time being.
(IR g il again at any time.
The Russians heralded the next generation space station with
a spectacular night launch.
LS A LTl o Russian for peace.
This is BBC World News, the latest headlines. ..
On the Turkish border, thousands of Syrian refugees
are trying to cross back RGeS
after last week’s earthquakes.
The combined death toll climbs ORI AR R
The 19-year-old gunman R I Rl e Va1 a o e
at a grocery store in Buffalo, New York is sentenced to Life
In prisen without parole.
To the Antarctic now, where new research has
Researchers using an underwater [ R R - Na - aual
glaciers may be more sensitive to changes in sea temperature
than was previously thought.
If it melted completely, UL EH R E el e
would raise sea levels by more than half a metre.
Our climate editor, Justin Rowlatt, joined
MR R -]
West Antarctica is a challenging place to work.
It is the stormiest R RGBT RS
I w e e ldla -1
It took more than a month and more than a dozen flights
to get the scientists and their equipment
to the front of the glacier.
Ice-hardened ships brought in fuel and other bulky
supplies, which were then dragged over the ice in an epic
1,000 mile overland journey.
A campsite at the point this vast glacier goes afloat.
If we are thinking about what is sea level
going to be like in ten years, I FlalYd
s the place to be.
Boilers turned snow into water.
Hot water was used to melt down into the ice.
IR R GG gl la
The first time anyone has tried to drill down
through this glacier.
Beneath the 600 metres of ice A AR R
important point of all, RN R [ R G R
meets the ocean water.
For the first time ever, R TIGE ]
measurements under the ice, RGN R
some local creatures.
LS AT G T TR R RV S
robot submarine, packed with scientific instruments.
What we could see is that instead of this kind of flat
ice that we had all pictured, U EIRNLE
of staircases and cracks in the ice that weren’t really
expected.
A team from the British Antarctic Survey using
different instruments also found that the overall melt
rate was lower than expected.
It showed how sensitive the glacier is to even small
changes in sea water temperature.
What the results show us is that you actually don’t need
to increase the melt rate that much to drive very
So has the glacier passed a tipping point where collapse
becomes inevitable?
Our observations don’t necessarily tell us that,
but what it does tell us is how RN ARG
melting and we can use that knowledge from today to produce
better models which will tell TR o e Tl R aa RSl
Thwaites is at the bottom of the world, but what happens
here will affect us all.
The better the processes MBI e E LI
glacier are understood, R AR R Rl
have of how our seas will rise NG R e -
Forewarned is forearmed, they say.
That is particularly important because carbon emissions,
which are driving the processes I LRGN Flal
continue to rise rapidly.
Justin Rowlatt, BBC News, Thwaites Glacier.
Riots have broken out across southern Nigeria
in protest at the lack of cash.
The government’s policy of replacing old Naira
banknotes with redesigned new ones has resulted in many
banks and ATMs running out - a situation that has steadily
worsened, with businesses and RLRE I RS iR Gl
It comes just ten days before Nigeria’s
presidential elections.
Nkechi Ogbonna reports.
So today there have been widespread protests
In some cities in Nigeria.
A lot of angry protesters have IR R
blocking major roads, also destroying some
banking facilities.
We are also aware that RN B QL Chll
NG R G R IR R G ey Nigeria, has also been
attacked, although security operatives are currently
QTR ) to dispel the crowds.
And so it’s been chaotic RN RGR G
ST IR T [o[g"
They do not have access to cash.
And some banks are refusing to accept the old notes,
despite the Supreme Court’s order to suspend the
deadline implemented by the Central Bank.
The Apex Court adjourned the case to next Wednesday.
Now, this is barely three days to the country’s
PENIEIN Clad [ ) although the Supreme Court
maintained that its order ORISR O AR T Rl
suspended the deadline from being implemented
by the Central Bank, must be upheld.
LR ECh N EL L still remained silent,
not really saying anything.
The federal government has also not really
said anything concrete.
But the people who are feeling the impact the most do not have
IR I RO A
Also, some commercial banks N VAR XA =L
Over three weeks, Nigerians have been in queues reporting
to banking halls ARl
1R LY ORI
Some people have actually been sleeping at cash machines
and outside commercial banks e TR U S R OEL VA R
have cash for transportation to return home or to go to work.
iR e Nl 1.
A lot of people are also complaining because they earn
daily pay or they depend largely on cash, basically
so they do not really have access to internet banking
facilities or mobile money platforms.
Hollywood movie star Raquel Welch, who became
an international sex symbol in the 1960s, has died aged 82.
She won a Golden Globe Award for her performance
in The Three Musketeers film I LEER i Rl
with breaking the mould for modern day action hereines.
David Sillite looks I anre
Raquel Welch did not expect anyone to remember
what she thought was just a "silly dinosaur movie”.
But One Million Years BC, with its giant malevolent
turtles, poor grasp of evolution, and prehistoric
bikinis, turned Raquel Welch into a star of teenage bedrooms
"In one fell swoop, everything R R R
she said, "swept away.”
# You make me feel SO young...#.
It was pretty clear how she was being marketed.
In Bedazzled, she was given the role of Lilian Lust.
Strong, black and sweet.
In public, she played the role.
Two mountainous spoons full!
But she said she had little control over her career.
# Now, listen here, boy!
# | used to be a square... #.
She was born Jo Raquel Tejada, the daughter of a Bolivian
engineer, and her heart really lay in song and dance -
light-hearted, old-school glamour.
A lot of people want to be great artists.
| don’t know that I’m capable of being that,
but | hope | entertain a few people, you know?
The producer behind many of her projects was the man
she married in 1967 - film producer Patrick Curtis.
It would be fair to say AR L a e
than many of her films.
Never again will I let you go into such terrible danger.
But she did win a Golden Globe for The Three Musketeers.
# | can rub and scrub this ST
# Till it’s shining just like a dime...#.
And on stage and television, she did get a chance to show
off her song and dance skills.
# You got the shake and | got the shimmy...#.
Raquel Welch had set out wanting to be Ginger Rogers
and ended up being defined by a doe-skin bikini.
That was David Sillito on the life of Raquel Welch,
who’s died at the age of 82.
We can now speak to legendary Hollywood reporter Jeannie Wolf
who knew Raquel Welch well and interviewed her many times
throughout her career.
LIS
NP A 11
Genie, thank you for joining TH
Genie, thank you for joining us. Tributes have been pouring
us. Tributes have been pouring in
us. Tributes have been pouring inon
us. Tributes have been pouring in on social media for Raquel
in on social media for Raquel AN
in on social media for Raquel YN R T 1 e
in on social media for Raquel Welsh, what has direction been
Welsh, what has direction been like so far?
Welsh, what has direction been R R A
Welsh, what has direction been R R LA il ke
Welsh, what has direction been like so far? We hadn’t heard
like so far? We hadn’t heard Tee I8t
like so far? We hadn’t heard from her
like so far? We hadn’t heard from her for a while, no one
from her for a while, no one A1
from her for a while, no one TG
from her for a while, no one heard she was
from her for a while, no one ARG R E L o 4
from her for a while, no one heard she was sick so it
from her for a while, no one IR Y LRI L R R
from her for a while, no one heard she was sick so it was a
heard she was sick so it was a real surprise. | was getting
real surprise. | was getting 5
real surprise. | was getting calls from people
real surprise. | was getting calls frem people who knew her
calls from people who knew her saying
calls from people who knew her EVLLR LT
calls from people who knew her saying what happened, what
saying what happened, what happened? | don’t know, they
happened? | don’t know, they Y-\
happened? | don’t know, they FVE
happened? | don’t know, they say she had a
happened? | don’t know, they VR N LR g o
happened? | don’t know, they say she had a short illness,
say she had a short illness, they took very little about it
they took very little about it 4
they took very little about it but |
they took very little about it AR
they took very little about it NAREL R
they took very little about it ARG R
they took very little about it but I can tell you that the
but I can tell you that the i
but | can tell you that the last times | had seen her, she
last times | had seen her, she N
last times | had seen her, she looked great, you know, people
locked great, you know, people e
looked great, you know, people I 0
looked great, you know, people CNE LN e
looked great, you know, people talk about her body and
looked great, you know, people talk about her bedy and it
looked great, you know, people & L I A VL R R
talk about her body and it was L
talk about her body and it was great and
talk about her bedy and it was L
talk about her bedy and it was great and she knew that
talk about her bedy and it was RN B LG A GBI RTE
talk about her body and it was great and she knew that was her
great and she knew that was her LGV
great and she knew that was her VAT R 1T
great and she knew that was her way into the business, that
way Into the business, that Ik
way into the business, that R 1
way into the business, that wasn’t what she expected.
way into the business, that wasn’'t what she expected. But
wasn’t what she expected. But )
wasn’'t what she expected. But )
wasn’'t what she expected. But IR sl
wasn’'t what she expected. But also she had charisma, she
wasn’t what she expected. But also she had charisma, she had
also she had charisma, she had e
also she had charisma, she had weight, she was funny, she
weight, she was funny, she o
weight, she was funny, she would love the piece that he
would love the piece that he just did
would love the piece that he TSGR |
would love the piece that he TSGR L R N
would love the piece that he just did doing showing all the
just did doing showing all the i e e
just did doing showing all the different roles
just did doing showing all the i e e )
just did doing showing all the different roles she played
different roles she played T Y
different roles she played because often
different roles she played RN h
different roles she played because often all people
because often all people N e
because often all people N a1
because often all people remember is that poster. As you
remember is that poster. As you TN
remember is that poster. As you said, people spoke a lot about
said, people spoke a lot about g
said, people spoke a lot about (TG
said, people spoke a lot about her body and
said, people spoke a lot about (AL
said, people spoke a lot about A LRI
said, people spoke a lot about her body and it was something
her body and it was something i)
her body and it was something LG
her body and it was something she spoke out against, how do
she spoke out against, how do you think
she spoke out against, how do RGN
she spoke out against, how do you think she felt about so
you think she felt about so much scrutiny on the way she
much scrutiny on the way she Nk
much scrutiny on the way she looked? Well, you know, | think
looked? Well, you know, I think after a
looked? Well, you know, | think R hlly
looked? Well, you know, | think after a while she finally got
after a while she finally got M5!
after a while she finally got used to
after a while she finally got NGB ORI
after a while she finally got used to it, she finally got
used to it, she finally got Ll
used to it, she finally got TR )
used to it, she finally got TR R0
used to it, she finally got used to people going, | guess
used to - people going N2
used to people going, I guess T
used to people going, | guess I
used to people going, | guess you are more than a body. She
you are more than a body. She (G
you are more than a body. She kept on
you are more than a body. She [GIE LS
you are more than a body. She (ISR
you are more than a body. She IR IR
you are more than a body. She kept on her career, she was
kept on her career, she was very
kept on her career, she was R I
kept on her career, she was very determined, she never did
very determined, she never did Y
very determined, she never did NIt
very determined, she never did ER DR - U T
very determined, she never did a nude scene, they
very determined, she never did E G R RS R G
very determined, she never did a nude scene, they asked her
very determined, she never did G R UG RS G R
a nude scene, they asked her to change her name from Raquel and
change her name from Raquel and i)
change her name from Raquel and she wouldn’t do
change her name from Raquel and R G R R R =1
change her name from Raquel and she wouldn’t do that, she was
she wouldn’t do that, she was very determined and she
very determined and she understood
very determined and she M e R
very determined and she understood the business, she
understood the business, she understood
understood the business, she sl e
understood the business, she sl S a e )
understood the business, she understood her role in it, she
understood her role in it, she it
understood her role in it, she G EV R G
understood her role in it, she might have wanted to have more
might have wanted to have more and
might have wanted to have more LD
might have wanted to have more and bigger parts but she never
and bigger parts but she never stopped,
and bigger parts but she never SOY O MY
and bigger parts but she never stopped, she did all
and bigger parts but she never SO N IR
and bigger parts but she never stopped, she did all kinds of
stopped, she did all kinds of i e e
stopped, she did all kinds of different roles, serious roles,
different roles, serious roles, and she
different roles, serious roles, RGN
different roles, serious roles, and she went into business,
and she went into business, Y
and she went into business, wake business,
and she went into business, LA THL T
and she went into business, wake business, Julie business,
wake business, Julie business, i)
wake business, Julie business, TR e
wake business, Julie business, AR L ]
wake business, Julie business, she was on TV. | did a
I CRVELN T A T ettt Iee Il
I CRVELN T A T e et Ieo B lida]
I CRVELN T A T e R G
she was on TV. | did a commercial with her, | wasn’t
commercial with her, | wasn’t in the commercial, | was off
in the commercial, | was off ]
in the commercial, | was off N
in the commercial, | was off N
in the commercial, | was off camera asking her questions, so
camera asking her questions, so Y
camera asking her questions, so RS ]
camera asking her questions, so RO ()
camera asking her questions, so we sped to or three
camera asking her questions, so Y R R RO R R
we sped to or three days together
we sped to or three days OGN
we sped to or three days OGN
we sped to or three days together and | learned a lot
together and I learned a lot FYe L
together and | learned a lot N )
together and | learned a lot about her. She was very
about her. She was very i)
about her. She was very XAt Ne 014
about her. She was very sensitive but very
about her. She was very NIRRT Ay
about her. She was very sensitive but very tough and
sensitive but very tough and very sure, she do an interview
very sure, she do an interview with
very sure, she do an interview ORI
very sure, she do an interview with you and the lighting man
with you and the lighting man and
with you and the lighting man R )
with you and the lighting man and the cameraman would be,
and the cameraman would be, e
and the cameraman would be, R ZL
and the cameraman would be, CRTEL &
and the cameraman would be, like, wait a minute, she is
like, wait @ minute, she is telling
like, wait @ minute, she is GBI
like, wait a minute, she Is telling me what
like, wait a minute, she Is GG RTIEIE )
like, wait a minute, she Is telling me what to do,
like, wait a minute, she is telling me what to do, she’s
telling me what to do, she’s telling
telling me what to do, she’s GBI
telling me what to do, she’s telling me where
telling me what to do, she’s LR ERTLECR
telling me what to do, she’s telling me where to move
telling me what to do, she’’s telling me where to move light,
telling me where to move light, and
telling me where to move light, IR
telling me where to move light, RG]
telling me where to move light, LRGeS
telling me where to move light, and then she -- they do it and
and then she -- they do it and they say,
and then she -- they do it and S AT A
and then she -- they do it and QST A G
and then she -- they do it and they say, she is right. All the
they say, she is right. All the G
they say, she is right. All the old time stars knew
they say, she is right. All the NGRS e G S A
they say, she is right. All the NGRS R S AT o e 00
old time stars knew more about lighting than the people who
lighting than the people who ]
lighting than the people who Rt
lighting than the people who NIRRT
lighting than the people who came to like them. She
lighting than the people who R R S
lighting than the people who N R i X 2L
came to like them. She was a e
came to like them. She was a s
came to like them. She was a SES R
came to like them. She was a lot of fun to be around and
lot of fun to be around and tough
lot of fun to be around and IR
lot of fun to be around and LR CY )
lot of fun to be around and tough to be around,
lot of fun to be around and IR Y I A T
lot of fun to be around and tough to be around, too, but
tough to be around, too, but i)
tough to be around, too, but !
tough to be around, too, but she said her father was
she said her father was Bolivian and that was
she said her father was R R R e
Bolivian and that was how TR dla]]
Bolivian and that was how FE LRI R
Bolivian and that was how Martino side, her mother was
Martino side, her mother was ()]
Martino side, her mother was English and that was her sort
English and that was her sort of
English and that was her sort S e e
English and that was her sort of more ladylike side. —-
English and that was her sort of more ladylike side. -- that
of more ladylike side. -- that Ty
of more ladylike side. -- that was her
of more ladylike side. -- that N e
of more ladylike side. -- that A A IR
of more ladylike side. -- that A A R )
of more ladylike side. -- that was her Latino side. She always
was her Latino side. She always et sl
was her Latino side. She always combined both. You mention what
combined both. You mention what )
combined both. You mention what NN G
combined both. You mention what R L R
combined both. You mention what some people said about her
some people said about her EX Ol
some people said about her attitude, she was often
attitude, she was often S i ee sl
attitude, she was often S i et R
attitude, she was often ST e R
attitude, she was often St RO Rl
attitude, she was often STt RO R
attitude, she was often referred to at times as being a
referred to at times as being a i
referred to at times as being a hit difficult, and
referred to at times as being a it L e
referred to at times as being a bit difficult, and now looking
bit difficult, and now looking back to you think that was
back to you think that was unfair
back to you think that was e = s |
back to you think that was UL RGN
back to you think that was unfair and maybe even sexist?
unfair and maybe even sexist? s
unfair and maybe even sexist? It might have been a bit sexist
It might have been a bit sexist e
It might have been a bit sexist dl
It might have been a bit sexist AN RNy
It might have been a bit sexist AR N E ]
It might have been a bit sexist but | do have to say, in
but | do have to say, In E
but I do have to say, in fairness, that fracker would
fairness, that fracker would osliN
fairness, that fracker would o
fairness, that fracker would P e
fairness, that fracker would PR e Rl
fairness, that fracker would PR R
fairness, that fracker would PR ORI Rl K
put her foot down if she didn’t think
put her foot down If she didn’t QI T G|
put her foot down If she didn’t think something was writing a
think something was writing a eqlo] o
think something was writing a aqlo A
think something was writing a script,, if you didn’t
think something was writing a script,, if you didn’t think
script,, if you didn’t think GG
script,, if you didn’t think GRS
script,, if you didn’t think something was right
script,, if you didn’t think GG R LA
script,, if you didn’t think something was right in a
Juig[o) S BTG GRS G ] S GRS LR )
something was right in a scene, i)
something was right in a scene, she would
something was right in a scene, IR GEEL
something was right in a scene, IR GV
something was right in a scene, R LG A L
something was right in a scene, she would say so and not
something was right in a scene, IR R A L R [\ 2 i
she would say so and not always diplomatically, but she was
diplomatically, but she was charming
diplematically, but she was charming and lovely, she
diplomatically, but she was charming and lovely, she knew
charming and lovely, she knew how
charming and lovely, she knew TR ]
charming and lovely, she knew S R G )
charming and lovely, she knew how to make up with everybody.
how to make up with everybody. )
how to make up with everybody. There was one time
how to make up with everybody. T R e L N R )
how to make up with everybody. There was one time she sued a
There was one time she sued a X
There was one time she sued a studio and that really... She
studio and that really... She Ty
studio and that really... She was taken
studio and that really... She R R 0L
studio and that really... She TR R
studio and that really... She was taken out of a movie she
was taken out of a movie she 10
was taken out of a movie she said because she was
was taken out of a movie she IR T R LR
was taken out of a movie she said because she was too old
said because she was too old and she sued and
said because she was too old OB R L R iR
said because she was too old and she sued and won, but
and she sued and won, but people didn’t
and she sued and won, but I hR A
and she sued and won, but people didn’t like that about
people didn’t like that about A
people didn’t like that about her, but
people didn’t like that about PR 1 R
people didn’t like that about her, but she was attractive to
her, but she was attractive to audiences and she knew how to
audiences and she knew how to &Y
audiences and she knew how to play the part and she knew how
play the part and she knew how to get
play the part and she knew how IO
play the part and she knew how T LT
play the part and she knew how IO RIS
play the part and she knew how to get around in this town so
to get around in this town so i)
to get around in this town so R R |
to get around in this town so she kept working and she was
she kept working and she was very
she kept working and she was AT (RG]
she kept working and she was A G
she kept working and she was very well-known and for the
very well-known and for the R
very well-known and for the most part very well liked, and
most part very well liked, and they did
most part very well liked, and QRGNS
most part very well liked, and they did know that she
most part very well liked, and QRGN AU R R
they did know that she didn’t think
they did know that she didn’t i QAL
they did know that she didn’t I R el s
they did know that she didn’t R EIR R s 1]
they did know that she didn’t think that women should just
think that women should just stand there and take it, she
stand there and take it, she Ty
stand there and take it, she TR
stand there and take it, she was way ahead of time. Even the
was way ahead of time. Even the ETe e I
was way ahead of time. Even the I TR
was way ahead of time. Even the famous poster, she said, well,
famous poster, she said, well, A
famous poster, she said, well, che was
famous poster, she said, well, AR L]
famous poster, she said, well, she was a woman
famous poster, she said, well, R LR e N
famous poster, she said, well, she was a woman of action.
she was a woman of action. T4
she was a woman of action. Thank you so much,
Thank you so much, unfortunately
Thank you so much, O G VA
Thank you so much, O G R CRIENG
Thank you so much, O R RN R
Thank you so much, unfortunately we have to leave
unfortunately we have to leave e
unfortunately we have to leave IR
unfortunately we have to leave it there, thank you so much for
it there, thank you so much for your
it there, thank you so much for AL A
it there, thank you so much for your insight. And that is all
P LUIELED ] A R LRI e
P LUIELED ] A R LRI TR
your insight. And that is all for the programme, thank you
for the pregramme, thank you very much for
for the programme, thank you very much for watching, we will
very much for watching, we will )
very much for watching, we will L4
very much for watching, we will be back soon.
The last few days have been pretty settled with high
pressure in charge, but things are about to change
and Thursday is going to be an overcast day across most
Drizzle if not rain, really very murky
conditicns to start with.
And then towards the end RO R M e 0GR O],
turn very wild across some northern parts of the UK.
We’ll get to that.
Here’s the satellite picture.
Here’s all of that cloud moving off the Atlantic.
It’s a small weather SR G E R R R [T
across the UK during the course of Thursday and there
are more weather systems out in the Atlantic coming our way.
So, early in the morning, we have thick cloud across many
parts of England, Wales B e R Eash
Outbreaks of rain, drizzle, hill fog too,
mild with that - 5to 7 Celsius.
But across the north B E PR R L R VR
clear skies, so perhaps PRGN R
So really very murky, grey, overcast, whatever
you want to call it, first thing in the morning.
Later in the day, it does look as though most of that
rain should peter out, at least across England
and Wales, and we’ll see one or two bright or sunny spells -
with a bit of luck, one or two decent sunny spells.
13 or 14 Celsius in the south, a little bit
Now, on to Friday - nasty low pressure will be
sweeping across Scotland.
That is going to bring severe gales.
Exactly where the worst RO R R R
still a little uncertain, but it does look as though it’s
northern Scotland that will get the worst of the winds,
but not only northern Scotland, ISR IR [ 818"
windy through the lowlands and particularly to
the northeast of England, R N R AU L
in fact, the apps are already indicating gusts
of over 70 miles an hour, for example, in Newcastle.
So, these winds will cause problems, disruption,
possibly blow some trees R
So, really keep track SR RO
The details may change, but it does look as though it’s
the northern half of the UK that will be very blustery
and quite possibly stormy for a time.
Later on Friday, the winds will die down and then
in the south, actually, IR RN L P
Breezy, yes, but we’re not going to get the gales,
and it will stay mild - up to around 14 Celsius.
Now, here’s a daisy chain of weather systems as we go
through the weekend.
Se, more cloud pushing our way.
RS G LGSR [ RN raining particularly heavily,
but I think there will be a lot of cloud during the course
of Saturday and Sunday, but one or two glimmers
of brightness, too, G NE R GEALY
SRS
ILIEREN ) e [ WL
Thousands of Syrian refugees who fled to Turkey
to avoid the civil war have N NI R N e e
hoping to go BACK to their home country, after last week’s
earthquakes.
Turkey has said it will I R - iR Ry
for up to six months.
A court in the United States has sentenced a 19-year-old
white teenager to life in prison without parole
for killing ten black people at a supermarket in Buffalo,
New York State last year.
Payton Gendren live-streamed the attack on social media.
An Italian court has acquitted the former Prime Minister,
Silvio Berlusconi, of bribing witnesses to Lie about his
"bunga bunga” sex parties.
He was accused of paying people to provide false testimony.
Mr Berlusconi insisted the parties were simply
elegant dinners.
Now on BBC News, Powering Ukraine.
Russian missiles and drones rain down on Ukraine’s
civilian infrastructure, causing untold damage.
It’s been happening for months.
This is Ukraine’s energy war, a constant battle for heat
and light, with an army of engineers racing to keep
the country connected.
TN T El IR TR e e
darkness and uncertainty.
How does a country respond when the stakes are so high?
If the power system collapses, that would mean the suffering
of tens of millions of people during wintertime.
We cannot allow that, not on my watch.
We follow the teams fighting this war.
What the missiles destroy, they rebuild, in places
where people are living on the edge.
This power plant in e AN e
been hit repeatedly.
It’s a huge place, R OICRER W R BRI T
Russian missiles have done to the country’s
infrastructure.
Missile fragments RGN Ele-R
For security reasons, we have been asked not
to identify the plant R EN L
So what happened here?
This is where electricity begins its journey from
This is where electricity begins its journey from
the power plant to the world outside, the first links
In a complex chain.
Since October, Moscow has been working systematically
to sever those links, to break the system
into pieces, to break QR RO S
AT NG I R G [ complex bears the scars.
While the threat still exists, not everything
will be repaired.
Millions of people depend on this coal-fired power
station, built in the Soviet era, its great turbines turning
away at the heart of Ukraine’s sprawling power network.
The system now generating half as much electricity
as it did a year ago.
The staff here know they are in Russia’s sights.
Ihor is the plant’s chief technician, on duty the morning
When he arrived here in the main control room,
So the whole power station is run from this rcom.
Did all of this get switched off?
It has been weeks since the last attack here, but this
morning the alarms keep coming.
We had been expecting it this morning.
We have to get out of the turbine hall and head
straight for the shelter.
Incoming missiles have been detected, flying
towards Ukraine from the south and east.
There is time to take cover.
On days like these, hours are spent underground.
Anxious moments as news comes in of a fresh wave of attacks.
Their colleagues at a power NIRRT Ry
They know this could have been them, and closer
to home, word is spreading of something much worse.
Across town, the tragedy is unfolding.
A missile has struck an apartment building.
Dozens of people have died here.
The missile that did GIREI TR
Designed half a century ago to destroy aircraft carriers.
It was almost certainly aimed at the power station.
Some of Russia’s attacks are accurate.
Many are not.
Russia’s assault has brought death and darkness
RS LR
The nights are long and cold, N RGO
The whole nation plunged into a world of adjustments.
For David, not yet two, it is mostly a game.
That’s how his parents prefer to keep it,
especially when sirens wail and missiles fall.
A power cut Is coming.
Here we go.
Here we go.
Yes, yes.
There we go, it is 9:20 R S At
but the power cut has begun.
After months of this, the fear and the novelty have long gone.
LSRR A TN of Ukrainians have learned
GRS [0 G RN T - unfazed, organised.
This war on energy is not just AN R S R L
This war on energy is not just AN R S R L
t’s about the entire infrastructure, the grid that
keeps this vast country G R Y dlal L R ]
And it’s that grid that has NN R e
again since October.
We’re off down a rather SR LR
of that grid now.
And again, we cannot tell you where it is.
The place where he has worked for 30 years.
Since September, he has watched it be demolished, bit by bit,
six separate attacks.
Four months ago, he saw a kamikaze drone destroy
the control room and his office, knocking the whole
substation off-line, cutting power to millions of people.
The attackers knew exactly L EN R (RN T
The substation’s 750 kilovolt transformers
won’t be easy to replace.
They weigh 300 tons and take months to produce.
Only three or four countries in the world make them.
One of them i1s Russia.
Ukraine is scouring the globe, looking for substitutes.
We are far from this war’s frontlines but everyone
who works here feels R G
In this forest of machinery, ORI S
steely determination.
Do you feel angry?
Ukraine’s battalion of engineers racing from one
repair job to the next.
This happens all the time,
Volodymyr tells me.
We’re on our way to a village shelled just last night.
The power lines are down, again.
The repairs won’t take long but the men know they will be back.
The battle to keep Ukraine connected takes many forms -
repairing wires, diverging power, concealing what
LRI NER (R g [
It’s a constant struggle, fraught with danger.
DISTANT EXPLOSIONS
In the nearby village,
the sound of artillery has the mayor ducking for cover.
How long do you think you can carry on living
In places where the frontlines have moved,
Here, teams are busy reconnecting towns and villages
cut off behind Russian lines for months.
Where the army has been, the engineers must follow.
His home town Is under reqular attacks are his
wife and grandchildren are living in Poland.
LRV A the field every day.
Pylon by pylon, cable by cable, connections are re-established.
LR E L T F T L] scarred by recent conflict.
Fresh graves speak of long, difficult months and
long, difficult lives.
The engineers wait as emergency teams go ahead,
inspecting the ground, looking for discarded weapons.
It’s slow, painstaking work.
How long do you think it will take to fix everything?
And while the country waits, it simply copes.
City streets echoing RO EEIII G E EEL EE G 6 S
Mobile phones lighting the way.
Life somehow continuing.
And a mounting sense that Ukraine has, for now,
This battle is finely balanced Between Russia’s ability
to inflict damage and Ukraine’s RN
GGV R (VY enough power to get by.
Those who run the grid have no illusions about
the struggles ahead.
Russians failed to take down our system or to cause big
disturbance in our system.
Having said that, M OGS L
gradually destroying very important items of equipment
in our grid which takes RN NI
And yet, despite all of this damage, as you travel
CIGITI R TN V] 1 (s it becomes obvious that Ukraine
i R Gl
We were prepared and we were very resolved to win
this particular bout.
We have no other way than to win because if we lose,
if our system collapses, that would mean suffering
of tens of millions of people WL R S [
When | am asked this question, | often say, "Not on my watch”.
And if somebody told me before that our power grid could stand
like 1000 missiles and drones and still run and still deliver
power to consumers, R GEY E L A A R
but now, we know that we are resilient and we are much more
ready now for the new attacks than we have been on
the 10th of October.
Russia thought it would break Ukraine but its
campaign isn’t working.
Half the grid may be in tatters, but in helmets
and body armour, these men are keeping it alive.
The war’s terrible cost is evident wherever you look.
The sacrifices have TR
But power, the lifeblood of a nation, still
I N R R P
Hello. The last few days have been pretty settled
with high pressure in charge, but things are about to change
and Thursday is going to be RS UGV
Drizzle if not rain, really very murky
conditicns to start with.
And then towards the end RO R M e 0GR O],
turn very wild across some northern parts of the UK.
We’ll get to that.
Here’s the satellite picture.
Here’s all of that cloud moving off the Atlantic.
It’s a small weather system that will be
moving across the UK during the course of Thursday
and there are more O AU
out in the Atlantic IR
So, early in the morning, we have thick cloud
across many parts of England, LR e R e
Outbreaks of rain, drizzle, hill fog too, mild with that -
But across the north B E PR R L R VR
clear skies, so perhaps PRGN R
So really very murky, grey, overcast,
whatever you want to call it, first thing in the morning.
Later in the day, it does look as though most of that rain
should peter out, at least across England and Wales,
and we’ll see one or two bright or sunny spells -
with a bit of luck, one or two decent sunny spells.
13 or 14 Celsius in the south, a little bit
Now, on to Friday -
nasty low pressure will be sweeping across Scotland.
That is going to bring severe gales.
Exactly where the worst RO R R R
still a little uncertain, but it does look
as though it’s northern Scotland that will get
the worst of the winds, but not only northern Scotland,
it’s also going to get very windy through the lowlands
and particularly to the northeast of England,
in fact, the apps are already indicating gusts
of over 70 miles an hour, for example, in Newcastle.
So, these winds will cause problems,
disruption, possibly blow R N R e
So, really keep track SR RO
The details may change, but it does look as though it’s
the northern half of the UK that will be very blustery
and quite possibly stormy for a time.
Later on Friday, the winds will die down and then in the south,
actually, it G RE R R s F
Breezy, yes, but we’re not going to get the gales,
and it will stay mild - up to around 14 Celsius.
Now, here’s a daisy chain of weather systems as we go
through the weekend.
Se, more cloud pushing our way.
RS G LGSR [ RN raining particularly heavily,
but I think there will be a lot of cloud during the course
of Saturday and Sunday, but one or two glimmers
of brightness, too, G NE R GEALY
SRS
This is BBC News, I’m Lisa-Marie Misztak
with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
On the Turkish border, thousands of Syrian refugees
are trying to cross back RGeS
after last week’s earthquakes.
The combined death toll climbs ORI AR R
Commotion In court as the 19-year-old gunman
who killed ten black Americans at a grocery store in Buffalo,
New York is sentenced to life in prison without parole.
An Italian court acquits the former prime minister,
Silvio Berlusconi, of bribing witnesses to Lie about his
"bunga bunga” sex parties.
Antarctic glaciers may be more sensitive
to changes in sea temperature than previously thought.
We have a special report.
The first time anyone has tried to drill down
through this glacier.
Beneath the 600 metres of ice A AR R
important point of all, RN R [ R G R
meets the ocean water.
AR R N EIne I R R I
# Till it’s shining just like a dime...#
And the Hollywood film star and model Raquel Welch
has died at the age of 82.
Hello and welcome to the programme.
Thousands of refugees who fled the war in Syria
RGN (R T GG E arrived at the border hoping to
go back to their home country after last week’s earthquakes.
Turkey has said it will I R - iR Ry
for up to six months.
LRI LI T R R G R (L in Turkey and Syria has climbed
to more than 41,000, and milliocns are in need
L LR-1: SR TR 1le {1 has been to Antakya close
to the Turkish border, where desparate Syrian families
continue to arrive.
The last time these Syrian families crossed this
border, it was with dreams NN dhe
Their homeland has been ripped AR CI
Their new life in Turkey lies in ruins after the earthquake.
So once again, they are IR G NI gl
whatever they have left.
Reem has lived in N ELSZR N L
Her children were born there, IS R S R 1 s
towards Syrians in her host country is worse
since the quake.
TRANSLATION: We’ve RN
We try to find another place to stay.
But they kept chasing us away, asking us to return to Syria.
ULV GRS &R B G TR (TS with my children?
Where should we go?
The Turkish government has said Syrians can come
But many ask, what do they have to come back to?
This is a broken city, full of loss and fallen concrete.
It’s no longer a home.
Those who choose to stay have nowhere else to go.
Ahmed knows there’s lLittle here for him and his family,
but he’s nothing left in Syria.
R
LGB YN0 B R G114 about the children a lot,
about their situation and what will happen to them.
When it’s dark, their night RN e
| fear for them more than | do myself.
It Is rare, but survivors are still being found.
74-year-old Shamil was found AW A a1
the earthquake struck.
Earlier today, three people were rescued
And tonight, they believe there are signs of life in that
building and they are continuing to work away,
which shows that even amid the amount of human
despair we’ve seen in the last ten days,
there’s still sign of light.
[N Gl 1 LW N EISZD
And you can find lots more detail about the earthquakes
LRIV GRS MR e
Just head to bbc.com/news - or the BBC News app.
Let’s take a look at some other RO ARG LI
The head of Nato has called on member countries
The head of Nato has called on member countries
to ramp up the production N e R e -]
Jens Stoltenberg said member countries were making more
artillery shells to help Kyiv’s forces fight Russia’s invasion,
but he warned they cannot guarantee there will be enough.
LRI of the World Bank will step
down from his post in June, LENL LR GG EREE LT
almost a year before his term was due to end.
David Malpass announced his decision on social media,
without providing a specific reason for his departure.
The governor of the US R AL N e R g - s
residents living near the site of a toxic train derailment
gl A R 5
The cargo train crashed 12 days ago, causing a major fire
and triggering the release R AR
The first tourists have returned to Machu Picchu -
the famous world heritage site in Peru.
The area had been closed off by demonstrators demanding
the removal of the former I
M RGN TER] the capital, Lima, and other
regions in the south.
The self-declared white R e e
has been sentenced to life in prison without parole
NI g AL N EGR New York State
for a racially-motivated mass killing.
This is him, being led into the courtroom.
He’d earlier admitted murdering ten people during that attack
at a supermarket last May.
He drove more than two hundred miles to the store,
which is in a predeminantly African-American
part of Buffalo.
Before sentencing, PR A N e
the victims was giving R IR R
tried to attack Gendron.
You don’t know a damn thing about black people!
We are human.
We like our kids to go to good schools.
We never go in no QUL LI T
to take people out.
LA ANV e rm 2
The Eerie County district attorney, John Flynn,
spoke at a news conference after the sentencing.
| would characterise what happened today
as the end of a beginning.
That while what happened today puts a legal closure
to the criminal proceedings...
Let’s put aside the federal matter for our purposes here.
..puts a legal closure to this tragic incident
on May 14 of 2022, IR g I A L R ]
put any closure on what we need to do as a society
and as a community going forward.
With more details - here’s our correspondent
in New York, Nada Tawfik.
This was an incredibly emotional hearing,
from a relative lunging at Payton Gendron in the court
room before being restrained to then the families hearing
from the teenage white supremacist themselves.
This sentence really was a foregone conclusion.
It was the mandatory sentence for that charge.
One of the charges he faced, domestic terrorism
motivated by hate.
And the judge said that he wouldn’t be given any mercy
or sentenced as a youth because he had meticulously
planned, researched, AR AN T I ET T
and executed this heinous crime, streaming shooting
black Americans shopping for groceries, live streaming
that on the internet, on a social media platforms.
So the judge said that he would not see the light of day
again as a free man.
But this was really, this whole hearing, an opportunity
for family members who lost AR R e
survivors to directly e el
We heard from one calling him a cowardly racist, another
One of the twelve boys who was rescued
from a Thai cave in 2018, PR RG &
17-year-old Duangpetch Promthep suffered a head
injury while attending a football academy in the UK.
The exact circumstances of the accident are not yet
known, but he’s reported to have fallen
Our South East Asia T L
Jonathan Head reports.
His winning smile, even after nine days in the dark
with no food, brought cheer to a global audience gripped
by the Thal cave drama.
Duangpetch Promthep’s rescue, MO R Ll R
of his team-mates, by volunteer divers from across the world,
over formidable terrain, seems little short of miraculous.
As did their rapid recovery in hospital.
And their unbroken spirit, on display in this first
encounter with the hundreds of journalists who descended
on Thailand to report their underground ordeal.
We were at his house in the Little border town
of Mae Sai when Dom was finally able to go home to a family
who could scarcely believe they had him back in one piece.
Their fame opened new opportunities for boys whose
prospects in life had NSRS ey
Still football mad, Dom won a scholarship last
year to go to Britain, to this private academy
-rlal e
This is my dream, he wrote, promising to work hard
and pursue his ultimate goal RSN R i dg’
BRI G R e B
It was left to the man who got him the scholarship,
Zico, a former member of the Thai national team,
te inferm his family about his sudden death.
His mother asking only for help to bring back his body.
The first sad note in a story which, until now, still had
the power to amaze and inspire.
Jonathan Head, BBC News, Bangkok.
A court in Italy has acquitted the former prime
minister Silvie Berlusconi of bribing witnesses to lie
about his notorious "bunga bunga” parties.
The billienaire politician, who is eighty-six, was accused
of paying people to provide false testimony in a previous
trial where he was charged with paying for sex
with a 17-year-old I e L e
Mr Berlusconi had denied wrongdoing.
OINg(-olead0g Sofia Bettiza has been
following the story.
She joins me in the studic now.
Can you
ELHRLTR G
Can you tell it that bit more FYe L
Can you tell it that bit more Y]
Can you tell it that bit more Y e -l Tl et
Can you tell it that bit more YR e ldee el
Can you tell it that bit more about the ocutcome of this
about the outcome of this aar1kd
about the outcome of this I K
about the outcome of this trial? So, this verdict is the
trial? So, this verdict is the culmination of a legal battle
culmination of a legal battle that
culmination of a legal battle WEAER )
culmination of a legal battle that lasted 11 years and that
that lasted 11 years and that RiET Y
that lasted 11 years and that made headlines arocund
that lasted 11 years and that made headlines around the
that lasted 11 years and that made headlines arocund the world
made headlines around the world and
made headlines around the world L
made headlines around the world IRl
made headlines around the world and it all began in 2010 when
and it all began in 2010 when T
and it all began in 2010 when Silvio Berlusconi, that then
Silvie Berlusconi, that then Prime
Silvio Berlusconi, that then Prime Minister of Italy, was
Prime Minister of Italy, was W EIO 0]
Prime Minister of Italy, was charged for paying for sex with
charged for paying for sex with PN
charged for paying for sex with LG
charged for paying for sex with an underage girl, she was a
an underage girl, she was a 17-year-old
an underage girl, she was a (VR-r [l GR Fl e
an underage girl, she was a 17-year-old dancer known by her
17-year-old dancer known by her stage name Ruby the
stage name Ruby the P R
stage name Ruby the Hearthreaker. After that
Heartbreaker. After that IR
Heartbreaker. After that happened, judges believe
happened, judges believe PN e a1l
happened, judges believe Berlusconi paid
happened, judges believe S THGHIEEIL R
happened, judges believe S THCHIN IR 1l
happened, judges believe TN R LR 0 R
Berlusconi paid off 24 people, uFEIhY
Berlusconi paid off 24 people, mainly young women, so they
mainly young women, so they o
mainly young women, so they would Lie in
mainly young women, so they G RIENE - d
mainly young women, so they O R RLEE R daE E
LT D RERG N (g Fl Y FYe L
would lie in earlier trials, R e -]
would lie in earlier trials, about so-called bunga bunga
about so-called bunga bunga (ISR
about so-called bunga bunga parties. Prosecutors described
parties. Prosecutors described them
parties. Prosecutors described 1
parties. Prosecutors described them as sex party that women
them as sex party that women ey
them as sex party that women were paid to attend. One of the
were paid to attend. One of the women
were paid to attend. One of the NI Ioe I
were paid to attend. One of the NI ool E
were paid to attend. One of the women accused of lying was ruby
women accused of lying was ruby el
women accused of lying was ruby Y e -]
women accused of lying was ruby e NN
women accused of lying was ruby T e N 2
women accused of lying was ruby herself and she was in
women accused of lying was ruby T e NN R ol R i N 0la
herself and she was in court today when the verdict came in.
TRANSLATION: | need time to process this great joy.
This i1s an encrmous liberation.
Many people know nothing about my life.
At the moment, speaking e e IRl
top of my priorities.
The first person | will speak to is my mum.
nd today,
And today, Berlusconi was acquitted, just why is that?
acquitted, just why is that? Judges
acquitted, just why is that? JOGLEEFEID
acquitted, just why is that? Judges said there
acquitted, just why is that? OGN R ORIk
acquitted, just why is that? Judges said there wasn’t enough
Judges said there wasn’t enough P e
Judges said there wasn’t enough XL e L
Judges said there wasn’t enough XL e LA
Judges said there wasn’t enough SR LR
evidence. This Is really significant in Italy, this
significant in Italy, this s El
significant in Italy, this scandal contributed to
significant in Italy, this A e a agl TR s
scandal contributed to the izl
scandal contributed to the il e
scandal contributed to the downfall of Silvio Berlusconi
downfall of Silvio Berlusconi as
downfall of Silvio Berlusconi YN I Y
downfall of Silvio Berlusconi as Prime Minister in 2011.
downfall of Silvio Berlusconi AR LI IR G E L i
as Prime Minister in 2011. His reputation
as Prime Minister in 2011. His NI
as Prime Minister in 2011. His reputation abroad was destroyed
reputation abroad was destroyed ”
reputation abroad was destroyed by this whole time
reputation abroad was destroyed WAL CR
reputation abroad was destroyed by this whole time he has
by this whole time he has (e Ts |
by this whole time he has denied any wrongdoing and
denied any wrongdoing and AR
denied any wrongdoing and NIARCH R EL
denied any wrongdoing and insisted that bunga bunga
insisted that bunga bunga I
insisted that bunga bunga parties were
insisted that bunga bunga IR WS
insisted that bunga bunga parties were just elegant
parties were just elegant dinners, so he feels vindicated
dinners, so he feels vindicated in
dinners, so he feels vindicated T}
dinners, so he feels vindicated in afew
dinners, so he feels vindicated in a few hours ago in
dinners, so he feels vindicated in a few hours ago ina
dinners, so he feels vindicated in a few hours ago in a tweet,
in a few hours ago in a tweet, PN e a1l
in a few hours ago in a tweet, A TR BT R
in a few hours ago in a tweet, Berlusconi said, | have finally
Berlusconi said, | have finally T
Berlusconi said, | have finally LT}
Berlusconi said, | have finally Lo LG
Berlusconi said, | have finally UL T R L e
Berlusconi said, | have finally UL R L R =l
been acquitted after more than |l
been acquitted after more than (IR’CEL
been acquitted after more than NI
been acquitted after more than IR R LR
been acquitted after more than 11 years of suffering, of
1 years of suffering, of political
11 years of suffering, of political damage, and of having
political damage, and of having 1)
political damage, and of having VR
political damage, and of having my name dragged through the
my name dragged through the mud. What’s next
my name dragged through the IR L R iR
my name dragged through the mud. What’s next for Mr
mud. What’s next for Mr Berlusconi?
mud. What’s next for Mr S N R LR
mud. What’s next for Mr Berlusconi? Well, he has been
Berlusconi? Well, he has been dominant
Berlusconi? Well, he has been (e 3at11a e a0 1s]
Berlusconi? Well, he has been Sl =T R 811 U
Berlusconi? Well, he has been dominant in public life in
dominant in public life in 118
dominant in public life in IR
dominant in public life in Italy for decades, as a
STl LR Italy for decades, as a media
Italy for decades, as a media N
Italy for decades, as a media tycoon, as a football club
tycoon, as a football club e
tycoon, as a football club owner, and
tycoon, as a football club PR
tycoon, as a football club owner, and he was
tycoon, as a feotball club owner, and he was Prime
owner, and he was Prime IR
owner, and he was Prime TGRSR
owner, and he was Prime IS QRO
owner, and he was Prime IS RG]
owner, and he was Prime S RO TR R =
owner, and he was Prime Minister three times, so he is
Minister three times, so he is 86
Minister three times, so he is S REE L)
Minister three times, so he is 86 years old
Minister three times, so he Is S B[R Gl 01
Minister three times, so he Is 86 years old but he is still in
86 years old but he is still in politics
86 years old but he is still in TN ]
86 years old but he is still in politics and he has made
politics and he has made political comebacks before, at
political comebacks before, at )
political comebacks before, at the moment he
political comebacks before, at R
political comebacks before, at the moment he is leader of
political comebacks before, at I R R
the moment he is leader of the -l
the moment he is leader of the centre-right party that is
centre-right party that is playing a key role in Italy’s
playing a key role in Italy’s coalition government, so now
coalition government, so now that
coalition government, so now e
coalition government, so now E IR L
coalition government, so now that his name has been cleared,
that his name has been cleared, P (e a1l
that his name has been cleared, P e 1B
that his name has been cleared, Berlusconi is likely to
Berlusconi is likely to o e e
Berlusconi is likely to continue playing a very
continue playing a very I s el
continue playing a very important role in Italian
gL AGCRLRIENE]D o idf=
important role in Italian U]
important role in Italian politics and society. Thank you
politics and society. Thank you very much
politics and society. Thank you R e B Vg
politics and society. Thank you very much for that update.
politics and society. Thank you very much for that update.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come...
Hollywood star Raquel R e B Rl
with paving the way for modern RV I
has died at the age of 82.
Nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into Afghanistan
the last Soviet troops were finally coming home.
The withdrawal completed in good order but the Army
defeated in the task it was sent to perform.
Malcelm has been murdered.
That has a terrible effect for the morale of the people.
I’m terrified of the IO LRI RO R O
One wonders who 15 next.
As the airlift got under way there was no let-up
in the eruption itself.
Lava streams from a vent low in the crater flow down
to the sea to the east of the island, away from
the town for the time being.
(IR g il again at any time.
The Russians heralded the next generation space station with
a spectacular night launch.
LS A LTl o Russian for peace.
This is BBC World News, R R L
On the Turkish border, thousands of Syrian refugees
are trying to cross back RGeS
after last week’s earthquakes.
The combined death toll has climbed to more than 41,000.
The 19-year-old gunman R I Rl e Va1 a o e
at a grocery store in Buffalo, A R LR T NI N N R
life in prison without parole.
Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s longest-serving
First Minister, and the UK’s most experienced political
leader, is standing down after eight years in office.
In a hastily-cenvened and sometimes emotional news
conference, Ms Sturgeon said she no longer felt she had
the energy for the job.
0T
Being your First Minister has T
Being your First Minister has RG]
Being your First Minister has XN RGN
Being your First Minister has been the privilege of my life.
been the privilege of my life. TGN
been the privilege of my life. Nothing, absolutely nothing |
Nothing, absolutely nothing | o[
Nothing, absolutely nothing | [ B
Nothing, absolutely nothing | BRIty
Nothing, absolutely nothing | do in future will ever come
do in future will ever come NG
do in future will ever come I R T
do in future will ever come anywhere close. Thank you for
anywhere close. Thank you for )
anywhere close. Thank you for R
anywhere close. Thank you for GRS A el
anywhere close. Thank you for GRS A LR
anywhere close. Thank you for the very bottom of my heart.
Let’s speak to Professor Susanna Every-Palmer,
who is head of department of Psychological Medicine
at the University of Otago in Wellington.
She previously co-authored a paper on the impact
of harassment on the mental health of politicians.
Thank health of politicians. you for
LLELLS health of politicians. you for jeining us. We
"G
Thank you for joining us. We know politicians live stressful
know politicians live stressful s
know politicians live stressful T
know politicians live stressful lives and Nicola Sturgeon said
lives and Nicola Sturgeon said )
lives and Nicola Sturgeon said e
lives and Nicola Sturgeon said QRN R 012 1
lives and Nicola Sturgeon said QRN R O U A
the increased brutality of politics
the increased brutality of G E =
the increased brutality of politics was a reason for her
politics was a reason for her L]
politics was a reason for her stepping back. You co-authored
stepping back. You co-authored Y
stepping back. You co-authored g
stepping back. You co-authored R A
stepping back. You co-authored a paper on harassment of
a paper on harassment of politicians in New Zealand,
politicians in New Zealand, vty
politicians in New Zealand, T s I[s]
politicians in New Zealand, what did you find? We surveyed
what did you find? We surveyed 1R
what did you find? We surveyed IRy
what did you find? We surveyed all the politicians in New
all the politicians in New Zealand about eight years ago
Zealand about eight years ago and
Zealand about eight years ago N B
Zealand about eight years ago and had an
Zealand about eight years ago IRt sl
Zealand about eight years ago and had an incredible response
and had an incredible response I
and had an incredible response [ P )
and had an incredible response PR KT A
and had an incredible response rate, so 87% of politicians
rate, so 87% of politicians N
rate, so 87% of politicians responded to our survey. What
responded to our survey. What Y
responded to our survey. What we found was that almost nine
we found was that almost nine e
we found was that almost nine N
we found was that almost nine out of ten
we found was that almost nine SRR
we found was that almost nine out of ten of them
we found was that almost nine SR N AR B
we found was that almost nine AR IR R U LR R
out of ten of them had been, YT
out of ten of them had been, RN
out of ten of them had been, had suffered wanted
out of ten of them had been, LA R e
out of ten of them had been, had suffered wanted -- unwanted
had suffered wanted -- unwanted WEIE
had suffered wanted -- unwanted harassment, but the degree of
harassment, but the degree of harassment
harassment, but the degree of IR
harassment, but the degree of harassment was also
harassment, but the degree of IR R 8
harassment, but the degree of harassment was also really high
harassment was also really high and
harassment was also really high TR a1
harassment was also really high and this is what surprised us,
and this is what surprised us, that
and this is what surprised us, G e
and this is what surprised us, eI LR e
and this is what surprised us, G R AT R (TN
and this is what surprised us, that it wasn’t just unwanted
that it wasn’t just unwanted oo s lat100a 1 e: als]s]
that it wasn’t just unwanted e atlatI0la T als s Mo It A
that it wasn’t just unwanted communication but additions
communication but additions ey
communication but additions were having people turn up at
were having people turn up at that their
were having people turn up at IR R
were having people turn up at that their homes, they were
that their homes, they were (N
that their homes, they were being threatened, receiving
being threatened, receiving death threats
being threatened, receiving R R ]
being threatened, receiving death threats and approached in
death threats and approached in IS {
death threats and approached in ] (T Vi1
death threats and approached in Il (T Y R 1
death threats and approached in public. And this was quite a
public. And this was quite a e
public. And this was quite a A R
public. And this was quite a R TR e
public. And this was quite a R R d L1t
public. And this was quite a chronic stress for MPs in
public. And this was quite a I R LA,
chronic stress for MPs in New Zealand and they worried a lot
Zealand and they worried a lot FYe L
Zealand and they worried a lot about their
Zealand and they worried a lot NGl
Zealand and they worried a lot NG i ]
Zealand and they worried a lot G iR e
about their staff and their families and their well-being
families and their well-being FY
families and their well-being TR R
families and their well-being as well. Nicola Sturgeon said
as well. Nicola Sturgeon said i)
as well. Nicola Sturgeon said AR LR R )
as well. Nicola Sturgeon said AR LRI E L R
as well. Nicola Sturgeon said she was unable to go for a walk
she was unable to go for a walk N
she was unable to go for a walk )
she was unable to go for a walk or go for coffee with friends.
or go for coffee with friends. T
or go for coffee with friends. ST
or go for coffee with friends. SR R T
or go for coffee with friends. How might the fear of being
How might the fear of being unable to go out affect a
unable to go out affect a K
unable to go out affect a AU
unable to go out affect a person’s life? Being a
person’s life? Being a politician, which is an
politician, which is an equitably tough job anyway, and
equitably tough job anyway, and then
equitably tough job anyway, and I HE ]
equitably tough job anyway, and then the added
equitably tough job anyway, and INB UL SR e
equitably tough job anyway, and N L R )
equitably tough job anyway, and N LR a4
then the added stressor of not (N
then the added stressor of not being able to unwind from that,
being able to unwind from that, )
being able to unwind from that, R
being able to unwind from that, IR ORI
being able to unwind from that, so the things that you and |
so the things that you and | it
so the things that you and | bl
so the things that you and | bR
so the things that you and | might do to manage stress, go
might do to manage stress, go e e
might do to manage stress, go out for a
might do to manage stress, go IR Ll
might do to manage stress, go out for a walk, catch up with
out for a walk, catch up with TSy
out for a walk, catch up with friends for a coffee, there is
friends for a coffee, there is FIZI7
friends for a coffee, there is always the sense of
always the sense of VYL ET e
always the sense of hypervigilance there, if you
hypervigilance there, if you have
hypervigilance there, if you TR
hypervigilance there, if you have been approached,
have been approached, LU
have been approached, threatened, and those kinds of
threatened, and those kinds of situations
threatened, and those kinds of ORI R S
threatened, and those kinds of O R S TR 18
threatened, and those kinds of situations before, that could
situations before, that could happen again. An example might
happen again. An example might )
happen again. An example might T
happen again. An example might be if we
happen again. An example might TR Nl
happen again. An example might TR N IGE]
happen again. An example might be if we heard a noise
happen again. An example might TR N G R R s
be if we heard a noise outside e
be if we heard a noise outside T e T
be if we heard a noise outside our house at night, we might
our house at night, we might LY )
our house at night, we might YN -
our house at night, we might assume it is
our house at night, we might YA AR
our house at night, we might assume it is the next-door
assume it is the next-door neighbour’s
assume It is the next-door neighbour’s cat in the
assume it is the next-door neighbour’s cat in the rubbish
neighbour’s cat in the rubbish again, but if people have come
again, but if people have come to
again, but if people have come R I
again, but if people have come RO XL
again, but if people have come to your house at night, they
to your house at night, they G R )
to your house at night, they know where you live, and you
know where you live, and you have
know where you live, and you TR
know where you live, and you have been receiving these sorts
have been receiving these sorts of
have been receiving these sorts R I]
have been receiving these sorts of threats on
have been receiving these sorts R R
have been receiving these sorts of threats on line, your first
of threats on line, your first QI
of threats on line, your first GBIl
of threats on line, your first thought might be the conspiracy
thought might be the conspiracy e
thought might be the conspiracy R R i)
thought might be the conspiracy theorist who sent you a photo
theorist who sent you a photo N
theorist who sent you a photo Rl
theorist who sent you a photo of carving knife and
theorist who sent you a photo RO LG L LR
theorist who sent you a photo MR GU UL RS
of carving knife and your kids. T
of carving knife and your kids. How much might that constant
How much might that constant T
How much might that constant level of
How much might that constant ARSI
How much might that constant RS R
How much might that constant BN
How much might that constant level of stress be a factor in
level of stress be a factor in Y
level of stress be a factor in a burn-out situation? | think
a burn-out situation? | think 3
a burn-out situation? | think s
a burn-out situation? | think it is highly
a burn-out situation? I think it is highly likely to add to
it is highly Likely to add to that
it is highly likely to add to that burn-out
it is highly likely to add to AL IR e Tl e Y
it is highly likely to add to AL R IR e e e -
that burn-out because it R
that burn-out because it doesn’t mean
that burn-out because it doesn’t mean you
that burn-out because it R U L VR TR o
that burn-out because it doesn’t mean you don’t get the
doesn’t mean you don’t get the o)
doesn’t mean you don’t get the chance to unwind and have
doesn’t mean you don’t get the e R R s B AR T
chance to unwind and have time out.
chance to unwind and have time AR R
chance to unwind and have time A ]
chance to unwind and have time I S TR e 11 %1114
chance to unwind and have time out. So, a constant level
chance to unwind and have time AR R i e G R
out. So, a constant level of hypervigilance, and activation
hypervigilance, and activation of
hypervigilance, and activation SRy
hypervigilance, and activation of the synthetic leather
8 GRS T g SN
of the synthetic leather system, any anxiety you might
system, any anxiety you might )
system, any anxiety you might be feeling on behalf of others
be feeling on behalf of others you might care about
be feeling on behalf of others RGN IR LR L
you might care about as well, that your job may be putting
that your job may be putting e
that your job may be putting O N
that your job may be putting other people, your staff or
other people, your staff or particular your family at risk
particular your family at risk as
particular your family at risk RN
particular your family at risk as well. Thank you for your
as well. Thank you for your iy
Researchers using RIS L e e R e
that Antarctic glaciers may be more sensitive to changes
in sea temperature than LRI RG]
If it melted completely, UL EH R E el e
would raise sea levels by more than half a metre.
Our climate editor, Justin Rowlatt, joined
MR R -]
West Antarctica is a challenging place to work.
It is the stormiest R RGBT RS
I w e e ldla -1
It took more than a month and more than a dozen flights
to get the scientists and their equipment
to the front of the glacier.
Ice-hardened ships brought in fuel and other bulky
supplies, which were then dragged over the ice in an epic
1,000 mile overland journey.
A campsite at the point this vast glacier goes afloat.
If we are thinking about what is sea level
going to be like in ten years, I FlalYd
s the place to be.
Boilers turned snow into water.
Hot water was used to melt down into the ice.
IR R GG gl la
The first time anyone has tried to drill down
through this glacier.
Beneath the 600 metres of ice A AR R
important point of all, RN R [ R G R
meets the ocean water.
For the first time ever, R TIGE ]
measurements under the ice, RGN R
some local creatures.
LS AT G T TR R RV S
robot submarine, packed with scientific instruments.
What we could see is that instead of this kind of flat
ice that we had all pictured, U EIRNLE
of staircases and cracks in the ice that weren’t really
expected.
A team from the British Antarctic Survey using
different instruments also found that the overall melt
rate was lower than expected.
It showed how sensitive the glacier is to even small
changes in sea water temperature.
What the results show us is that you actually don’t need
to increase the melt rate that much to drive very
So has the glacier passed a tipping point where collapse
becomes inevitable?
Our observations don’t necessarily tell us that,
but what it does tell us is how RN ARG
melting and we can use that knowledge from today to produce
better models which will tell TR o e Tl R aa RSl
Thwaites is at the bottom of the world, but what happens
here will affect us all.
The better the processes MBI e E LI
glacier are understood, R AR R Rl
have of how our seas will rise NG R e -
Forewarned is forearmed, they say.
That is particularly important because carbon emissions,
which are driving the processes I LRGN Flal
continue to rise rapidly.
Justin Rowlatt, BBC News, Thwaites Glacier.
Hollywood movie star Raquel Welch who became
an international sex symbol in the 1960s has died aged 82.
She won a Golden Globe Award for her performance
in The Three Musketeers film I LEER i Rl
with breaking the mould for modern day action hereines.
David Sillite looks I anre
Raquel Welch did not expect anyone to remember
what she thought was just a "silly dinosaur movie”.
But One Million Years BC, with its giant malevolent
turtles, poor grasp of evolution, and prehistoric
bikinis, turned Raquel Welch into a star of teenage bedrooms
"In one fell swoop, everything R R R
she said, "swept away.”
# You make me feel SO young...#.
It was pretty clear how she was being marketed.
In Bedazzled, she was given the role of Lilian Lust.
Strong, black and sweet.
In public, she played the role.
Two mountainous spoons full!
But she said she had little control over her career.
# Now, listen here, boy!
# | used to be a square... #.
She was born Jo Raquel Tejada, the daughter of a Bolivian
engineer, and her heart really lay in song and dance -
light-hearted, old-school glamour.
A lot of people want to be great artists.
| don’t know that I’m capable of being that,
but | hope | entertain a few people, you know?
The producer behind many of her projects was the man
she married in 1967 - film producer Patrick Curtis.
It would be fair to say AR L a e
than many of her films.
Never again will I let you go into such terrible danger.
But she did win a Golden Globe for The Three Musketeers.
# | can rub and scrub this house # Till it’s shining
just like a dime...#.
And on stage and television, she did get a chance to show
off her song and dance skills.
# You got the shake and | got the shimmy...#.
Raquel Welch had set out wanting to be Ginger Rogers
and ended up being defined by a doe-skin bikini.
That was David SillitoE on the life of Raquel Welch,
who’s died at the age of 82.
Rare footage from the 1986 dive that was the first to film
the sunken ship Titanic has been released.
Most of this new video has never been made available
for public viewing.
The footage from Woods Hole Ocean-ographic Institution
was shot about 3 kilometres A A e et
The material is being AP I R R 1o e e s
of the 25th anniversary of James Cameron’s Oscar
winning film, Titanic, which has been remastered.
The nearly impregnable ship was the largest ocean liner
in service in 1912 when it set off on its first journey.
It struck an iceberg in the Atlantic on April 14th
as it made its maiden voyage from Southampton to New York.
Almost 1,500 passengers died.
And that is it for us for now.
You can reach me on Twitter @LMMISZTAK
The last few days have been pretty settled with high
pressure in charge, but things are about to change
and Thursday is going to be an overcast day across most
Drizzle if not rain, really very murky
conditicns to start with.
And then towards the end RO R M e 0GR O],
turn very wild across some northern parts of the UK.
We’ll get to that.
Here’s the satellite picture.
Here’s all of that cloud moving off the Atlantic.
It’s a small weather SR G E R R R [T
across the UK during the course of Thursday and there
are more weather systems out in the Atlantic coming our way.
So, early in the morning, we have thick cloud across many
parts of England, Wales B e R Eash
Outbreaks of rain, drizzle, hill fog too,
mild with that - 5to 7 Celsius.
But across the north B E PR R L R VR
clear skies, so perhaps PRGN R
So really very murky, grey, overcast, whatever
you want to call it, first thing in the morning.
Later in the day, it does look as though most of that
rain should peter out, at least across England
and Wales, and we’ll see one or two bright or sunny spells -
with a bit of luck, one or two decent sunny spells.
13 or 14 Celsius in the south, a little bit
Now, on to Friday - nasty low pressure will be
sweeping across Scotland.
That is going to bring severe gales.
Exactly where the worst RO R R R
still a little uncertain, but it does look as though it’s
northern Scotland that will get the worst of the winds,
but not only northern Scotland, ISR IR [ 818"
windy through the lowlands and particularly to
the northeast of England, R N R AU L
in fact, the apps are already indicating gusts
of over 70 miles an hour, for example, in Newcastle.
So, these winds will cause problems, disruption,
possibly blow some trees R
So, really keep track SR RO
The details may change, but it does look as though it’s
the northern half of the UK that will be very blustery
and quite possibly stormy for a time.
Later on Friday, the winds will die down and then
in the south, actually, IR RN L P
Breezy, yes, but we’re not going to get the gales,
and it will stay mild - up to around 14 Celsius.
Now, here’s a daisy chain of weather systems as we go
through the weekend.
Se, more cloud pushing our way.
RS G LGSR [ RN raining particularly heavily,
but I think there will be a lot of cloud during the course
of Saturday and Sunday, but one or two glimmers
of brightness, too, G NE R GEALY
SRS
ILIEREN ) e [ W s
Thousands of Syrian refugees who fled to Turkey
to avoid the civil war have N NI R N e e
hoping to go back to their home country,
after last week’s earthquakes.
Turkey has said it will I R - iR Ry
for up to six months.
A court in the United States TN L R R
old, white teenager to life in prison - without parole,
for killing ten black people at a supermarket in Buffalo,
New York State, last year.
Payton Jendron live-streamed the attack on social media.
An Italian court has acquitted the former prime
minister, Silvio Berlusconi, of bribing witnesses
to lie about his "bunga bunga” sex parties.
He was accused of paying people to provide false testimony.
Mr Berlusconi insisted the parties were simply
elegant dinners.
Now on BBC News, Click
This week - Lara looks at how to 3D-print replacement bones
(@[ (T EL g
Shiona mounts up for R R AR e R o]
Yep - horse tech.
N8
Well, there’s no time to stop G T T R R =T Tl
on the go.
This is the strangest SRR
for quite some time.
And finally, time for bed.
But just how chill can Paul get?
That’s the EEG, which B AICIEILN R
That’s pretty flat at the moment which is,
you know, pretty on brand.
When 3D printers first went mainstream, many imagined
a world where some households would be creating missing
pieces of board games or spare parts to fix their cars.
The reality Is actually probably been more impressive
because we’re getting 3D-printed houses and even
3D-printed body parts.
And some of the latest trials I R R
for people who’ve had cancer.
Researchers at King’s College London and clinicians at Guy’s
and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust are collaborating
on a project to help cancer patients Like Colin.
I’d got a few appointments, ez N
I had several tests and a biopsy, which then
diagnosed me with cancer.
You’ve got to look at what the alternative
R RV VTN done, isn’t it, really?
| mean, everybody says that word, ‘cancer,’ so you imagine
(LRIl TN there and everywhere.
In a number of cases of lung, bone or metastatic breast
cancer, removing the area around the tumour means
the need to take away ARG Rz
But here, 3D printing NG R G R
something that can replace N R T NRe N
The way we reconstruct R R RER T [ g &Ll
to preserve the stability of the chest wall and to preserve
the way and the breathing mechanic.
Before 3D printing, there were several different methods.
The first was to use the methyl methacrylate.
It’s been used by orthopaedics and thoracic surgeons
for many years.
This cement was modelled at the time of surgery
on the patient, just to create a fixed area,
like, to replace the ribs RN BT
at the time of surgery.
Then, the 3D-printed started and we started
But prosthetics made from titanium are expensive,
so this team has developed a novel way using 3D printing.
This is the 3D-printed RS R G H G
I place that inte a box and then, mix these
two parts together.
| pour them over this plastic printed part.
Then, once that silicone - TR G R R R G
after about 4-6 hours, then | remove the printed part
and that leaves a cavity RO C e T R G
R GERENT SN () IR AR WA e s
In thoracic surgery, when you are removing this
area, rather than having three ribs, you are creating,
like, a big square of cement.
Very good to protect your lung...
..but there was not a good functional result.
So moving from using the same material, you get the same kind
of resistance because, TG TR L
But also, you have the flexibility, so when you are
breathing, they can move.
To me, it was new, putting something foreign in your body.
But when he explained it to me, it sounded more or less
the right way te go.
So, from thenon, | had a (T scan, which obviously gave
all the measurements for them to make the part,
which they did eventually make and it was implanted in me
and I’ve not been LR E A S
The technology is helping us a lot to provide better surgery
VLGB Tl TR R QR
not only in terms of cancer resection but also in terms
of quality of life N e iR e
which for me are equally e S I A E L
LI QTR N VN T as well of nearly £1000
per procedure.
And the whole process is about to get even smarter.
By next year, the aim is to directly 3D-print
So, instead of a whole process that requires a mould
and everything along the way, it’ll just be made straight
away in a material like this polymer, which is called PEEK,
which can be sterilised BRGNS RN AR e R
body.
I did ask at the time how long I EL R G AT
would last and | was told it last at least 200 years,
which would seen me out, yeah!
But then, | never thought of asking at the time how
strong that is compared to bone.
But apparently, it’s as good as bone, so...
Wow, it really does seem like 3D-printing is finding
a place in healthcare.
How did the replacement hones look in the flesh,
R e X
TGS
But what was really fascinating to me was that | imagine our
bones are really perfect - like the ones that you see
on a skeleton in a school classroom.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But they’re not.
Yeah, right.
OK, well, let’s stick G G A
Now, since we’ve been back from the US, most of the Click
team have struggled to get to sleep at the right time.
And more generally, a good night’s sleep is a good thing.
So, while he was in Las Vegas, IR e R - i
a lovely lie down.
Sleep is vital for good health but many of us are struggling.
Experts recommend adults under 65 get between seven and nine
hours of sleep per night.
But according to the Centers TN I R e ]
and Prevention in the US, 35% of us report sleeping
for less than seven hours NV D
At least | know | m not alone!
I’ve tried using podcasts, white noise, pretty much
everything, and nothing’s really worked.
Now, this is the FRENDZ Brainband from Earable
Neuroscience and they claim that it can use a variety
of sensors to measure seven different metrics,
including brainwaves and your facial movements
as you sleep.
The headband has bone-conduction headphones,
which sit just above your ears.
LS A VT LR ooy g1 in response to its sensor
readings in real-time, including meditation,
nature scunds and music.
The inbuilt Al then learns how your brain responds
to different types of sounds to try and figure out what’s
most likely to help TR
So, I’m looking at the graphs here on the screen and it’s
LR R QIR things, one of which is
the EEG, which is my brain signal.
And that’s pretty flat RGN ROl Ry
you know, pretty on brand.
And then underneath that, RN AR iR
which is slightly strange.
It looks like it’s detecting when | move eyes around
and it’s reacting on the graph, so that’s pretty funky.
And then at the bottom, TR e
And If | kind of open and close my mouth like that,
it also reflects on the graph here.
So it’s pretty impressive that it’s detecting all of that just
from something that’s basically wrapped around my forehead.
We have done a lot of brain stimulation using audio,
using electreomagnetic signal.
We stimulate and then we measure how the brain
responds to that, so that is the uniqueness of this device -
It understands you.
When | first wear it, it would play piane sounds,
hoping that it will help me to relax and put me to sleep.
| play piano, so every time | hear piano sounds,
my brain is really active.
So since then, it doesn’t play piane sounds any more -
it only played natural LG LRI E R
to sleep faster.
LRy LT R EY O E ) Brainband can get you to sleep
an average of 19 minutes faster than usual.
ST LT LR | IR AR
So, I’ve been using the band for a couple of nights now.
| sleep on my side, and that T RO AR LR i
uncomfortable, but perhaps more of a problem was that | woke up
in the morning to lots of alerts on the phone saying
that it had actually come off.
The company’s creating E T A AR R st LR e 2]
C[JIOEIR IS QR R R G year in the hope it’ll one day
be used by doctors to help treat sleep disorders.
This is the first step towards diagnosing at a much
lower cost as high of a quality as that compared to the devices
in the hospital.
The goal is to bring this to the clinical world to help
people with their actual strong needs for improving
their sleep.
Researchers always like to collect sleep data
in as natural a setting as possible.
It will be immensely beneficial I N A N L s
Instead of travelling every day to a sleep clinic to do this,
if you can do it at home, that is much, much better.
So, that’s tech you can wear.
But what about tech you can sleep on?
South Korean company ANSSIL is showcasing its unique
mattress design which is supported not by springs
or foam, but by strings - 14 million of them.
The string tension and mattress firmness is adjusted by air
that’s pumped Inside.
It also contains sensors which can detect your body
shape and position as you move throughout the night
and adjusts firmness Elae [ \'A
So, if you are a side sleeper you need, like,
Back sleeper, you need firmer.
You cannot keep the same position the whole night,
but just to show you, I’m going to do it manually.
OK, great!
So, this is the level ten.
Yep.
So, ten is the most firm?
Yes, it’s firm.
But I’m going to put it - O TR L
Oh, yeah - you definitely feel it going down!
There’s an integrated smart scale which measures 18 types
of data, including BMI and muscle mass.
It takes a while to take all those measurements so now,
it’s time for a well-earned lie down.
So, you’re on the mattress.
You’re looking very comfortable.
| want to sleep here.
What is it doing with the data that it’s collected
from you that we’ve E VI
The data is combined to this application.
So when people first use this mattress, we need the default
level, based on your body shape, your muscles,
Ul
My default level is ANSSil number three.
And then, if | change posture, then probably, the number
Is changed accordingly.
The system is clearly recognising when Daniel changes
position, but it seemed to have issues distinguishing
between back and front A CEY I Voo LTI T
The measurements come together IR TR R R B
known as the ANSSIl PO AL
So, close to 200 points, the more quality and better
SUTTNyToli o] ] you have right now.
Of course, it’s quite difficult RGN S ST [ Il )
like this on a show floor but how much potential does it
have for improving ROl
We all know if you don’t have the right mattress
for you, that’s going to ruin your sleep.
I mean, it can give you a backache, it can give
you a shoulder ache.
The price of the ANSSIl mattress and smart bed system
ranges between US$5000-7000.
Although we might one day see devices like these being used
more often to help improve our sleep, it might be
a while before they’re affordable and accurate enough
And now, it’s time for a look RO T R R
in which the Al chatbot race has been heating up.
Google has announced its new Al-powered chatbot
Bard, and is set el R clal
It’s built on Google’s existing language model called LaMDA,
which one engineer described as being so human-Llike
in its responses LR LR
In a race to complete, Chinese company Baidu has
announced its own Al chatbot, the ERNIE Bot.
And in the same week, Microsoft has annocunced
a new version of its search engine Bing, which will include
ChatGPT technology.
At the core of it, it’s really about using natural language
to ask a question.
Up until now, we’ve been trained to ask questions
in a way that we think the search engine is going
toc understand us.
Zoom, which became a household name during the pandemic,
s laying off 1300 staff.
This will affect about 15% of its workforce, which has
seen profits fall and YT [ GG
And finally, SpaceX’s latest mission Polaris Dawn will see
astronauts wear Garmin smartwatches to monitor
the impact of space travel on the human body.
Fenix 7 will allow researchers to continuously monitor
and collect the crew’s biometrics, such as heart rate,
pulse oximetry and sleep patterns.
Being here really reminds me of when | was younger
and coming for riding lessons, but I’ve not been on a horse
in a very long time.
So I’m interested to see how technology is helping people
who are learning to ride a horse today.
Time to get back on the saddle, | quess.
The team here at Scotland’s Rural College have really
embraced new tech, and by doing so, it’s hoped it can benefit
the riders as well YR e
Meet Penny, who will help me demonstrate.
OK, let’s go.
First up, there are smart reins UG A G U CR AU
pressure | am putting on Penny as she walks.
So what we’re using here MR e R s
OR3P R g
There is a little box that sits on the top of the horse’s head
and it has two lights that indicate your left rein
= Eels | Ag=TI)
If you take any pressure MO EC IR e
the colour will change.
Purple indicates low pressure and blue and red show medium
=R NI ISTI(CS
They maybe have a problem where they have maybe one rein
a little bit too higher than the other or one shorter
than the other, it can really help them to make those
adjustments themselves, R eI R aina e e et a
of having to tell I B -y
| have also tried on the bio mechanic jacket which helps me
PR A SR N I R Rt et et e ol 0
ISR TS
Initially we look for a straight line from the shoulder
through the hip down RGN A
when they’re on the horse.
We also look for a nice straight line from a relaxed
shoulder and then a line from the rider’s elbow
through the hand, through RN R e R e
the horse is going and make it quite uncomfortable
for the horse and stops them from travelling forward.
How are you monitoring that using these fluorescent lines?
So what we do is we use a robot camera, it tracks the rider no
matter where they go in the arena.
UL IRy i and out automatically.
So we’ll record the riders in a variety of paces,
so in the walk, the trot, and the canter, and they can
review their riding position afterwards, discuss it
with their instructor and then they can see maybe
what Is really good and what needs improving.
And you’re also using camera technology to connect
with the smartwatch which | had on earlier as well?
Whichever rider is wearing the smartwatch, the camera
will track that rider and wherever they are
in the arena.
And then again, is it the same thing, they are looking
for the posture, they’re looking for the technique,
they’re kind of picking up anything that maybe would be
difficult to pick up otherwise?
Yeah we are, we are looking for that visual aspect,
and if we have got any riders that maybe come along that
have an auditory processing disorder or auditory memory
disorder, because it makes it visual, it makes it really
VR IR R -l e
And finally, we have the pressure mat.
This mat sits underneath MR R REL G
We can use it to help learn about saddle fitting initially,
but also it Is great for detecting any abnormalities
in position, and that pressure UEIR W S G E L R G
it transmits data to an iPad.
We can record them as they are riding in walk,
trot or canter, and they can A R R R e e [ 00s
changes happen.
And obviously if they are AR CE NN
it makes the horse unbalanced NG R R R N ETe)
of the horses and to improve their riding.
Not only other pieces of tech making horse riding more
accessible and teaching our equestrian enthusiasts how
to ride, they have some MG NS
RS I G- R s YN L ICRd
And actually having everything, it made me focus on everything
and bonding with the horse, no matter what horse
| had been given.
These four bits of tech NG RO G LR
students here are getting the most modern way of learning
ERRGGITE (R [« B E Y steeped in tradition.
And it looks Like the college has their eyes on more tech
Got a question for you.
Would you like to eat and drink on a moving ride?
No - why would anybody do that?
Good question.
Well, there is a new ride that’s opened at one
of Europe’s largest theme parks, and who do we call
on when there is a ride involved?
LY (]
Exactly - so get ready for Eatrenalin.
How do you stop this thing?
When we think of theme park rides, we think of this...
__or even this.
SCREAMING So when | was asked to try out a new theme park
dining experience called Eatrenalin, | wondered
what could possibly TR
Well, | wasn’t expecting this.
Turns out, it’s less a physical thrill ride and more
an emotional and culinary experience.
This is the strangest experience | have had
for quite some time.
Nestled in the shell NIRRT
find fresh seafood. ..
The food is augmented by visuals, lighting and music.
I have kind of forgotten that | am moving, but...
I’ve still got this sense of...
Tranquillity.
The story behind Eatrenalin follows an Al who just wants
to become human, while diners are leisurely transported
through themed spaces.
| have been in the secret room, which was surprising
and amazing and surreal.
Now it’s time to go to Japan.
The so-called "World of Umami,” a Japanese inspired restaurant.
Don’t know many Japanese N R R B
gong.
Earlier in the day, | met co-founder Thomas Mack
for a behind-the-scenes RGN
or Is that experience?
No-one around here seems quite sure.
So a champagne bar, so you can have a drink in the evening
and then you go this way toward our floating chairs.
These chairs are the combination of four years
of development and contain NIl Tl N g e
So, welcome.
Here are our floating chairs.
It’s like they are breathing, they are being charged up.
Is it rollers or is it a cushion of air?
The first idea was a cushion PR R IR R LR )
loud, so that was I RO R
Now it is all S a gl (X)L
You have three different wheels, but also the wheels
we developed, the floating iR
L (BT LRIV always move it forward
and backwards, up and down, you have different functions
and a tray that opens, so you have your bottle
of water here, and there is going to be a box with four
different flavours - S T (R el e
The chairs use infrared sensors so they den’t bump
IGERV GG E to a preprogrammed journey
through the rooms.
Here with this movable chair, you’re in complete control
of your guests’ journey.
Diners change formations throughout the two-hour
experience, so each new course brings a new companion,
which may or may not EL R R GRS e
The main event, though, is the food, which is typical
of a high-end restaurant.
| love going in the kitchens, e RGN AR ]
the real work Is getting done.
And this is amazing.
You don’t normally get this number of screens
In a restaurant kitchen, but in fact it’s telling people
everything they need to know R s e s
tolerances and even exactly where they are sitting
while they are having RS
That makes sure the food VR RGN T
at the right time HRGER AT
Unlike a traditional restaurant, all plates have
to be served simultaneously to keep up with the story.
And the constant countdowns hang over the kitchen
NI T ORI
In the end we are a restaurant, a fine dining restaurant,
ARG R G (T good, or if it is not
at the same level as the media and the technique, then we did
do something wrong.
So for us, the food RGNS A el
Do you come here often?
AR VA TR A l-D
At nearly 200 euros per person, Eatrenalin is definitely priced
as a high-end restaurant RO Nes -]
Europa-Park aims to sell the concept to other parks
and cities around the world, and it is hoping the experience
will be attractive to those N R RIS E e
industry.
IR G RET LT d[ LRI R E I AV
to exporting roller-coaster hardware, it is a very hig move
into uncharted territory.
Still not convinced - | think that will give me
indigestion.
No, looked great to me, | will take someone else then.
That’s it from us for this week, thanks for watching,
see you s00n.
The last few days have been pretty settled with high
pressure in charge, but things are about to change
and Thursday is going to be an overcast day across most
Drizzle, if not rain, really very murky
conditicns to start with.
And then towards the end of the week it could actually
turn very wild across some northern parts of the UK.
We’ll get to that.
Here’s the satellite picture.
Here’s all of that cloud moving off the Atlantic.
It’s a small weather SR G E R R R [T
across the UK during the course of Thursday and there
are more weather systems out in the Atlantic coming our way.
So, early in the morning we have thick cloud across many
parts of England, Wales B e R Eash
Outbreaks of rain, drizzle, hill fog too mild with that
5 to seven degrees.
But across the north B E PR R L R VR
clear skies, so perhaps PRGN R
So really very murky, gray, overcast, whatever
you want to call it, first thing in the morning.
Later in the day, it does look as though most of that
rain should peter out, Al A e Y
England and Wales.
And we’ll see one or two bright or sunny spells
with a bit of luck, one or two decent sunny spells.
(BRI LD L] the south, a little bit
Now onto Friday - nasty low pressure will be
sweeping across Scotland.
That is going to bring severe gales, exactly where the worst
Still a Little uncertain, but it does look as though it’s
northern Scotland that will get the worst of the winds,
but not only northern Scotland.
(LT N R GG 1Y windy through the lowlands
and particularly to the north-east of England.
So the east of the Pennines, in fact, the apps are already
indicating gusts of over 70 miles an hour, for
example, in Newcastle.
So these winds will cause problems, disruption possibly
So really keep track SR RO
The details may change, but it does look as though it’s
the northern half of the UK that will be very blustery
and quite possibly stormy for a time.
Later on Friday the winds will die down and then in the south,
actually it shouldn’t RN el
Breezy, yes, but we’re not going to get the gales
=LA )R G up to around 14 degrees.
Now, here’s a daisy chain of weather systems as we go
through the weekend.
Se more cloud pushing our way.
RS G LGSR [ RN raining particularly heavily,
but I think there will be a lot of cloud during the course
of Saturday and Sunday, but one or two glimmers
of brightness, too G NE R GEALY
SRS
Welcome to BBC News.
I’m Lisa-Marie Misztak.
Our top stories:
On the Turkish border, thousands of Syrian refugees
are trying to cross back RGeS
after last week’s earthquakes.
The combined death toll climbs ORI AR R
Commotion in court as the 19-year-old
gunman who killed ten black
Americans at a grocery store in Buffalo, New York,
s sentenced to life in prison - without parole.
An Italian court acquits the former prime minister,
Silvio Berlusconi, of bribing witnesses to Lie about his
"bunga bunga” - sex parties.
Antarctic glaciers may be more sensitive
to changes in sea temperature than previously thought.
We have a special report.
The first time anyone has tried to drill down
through this glacier beneath the 600 meters of ice.
Below me is the most B L
The point at which the e RN el
AR R N EIne I R R I
# Till it’s shining just like a dime...#
And the Hollywood film star and model Raquel Welsh
has died at the age of 82.
Hello and welcome to our viewers on PBS
N e[ L DT G0N
Thousands of refugees who fled the war in Syria
RGN (R T GG E arrived at the border hoping to
go back to their home country after last week’s earthquakes.
Turkey has said it will I R - iR Ry
for up to six months.
LRI LI T R R G R (L in Turkey and Syria has climbed
to more than 41,000, and milliocns are in need
The BBC’s Laura Bicker has been to Antakya, close
to the Turkish border, where desparate Syrian families
continue to arrive.
The last time these Syrian families crossed this
border, it was with dreams NN dhe
Their homeland has been ripped AR CI
Their new life in Turkey lies in ruins after the earthquake.
So once again, they are IR G NI gl
whatever they have left.
Reem has lived in N ELSZR N L
Her children were born there, IS R S R 1 s
towards Syrians in her host country is worse
since the quake.
TRANSLATION: We’ve RN
We try to find another place to stay.
But they kept chasing us away, asking us to return to Syria.
ULV GRS &R B G TR (TS with my children?
Where should we go?
The Turkish government has said Syrians can come
But many ask, what do they have to come back to?
This is a broken city, full of loss and fallen concrete.
It’s no longer a home.
Those who choose to stay have nowhere else to go.
Ahmed knows there’s lLittle here for him and his family,
but he’s nothing left in Syria.
R
LGB YN0 B R G114 about the children a lot,
about their situation and what will happen to them.
When it’s dark, their night RN e
| fear for them more than | do myself.
It Is rare, but survivors are still being found.
74-year-old Shamil was found AW A a1
the earthquake struck.
Earlier today, three people were rescued
And tonight, they believe there are signs of life in that
building and they are continuing to work away,
which shows that even amid the amount of human
despair we’ve seen in the last ten days,
there’s still sign of light.
[N Gl 1 LW N EISZD
And you can find lots more detail about the earthquakes
LRIV GRS on our website - just head
to bbc.com/news - IR U CR- W L))
Let’s take a look at some other stories
The head of NATO has called on member countries
to ramp up the production N e R e -]
Yens Stoltenberg said member countries were making more
artillery shells to help Kyiv’s forces fight Russia’s invasion,
but he warned they cannot guarantee there will be enough.
The president of the World Bank will step
down from his post in June, LENL LR GG EREE LT
almost a year before his term was due to end.
David Malpass announced his decision on social media,
without providing a specific reason for his departure.
The governor of the US R AL N e R g - s
residents living near the site of a toxic train derailment
gl A R 5
The cargo train crashed 12 days ago, causing a major fire
and triggering the release R AR
The first tourists have returned to Machu Picchu,
the famous world heritage site in Peru.
The area had been closed off by demonstrators demanding
the removal of the former I
M RGN TER] the capital, Lima, and other
regions in the south.
The self-declared white R e e
has been sentenced to life in prison without parole
NI g AL N EGR New York State,
for a racially-motivated mass killing.
This is him, being led into the courtroom.
He’d earlier admitted murdering
ten people during that attack at a supermarket last May.
He drove more than 200 miles to the store,
which is in a predeminantly African-American
part of Buffalo.
Before sentencing, PR A N e
the victims was giving PR NI R NI
tried to attack Gendron - YA
You don’t know a damn thing about black people!
We’re human.
We like our kids to go to good schools.
We never go in no QUL LI T
to take people out.
LA ANV e rm 2
The Eerie County district attorney, John Flynn,
spoke at a news conference after the sentencing.
| would characterise what happened today
as the end of a beginning.
That, while what happened today puts a legal closure
to the criminal proceedings,
let’s put aside the federal matter for our purposes here,
puts a legal closure to this tragic incident
on May 14 of 2022, IR g I A L R ]
put any closure on what we need to do as a society
and as a community going forward.
With more details, here’s our correspondent
iIn New York, Nedda Tawfeek.
This was an incredibly emotional hearing,
from a relative lunging at Payton Gendron in the court
room before being restrained to then the families hearing
room before being restrained to then the families hearing
from the teenage white supremacist themselves.
This sentence really was a foregone conclusion.
It was the mandatory sentence for that charge.
One of the charges he faced, domestic terrorism
motivated by hate.
And the judge said that he wouldn’t be given any mercy
or sentenced as a youth because he had meticulously
planned, researched, AR AN T I ET T
and executed this heinous crime, streaming shooting
black Americans shopping for groceries, live streaming
that on the internet, on a social media platforms.
So the judge said that he would not see the light of day
again as a free man.
But this was really, this whole hearing, an opportunity
for family members who lost AR R e
survivors to directly e el
A court in Italy has acquitted the former prime
minister, Silvio Berlusconi, of bribing witnesses to lie
about his notorious "bunga bunga” parties.
Ll billionaire politician,
who Is 86, was accused
of paying people to provide false testimony in a previous
trial where he was charged with paying for sex
with a 17-year-old I e L e
Mr Berlusconi had denied wrongdoing.
A little earlier, | spoke to our reporter, Sofia Bettiza,
who’s been following the story.
This verdict is the culmination of a legal
battle that lasted 11 years IR G N s e
And it all began in 2010 when Silvio Berlusconi,
who was then prime minister of Italy, was charged with paying
for sex with an underage qgirl.
She was a 17-year-old dancer known
by her stage name, Ruby the Heart Stealer.
Now, after that happened, judges
believe that Berlusconi paid off 24
people, mainly young women, so that they would lie in earlier
trials about so-called bunga bunga parties.
Prosecutors described them as sex parties that women
were paid to attend.
Now, one of the women R e el
lying was Ruby herself, and she was in court today
| need time to process QI A
This i1s an encrmous liberation.
Many people know nothing about my life at the moment.
Speaking to Berlusconi is not R L A L
The first person I’ll speak to is my mum.
UL RGTE R T U oy ] was acquitted.
Just why Is that?
Well, judges said that there just wasn’t enough evidence.
But, you know, this is really significant in Italy.
This scandal contributed to the downfall of Silvio Berlusconi
LY Prime Minister in 2011.
His reputation abroad was destroyed.
But this whole time he’s denied any wrongdoing and insisted
that bunga bunga parties were just elegant dinners.
And a few hours ago, in a tweet,
Berlusconi said, I’ve finally been acquitted
after more than 11 years of suffering, of political
damage and of having my name dragged through the mud.
SR R TR for Mr Berlusconi?
Well, you know, he has been dominant
in Italian public R
as a media tycoon, as a football
R e
And he was prime NI R
So, you know, he is 86 years old,
but he’s still in politics and he’s made political
At the moment, actually, he’s the leader of a centre right
party that is playing a key role in Italy’s
in Italy’s coalition government.
So now that his name has been cleared, Berlusconi is likely
to continue playing a very important
role in Italian I R e A
One of the 12 boys R LR el |
from a Thai cave in 2018, PR RG &
17-year-old Duangpetch Promthep suffered a head
injury while attending a football academy in the UK.
The exact circumstances of the accident are not yet
known, but he’s reported to have fallen
Our South East Asia T L
Jonathan Head reports.
His winning smile, even after nine days in the dark
with no food, brought cheer to a global audience gripped
by the Thal cave drama.
Duangpetch Promthep’s rescue, MO R Ll R
of his team-mates, by volunteer divers from across the world,
over formidable terrain, seems little short of miraculous.
As did their rapid recovery in hospital.
And their unbroken spirit, on display in this first
encounter with the hundreds of journalists who descended
on Thailand to report their underground ordeal.
We were at his house in the Little border town
of Mae Sai when Dom was finally able to go home to a family
who could scarcely believe they had him back in one piece.
Their fame opened new opportunities for boys whose
prospects in life had NSRS ey
Still football mad, Dom won a scholarship last
year to go to Britain, to this private academy
-rlal e
This is my dream, he wrote, promising to work hard
and pursue his ultimate goal RSN R i dg’
BRI G R e B
It was left to the man who got him the scholarship,
Zico, a former member of the Thai national team,
te inferm his family about his sudden death.
His mother asking only for help to bring back his body.
The first sad note in a story which, until now, still had
the power to amaze and inspire.
Jonathan Head, BBC News, Bangkok.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Hollywood star Raquel Y I iU R e =]
with paving the way for modern RVl I T
has died at the age of 82.
Nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into Afghanistan
the last Soviet troops were finally coming home.
The withdrawal completed in good order but the Army
defeated in the task it was sent to perform.
Malcelm has been murdered.
That has a terrible effect for the morale of the people.
I’m terrified of the IO LRI RO R O
One wonders who 15 next.
As the airlift got under way there was no let-up
in the eruption itself.
Lava streams from a vent low in the crater flow down
to the sea to the east of the island, away from
the town for the time being.
(IR g il again at any time.
The Russians heralded the next generation space station with
a spectacular night launch.
LS A LTl o Russian for peace.
On the Turkish border, thousands of Syrian refugees
are trying to cross back RGN Tl 2
after last week’s earthquakes.
The combined death toll LY TRt s R el e
than 41,000.
The 19-year-old gunman R I Rl e Va1 a o e
at a grocery store in Buffalo, New York has been
sentenced to life in prison without parole.
Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s longest-serving
first minister, and the UK’s most experienced political
leader, is standing down after eight years in office.
In a hastily-cenvened and sometimes emotional news
conference, Ms Sturgeon said she no longer felt she had
the energy for the job.
Being your First Minister has been the privilege of my life.
Nothing, absolutely nothing BT R R Tty
will come anywhere close.
Thank you from the very bottom of my heart.
Earlier, | spoke to Professor Susanna Every-Palmer,
who is head of department of Psychological Medicine
at the University of Otago in Wellington.
She previously co-authored a paper on the impact
of harassment on the mental health of politicians.
| began by asking her EL R G R GILTEN
We surveyed all the politicians in New Zealand
about eight years ago and had an incredible response rate.
So 87% of politicians responded to our survey.
And what we found that almost nine out of ten of them
had been had suffered unwanted harassment.
But the degree of harassment was also really high.
And this is what surprised us, that it wasn’t just unwanted
communication, but politicians were having people turning
up at their homes.
They were being threatened, receiving death threats
and approached in public.
And this was quite a chronic stressor
for MPs in New Zealand and they worried a lot
EL NG IR e =
and their wellbeing as well.
Now, i S
Sturgeon said she was unable to go for a walk or go
How might the fear QEERLET LIS
to go out affect R AU
So is being a politician, which is an incredibly
tough job anyway.
And then the added A TR e
being able to unwind for that.
So the things that you and | might
do to manage stress - S IR L
catch up with friends TR iR
There’s always the sense of hypervigilance there.
If you had been approached, threatened in those kind
of situations before that, that could happen again.
So an example might be if if we Y IGER R e e N aa
at night, we might assume it’s the next door neighbor’s cat
into the rubbish again.
But if people have come to your house at night, they know
where you live and you’ve been receiving these sorts
GRUIGCEIER
your first thought might go to the conspiracy
theorist who sent you a photo of a carving
knife and one of your kids.
Now briefly, neither Ms
Sturgeon or Jacinda Ardern said harassment
MRS of their resignation.
But how might that constant level of stress be a factor
the burn-out situation?
| think it’s highly VAT
to that burn-out because it does mean
that you don’t get the chance to unwind and have time out.
So a constant level of hypervigilance, activation
o QRS Lok 4 [ e nervous system
CL TN P8 you might be feeling
on behalf of others that you care
about as well, that your job may be putting other people,
your staff, or particularly R L M R
Researchers using an underwater robot have found
that Antarctic glaciers may be more sensitive to changes
in sea temperature than LRI RG]
If it melted completely, UL EH R E el e
would raise sea levels by more than half a metre.
Our climate editor, Justin Rowlatt, joined
MR R -]
West Antarctica is a challenging place to work.
It is the stormiest R RGBT RS
I w e e ldla -1
It took more than a month and more than a dozen flights
to get the scientists and their equipment
to the front of the glacier.
Ice-hardened ships brought in fuel and other bulky
supplies, which were then dragged over the ice in an epic
1,000 mile overland journey.
A campsite at the point this vast glacier goes afloat.
If we are thinking about what is sea level
going to be like in ten years, I FlalYd
s the place to be.
Boilers turned snow into water.
Hot water was used to melt down into the ice.
IR R GG gl la
The first time anyone has tried to drill down
through this glacier.
Beneath the 600 metres of ice A AR R
important point of all, RN R [ R G R
meets the ocean water.
For the first time ever, R TIGE ]
measurements under the ice, RGN R
some local creatures.
LS AT G T TR R RV S
robot submarine, packed with scientific instruments.
What we could see is that instead of this kind of flat
ice that we had all pictured, U EIRNLE
of staircases and cracks in the ice that weren’t really
expected.
A team from the British Antarctic Survey using
different instruments also found that the overall melt
rate was lower than expected.
It showed how sensitive the glacier is to even small
changes in sea water temperature.
What the results show us is that you actually don’t need
to increase the melt rate that much to drive very
So has the glacier passed a tipping point where collapse
becomes inevitable?
Our observations don’t necessarily tell us that,
but what it does tell us is how RN ARG
melting and we can use that knowledge from today to produce
better models which will tell TR o e Tl R aa RSl
Thwaites is at the bottom of the world, but what happens
here will affect us all.
The better the processes MBI e E LI
glacier are understood, R AR R Rl
have of how our seas will rise NG R e -
Forewarned is forearmed, they say.
That is particularly important because carbon emissions,
which are driving the processes I LRGN Flal
continue to rise rapidly.
Justin Rowlatt, BBC News, Thwaites Glacier.
The earliest and most complete Hebrew Bible ever
discovered, is to be sold at auction, and is expected
to fetch as much as 50 million dollars.
The volume, referred to as the Codex Sassoon,
dates back more than 1,000 years.
London-based auction house G R R AR R agr oL
link between the Dead Sea scrolls and the Bible of today.
Its valuation makes it the most costly historical
document or manuscript to appear at auction.
and this has been TR SR
carbon dating analysis, which was done in the last
years, as well as by A EIe R B Y
studied this manuscript and have confirmed it through paleo
o[ETe 1= T T} ecological research.
Hollywood movie star Raquel Welch, who became
an international sex symbol in the 1960s, has died aged 82.
She won a Golden Globe Award for her performance
in The Three Musketeers film I LEER i Rl
with breaking the mould for modern day action hereines.
David Sillitoe looks I anre
Raquel Welch did not expect anyone to remember
what she thought was just a "silly dinosaur movie”.
But One Million Years BC, with its giant malevolent
turtles, poor grasp of evolution, and prehistoric
bikinis, turned Raquel Welch into a star of teenage bedrooms
"In one fell swoop, everything R R R
she said, "swept away.”
# You make me feel SO young...#.
It was pretty clear how she was being marketed.
In Bedazzled, she was given the role of Lilian Lust.
Strong, black and sweet.
In public, she played the role.
Two mountainous spoons full!
But she said she had little control over her career.
# Now, listen here, boy!
# | used to be a square... #.
She was born Jo Raquel Tejada, the daughter of a Bolivian
engineer, and her heart really lay in song and dance -
light-hearted, old-school glamour.
A lot of people want to be great artists.
| don’t know that I’m capable of being that,
but | hope | entertain a few people, you know?
The producer behind many of her projects was the man
she married in 1967 - film producer Patrick Curtis.
It would be fair to say AR L a e
than many of her films.
Never again will I let you go into such terrible danger.
But she did win a Golden Globe for The Three Musketeers.
# | can rub and scrub this ST
# Till it’s shining just like a dime...#.
And on stage and television, she did get a chance to show
off her song and dance skills.
# You got the shake and | got the shimmy...#.
Raquel Welch had set out wanting to be Ginger Rogers
and ended up being defined by a doe-skin bikini.
That was David Sillitoe on the life of Raquel Welsh,
who’s died at the age of 82.
Rare video has just been A I LR A R E R e 1s
liner, which hit an iceberg and sunk on its maiden
voyage from the UK to New York, in 1912.
Most of this new footage TN R )
available for public viewing.
It was shot by divers in 1986 at a depth of
L N0 A
The material is being AP I R R 1o e e s
of the 25th anniversary of James Cameron’s Oscar
winning film, Titanic, which has been remastered.
Almost 1500 passengers died in the disaster.
And that is it for us for now.
You can reach me on Twitter @LMMISZTAK.
The last few days have been pretty settled with high
pressure in charge, but things are about to change
and Thursday is going to be an overcast day across most
Drizzle if not rain, really very murky
conditicns to start with.
And then towards the end RO R M e 0GR O],
turn very wild across some northern parts of the UK.
We’ll get to that.
Here’s the satellite picture.
Here’s all of that cloud moving off the Atlantic.
It’s a small weather SR G E R R R [T
across the UK during the course of Thursday and there
are more weather systems out in the Atlantic coming our way.
So, early in the morning, we have thick cloud across many
parts of England, Wales B e R Eash
Outbreaks of rain, drizzle, hill fog too,
mild with that - 5to 7 Celsius.
But across the north B E PR R L R VR
clear skies, so perhaps PRGN R
So really very murky, grey, overcast, whatever
you want to call it, first thing in the morning.
Later in the day, it does look as though most of that
rain should peter out, at least across England
and Wales, and we’ll see one or two bright or sunny spells -
with a bit of luck, one or two decent sunny spells.
13 or 14 Celsius in the south, a little bit
Now, on to Friday - nasty low pressure will be
sweeping across Scotland.
That is going to bring severe gales.
Exactly where the worst RO R R R
still a little uncertain, but it does look as though it’s
northern Scotland that will get the worst of the winds,
but not only northern Scotland, ISR IR [ 818"
windy through the lowlands and particularly to
the northeast of England, R N R AU L
in fact, the apps are already indicating gusts
of over 70 miles an hour, for example, in Newcastle.
So, these winds will cause problems, disruption,
possibly blow some trees R
So, really keep track SR RO
The details may change, but it does look as though it’s
the northern half of the UK that will be very blustery
and quite possibly stormy for a time.
Later on Friday, the winds will die down and then
in the south, actually, IR RN L P
Breezy, yes, but we’re not going to get the gales,
and it will stay mild - up to around 14 Celsius.
Now, here’s a daisy chain of weather systems as we go
through the weekend.
Se, more cloud pushing our way.
RS G LGSR [ RN raining particularly heavily,
but I think there will be a lot of cloud during the course
of Saturday and Sunday, but one or two glimmers
of brightness, too, G NE R GEALY
SRS
Thousands of Syrian refugees who fled to Turkey
to avoid the civil war have N NI R N e e
hoping to go BACK to their home country -
after last week’s earthquakes.
Turkey has said it will I R - iR Ry
for up to six months.
A court in the United States has sentenced a 19 year
old, white teenager to life in prison - without parole,
for killing ten black people at a supermarket in Buffalo,
New York State, last year.
Payton Gendren live-streamed the attack on social media.
An Italian court has acquitted the former prime
minister, Silvio Berlusconi, of bribing witnesses
to lie about his "bunga bunga™ - sex parties.
He was accused of paying people to provide false testimony.
Mr Berlusconi insisted the parties were simply
elegant dinners.
elegant dinners.
Now on BBC News, HARDtalk.
Welcome to HARDtalk, I’m Stephen Sackur.
Across the world, workers are finding their living standards
squeezed by rising inflation.
For some, it’s not so much a squeeze as decapitation.
Technological change N TGULLEE R
in 8 host of industries.
Kenneth Roth in Cambridge, T T e
Great to be back, Stephen. TR LR G R T
It’s good to have RGO
It is indeed quite something, leading one of the world’s
highest profile human rights advocacy groups for
some three decades.
Did you leave that job with a sense of defeat?
No, not at all.
In fact, | mean, maybe | should start with your
intreduction, because, you know, your intreduction
was the common wisdom.
You know, that democracy is in decline, that
autocracy Is ascendant.
LRGSR Gl L WS- Ne]1 more complicated than that.
| mean, we are seeing the rise NS TR TR TR 07
the Trumps of the world, R RGN e
But if you look at the leading YTl qe n e alalns 00a aal- T
and you put yourself RO R A ]
of their dictators, IR WA
environment out there.
And just in the last year, you know, we’ve seen
the dangers of autocratic rules, because autocrats,
you know, they surround themselves with sycophants,
they suppress debate, they make all the decisions
)R T TS
And that’s how you get bad decisions.
So we had, you know, Putin sitting in his
Covid-induced isolation, deciding to invade
Ukraine, thinking it’d be a piece of cake.
LY [ RV G e TR T where that went.
We have Xi Jinping, you know, insisting and insisting on zero
Covid, suddenly in the face of popular protest changing
his mind, but with zero N EIEL IS LIRS
the country without investing in vaccination of older people,
without letting in the mRNA vaccines, without investing
ORI TR TLCREh hospitals, it was a disaster.
And, you know, this is what you have when you’ve
got autocratic rule.
You know, they like to say, oh, TN o e e e R e ]
democracies because democracies are messy and divisive and slow
And, you know, that’s all true, but democracies also can
self-correct because of debate.
And indeed, | think... Y -
That’s such an interesting opening gambit.
I’m going to stop you.
You see, you sound like a classic glass
half full kind of guy.
But the direction of travel surely is what matters.
| mean, you took over Human Rights Watch in that
period after the Berlin Wall came down, when some
in the West were thinking that this was the ascendency,
the triumph of liberal democracy.
And what we’ve seen over the last 30 years is that
many of those assumptions were wrong, and that quite
literally, right now, many countries are actively
leaning much more toward authoritarianism than
they were 15 years ago.
Well, | mean, first,
Eastern Europe being a bunch of communist Soviet
military dictaterships to mostly democracies.
So, | mean, the overall trend in many ways is positive.
ISR N R ORI
backsliding in recent years.
But, you know, what | look at is in a series of countries
over the last few years, there has been a huge popular
outpouring of support for democracy, against autocracy.
And you see that in, you know, in Hong Kong,
in Myanmar, Russia, Belarus, Sudan, Uganda, Nicaragua, Cuba.
| mean, in many, many parts of the world, people
make absolutely clear we want democracy.
And the latest is Iran. Just before that was Sri Lanka.
Now, these don’t always work.
You know, sometimes you get O R
Sometimes electoral IR
You know, Trump was not re-elected, Bolsonaro
But you’re right that this is a challenging moment.
What I’ve noticed, though, is that just a few years ago,
autocrats had confidence that they could pursue
what they would call managed democracy, so they would tilt
the playing field just enough.
You know, they would IR R
they would restrict some political parties, they would
stifle some civil society.
And on that tilted playing field, they could win.
They no longer have confidence in that working because of
these popular uprisings.
LN RV RURTR LT B [ T g to what is basically
A IO [ le g [a’a
You know, they have R [ e o M1 Ts -]
That’s what Lukashenko did in Belarus.
That’s what Putin IR
That’s what Ortega did in Nicaragua.
That’s what Museveni did in Uganda.
These are complete charades.
Yes, the autocrat stays R A R G
of the legitimacy that even that managed democracy
would have brought.
That is not a great long-term strateqy for survival.
As you talk to me about what you see happening in the world,
I’m kind of struggling to understand what you meant
when, during your tenure at Human Rights Watch,
you always said, "Our organisation has to be neutral.
In a sense, we have to be like the International
Committee of the Red Cross LR ira ol
We have to be able to work in countries and approach
countries with the sense that we don’t take sides.
We are neutral.”
I mean, in your last S VNG G
were taking sides.
Where we stress that neutrality is when there’s
That’s where the Red Cross operates.
That’s where, part of where we operate.
And so In a war situation, we don’t take positions
We don’t say, you’re the aggressor, you’re the defender.
You know, you’re right, you’re wrong, but we rather
look to what extent are both sides complying with
international humanitarian law, basically.
Really?
So, Kenneth Roth, you, still a powerful voice
in international human rights, RN L R G R L]
talking to me today and say you are not prepared to define
Russia as the aggressor in the current war with Ukraine
inside Ukrainian territory?
| mean, look, obviously, Russia was the aggressor.
I’m not, I’m not denying that.
But Human Rights Watch, RO S A E GG
in a situation like that, we always report on both sides.
In fact, Human Rights Watch recently reported on Ukrainian
use of land mines, even though, you know, the vast
majority of the war crimes EIC AU LU EL R
But we adopt that position of neutrality because we see it
as the best way to promote respect for humanitarian law.
So when we approach one side, they don’t just dismiss us
and say, "Oh, you’re A N]
They understand that we are factually reporting on what’s
happening and we are trying el R R Y
to the standards designed to protect...
IS R R GEL deeply problematic?
Again, this is really important, because | think most
of us believe that advocating for human rights around
the world is really important.
But doesn’t that, what you’ve just outlined as the approach,
doesn’t it lead to terrible problems?
For example, Amnesty International, admittedly not
the group you worked for, but obviously a very closely
associated organisation, they issued a report last year
on the Ukraine war in which they explicitly
criticised Ukrainian forces for firing from civilian areas,
including close proximity to schools and hospitals.
Now, that was a report that absolutely infuriated not
just President Zelensky and the Ukrainian government,
but many other independent observers and, you know,
supporters of a fight for freedom who felt that this
sort of both sides-ism by one of the world’s most important
human rights groups was actually playing right
inte Vladimir Putin’s hands.
| mean, let me, if | could WL R R I
of what you just said.
| mean, Amnesty was 100% correct to report on both
sides, because if you only NI N
the one you’re criticising TS XY RN
You know, you’re a partisan.
Why do we have to listen to you?
If you are reporting on both sides, you have that
credibility of neutrality to be E[ CR G R O S
to respect humanitarian law.
Sure, but the Ukrainians were only firing from civilian
areas because their civilian areas were being attacked
=TI o[ To oI [T by the Russian military.
But what you’re doing, you’re getting into the substance
of the report, and I’m not prepared to get into
But that’s very different from attacking the principle.
Amnesty was completely right on the principle
to report on both sides.
Human Rights Watch R GUE R R
Now, if | could, let me come back to your autoecracy peint,
because this neutrality that Human Rights Watch maintains
in the context of armed conflicts, we don’t pretend
to be neutral about whether there’s a democracy or not.
You know, a democracy is, you know, is basically
a government respecting human rights.
You know, If you don’t have respect for human rights,
you don’t have a democracy.
So in that context, | mean, to say we’re neutral
or we don’t really care what kind of government
s there, no, that’s not true.
You know, we want a government that fully respects human
rights, and by definition, that’s a democracy,
it’s not an autocracy.
So that’s what | mean, R e I R I I U
in @ war context doesn’t mean we’re neutral about whether
there’s democracy or not.
We want democracy. Understood.
What about defining certain leaders and commanders
as war criminals ?
Again, it’s a very active conversation because Vladimir
Putin is seen by seme to be a war criminal, or perhaps
better put, as a man who needs to be tried in a court
R EIEual
Would Human Rights Watch take that view?
I mean, we actually did take that view in Idlib,
the northwestern province in Syria, which is actually
one of the epicentres of the earthquake right now.
But Human Rights Watch did a report a few years back
looking at how both the Syrian government and the Russian
GNP Y bombing hospitals, schools,
apartment buildings, marketplaces.
| mean, the same kind of stuff we’re seeing in Ukraine today.
But at that point, we actually RO R i E L U IV
and went all the way to the top, to Assad and to
Putin, and basically said, "These people are overseeing
war crimes, they should be charged and prosecuted.”
And we take that exact same RO LI S
| hope the International Criminal Court, the chief
prosecutor Karim Khan, moves quickly.
He’s had 40 investigators in Ukraine collecting
You know, it shouldn’t be too long before he charges
and his responsibility is to move up the top
BRG RGN B latlat ol
You know, not to get the low-level soldier who might
have committed a war crime, but to get the commanders
UL TVEVCRAIEL LT T T e
And it’s very clear that Putin is the top
of that chain of command.
| mean, over and over and over again, he’s making
aLEIROEI RN R I of the military effort.
He is, you know, defending and trying to obfuscate
the war crimes that are reported from Ukraine.
He’s doing just the opposite of what a responsible commander
would do to try to rein R ElEedll R
He Is pursuing a war e IR oV AL
Now that you’ve finished your tenure at Human Rights Watch
and you can kind of look back over the three decades,
do you think you got some things wrong?
And do you think that what you’ve just outlined
as the responsibility to tread very carefully when it
comes to being political, do you think you sometimes
got that wrong?
And I’m particularly thinking about how you spoke out
against China, and paraphrasing you slightly, described China
as the greatest threat to global democracy.
| mean, that put you on a collision course
with Beijing, didn’t it?
Well, | mean, what | said is that, you know, China
is the greatest threat to the global human
rights system.
| completely believe that.
In fact, you know, when | went to Hong Kong to hold a press
conference releasing a report where that was the thesis,
they blocked me at the airport in January 2020 and sent me
Maybe that’s, maybe that’s partly because you did some
pretty amazing things.
| mean, you tweeted a cartoon. | just checked the timeline.
And January 1st, 2020, I think just before you got
blocked at Hong Kong airport, you tweeted out a cartoon
which portrayed the Grim Reaper dressed in the Chinese flag
where the stars had been rearranged into a swastika
and where he was about to enter a door marked "The World,"
having already entered other doors marked Uyghurs,
Tibet, Hong Kong, with blood pouring out of those doors.
| mean, there couldn’t have been a more graphic
illustration of your complete disgust with China
and the association of China with Nazism.
Well, look, | do believe LRGN IR )
threat both domestically, if you look at the way
they’ve treated Uyghurs and other Turkic Muslims.
You know, to lock up a million Muslims, to force
them to abandon Islam, their language
and their culture, | mean, that is horrible.
Yeah, sure, but no, | get that, N LS G R
a leading human rights advocate approaches his work.
| mean, to tweet that cartoon and then expect to be allowed
to enter Hong Kong to engage in research about the human
rights situation in territory which is, of course,
a sovereign part of China, it seems a somewhat strange way
QI LD AT RT 4 &
Yeah, | mean, well, China has blocked us from entering
for some time in terms of doing research.
But my point is that, you know, there is this serious threat,
not just domestically, but China is really actively
trying to undermine the global human rights system.
Because, you know, if you put AR GRS
of Xi Jinping, you know, if somebody says, well,
you know, "Why are you MEA RN RGN
He can’t say, "Well, RGN
freely elected me.”
| mean, that’s preposterous.
So he has to say, "Well, you know, I’m giving them
prosperity and they’ve given RO IR e UL
they’re happy with this.”
Now, you know, we saw a massive NGNS R AR N )
part of China that was free to speak out.
That was Hong Kong.
You know, hundreds of thousands of people took
to the street and said, "No, R =R R
Communist Party dictatorship, we want democracy.”
He also, Xi Jinping, puts great emphasis on being received
as a respectable leader by the rest of the world.
And that’s why he fights us tooth and nail when we try to,
you know, introduce a resolution on Xinjiang
at the United Nations Human Rights Council.
He cares desperately about not being stigmatised,
about not being shamed, YN R RN R e |
part of his legitimacy.
He wants to say to the people in China, "Look, everybody else
thinks I’m a legitimate leader, you should accept me, too.”
And indeed, more and more, the world is not accepting his
mass atrocities at home.
And so that is what we’re trying to highlight
We spotlight that AR R 1
One thing that | want to discuss with you,
which I’ve never had a chance before, is what emerged
in 2020 as your decision, | think back in 2012,
to take money from a very wealthy Saudi businessman
who was prepared to sponsor some of the Human Rights Watch
work in Saudi Arabia, but only on the understanding
that you didn’t dig into Saudi treatment of LGBTQ
Issues in that country.
You took, | think, over $450,000 from this
Saudi businessman.
Do you regret that?
Let me, let me just change your facts a little bit,
because it’s not quite right ISR
| did take that money.
The condition he put is that he didn’t want his
money used to promote LGBT IR RGO L Y I
Right
And | took it knowing that | was going to put massive
amounts of money into promoting KT WD RO R G R UL R XS
e iRt s el
So In no sense was this impeding our work.
IRV G EVCR EL ) ARG i
would impede our work.
Now, in retrospect...
Am | right in saying that this individual had actually been
investigated by Human Rights Watch?
| don’t know If the investigation was ongoing.
Again, it just seems like a very strange decision
you took, given that, you know, integrity
and condemning those who lack integrity and who indulge
in hypocrisy is central to what your organisation does and did.
No, no, and I’ve, you know, I’ve said it was a mistake.
| mean, when | look back, I DR GRS
time | went into Egypt, it was actually before this
meeting with a Saudi donor, to promote LGBT rights.
The Cairo police at that stage were picking up gay men,
you know, pretending to be gay men, picking them up,
torturing them.
And so | remember going to Cairo and saying, "We want
to do a report on this.”
And our biggest local partner, the Eqyptian human
rights organisation, 10 P G L R R LG
on LGBT rights.”
You know, "It’ll undermine our efforts to fight for human
LRV LI VL E T the president at the time.
And that’s kind of where NG R A
We did it anyway.
We found other partners and went forward.
But there was, you know, it was still a very delicate
process to promote LGBT rights in the Middle East.
| was completely dedicated to doing this, but | was used
to our partners even being reluctant to act.
So that’s why | mistakenly accepted this limited
condition from this donor, QLG R G AT G]
Al AT [ R I ] &
But, you know, | regret it NG T el DR T
a signal that | was somehow endorsing this view,
which | completely was not.
You ended up, | think, correct me if I’m wrong, banned
from Egypt, as you’ve said.
You were blocked from entering Hong Kong.
So your organisation’s relationship with China
certainly soured.
LU G TV (g AL 4] which Human Rights Watch
developed a very difficult G MNR EECE N
and | do need to talk to you about that.
Do you believe in hindsight IR G R el i
retrospect that you focused too heavily on human rights issues
concerning the Israel-Palestine conflict, given everything else
that was happening in the Middle East
No, not at all.
I mean, first of all, you know, the Israel-Palestine situation
is one of 100 around the world that Human Rights Watch
regularly reports on.
So, you know, it’s a tiny percentage of
the organisation’s work.
And even within that, as a matter of principle,
you know, we talked about this earlier, we look at all sides.
So we look at not only Israeli government abuses,
but also abuses by Hamas, the Palestinian Authority,
you know, Hezbollah when there’s a conflict
in northern Israel, southern Lebanon.
So, you know, we follow the same principles
in Israel-Palestine, R RIS EL:
methods, apply the same human rights standards.
Right, but do you actually apply the same level of focus?
And what you’ve just said, that actually,
in the global terms, N R
small portien of what HRW R RIS )
point, but, challenge this if you want to,
NN DL R G R Watch, NGO based in Geneva,
which | think it’s fair to say, has a pro-lsrael slant,
they analysed 18 months of Ken Roth’s personal tweets.
They looked at the different countries you’d made
allegations of illegal GV DI L
and they concluded that 74% of your tweets alleging illegal
acts concerning nation IR K (MO 8
directed at Israel.
74% of them.
Yeah, no, | mean, this is a classic.
There are all these little micro groups that, you know,
Cla LR G LR N A R el
a human rights violation RS SRR R 1L
So they epitomise bias and then they charge
anybody who criticises Israel with bias.
This is classic sleaziness on their part, because if you
look at where | was saying it was illegal,
it was always a preface, an adjective to a description
So it came up in the context of the settlements because a lot
of people don’t realise MR R T
are a violation of Article 49 R R es]
Geneva Convention.
They’re actually war crimes, not just illegal, you know.
So | put that adjective in there and then they say,
"Oh, well, you’re picking on Israel,” when, you know,
there was a reason IR GFI L[ 4R
| didn’t need to say, oh, you know, "Russian bombardment
of cities is illegal.”
| didn’t say, you know, need to say that, you know,
locking up a gazillion Uyghurs is illegal.
You know, there are certain things that are obvious.
TSGR T that about this.
But, you know, you know that that some of your harshest
critics in Israel said that your positioning
on the Israel-Palestine conflict smacked not just
of being anti-lIsrael, but being anti-Semitic.
And | just wonder, again, with hindsight, now that
you can sit there at Harvard, LTI Al Tl s Ry L
have on you?
| mean, you’re obviously NI E S
and here you are being LYl R e s e P
I did grow up T R R e
| grew up very aware of the evil that governments
could do, and that’s a lot of what launched me
IR A
Now, you know, | can put up with them calling me
anti-Semitic because it’s just so preposterous.
It doesn’t stop me from continuing to report on Israel.
But | do worry about this growing tendency to try
to silence criticism of Israel by claiming that every
LY RN A S T VA D
| mean, you can have some R T R Rl a T )
Israel, but there are many, many people who legitimately
criticise Israeli repression who are just labelled
And that is, you know, it’s bad for free expression,
for the defence of human L T S L]
for anti-Semitism, because...
Well, if we may then... No, let me explain.
| just want to refer to where you’re sitting today
in Harvard University, T TR S LG RIS
fellowship at the Kennedy (i R AT aa et Ta1d
within Harvard University.
And you seem to believe that that offer was briefly
rescinded because the leaders of the university had pressure
put upon them by pro-Israel groups who were donors
to Harvard University.
You’ve made that allegation.
I’ve not seen any evidence that you’ve provided to back it up.
Are you still sticking to that?
Well, what | said is, | mean, R NI
he initially vetoed my DR AL
N ARG
he’s on the record on that.
He said he did so because of people who mattered to him.
GG EL IR El they were donors.
You know, were these people who were worried
about what donors would say?
You know, who knows?
He doesn’t really have a personal record
| need, | do need, for all sorts of reasons,
| need to be clear that Dean Elmendorf has said
that donors did not play a role in a decision
to withdraw the fellowship.
He said the decision was based on his evaluation
of your potential contributions R R s
That’s his position. VLR (LS T L
| mean, it’s kind of preposterous because | actually
just gave a talk last night to 700 students
in the main forum.
| mean, there was A
You know, | was offered a human rights fellowship.
I’ve just led one of the two leading human rights
organisations for 30 years.
| wasn’t qualified in Dean Elmendorf’s view?
You know, this N R E
He even said so much to faculty members.
TV G I AR T R TV RGO IR il I Z s
W INZTE o P TV R T (1 that about the dean?
| mean, you’re essentially saying the dean is
misrepresenting what happened, you still believe that
pressure was applied.
Admittedly, the fellowship was eventually handed back
to you, but I’m just wondering how in all good conscience
you can now happily sit at Harvard University.
Well, once he reversed himself, | felt obliged
| met with the dean Monday morning and | said,
"l really want, you know, two things from you now.”
Because this Is, you know, it’s not just about me.
N RV N | have enough visibility
| was able to make a media, you know, fury about this.
So the dean relented.
There were, you know, protests by students, by faculty.
But there are many less visible critics of Israel who feel
penalised, who feel stifled.
And so | asked the dean, one, to affirm his commitment
to academic freedom, not just abstractly
but explicitly in the context of Israel-Palestine for people
And second, | asked for some transparency
about what happened in my case.
You know, he’s hiding behind the so-called confidentiality
of the appointment process.
You know, was it people who were worried about donors?
So if | could come back RN R Sl )
because | think it’s very L AT
to bring this up.
Anti-Semitism is a very serious threat to Jews
And my concern is that if some RGN RN S
of the Israeli government throw around the term anti-Semitism
to try to silence criticism of Israel, people are going
to take the threat of anti-Semitism less seriously.
They’re going to think, "Oh, this is just another
censorship effort,” rather than the genuine problem.
And so this may be, you know, in the short term, good
It is terrible for Jews around the world who do face a serious
problem of anti-Semitism.
| wish we had more time, but Ken Roth, thank
you very much for joining L OIZS
The last few days have been pretty settled with high
pressure in charge, but things are about to change
and Thursday is going to be an overcast day across most
Drizzle, if not rain, really very murky
conditicns to start with.
And then towards the end of the week it could actually
turn very wild across some northern parts of the UK.
We’ll get to that.
Here’s the satellite picture.
Here’s all of that cloud moving off the Atlantic.
It’s a small weather SR G E R R R [T
across the UK during the course of Thursday and there
are more weather systems out in the Atlantic coming our way.
So, early in the morning we have thick cloud across many
parts of England, Wales B e R Eash
Outbreaks of rain, drizzle, hill fog too mild with that
5 to seven degrees.
But across the north B E PR R L R VR
clear skies, so perhaps PRGN R
So really very murky, gray, overcast, whatever
you want to call it, first thing in the morning.
Later in the day, it does look as though most of that
rain should peter out, Al A e Y
England and Wales.
And we’ll see one or two bright or sunny spells
with a bit of luck, one or two decent sunny spells.
(BRI LD L] the south, a little bit
Now onto Friday - nasty low pressure will be
sweeping across Scotland.
That is going to bring severe gales, exactly where the worst
Still a Little uncertain, but it does look as though it’s
northern Scotland that will get the worst of the winds,
but not only northern Scotland.
(LT N R GG 1Y windy through the lowlands
and particularly to the north-east of England.
So the east of the Pennines, in fact, the apps are already
indicating gusts of over 70 miles an hour, for
example, in Newcastle.
So these winds will cause problems, disruption possibly
So really keep track SR RO
The details may change, but it does look as though it’s
the northern half of the UK that will be very blustery
and quite possibly stormy for a time.
Later on Friday the winds will die down and then in the south,
actually it shouldn’t RN el
Breezy, yes, but we’re not going to get the gales
=LA )R G up to around 14 degrees.
Now, here’s a daisy chain of weather systems as we go
through the weekend.
Se more cloud pushing our way.
RS G LGSR [ RN raining particularly heavily,
but I think there will be a lot of cloud during the course
of Saturday and Sunday, but one or two glimmers
of brightness, too G NE R GEALY
SRS
with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
Thousands of Syrian LS WOCE
the Turkish border, as they try to cross back
into their home country after last week’s earthquakes.
The Scottish National Party begins the task
of choosing a new leader - after Nicola Sturgeon steps
There is no obvious person who has the charisma
of Nicola Sturgeon I A 10t ]
who might be able to do the job and to push support
for independence up.
But that’s the task eI IRE - R
An Italian court acquits the former prime minister,
Silvio Berlusconi, of bribing witnesses to Lie about his
"bunga bunga” - sex parties.
AR R N EIne I R R I
# Till it’s shining just like a dime...#
LYV R gV I (V] the Hollywood film
star and model Raquel Welsh, who’s died at the age of 82.
Thousands of refugees who fled the war in Syria
RGN (R T GG E arrived at the border hoping to
go back to their home country after last week’s earthquakes.
Turkey has said it will I R - iR Ry
for up to six months.
LRI LI T R R G R (L in Turkey and Syria has climbed
to more than 41,000, and milliocns are in need
The BBC’s Laura Bicker has RN SR G
to the Turkish border, where desparate Syrian families
continue to arrive.
The last time these Syrian families crossed this
border, it was with dreams NN dhe
Their homeland has been ripped AR CI
Their new life in Turkey lies in ruins after the earthquake.
So once again, they are IR G NI gl
whatever they have left.
Reem has lived in N ELSZR N L
Her children were born there, IS R S R 1 s
towards Syrians in her host country is worse
since the quake.
TRANSLATION: We’ve RN
We try to find another place to stay.
But they kept chasing us away, asking us to return to Syria.
ULV GRS &R B G TR (TS with my children?
Where should we go?
The Turkish government has said Syrians can come
But many ask, what do they have to come back to?
This is a broken city, full of loss and fallen concrete.
It’s no longer a home.
Those who choose to stay have nowhere else to go.
Ahmed knows there’s lLittle here for him and his family,
but he’s nothing left in Syria.
R
LGB YN0 B R G114 about the children a lot,
about their situation and what will happen to them.
When it’s dark, their night RN e
| fear for them more than | do myself.
It Is rare, but survivors are still being found.
74-year-old Shamil was found AW A a1
the earthquake struck.
Earlier today, three people were rescued
And tonight, they believe there are signs of life in that
building and they are continuing to work away,
which shows that even amid the amount of human
despair we’ve seen in the last ten days,
there’s still sign of light.
[N Gl 1 LW N EISZD
The race to succeed Nicola Sturgeon as First
Minister of Scotland has begun after her surprise decision to
stand down after eight years.
Her party, the SNP’s national executive committee will meet
today to draw up a timetable R G CEL I RS T
Alexandra McKenzie reports.
Scotland’s first female and longest serving first minister
Nicola Sturgeon, is now preparing to step aside.
Giving absolutely everything of yourself to this job
s the only way to do it.
The country deserves nothing less.
But in truth, that can enly be done by anyone for so long.
For me, it is now in danger QR R LA TR
Bye bye, Nicola.
Across Scotland and the political
[sE1g (I T ol US R T R
to the surprise resignation.
Well, let me first start by paying
tribute to Nicola Sturgeon for her long standing public
service, and | wish her NIRRT
Obviously, Nicola
that we did work together, | was pleased that we were able
toe announce two freeports in Scotland - that’s joint working
between the UK Government R T T g
Those freeports are going to attract
investment and create jobs in Scotland, which is great
and | look forward to working with whoever
the new First Minister ER ORI TR
constructively to deliver for the people of Scotland.
I first met Nicola Sturgeon when | was 12 years
old because she was standing in an election against my father
and there’s been lots of disagreements,
lots of arguments, lots of back and forth.
But one thing you can’t doubt is this has
someone that is an able politician,
someone who has been in politics for 20 years,
and that level of service is, of course, worthy
of respect and thanks.
Alex Salmond was once e - R i ARt s e
Now he’’s a political opponent.
I’m not certain this is going to be a bad thing at all.
| mean, there’s talent IR
RIS G TR RN (TN 1 is going to be whether the next
leader sees the opportunity to redefine the strateqy
for independence, RN E RN
of the independence campaign, and starts articulating
the fundamental case for Scottish self-determination.
I am not going to say who my preference
will be to succeed me.
But many are asking that question.
N R3] 1018 is the Deputy First
Minister, John Swinney, who has done
the job before, LR )
R g [T Westminster leader
and now Constitution secretary.
The Finance Secretary, [ R
who Is currently on maternity leave,
the Health Secretary Humza Yousaf
or the MP Joanna oY N4
of Nicola Sturgeon’s leadership.
Nicola Sturgeon IR e a s T lat
When it was blocked
by the Supreme Court,
IR D I [T [T} a special conference
due in March to discuss the way forward.
Now a way forward with a new leader.
There is no obvious person who has the charisma
of Nicola Sturgeon I A 10t ]
who might be able to do the job and to push support
for independence up.
But that’s the task eI IRE - R
And the risk undoubtedly is that the party
can’t find somebody who can provide it with the kind
of leadership that both Mr
Sturgeon have provided it with, can’t unite
it on the independence strateqy, can’t appeal
to the public, and therefore, as a result, the independence
movement goes backwards.
Nicola Sturgeon said e 8 il Ta 1
Nicola Sturgeon said e 8 il Ta 1
her successor will deliver independence and said this is
the final phase of that journey.
Alexandra McKenzie, BBC News.
The war in Ukraine has, T AT
little to no diplomacy between Kyiv and Moscow.
One area of cooperation has NI R
of war exchanges.
More than 1,700 Ukrainian men and women have reportedly made
it home through them so far.
The BBC has been given rare access to one facility
where captured Russian soldiers N GG G R e
of the country.
Kyiv says most of the prisoners will be swapped, but some
will be held on suspicion of possible war crimes.
Our Ukraine Correspondent James Waterhouse has
sent this report.
Under the watchful R
Ukrainian rulers and guards.
March these Russian prisoners of war.
Both sides had been accused of abusing captured soldiers
in the past.
So these are the belongings of some prisoners of war
T N laah R
Now, it’s unlikely they’re going to speak freely.
But what this is is an insight into Ukraine’s information war,
=R L LR R G CI A S
of war are used as currency.
Now, Kyiv wants to show us these men, who they insist
are being treated fairly.
They’re using this workshop to take
Some hide their faces eRitlad e
protect their identities.
Ukraine needs these soldiers to trade for their own.
We’re under supervision, but the guards don’t interfere.
This prisoner tells us
RN D) P R A NI g R Ta
AR ULEIR ISl 11420
Several say they just want to go home.
Some here are just days off the battlefield, a mixture
of conscripts, soldiers IR e el
Many are pale,
G AT EF L RGYE
Sometimes history has echoes.
This gritty fortress once held LRGN i E B
Everyone here appears NGl RNl
Air raid alerts seem R R R
breaks from il et e e I s
The bite of the cold TR T
by the relief of lunch.
Today it’s corn soup and barley and meat before a choreographed
Thank you for lunch,
)T RN (EGILIE
This might
look like free time, but the guards
The Pick of the Day, R %18
on Ukrainian history.
But not everyone will speak the language.
More or less,
NSl R understand Ukrainian.
These programmes are educational.
This looks more like a re-education.
These inmates are waiting to make
a phone call home.
The conversations are recorded.
Where are you?
Asks his mum.
NRhE] 101
Ne=Ta R ¥l [l
With the bloody Ukrainians, she asks.
Enough, Mum, he replies.
The most important thing RO AN N L R LG)2
This economy of prisener exchanges has grown,
which means they’re more valuable to both sides
regardless of whether they return
to the fight.
James Waterhouse, BBC News, Western Ukraine.
A court in Italy has acquitted the former prime
minister, Silvio Berlusconi, of bribing witnesses to lie
about his notorious "bunga bunga” parties.
Ll billionaire politician,
who Is 86, was accused
of paying people to provide false testimony in a previous
trial where he was charged with paying for sex
with a 17-year-old I e L e
Mr Berlusconi had denied wrongdoing.
Our reporter Sofia YA r SR R ]
following the story.
She joins me in the studic now.
What can you tell us R R e R
RO [ TR 1 culmination of a
This verdict was the culmination of a legal
This verdict was the culmination of a legal battle
culmination of a legal battle that
culmination of a legal battle WEAER )
culmination of a legal battle that lasted 11 years and made
that lasted 11 years and made headlines arocund
that lasted 11 years and made headlines around the
that lasted 11 years and made headlines arcund the world. It
headlines around the world. It 1R
headlines around the world. It N IR3IE el
headlines around the world. It IR E - ls]
headlines around the world. It all started in 2010 when Silvio
all started in 2010 when Silvio LN I i1
all started in 2010 when Silvio Berlusconi, who was then Prime
Berlusconi, who was then Prime R
Berlusconi, who was then Prime NG
Berlusconi, who was then Prime Minister of Italy, was charged
Minister of Italy, was charged with paying to have sex with an
with paying to have sex with an underage qirl.
with paying to have sex with an underage girl. She was a
underage girl. She was a (VT e+ U
underage girl. She was a 17-year-old dancer, who was
17-year-old dancer, who was known
17-year-old dancer, who was QR
17-year-old dancer, who was A
17-year-old dancer, who was known by her stage name, repeat
known by her stage name, repeat )
known by her stage name, repeat the heart
known by her stage name, repeat M TR a
known by her stage name, repeat N TR g
known by her stage name, repeat M TR i a e
Now, after that happened, judges
believe that Berlusconi paid off 24
people, mainly young women, so that they would lie in earlier
trials about so-called bunga bunga parties.
Prosecutors described them as sex parties that women
were paid to attend.
Now, one of the women R e el
lying was Ruby herself, and she was in court today
| need time to process QI A
This i1s an encrmous liberation.
Many people know nothing about my life at the moment.
Speaking to Berlusconi is not R L A L
The first person I’ll speak to is my mum.
UL RGTE R T U oy ] was acquitted.
Just why Is that?
Well, judges said that there just wasn’t enough evidence.
But, you know, this is really significant in Italy.
This scandal contributed to the downfall of Silvio Berlusconi
LY Prime Minister in 2011.
His reputation abroad was destroyed.
But this whole time he’s denied any wrongdoing and insisted
that bunga bunga parties were just elegant dinners.
And a few hours ago, in a tweet,
Berlusconi said, I’ve finally been acquitted
after more than 11 years of suffering, of political
damage and of having my name dragged through the mud.
SR R TR for Mr Berlusconi?
Well, you know, he has been dominant
in Italian public R
as a media tycoon, as a football
R e
And he was prime NI R
So, you know, he is 86 years old,
but he’s still in politics and he’s made political
At the moment, actually, he’s the leader of a centre right
party that is playing a key role in Italy’s
in Italy’s coalition government.
So now that his name has been cleared, Berlusconi is likely
to continue playing a very important
role in Italian I R e A
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: Hollywood pays tribute to Raquel Welsh,
the model and actor who has died at the age of 82.
Nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into Afghanistan
the last Soviet troops were finally coming home.
The withdrawal completed in good order but the Army
defeated in the task it was sent to perform.
Malcelm has been murdered.
That has a terrible effect for the morale of the people.
I’m terrified of the IO LRI RO R O
One wonders who 15 next.
As the airlift got under way, there was no let-up
in the eruption itself.
Lava streams from a vent low in the crater flow down
to the sea to the east of the island, away from
the town for the time being.
(IR g il again at any time.
The Russians heralded the next generation space station with
a spectacular night launch.
LS A LTl o Russian for peace.
Thousands of Syrian refugees arrive at the Turkish border,
as they try to cross back RGN s
after last week’s earthquakes.
The Scottish National Party begins the task
of choosing a new leader, after Nicola Sturgeon steps
Tributes have been paid to the Hollywood
movie star Raquel Welch, who became an international sex
symbol in the 1960s, who’s died aged 82.
She won a Golden Globe Award for her performance
in The Three Musketeers film I LEER i Rl
with breaking the mould for modern day action hereines.
David Sillite looks I anre
Raquel Welch did not expect anyone to remember
what she thought was just a "silly dinosaur movie”.
But One Million Years BC, with its giant malevolent
turtles, poor grasp of evolution, and prehistoric
bikinis, turned Raquel Welch into a star of teenage bedrooms
"In one fell swoop, everything R R R
she said, "swept away.”
# You make me feel SO young...#.
It was pretty clear how she was being marketed.
In Bedazzled, she was given the role of Lilian Lust.
Strong, black and sweet.
In public, she played the role.
Two mountainous spoons full!
But she said she had little control over her career.
# Now, listen here, boy!
# | used to be a square... #.
She was born Jo Raquel Tejada, the daughter of a Bolivian
engineer, and her heart really lay in song and dance -
light-hearted, old-school glamour.
A lot of people want to be great artists.
| don’t know that I’m capable of being that,
but | hope | entertain a few people, you know?
The producer behind many of her projects was the man
she married in 1967 - film producer Patrick Curtis.
It would be fair to say AR L a e
than many of her films.
Never again will I let you go into such terrible danger.
But she did win a Golden Globe for The Three Musketeers.
# | can rub and scrub this ST
# Till it’s shining just like a dime...#.
And on stage and television, she did get a chance to show
off her song and dance skills.
# You got the shake and | got the shimmy...#.
Raquel Welch had set out wanting to be Ginger Rogers
and ended up being defined by a doe-skin bikini.
That was David Sillito on the life of Raquel Welch,
who’s died at the age of 82.
We can now speak RN e ala - TaLs
journalist K] Matthews.
She joins us from Los Angeles.
IR 5L
IR L g
It was sort of hard te imagine
It was sort of hard to imagine Y
It was sort of hard to imagine Ry
It was sort of hard to imagine Ry
It was sort of hard to imagine a time when Raquel Welch might
a time when Raquel Welch might have been a
a time when Raquel Welch might TN L4
a time when Raquel Welch might N N i)
a time when Raquel Welch might LY N N e e e e s
have been a bit more reticent FYe L
have been a bit more reticent about who she was, where she
about who she was, where she came from and watches did for.
came from and watches did for. Yes,
came from and watches did for. IR 1)
came from and watches did for. Yes, she certainly grew up in
came from and watches did for. Yes, she certainly grew up ina
Yes, she certainly grew up in a e 4
Yes, she certainly grew up in a it e i
Yes, she certainly grew up in a e R
Yes, she certainly grew up in a different time. She is really
different time. She is really your guintessential sexy
your quintessential sexy T e s
your quintessential sexy T 1 s T Ts |
your quintessential sexy bombshell and many people
bombshell and many people credit her
bombshell and many people R
bombshell and many people A [ A IR T EL L)
bombshell and many people credit her for changing the
credit her for changing the G
credit her for changing the SOV R
credit her for changing the I R R L1
credit her for changing the stereotype of what a bombshell
stereotype of what a bombshell i
stereotype of what a bombshell e GE
stereotype of what a bombshell could be in Hollywood, because
could be in Hollywood, because Sy
could be in Hollywood, because S e
could be in Hollywood, because S s
could be in Hollywood, because S R A
could be in Hollywood, because before her it was really
before her it was really Marilyn Monroe and everyone
Marilyn Monroe and everyone QI
Marilyn Monroe and everyone thought you had to be blonde to
thought you had to be blonde to )
thought you had to be blonde to R A e
thought you had to be blonde to be considered sexy. She broke
be considered sexy. She broke that mould
be considered sexy. She broke A et T Ta )
be considered sexy. She broke LI s sl
be considered sexy. She broke that mould and lived to be 82,
that mould and lived to be 82, el
that mould and lived to be 82, which is quite surprising.
which is quite surprising. Willie
which is quite surprising. D
which is quite surprising. Willie had been working well
Willie had been working well Ty
Willie had been working well RN e
Willie had been working well e
Willie had been working well into her 70s, late 70s, even
into her 70s, late 70s, even until a
into her 70s, late 70s, even T I [ s )
into her 70s, late 70s, even until a decade ago. She looked
until a decade ago. She looked T EIR
until a decade ago. She looked remarkable. She really changed
remarkable. She really changed )
remarkable. She really changed the landscape. One of the
the landscape. One of the things
the landscape. One of the L
the landscape. One of the things | really love about her
things | really love about her 3
things | really love about her T
things | really love about her Y R )
things | really love about her is how she really
things | really love about her S A N IR -
things | really love about her is how she really embraced her
s how she really embraced her (CIIETY
s how she really embraced her S EL L]
s how she really embraced her heritage and her roots towards
heritage and her roots towards )
heritage and her roots towards !
heritage and her roots towards LR A e
heritage and her roots towards RN R ER IR
heritage and her roots towards RN R R ER I |
heritage and her roots towards RN EE = PR R Gl
the end of her career, | think. But
the end of her career, | think. IR %
RN I IR T e R ] @ RO EIR E ke
RN I IR T e R ] @ LI R F R R 2
RN I IR T e R ] @ But that wasn’t always the
But that wasn’t always the e
But that wasn’t always the case. Initially, she really did
case. Initially, she really did YN e
case. Initially, she really did hide her Bolivian identity.
hide her Bolivian identity. Absolutely. In fact, back in
Absolutely. In fact, back in 2000, she was asked if she had
2000, she was asked if she had any regrets
2000, she was asked If she had VAL
2000, she was asked If she had NV ACO I E LR
2000, she was asked If she had VRGOS L R ]
2000, she was asked If she had NV ACO G EL EN CEE N Cl
any regrets and she said her biggest regret is that she
biggest regret is that she didn’t really kind of embrace
didn’t really kind of embrace her heritage. She busy changed
her heritage. She busy changed e
her heritage. She busy changed YA el i)
her heritage. She busy changed her last name to her first
her last name to her first husband. That was not her
husband. That was not her i E
husband. That was not her NI E P
husband. That was not her original last name and she
original last name and she !
original last name and she LN
original last name and she shied away from it.
original last name and she LT R I
original last name and she shied away from it. She said
shied away from it. She said i)
shied away from it. She said she didn’t
shied away from it. She said R LR A Y
shied away from it. She said I LR A (VAT
shied away from it. She said she didn’t really say that she
she didn’t really say that she Ty
she didn’t really say that she was Hispanic or she did have a
was Hispanic or she did have a father who
was Hispanic or she did have a IR R E
was Hispanic or she did have a E R R E R L R
was Hispanic or she did have a father who was Bolivian, but
father who was Bolivian, but A
father who was Bolivian, but IR
father who was Bolivian, but she didn’t embrace it the
father who was Bolivian, but I R I C TR R R
she didn’t embrace it the way that
she didn’t embrace it the way R I
she didn’t embrace it the way that she did in her later films
that she did in her later films and she
that she did in her later films LR R 8
that she did in her later films and she really said it
that she did in her later films LR GG VAR R
and she really said it was T )
and she really said it was I
and she really said it was because she felt as though it
because she felt as though it o
because she felt as though it would stereotype her and
because she felt as though it I GRS I RS L Rl
would stereotype her and her father didn’t even
would stereotype her and her IR R RS U LS
father didn’t even speak Spanish. He didn’t want
father didn’t even speak Spanish. He didn’t want to
Spanish. He didn’t want to JIE1S
Spanish. He didn’t want to speak Spanish here in America
speak Spanish here in America )
speak Spanish here in America )
speak Spanish here in America RO R L)
speak Spanish here in America R LR
speak Spanish here in America NN IR e Y
speak Spanish here in America so she wanted to make your she
so she wanted to make your she P
so she wanted to make your she had opportunities and didn’t
had opportunities and didn’t e
had opportunities and didn’t want people to only
had opportunities and didn’t want people to only stereotype
want people to only stereotype as
want people to only stereotype YR ]
want people to only stereotype as some sort of
want people to only stereotype RN R U R RIS
want people to only stereotype as some sort of sexy Latina
as some sort of sexy Latina Flang- ey
as some sort of sexy Latina Y de LR
as some sort of sexy Latina L e LR e T s la
as some sort of sexy Latina actress that couldn’t do
as some sort of sexy Latina Y Ae LR s Pl sl R s [ e a
actress that couldn’t do more than that. She wanted to
than that. She wanted to T aetie)
than that. She wanted to e )
than that. She wanted to AN R a0l sl
than that. She wanted to RN R T R4
than that. She wanted to RN A e T e T & 0k
than that. She wanted to I AN Nt et TR e e Tl
mixture she could break out of that mould
mixture she could break out of A et T Ta )
mixture she could break out of LI SR
mixture she could break out of that mould and that is the
that mould and that is the T ]
that mould and that is the reason why
that mould and that is the ORI AL
that mould and that is the CE ORI AL A
that mould and that is the reason why she kind of denied
reason why she kind of denied e
reason why she kind of denied I
reason why she kind of denied her heritage early on in her
her heritage early on in her e
her heritage early on in her el
her heritage early on in her e
her heritage early on in her IR G R
her heritage early on in her career. | tell you what stood
career. | tell you what stood e e
career. | tell you what stood out for me there in
career. | tell you what stood R R R
career. | tell you what stood out for me there in that piece
out for me there in that piece Ty
out for me there in that piece e a1l
out for me there in that piece LG T XV
out for me there in that piece was him saying that Raquel
was him saying that Raquel e
was him saying that Raquel N ek
was him saying that Raquel T e A R e
was him saying that Raquel Welch herself didn’t feel that
Welch herself didn’t feel that i)
Welch herself didn’t feel that she had control over her own
she had control over her own e
she had control over her own career. However, it is hard to
career. However, it is hard to imagine someone with sort of
imagine someone with sort of greater sex symbol status who
greater sex symbol status who Ty
greater sex symbol status who was able at the time to point
was able at the time to point blank refused to do nude
blank refused to do nude e N
blank refused to do nude scenes. That is interesting.
scenes. That is interesting. iy
scenes. That is interesting. iR A
scenes. That is interesting. iR LR Y
scenes. That is interesting. She was able to
scenes. That is interesting. iR L R s L
scenes. That is interesting. iR LR R
scenes. That is interesting. iR L RO R A
She was able to draw that line e
She was able to draw that line TR
She was able to draw that line TR s I e |
She was able to draw that line TR NI R ]
for the studios and the e e ol
for the studios and the directors. Because she made
for the studios and the I e e T R B
directors. Because she made a e
directors. Because she made a s
directors. Because she made a NI AU
directors. Because she made a lot of money for them and she
lot of money for them and she Y
lot of money for them and she really was such a big star that
really was such a big star that they wanted to have her. It was
they wanted to have her. It was bhetter
they wanted to have her. It was e )
they wanted to have her. It was T R e )
they wanted to have her. It was IR N e
they wanted to have her. It was IR e ]
they wanted to have her. It was better to have her in your film
better to have her in your film than
better to have her in your film LR
better to have her in your film than not, so they were willing
than not, so they were willing to
than not, so they were willing e )
than not, so they were willing I R )
than not, so they were willing to make those demands but
to make those demands but remember
to make those demands but TR
to make those demands but remember she was on so
to make those demands but N RN R R U R AU
remember she was on so many 33
remember she was on so many sexy lists from time magazine
sexy lists from time magazine and
sexy lists from time magazine )
sexy lists from time magazine and she didn’t even
sexy lists from time magazine and she didn’t even appear
sexy lists from time magazine and she didn’t even appear nude
and she didn’t even appear nude 3
and she didn’t even appear nude IR
and she didn’t even appear nude in Playboy and that is
and she didn’t even appear nude SRR R G A
in Playboy and that is very T
in Playboy and that is very CII
In Playboy and that is very I 1
In Playboy and that is very rare, so she still was
In Playboy and that is very CICL IR R TZ R
rare, so she still was very 33
rare, so she still was very sexy even though she didn’t
sexy even though she didn’t el
sexy even though she didn’t appear nude in films or in
appear nude in films or in magazines. She still kind of
magazines. She still kind of portrayed that sexy bombshell
portrayed that sexy bombshell brunette image that they were
brunette image that they were aYihl]
brunette image that they were R
brunette image that they were trying to put
brunette image that they were RGN 14
brunette image that they were trying to put out there post
trying to put out there post Marilyn Monroe.
trying to put out there post ORI -
trying to put out there post Marilyn Monroe. As you say, she
Marilyn Monroe. As you say, she in
Marilyn Monroe. As you say, she TR 1)
Marilyn Monroe. As you say, she in some ways broke the mould
In some ways broke the mould e
In some ways broke the mould but in
in some ways broke the mould LR
in some ways broke the mould but in other ways, she created
but in other ways, she created T e
but in other ways, she created R
but in other ways, she created IR e ]
but in other ways, she created another one. How does
but in other ways, she created R R R
another one. How does the IS4
another one. How does the industry regard to? Because
industry regard to? Because aver
industry regard to? Because AR 2]
industry regard to? Because AR o R
industry regard to? Because AR e R Al
industry regard to? Because ARl R E o
industry regard to? Because ever since that bikini and was
ever since that bikini and was e
ever since that bikini and was el
S R G EL LI L P RE ARl
S R G EL LI L P RE IR E R R
S R G EL LI L P RE first and that film, there has
first and that film, there has been a problem with
been a problem with stereotyping women in roles? It
stereotyping women in roles? It 3
stereotyping women in roles? It R
stereotyping women in roles? It is very interesting. Back in
is very interesting. Back in r[0 1V
is very interesting. Back in 2012, she
is very interesting. Back in {0 N P R
is very interesting. Back in 2012, she was doing a
2012, she was doing a television
2012, she was doing a AL R e
2012, she was doing a LR e
2012, she was doing a television interview and she
television interview and she 10
television interview and she I )
WG U R SR R IR R
WG U R SR R IR NI A G
WG U R SR R said so many people do
said so many people do G
said so many people do IR
said so many people do stereotype as just being a
stereotype as just being a TN
stereotype as just being a dumb, beautiful woman that is
dumb, beautiful woman that is just
dumb, beautiful woman that is TS OGS
dumb, beautiful woman that is just gorgeous to look at but
just gorgeous to look at but LR
just gorgeous to look at but R R
just gorgeous to look at but doesn’t have much
just gorgeous to look at but doesn’'t have much going on
doesn’'t have much going on A
doesn’'t have much going on I N
doesn’'t have much going on N R R 1
doesn’'t have much going on outside of that, and he said it
outside of that, and he said it s
outside of that, and he said it is not
outside of that, and he said it TR =
outside of that, and he said it TR i - s
outside of that, and he said it is not that, it is just that
s not that, it is just that I
s not that, it is just that Hollywood particularly
Hollywood particularly G
Hollywood particularly stereotypes women who look like
stereotypes women who look like her.
stereotypes women who look like Y a4
stereotypes women who look like her. It is not that she doesn’t
her. It is not that she doesn’t have
her. It is not that she doesn’t have anything
her. It is not that she doesn’t have anything intelligent to
have anything intelligent to Y-\
have anything intelligent to s
have anything intelligent to LR
have anything intelligent to FVEIR a0}
have anything intelligent to FVEIR LR )
have anything intelligent to say or to bring to the table,
say or to bring to the table, 3
say or to bring to the table, s
say or to bring to the table, (R
say or to bring to the table, (AR &4 %1
say or to bring to the table, it is just that which opens her
it is just that which opens her NG
it is just that which opens her mouth, people don’t want to
mouth, people don’t want to e
mouth, people don’t want to Y R V1
mouth, people don’t want to T R I E )
mouth, people don’t want to T R LR N e
mouth, people don’t want to hear what she has to say. They
hear what she has to say. They o
hear what she has to say. They would rather just look
hear what she has to say. They O GRET G ST AL &
hear what she has to say. They would rather just look at her
would rather just look at her 3
would rather just look at her ina
would rather just look at her N
would rather just look at her in a pretty picture or up on
in a pretty picture or up on )
in a pretty picture or up on the big
in a pretty picture or up on QR EYA U
in a pretty picture or up on the big screen. She went on to
the big screen. She went on to even
the big screen. She went on to XN E
the big screen. She went on to even have a
the big screen. She went on to XN R e
the big screen. She went on to NN R T
the big screen. She went on to XN R L N
the big screen. She went on to even have a business. She has a
even have a business. She has a very successful week line. A
very successful week line. A e
very successful week line. A i
very successful week line. A lot of people
very successful week line. A L G LR
very successful week line. A lot of people don’t know
very successful week line. A lot of people don’t know that,
lot of people don’t know that, but
lot of people don’t know that, )
lot of people don’t know that, TN
lot of people don’t know that, but she sells wigs. People
but she sells wigs. People e e sl
but she sells wigs. People s R
but she sells wigs. People e Rl e e
but she sells wigs. People RO a
but she sells wigs. People wanted to look Like her.
but she sells wigs. People NI RO A AT
wanted to look like her. Even 3
wanted to look like her. Even e
wanted to look like her. Even SN
wanted to look like her. Even in her 70s, she was striking
in her 70s, she was striking a LN
in her 70s, she was striking -looking, stunning, and many
-locking, stunning, and many women
-looking, stunning, and many R Ela |
-looking, stunning, and many women wanted to
-looking, stunning, and many IR E R
-looking, stunning, and many women wanted to have that kind
women wanted to have that kind N
women wanted to have that kind NI T
women wanted to have that kind NN IR R U
women wanted to have that kind of sexiness as they aged
of sexiness as they aged gracefully in Hollywood.
WA SRE ER G L L] gracefully in Hollywood. Yes,
gracefully in Hollywood. Yes, T
gracefully in Hollywood. Yes, I CE]
gracefully in Hollywood. Yes, quite a savvy businesswoman as
quite a savvy businesswoman as N
quite a savvy businesswoman as well. Thank you so much for
well. Thank you so much for your time
well. Thank you so much for R AL
well. Thank you so much for R LR
well. Thank you so much for your time and your insight.
Time now for the latest sports news.
I’m Hugh Ferris.
The Premier League has new leaders.
Manchester City won N RN S R T
and second three one at Arsenal to replace them
at the top of the table.
A position that the defending S N R RN
August City have wiped away an eight point deficit
R:R U RV Tol-Tg a month, partly
thanks to Arsenal GG LI T
in their last three e A
And there were mistakes won, allowing Kevin
De Bruyne to give City the lead.
After Bukayo Saka equalised with a penalty,
the wayside took control in the second half.
First Jack Grealish and then Erling
Haaland with his 26th Premier League
goal of the season, giving the champions the win their top
on goal difference.
TNV G have a game in hand.
ML B
The first half Arsenal was much better than us.
We were not good enough.
I
Maybe because | changed something and it didn’t work.
In the second half, we were more aggressive.
We’re much, much better.
A stunning solo goal from Karim Adeyemi gave
Borussia Dortmund a 1-0 win over Chelsea in the first
LLERG T Champions League last
16 tie In Germany.
The forward picked the ball up inside his own half to score
the only goal.
(LRI R R T TR e
of the competition, Chelsea had a number of chances
of their own, but the nearest they got
to scoring was Joao Felix hitting the crossbar.
The second leg is at Stamford Bridge
We’ve used many Ela N LRI ELY
clips frem our former games to see.
This is what they tried to do.
This is what they like to do.
This season were very well and so we had a to do list and know
and things that we are not allowed to do.
And this is what we ARG B
and this is what we showed the team
and today it went well R iR AR
But performance wise, we, we know
that we need to improve for the for the second leq.
Benfica have the most commanding
lead of all the teams who have TN LR Rl s
NN RG A Ea R
They won 2-0 at Club Brugge through a Joao Mario penalty,
and then a late second from David Neres.
British cash owner expecting to AP
British cash owner expecting to release record results. The
CEE NG R TCR [ M
The last few days have been pretty settled with high
pressure in charge, but things are about to change
and Thursday is going to be an overcast day across most
Drizzle if not rain, really very murky
conditicns to start with.
And then towards the end RO R M e 0GR O],
turn very wild across some northern parts of the UK.
We’ll get to that.
Here’s the satellite picture.
Here’s all of that cloud moving off the Atlantic.
It’s a small weather SR G E R R R [T
across the UK during the course of Thursday and there
are more weather systems out in the Atlantic coming our way.
So, early in the morning, we have thick cloud across many
parts of England, Wales B e R Eash
Outbreaks of rain, drizzle, hill fog too,
mild with that - 5to 7 Celsius.
But across the north B E PR R L R VR
clear skies, so perhaps PRGN R
So really very murky, grey, overcast, whatever
you want to call it, first thing in the morning.
Later in the day, it does look as though most of that
rain should peter out, at least across England
and Wales, and we’ll see one or two bright or sunny spells -
with a bit of luck, one or two decent sunny spells.
13 or 14 Celsius in the south, a little bit
Now, on to Friday - nasty low pressure will be
sweeping across Scotland.
That is going to bring severe gales.
Exactly where the worst RO R R R
still a little uncertain, but it does look as though it’s
northern Scotland that will get the worst of the winds,
but not only northern Scotland, ISR IR [ 818"
windy through the lowlands and particularly to
the northeast of England, R N R AU L
in fact, the apps are already indicating gusts
of over 70 miles an hour, for example, in Newcastle.
So, these winds will cause problems, disruption,
possibly blow some trees R
So, really keep track SR RO
The details may change, but it does look as though it’s
the northern half of the UK that will be very blustery
and quite possibly stormy for a time.
Later on Friday, the winds will die down and then
in the south, actually, IR RN L P
Breezy, yes, but we’re not going to get the gales,
and it will stay mild - up to around 14 Celsius.
Now, here’s a daisy chain of weather systems as we go
through the weekend.
Se, more cloud pushing our way.
RS G LGSR [ RN raining particularly heavily,
but I think there will be a lot of cloud during the course
of Saturday and Sunday, but one or two glimmers
of brightness, too, G NE R GEALY
SRS
This is BBC News with the latest business
headlines for viewers in the UK NG e TR R e 1d s
Bumper profits expected Tl L R LR e R - Na A gl
today, reigniting the calls for windfall taxes.
We take a look at the organisations
providing humanitarian aid following the devastating
earthquakes in Turkey and Syria.
for unexpected, but costly, events like the Covid pandemic
and natural disasters?
We’ll take you to Jamaica to talk with the country’s
Tourism Minister.
Britain’s largest energy I R
is to reveal record profits today on the back of a surge
in wholesale gas prices linked to the war in Ukraine,
just weeks after suspending Rt R E el s
of prepayment meters over e R AR Al e
of vulnerable customers.
Many families are struggling R VRGN TG A [
with a quarter losing sleep over it.
Centrica’s boss Chris 0’Shea has been urged
tc waive his bonus.
Kathryn Porter is an energy consultant
and Founder of Watt-Logic.
By
SN
By any one’s
By any one’'s numbers,
By any one’s numbers, £3
By any one’s numbers, £3 AN
By any one’s numbers, £3 1 S
By any one’s numbers, £3 hillion, it is a
By any one’s numbers, £3 billion, it is a huge amount of
billion, it is a huge amount of uhE
billion, it is a huge amount of money and
billion, it is a huge amount of WIS ELERIST
billion, it is a huge amount of money and it’s going to mean
billion, it is @ huge amount of money and it’s going to mean a
money and it’s going to mean a WIS
money and it’s going to mean a ILEEIU Il
money and it’s going to mean a huge amount of criticism today
huge amount of criticism today as
huge amount of criticism today Rl
huge amount of criticism today as well from people across the
as well from people across the el
as well from people across the el
as well from people across the board. Is Centrica profiteering
board. Is Centrica profiteering in
board. Is Centrica profiteering LRI
board. Is Centrica profiteering LR IRIGC A
board. Is Centrica profiteering LRI R
board. Is Centrica profiteering LR
board. Is Centrica profiteering in your view? No, | don’t think
BTV I [ R R Gl they
BTV I [ R R Gl GG
in your view? No, | don’t think they are profiteering, the
they are profiteering, the record profits
they are profiteering, the (Y N L)
they are profiteering, the (I R R R O ]
they are profiteering, the record profits are driven by
record profits are driven by ite
LTGRO ORI T R its upstream business,
ts upstream business, production
ts upstream business, JED iR
ts upstream business, production of gas and
ts upstream business, QO R R E LT &
ts upstream business, production of gas and its share
production of gas and its share in
production of gas and its share TRy
production of gas and its share in the nuclear energy
in the nuclear energy JOpa IR
in the nuclear energy Dl T AT
in the nuclear energy production, both of
In the nuclear energy production, both of which have
production, both of which have )
production, both of which have done unusually well this year.
done unusually well this year. {04
done unusually well this year. e
done unusually well this year. N
done unusually well this year. I E R ]
done unusually well this year. N R e o)
done unusually well this year. But it has to be remembered,
But it has to be remembered, particularly with
But it has to be remembered, ol E A R ]
But it has to be remembered, particularly with upstream oil
particularly with upstream oil and gas
particularly with upstream ol and gas extraction, this is a
and gas extraction, this is very
and gas extraction, this is a very difficult and challenging
very difficult and challenging Elad\iv’E
very difficult and challenging activity which is
very difficult and challenging Ela 1 A I R L)
activity which is already ]
activity which is already pretty highly
activity which is already AL RS
activity which is already AL AETCL R
activity which is already pretty highly taxed in this
pretty highly taxed in this Cis’A
pretty highly taxed in this country. To what extent is
country. To what extent is Centrica caught by the windfall
Centrica caught by the windfall G4
Centrica caught by the windfall YAl
Centrica caught by the windfall YA s [
Centrica caught by the windfall A s T )
Centrica caught by the windfall taxes? |t does have a 20%
Centrica caught by the windfall YA s A RV A
taxes? It does have a 20% stake 3
taxes? It does have a 20% stake inthe
taxes? It does have a 20% stake in the power
taxes? It does have a 20% stake RO R L I L R
taxes? It does have a 20% stake RGN S R o]
in the power stations, which Py
in the power stations, which IR
in the power stations, which are subject to
in the power stations, which EI RN R 1)
in the power stations, which are subject to the levy
are subject to the levy I Sl
are subject to the levy implemented by the Chancellor?
UG R A G LR R T L e
UG R A G LR R T L LG SN
implemented by the Chancellor? That’s right, the nuclear
That’s right, the nuclear generation and also on upstream
generation and also on upstream oil and gas activities. We have
oil and gas activities. We have EIE
oil and gas activities. We have ECE L A G
oil and gas activities. We have already seen the
oil and gas activities. We have AU R U R a1
oil and gas activities. We have already seen the windfall tax
already seen the windfall tax (BN
already seen the windfall tax relating to
already seen the windfall tax LR CRGT
already seen the windfall tax relating to the North
already seen the windfall tax (EELLLR RO s LY
already seen the windfall tax relating to the North Sea is
relating to the North Sea is (=N
relating to the North Sea is having a detrimental impact on
having a detrimental impact on Ty
having a detrimental impact on K01
having a detrimental impact on new activity there.
new activity there. Redundancies announced at
new activity there. Redundancies annocunced at the
Redundancies announced at the largest independent producer in
largest independent producer in )
largest independent producer in the North
largest independent producer in R O RN
largest independent producer in the North Sea, which harms
the North Sea, which harms Britain’s
the North Sea, which harms gl EI ] 1Mis Y
the North Sea, which harms Britain’s ability to
the North Sea, which harms Britain’s ability to develop
Britain’s ability to develop ite
I TR LIV oA (T its own
I TR LIV oA (T its OWnN resources.
I TR LIV oA (T TR Rt e T
(R NI [ Y R )
(R NI [ alternative to
(R NI [ IR R R 4
(R NI [ IR R R A
alternative to that is importing,
alternative to that is T e ATl
alternative to that is importing, and then we are even
importing, and then we are even )
importing, and then we are even RS |
importing, and then we are even RS TR
importing, and then we are even more exposed to international
more exposed to international i
more exposed to international il
more exposed to international crisis. In October, Centrica
crisis. In October, Centrica e sl
crisis. In October, Centrica warned that
crisis. In October, Centrica g R E e
crisis. In October, Centrica g R El a4
crisis. In October, Centrica g R Cl s R T
crisis. In October, Centrica warned that the UK had just
warned that the UK had just Y
warned that the UK had just nine days of gas storage
nine days of gas storage capacity. Germany has 89,
capacity. Germany has 89, France 103, the Netherlands
France 103, the Netherlands 123. Talks have broken down
123. Talks have broken down with
123. Talks have broken down R )
123. Talks have broken down with the government. How
with the government. How R )
with the government. How vulnerable is Britain to gas
vulnerable is Britain to gas shortages
vulnerable is Britain to gas i s LR
vulnerable is Britain to gas shortages in the future? We’ve
shortages in the future? We’ve always
shortages in the future? We’ve [ R L)
shortages in the future? We’ve always operated what is called
always operated what is called Y
always operated what is called RSl
always operated what is called a just-in-time approach to gas
a Just-in-time approach to gas procurement
a Just-in-time approach to gas Al
a Just-in-time approach to gas procurement since Centrica
procurement since Centrica |
procurement since Centrica closed a
procurement since Centrica - CR T8
procurement since Centrica closed a facility in 2017. The
closed a facility in 2017. The reason
closed a facility in 2017. The T I mis
closed a facility in 2017. The T IR L
closed a facility in 2017. The IR LR |
closed a facility in 2017. The IR LR R T ET
closed a facility in 2017. The reason it was closed was that
reason it was closed was that e
reason it was closed was that it was considered
reason it was closed was that IR DI R
reason it was closed was that R LR A s Bl Ts|
reason It was closed was that TR LR A e B sl T e el
it was considered it had become unsafe
It was considered it had become unsafe to
It was considered it had become R R L
It was considered it had become R R L
It was considered it had become R R LT
It was considered it had become R R G LIV R o)
unsafe to operate. It used to 1y
unsafe to operate. It used to ]
unsafe to operate. It used to be an oil-producing field then
be an oil-producing field then e
be an oil-producing field then it was a storage
be an oil-producing field then R RS L LRI
be an oil-producing field then QI RS R GO
be an oil-producing field then it was a storage site in said.
it was a storage site in said. e
it was a storage site in said. LT E
it was a storage site in said. IR R
it was a storage site in said. The wells were getting to the
The wells were getting to the il
The wells were getting to the end of their
The wells were getting to the LR R G TaRT
The wells were getting to the LR R AR
The wells were getting to the end of their Llives so Centrica
end of their lives so Centrica YT
end of their lives so Centrica had done safety assessments and
d done safety assessments and 10
had done safety assessments and FIRGT
had done safety assessments and IR G A ]
had done safety assessments and said they needed to be drilled
said they needed to be drilled again for the site to remain
again for the site to remain )
again for the site to remain -l
again for the site to remain R
again for the site to remain MR R )
again for the site to remain safe and that would require
safe and that would require e
safe and that would require significant investment. At that
significant investment. At that R
significant investment. At that PRt aal )
significant investment. At that PR R I R e
significant investment. At that time, Centrica wasn’t making
time, Centrica wasn’t making any
time, Centrica wasn’t making AL
time, Centrica wasn’t making any money from
time, Centrica wasn’t making VAN A T B ]
time, Centrica wasn’t making any money from selling the
any money from selling the storage
any money from selling the SR Ll
any money from selling the SR e AL
any money from selling the ORI AL R
storage capacity and the government wasn’t
GED LR R G N A R Y I
GED LR R G government wasn’t prepared to
government wasn’t prepared to support
government wasn’t prepared to I ]o L Ja R i %1
government wasn’t prepared to R R L
government wasn’t prepared to R R e e
support that investment which 3
support that investment which R\
support that investment which is why it closed. You mentioned
is why it closed. You mentioned e
is why it closed. You mentioned NIRRT
is why it closed. You mentioned other countries, they
is why it closed. You mentioned ORI O AN G
other countries, they have Pl T
other countries, they have access to quite extensive salt
access to quite extensive salt e
access to quite extensive salt caverns underground. We have
caverns underground. We have )
caverns underground. We have e e Ne 018
caverns underground. We have some but nothing like the same
some but nothing like the same amount. So it is
some but nothing like the same amount. So itis a
some but nothing like the same amount. So it is a geological
amount. So it is a geological i e
amount. So it is a geological it e e
amount. So it is a geological i e te et 0es]
amount. So it is a geological difference as much as a
difference as much as a e Gl
difference as much as a political difference. But do
political difference. But do you think Centrica is holding
you think Centrica is holding )
you think Centrica is holding GG TN
you think Centrica is holding the government to ransom over
the government to ransom over this issue? No, | don’t, it
the government to ransom over this issue? No, | don’t, itis
this issue? Neo, | don’t, itis e
this issue? No, | don’t, it s T A id [
this issue? No, | don’t, it s T A TR
this issue? No, | don’t, it s A IR R (]
this issue? No, | don’t, it s not Centrica’s job to protect
not Centrica’s job to protect )
not Centrica’s job to protect the security
not Centrica’s job to protect ORI A
not Centrica’s job to protect the security of supply in the
QR T T R EITEVA L R country,
the security of supply in the S (s PRy F1
the security of supply in the S (ARG A
the security of supply in the country, that is the
country, that is the government’s
country, that is the government’s job.
country, that is the government’s job. The
government’s job. The T e
government’s job. The investment was required,
investment was required, Centrica
investment was required, X d s R
investment was required, O R R B )
investment was required, O R R B R4
investment was required, Centrica didn’t make it up.
Centrica didn’t make it up. )
Centrica didn’'t make it up. TR
Centrica didn’'t make it up. There were integrity
Centrica didn’t make it up. There were integrity issues
There were integrity issues with
There were integrity issues R )
There were integrity issues T G ROEEY
There were integrity issues T G RG R a]
There were integrity issues G ROEE EsEid
There were integrity issues MR E R Z Lk
with the site and it wasn’t ol el
with the site and it wasn’t IR
with the site and it wasn’t deemed to be
with the site and it wasn’t NIRRT Y
with the site and it wasn’t deemed to be safe to
with the site and it wasn’t deemed to be safe to continue
deemed to be safe to continue WAL
deemed to be safe to continue AR
deemed to be safe to continue operating it as it had been
operating it as it had been operated. Centrica
operating it as it had been I I (a1l
operating it as it had been G R R 1Y
operating it as it had been operated. Centrica did the post
operated. Centrica did the post to operate
operated. Centrica did the post ORI
operated. Centrica did the post RG]
operated. Centrica did the post to operate it ina
operated. Centrica did the post to operate it in a different
to operate it in a different LGV
to operate it in a different AN
to operate it in a different way but that didn’t fit within
way but that didn’t fit within )
way but that didn’t fit within GEETI8
way but that didn’t fit within ORI LI
way but that didn’t fit within R RLC I L
way but that didn’t fit within the safety framework. —- did
the safety framework. -- did O
the safety framework. -- did propose. It wasn’t a question
propose. It wasn’t a question S a
propose. It wasn’t a question of holding anybody to ransom.
of holding anybody to ransom. If
of holding anybody to ransom. TRy
of holding anybody to ransom. If the government wanted to
If the government wanted to )
If the government wanted to R
If the government wanted to take that over, it had the
take that over, it had the option
take that over, it had the IR
take that over, it had the SRR [
take that over, it had the option to do it, but it didn’t
option to do it, but it didn’t 1
option to do it, but it didn’t R4
option to do it, but it didn’t IR Rl L
option to do it, but it didn’t at that time. It thought
option to do it, but it didn’t at that time. It thought simply
at that time. It thought simply waiting and importing when we
waiting and importing when we needed
waiting and importing when we Tl lid
waiting and importing when we TGl E R
waiting and importing when we TR LR
waiting and importing when we LG LR ANEER G Lo
waiting and importing when we needed it was the right way
needed it was the right way T Elon
needed it was the right way T e Ll |
needed it was the right way forward. And to
needed it was the right way T LGOI MR R
needed it was the right way forward. And to be fair, no one
forward. And to be fair, no one Yy
forward. And to be fair, no one LR Y
forward. And to be fair, no one has really carried out an
has really carried out an analysis
has really carried out an EL VAR
has really carried out an I E VAR R
has really carried out an analysis which says otherwise.
analysis which says otherwise. [V
analysis which says otherwise. )
analysis which says otherwise. I N L
analysis which says otherwise. No one has gone back and said,
No one has gone back and said, Tl
No one has gone back and said, LR )
No one has gone back and said, had we made that
No one has gone back and said, YR R Rl
No one has gone back and said, had we made that £1 billion
had we made that £1 billion N3t
had we made that £1 billion investment in 2017, would we
investment in 2017, would we have
investment in 2017, would we Y R e e R F
investment in 2017, would we N LR E e 3
investment in 2017, would we have recovered that cost in
investment in 2017, would we R N G R R AR
have recovered that cost in the past
have recovered that cost in the AN
have recovered that cost in the past winter to using it as a
past winter to using it as a storage
past winter to using it as a ORI R
past winter to using it as a storage site or not?
past winter to using it as a SOEL R R Al
past winter to using it as a storage site or not? It wasn’t
storage site or not? It wasn’t an
storage site or not? It wasn’t N Rt
storage site or not? It wasn’t an infinite amount of storage,
an infinite amount of storage, 3
an infinite amount of storage, TRl
an infinite amount of storage, it had a
CLHEIHBU T O B G it had a certain
CLHEIHBU T O B G I E R C LR Lo18
CLHEIHBU T O B G it had a certain capacity and
it had a certain capacity and deliverability rates. If you
deliverability rates. If you Tl R d
deliverability rates. If you R i
deliverability rates. If you couldn’t benefit within
deliverability rates. If you IR ER AR s TR T
couldn’t benefit within those parameters, may
couldn’t benefit within those IR UE A
couldn’t benefit within those parameters, may be that
parameters, may be that N3t
parameters, may be that investment wouldn’t have been
investment wouldn’t have been PRGN
investment wouldn’t have been justified. We
investment wouldn’t have been TSGR CEI
investment wouldn’t have been justified. We are going to
justified. We are going to [
justified. We are going to IR
justified. We are going to leave it there,
justified. We are going to (N R R GG
justified. We are going to VRS GRS TR
leave it there, thank you. I
leave it there, thank you. Those numbers
leave it there, thank you. I e e Rl d
leave it there, thank you. Those numbers will be out in
Those numbers will be out in FYe L
Those numbers will be out in ]
Those numbers will be out In YR ek
The reopening of China, the world’s biggest energy
consumer, has raised R e R ]
higher oil demand.
But OPEC, the group that accounts for 40%
of the world’s oil supply, says it has no plans
to increase the rate of production.
In fact, Russia announced last week it would be cutting
production from next month.
In an exclusive interview, the BBC’s Sameer Hashmi spoke
to the UAE’s energy minister, and began by asking him
IILENII 1 ATEH prepared to step up.
We have all collaborated with almost
We have all collaborated with IR
We have all collaborated with almost all the agencies that
almost all the agencies that Py
almost all the agencies that CICH G
almost all the agencies that EICY G L
almost all the agencies that EICH GG R 1
almost all the agencies that are looking at the market.
almost all the agencies that EIC LR R G R E L A
are looking at the market. And Y
are looking at the market. And 10
are looking at the market. And we are then making the
we are then making the 1 lat Flale
we are then making the calculations. If there is a
calculations. If there is a requirement, we will see it. As
requirement, we will see it. As o]i1-Yd
requirement, we will see it. As Opec plus, given we are seeing
Opec plus, given we are seeing L
Opec plus, given we are seeing signs that demand is going up,
signs that demand is going up, )
signs that demand is going up, N d
signs that demand is going up, RO R Y
signs that demand is going up, one of the key members has
one of the key members has slashed supplies, isn’t it
(TN T R T T R slashed supplies, isn’t it now
slashed supplies, isn’t it now i Tat e a1
slashed supplies, isn’t it now et e a1 4
slashed supplies, isn’t it now G S G E e
slashed supplies, isn’t it now imminent that Opec plus will
imminent that Opec plus will have to step
imminent that Opec plus will VR RGN
imminent that Opec plus will have to step up supplies?
imminent that Opec plus will RO G R
have to step up supplies? | 1R
have to step up supplies? | SRR
have to step up supplies? | R ]
have to step up supplies? | don’t see a requirement right
don’t see a requirement right NOW.
don’t see a requirement right A
S RSN L Iy o) T T T
S RSN L Iy o) T G A
S RSN L Iy o) now. Right now we are
W RSN L VI (e now. Right now we are seeing a
now. Right now we are seeing a balance. The
now. Right now we are seeing a FIEhe - LT Y
now. Right now we are seeing a balance. The last meeting that
balance. The last meeting that Y
balance. The last meeting that LR
balance. The last meeting that we held. Every month, though,
we held. Every month, though, Y
we held. Every month, though, 10
we held. Every month, though, IR LN
we held. Every month, though, we are looking at the market.
we are looking at the market. IR )
we are looking at the market. (RGN
we are looking at the market. RG]
we are looking at the market. If there is a requirement,
I RULICR N LI ) eI
I RULICR N LI ) trust me,
If there is a requirement, I PR )
If there is a requirement, ST Rl
If there is a requirement, TR R )
If there is a requirement, trust me, we will see it,
| B TR WL V[ T trust me, we will see it, and
trust me, we will see It, and Y
trust me, we will see It, and |l
trust me, we will see it, and we will do our best. But we
we will do our best. But we )
we will do our best. But we need to remember, this group,
need to remember, this group, )
need to remember, this group, TNk i)
need to remember, this group, TN R R )
need to remember, this group, MR iR Vi
need to remember, this group, even with the 23 countries,
even with the 23 countries, they
even with the 23 countries, GG
even with the 23 countries, they are only responsible,
even with the 23 countries, they are only respensible, only
they are only responsible, only producing
they are only responsible, only LTl LR LTI
they are only responsible, only producing less than 40% of
they are only respensible, only producing less than 40% of the
producing less than 40% of the el
producing less than 40% of the world supply, so also it’s not
world supply, so also it’s not Ed
world supply, so also it’s not =l
world supply, so also it’s not AP & )
world supply, so also it’s not fair just to ask them for
EHGIE S R S QLR s balancing
ICHST S R S G0 By balancing 100% of the
IEHST S RN ST R balancing 100% of the market.
balancing 100% of the market. 3
balancing 100% of the market. Is it
balancing 100% of the market. RS
balancing 100% of the market. TR0
balancing 100% of the market. RN RO Shs
balancing 100% of the market. Is it time to ask for a higher
Is it time to ask for a higher 104
Is it time to ask for a higher EIOE L
Is it time to ask for a higher target and quota considering
target and quota considering T E]
target and quota considering Russia have slashed production
Russia have slashed production and
Russia have slashed production IR e
Russia have slashed production YA e aa e 0la el
Russia have slashed production N R s e e
and other countries are struggling to meet their
struggling to meet their existing
UIGLU R L G L existing targets? Look,
struggling to meet their existing targets? Look, we are
existing targets? Look, we are in
existing targets? Look, we are T}
existing targets? Look, we are R
existing targets? Look, we are in a deal for
existing targets? Look, we are N R 1
existing targets? Look, we are in a deal for this year and
in a deal for this year and that
in a deal for this year and e s
in a deal for this year and e E I
in a deal for this year and eI R ]
in a deal for this year and LI E LR e Re et tlie el
that deal has been committed. All
that deal has been committed. IS
that deal has been committed. All of the
that deal has been committed. LIRS RN ey
that deal has been committed. All of the countries have
All of the countries have L]
All of the countries have signed and subscribed to that
signed and subscribed to that AR
signed and subscribed to that deal. Unless
signed and subscribed to that e I PR T
signed and subscribed to that deal. Unless the whole group is
deal. Unless the whole group Is AN
deal. Unless the whole group is E RIS
deal. Unless the whole group is E R IR
deal. Unless the whole group is asking countries to raise
asking countries to raise production or
asking countries to raise G s aa [T eI [
asking countries to raise production or do this
asking countries to raise IO a R RO
asking countries to raise production or do this or do
production or do this or do that,
production or do this or do i Eeirya
production or do this or do 1o Rl [}
production or do this or do that, UAE will not unilaterally
that, UAE will not unilaterally )
that, UAE will not unilaterally do something. For such an event
do something. For such an event to happen, there has to be some
to happen, there has to be some e
to happen, there has to be some more signs than just one
more signs than just one country reducing production by
country reducing production by that
country reducing production by e s s M
country reducing production by e S Tl
country reducing production by that much. The UAE
country reducing production by el LI
country reducing production by e R L R ]
that much. The UAE has been TN
that much. The UAE has been NS AR
that much. The UAE has been investing in increasing its
investing in increasing its JOpa IR
investing in increasing its production, and
investing in increasing its JED I AL R I
investing in increasing its production, and there has been
production, and there has been Y
production, and there has been Rl I
production, and there has been R G L S R 1o
production, and there has been R L PR G R =)
production, and there has been a clamour, that there is a need
a clamour, that there is a need to
a clamour, that there is a need Reiis
a clamour, that there is a need el TLas e s
a clamour, that there is a need to cut down on
a clamour, that there is a need eRenas R R il
a clamour, that there is a need Reas e R R I R G
T G G B ISR (TR T
to cut down on fossil fuels. How does
to cut down on fossil fuels. ST [ R s
to cut down on fossil fuels. TR i 1a
to cut down on fossil fuels. ST R R T
to cut down on fossil fuels. How does the UAE see this
How does the UAE see this ElO Iy
How does the UAE see this argument, because
How does the UAE see this IO DR
How does the UAE see this argument, because you are
argument, because you are looking at decreasing capacity
looking at decreasing capacity in the
looking at decreasing capacity MR 4
looking at decreasing capacity NG iR
looking at decreasing capacity in the next few years? We are
in the next few years? We are st tliee el
in the next few years? We are committed to
in the next few years? We are i R R N
in the next few years? We are committed to diversify our
committed to diversify our N
committed to diversify our OV AL T
committed to diversify our N AL -
energy sources. The diversification is going to be
diversification is going to be in
diversification is going to be B EV 4
diversification is going to be in favour of cleaner forms of
in favour of cleaner forms of energy,
in favour of cleaner forms of NV AL
in favour of cleaner forms of AL T
in favour of cleaner forms of O LT 1T
in favour of cleaner forms of energy, no doubt. But at the
energy, no doubt. But at the )
energy, no doubt. But at the R TR )
energy, no doubt. But at the R TR R
energy, no doubt. But at the R TR LR )
energy, no doubt. But at the IR R LR S )
same time, we are also a el
same time, we are also a trusted supplier during the
trusted supplier during the transition,
trusted supplier during the N PR
trusted supplier during the transition, for many, many
transition, for many, many e
transition, for many, many countries. For those who
transition, for many, many T I T R R e
countries. For those who are LI
countries. For those who are LR
countries. For those who are needing our barrels,
countries. For those who are LGB T T
countries. For those who are needing our barrels, we will
needing our barrels, we will Y]
needing our barrels, we will assure them that those barrels
assure them that those barrels il
assure them that those barrels IR
assure them that those barrels will be available until we have
will be available until we have Y
will be available until we have T
will be available until we have P TR
will be available until we have a hase load that
will be available until we have a base load that is clean and
a base load that is clean and affordable. Today, we don’t
affordable. Today, we don’t have that.
affordable. Today, we don’t T R E Ay
affordable. Today, we don’t have that. The petrochemical
have that. The petrochemical (Y
have that. The petrochemical LI (A4 %1
have that. The petrochemical [ (R G
have that. The petrochemical LIS (ARG R o s 1a
have that. The petrochemical industry that also supports the
industry that also supports the R )
industry that also supports the UL NG
industry that also supports the renewable energy is also
renewable energy is also LG
renewable energy is also dependent on
renewable energy is also U RO
renewable energy is also dependent on the oil
renewable energy is also NN R U R L
renewable energy is also dependent on the oil and gas.
dependent on the oil and gas. We are maintaining the balance
We are maintaining the balance between
We are maintaining the balance SN EEN |
We are maintaining the balance SN NN R G
We are maintaining the balance between keeping the economy of
between keeping the economy of )
between keeping the economy of the whole
between keeping the economy of R e R e al]
between keeping the economy of QR R G G
between keeping the economy of QR CR L GO L]
the whole world healthy and growing, but
the whole world healthy and LTS
the whole world healthy and LA 1 & T
the whole world healthy and growing, but at the same time
growing, but at the same time ensuring that we are committed
ensuring that we are committed to
ensuring that we are committed ol
ensuring that we are committed to net zero
ensuring that we are committed e
ensuring that we are committed LD iR
ensuring that we are committed e ALV RS
I OB VTR Iy T transition
I OB VTR Iy T LR
I OB VTR Iy T AR R ]
to net zero x 2050. This transition needs to happen at a
transition needs to happen at a Fle
transition needs to happen at a (IR A
transition needs to happen at a pace that is also enabling.
David Malpass, the President of the World Bank, says
he will step down early from his role to "pursue
new challenges”.
Mr Malpass, who was appointed by former US
President Donald Trump, will vacate the post
before the end of June.
The World Bank, which provides loans and grants to developing
countries, has been under pressure by member countries
to take a leading role in addressing the climate crisis.
Joining me now is Fiona Cincotta, of City Index.
AR LS
He was of course the pick of %Gl
He was of course the pick of Donald Trump. Criticise also as
Donald Trump. Criticise also as Y
Donald Trump. Criticise also as el i)
Donald Trump. Criticise also as a climate change denier. How
a climate change denier. How il
a climate change denier. How IR
a climate change denier. How will his departure be viewed,
will his departure be viewed, )
will his departure be viewed, do you think? | think there
do you think? I think there il
do you think? I think there IR
do you think? | think there will be quite a few people out
will be quite a few people out )
will be quite a few people out ]
will be quite a few people out QRN
will be quite a few people out there in quite a few countries
there in quite a few countries that
there in quite a few countries Ela i
there in quite a few countries eI R
there in quite a few countries that will be perhaps quite
that will be perhaps quite R
that will be perhaps quite pleased to
that will be perhaps quite [ CE G R R R UG
that will be perhaps quite pleased to see some change at
pleased to see some change at )
pleased to see some change at RN
pleased to see some change at RO Y
pleased to see some change at R T 11
pleased to see some change at the top. Let’s not forget, last
the top. Let’s not forget, last =1
the top. Let’s not forget, last IR )
the top. Let’s not forget, last year, the Biden administration
year, the Biden administration |
year, the Biden administration rebuked him for saying that he
rebuked him for saying that he Ik
rebuked him for saying that he T R )
rebuked him for saying that he RN AL
rebuked him for saying that he wasn’t sure if fossil fuels
wasn’t sure if fossil fuels |
wasn’t sure if fossil fuels caused climate change.
LEE IRV B 1R (T caused climate change. Also had
caused climate change. Also had criticism from leaders, ex
criticism from leaders, ex LI
criticism from leaders, ex IR a )
criticism from leaders, ex LI R h R ]
criticism from leaders, ex leaders who called for
criticism from leaders, ex L R R LR
leaders who called for his replacement, saying that the
replacement, saying that the e
replacement, saying that the R Lk
replacement, saying that the NG
replacement, saying that the bank wasn’t really doing enough
bank wasn’t really doing enough LI
bank wasn’t really doing enough towards funding for climate
towards funding for climate T
towards funding for climate I |
towards funding for climate TN R R e
towards funding for climate TN R R &
towards funding for climate issues. So | think some change
issues. So | think some change 1
issues. So | think some change R )
issues. So | think some change FIR R0
issues. So | think some change EIR R G R
issues. So | think some change at the top will be well
at the top will be well e -l
at the top will be well (NI RNG
at the top will be well (N YR
at the top will be well (PR
at the top will be well received by some. In his
received by some. In his S
received by some. In his - T )
received by some. In his -GG
received by some. In his defence, he had said, David
defence, he had said, David Malpass, that he is pleased
Malpass, that he is pleased with
Malpass, that he is pleased R a1
Malpass, that he is pleased R A R
Malpass, that he is pleased with what the bank has
with what the bank has Yl -
with what the bank has E M AL EL el R
with what the bank has achieved. Financing, including
achieved. Financing, including i)
achieved. Financing, including climate financing, has reached
climate financing, has reached sl
climate financing, has reached Tl
climate financing, has reached T R e
climate financing, has reached record levels under his
climate financing, has reached TG LR S R e P
record levels under his watch. He
record levels under his watch. X e
record levels under his watch. He certainly has, on
record levels under his watch. G E A L ]
record levels under his watch. He certainly has, on a number
He certainly has, on a number of occasions, tried to come
of occasions, tried to come 1o
of occasions, tried to come F-Te & 1a 18|
of occasions, tried to come back and explain what he meant
back and explain what he meant in
back and explain what he meant interms
back and explain what he meant R R
back and explain what he meant RE GRS Rl
back and explain what he meant in terms of climate. The United
in terms of climate. The United S EI
in terms of climate. The United States is the largest
States is the largest eI el g
States is the largest shareholder in
States is the largest I G R )
States is the largest shareholder in the World
States is the largest I GBI R R MO ¢
shareholder in the World Bank, and of
shareholder in the World Bank, N e i)
shareholder in the World Bank, and of course a major source of
and of course a major source of ey
and of course a major source of its funding.
and of course a major source of R
and of course a major source of its funding. So what influence
its funding. So what influence s it
its funding. So what influence IR &L
its funding. So what influence LR
its funding. So what influence is it going to have
its funding. So what influence LR
its funding. So what influence IO HL R RG]
its funding. So what influence LR R IR G ST
is it going to have on the new e
is it going to have on the new appeintment, do
is it going to have on the new appointment, do you
is it going to have on the new appeintment, do you think? |
appointment, do you think? | think
appointment, do you think? | s
appeintment, do you think? | e i
appeintment, do you think? | think it will definitely
appeintment, do you think? | OIS S
appeintment, do you think? | think it will definitely have a
think it will definitely have a big influence
think it will definitely have a LEL{ O ICE]
think it will definitely have a big influence on the new
RN TR R TR EI SR LS
DRLUUEL TR RGO TR E o S R R LR s 0L
DRLUUEL TR RGO TR appointment. That would stand
appointment. That would stand to
appeintment. That would stand ol E il
appeintment. That would stand ol R
appeintment. That would stand to reason. | think
appeintment. That would stand Rt R R
appeintment. That would stand to reason. | think there will
to reason. | think there will YT
to reason. | think there will GV
to reason. | think there will SR R 1]
to reason. | think there will NG CR U IR E e
definitely be certain factors that
definitely be certain factors GE R
definitely be certain factors that they will be looking
SNV R 1R ETa (S G E G A (W R L
that they will be looking at. W e )
that they will be looking at. WU ETCE A RN
that they will be looking at. Climate change has become such
Climate change has become such Y
Climate change has become such a huge, huge topic right now,
a huge, huge topic right now, and
a huge, huge topic right now, E el s Ve 01113
a huge, huge topic right now, and rightfully so. Especially
and rightfully so. Especially going forward. | think that
going forward. | think that il
going forward. | think that T
going forward. | think that will be something those that
will be something those that A el e ae
will be something those that A e N 3 e el
will be something those that Al e N R el T
select the next world Bank YT d
select the next world Bank LR il
select the next world Bank ST 1 (T
select the next world Bank leader will be paying a lot of
leader will be paying a lot of attention
leader will be paying a lot of AR
leader will be paying a lot of iR TR =]
leader will be paying a lot of attention to. Thank you.
Earlier, we spoke to Masood Ahmed,
ORI GEN E RG IR of Global Development.
And he outlined the process through which a new World Bank
chief may be picked.
Any member country could nominate
someone, but traditionally it has been the United States,
the largest shareholder.
Now, there are many people who have said for a long time
that this process needs to be open to qualified people
from every country.
It shouldn’t be the purview of the United States to hold
G NI (8 NAGER R
That’s the way it has been, and | don’t anticipate
QISR LR change this time round.
Similarly, as the SRRSO F
which is the International Monetary
Fund, has traditionally had a European head as the managing
director of the IMF, and again, people have
argued that that process RN R IR B
Perhaps they will be C1 T R Ll
| just don’t anticipate that IR R N A
The most important thing from where
I sit is that it’s somebody who understands that the world
has changed.
The nature of the work R R el
Bank must change accordingly to fight global challenges,
as well as helping countries deal with poverty.
And that person needs to bring credibility
and an ability to build consensus amongst
LRI MG LR don’t always see things
eye to eye.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
On Wednesday, more than 200 flights
were cancelled at Frankfurt airport after construction
work damaged broadband cables and caused check-in
and boarding problems for German airline Lufthansa.
The airline says all of its systems were now back up.
Thousands of passengers were stranded as their flights
were cancelled or delayed across the world.
The airline expect flights at Frankfurt to return
(g EL R R T E A
Data shows retail sales surged in January,
defying high inflation.
American consumers are spending on everything from food to fuel
That’s the biggest monthly increase in two decades.
It could bolster the resolve of the US Federal Reserve,
AT B EEEE TG R Ry Tl to keeping rates high
to try and tame inflation.
Shares in Roku were up around 12% in after-hours
trading after the content streaming company projected
strong first-quarter revenue despite high inflation.
Like other platforms, Roku has benefited from more consumers
ditching traditional cable packages for
streaming services.
But the company reported a revenue squeeze in December
as advertisers reduced G EI DR G
due to recessionary fears.
And some breaking news, Airbus T
And some breaking news, Airbus LR ot e ]
And some breaking news, Airbus has recorded record
And some breaking news, Airbus TR e R el
And some breaking news, Airbus has recorded record net profit
has recorded record net profit of
has recorded record net profit S W]
has recorded record net profit S WA
has recorded record net profit S WA TG R
has recorded record net profit of 4.2 billion euros in 2022.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
Can the tourism industry be more prepared for unexpected,
but costly, events like the Covid pandemic
and natural disasters?
We’ll take you to sunny Jamaica to find out.
Nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into Afghanistan
the last Soviet troops were finally coming home.
The withdrawal completed in good order but the Army
defeated in the task it was sent to perform.
Malcelm has been murdered.
That has a terrible effect for the morale of the people.
I’m terrified of the IO LRI RO R O
One wonders who 15 next.
As the airlift got under way there was no let-up
in the eruption itself.
Lava streams from a vent low in the crater flow down
to the sea to the east of the island, away from
the town for the time being.
(IR g il again at any time.
The Russians heralded the next generation space station with
a spectacular night launch.
LS A LTl o Russian for peace.
This is BBC World News, ARG LR
Thousands of Syrian LS WOCE
the Turkish border, as they try to cross back
into their home country after last week’s earthquakes.
The Scottish National Party begins the task
of choosing a new leader, after Nicola Sturgeon steps
The humanitarian crisis in Turkey and Syria has
provoked an international response.
ThIIC RN [ RUET L V- is in Copenhagen.
Boxes of aid are put together here, ready to be sent to
the earthquake struck regions.
Adrienne Murray has LR R e
to see how the operation and logistics work.
It’s the size of three football pitches.
This is the world’s biggest humanitarian warehouse.
The assembly line behind me is where boxes of aid and dozens
of different types of emergency kits
are put together, VAN Rl
out to crises around the globe.
The first round of earthquake relief
I Rl AR e
The bundles on these pallets e IR e e BT ]
and these are going to be RS R G A A
We’ve sent a lot of medical kits, hygiene kits.
But | mean, what they need A Rt il s
is blankets, plastic sheeting, tents.
It’s an enormous operation.
And If you take a quick leok around,
you can see just how highly automated it is.
Monorails and forklift trucks CI R e R R ORI G
Robert, Roberta and Robin, shifting
boxes and pallets.
All these supplies CICES LRI R GG
temperature controlled bay that can handle 36,000 pallets.
These are some of the items that go into the kits here.
You’ve got essentials for sanitation, medical equipment
MG IER Tl )
LH R ET a classroom in a box.
There’s even black paint for a chalkboard.
And of course, It’s really important
to have toys for children.
Supplies are also being sent to other places
affected by disaster, conflict and health issues.
To Afghanistan, Yemen and over the past year to Ukraine,
there are so many emergencies that the ships
emergencies that the shifts
have been doubled and the RGBT ¢
in the morning to 11.30 at night.
We know that a lot of hospitals have been destroyed.
It’s the middle of winter and the earthquake could not
have happened at a worse time.
There have been challenges getting aid to Turkey
and particularly Syria.
So how will these boxes of kit and equipment reach
We’ve got supplies on trucks that are heading in by road.
We’re using planes, commercial charter and just trying to move
supplies as quickly I R
Obviously, It is a challenge.
Some of the airports were damaged in the earthquake.
We’ve got some roads that have also been damaged.
The number of emergencies right now in the world
has just never been higher.
And the need is desperate.
SRR QR is being airlifted
tc Damascus and scon to Adana.
While this truck is about to go overland to Turkey.
More on
More on the details from Airbus, the European aircraft
Airbus, the European aircraft maker,
Airbus, the European aircraft EL PR 1)
Airbus, the European aircraft maker, who have earned a record
maker, who have earned a record L 2
maker, who have earned a record 4 2 billion
maker, who have earned a record 4.2 billion euros, about $4.5
4.2 billion euros, about $4.5 IR
4.2 billion euros, about $4.5 I
4.2 billion euros, about $4.5 billion, in 2022 despite
billien, in 2022 despite sl TIRa -
billien, in 2022 despite difficulties in increasing
difficulties in increasing production because of supply
production because of supply chain
production because of supply DEINRIR
production because of supply NS G
production because of supply chain issues, the issues many
chain issues, the issues many of us have faced as a result of
of us have faced as a result of )
of us have faced as a result of the pandemic.
of us have faced as a result of R EN D Y L[V gV
of us have faced as a result of ORI L L TR
of us have faced as a result of the pandemic. Airbus say they
the pandemic. Airbus say they Py
the pandemic. Airbus say they EIC Y|
the pandemic. Airbus say they EI R Y T 1Y)
the pandemic. Airbus say they are delivering 660 or so
are delivering 660 or so FYeae] 18
are delivering 660 or so aircraft in the last
are delivering 660 or so e AL RO A 1S
aircraft in the last year L )
aircraft in the last year LS Rl T
aircraft in the last year despite original plans to hand
despite original plans to hand 3 d
despite original plans to hand e s 018
despite original plans to hand over about 720
despite original plans to hand N 2 R o
despite original plans to hand over about 720 clients, so they
over about 720 clients, so they Py
over about 720 clients, so they are behind on
over about 720 clients, so they N R R
over about 720 clients, so they are behind on bat. They
over about 720 clients, so they CICE UL F IR L S L
are behind on bat. They are targeting about the same level
targeting about the same level T4
targeting about the same level HAR’E [
targeting about the same level QW YARYE I pie)
targeting about the same level next year, 720 deliveries in
QST TP I Ry 2023, so
next year, 720 deliveries in p (VAT A1s
next year, 720 deliveries in 2023, so it does look like the
2023, so it does look like the R )
2023, so it does look like the G RIS s
2023, so it does look like the airline industry is returning
airline industry is returning to some form
airline industry is returning R R gl
airline industry is returning RN R R A el
airline industry is returning R R g e e et G e Te
to some form of normal after )
to some form of normal after e R i)
to some form of normal after the Covid pandemic. It looks
the Covid pandemic. It looks like that is returning to
like that is returning to ekl
like that is returning to s I
like that is returning to normal. New targets for single
normal. New targets for single aisle
normal. New targets for single G
normal. New targets for single aisle jets confirm a shallower
aisle jets confirm a shallower trajectory, things like private
trajectory, things like private 5
trajectory, things like private BRG]
trajectory, things like private jets they are not making quite
Jets they are not making quite so
Jets they are not making quite R
Jets they are not making quite YA
jets they are not making quite so many of those.
jets they are not making quite I RNE ARG )
jets they are not making quite so many of those. A really
so many of those. A really NG
so many of those. A really interesting story on the
interesting story on the e
interesting story on the website. McDonald is putting up
website. McDonald is putting up )
website. McDonald is putting up RN
website. McDonald is putting up QR R
website. McDonald is putting up the price of five items on
website. McDonald is putting up R R NG R
the price of five items on its NCUR
the price of five items on its menu, this is all to do with
menu, this is all to do with fh]
menu, this is all to do with SLLRLLY
menu, this is all to do with rising food and energy costs.
rising food and energy costs. e
rising food and energy costs. o
rising food and energy costs. RS A TR N
rising food and energy costs. A TN )
rising food and energy costs. Lots of businesses are putting
Lots of businesses are putting up prices. Not perhaps
up prices. Not perhaps LN
up prices. Not perhaps surprising that McDonald’s
surprising that McDonald’’s doing
surprising that McDonald’s doing this. High inflation in
doing this. High inflation in many countries across the
many countries across the i
many countries across the world. In
many countries across the MR
many countries across the GGG
many countries across the world. In the UK, it
many countries across the GGG SR
many countries across the world. In the UK, it fell to
world. In the UK, it fell to 10.1%
world. In the UK, it fell to (VR LA
world. In the UK, it fell to R ARG
world. In the UK, it fell to 10.1% in the year to January,
10.1% in the year to January, still
10.1% in the year to January, (Y
10.1% in the year to January, SRS AL
10.1% in the year to January, AR LGRS
10.1% in the year to January, still over 10%, and over 6% in
still over 10%, and over 6% in )
still over 10%, and over 6% in the US.
still over 10%, and over 6% In the US. Don’t
still over 10%, and over 6% In QLIRS
still over 10%, and over 6% In the US. Don’t you wish you
still over 10%, and over 6% in the US. Don’t you wish you were
the US. Don’t you wish you were Y
the US. Don’t you wish you were XA e
the US. Don’t you wish you were YA e e
the US. Don’t you wish you were there? Not stuck here!
What do you do if your country is primarily
reliant on others?
Tourists, perhaps.
This year, and as a direct result of the pandemic,
a conference is taking place in Jamaica, looking
The Minister of Tourism in Jamaica, Edmund Bartlett,
jeins us on BBC World News.
[LiE1L @0
LIS RS
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much fer jeining
Thank you very much for joining us.
Thank you very much for joining TSN
Thank you very much for joining us. Interesting this,
us. Interesting this, T e
us. Interesting this, resilience. . Is
us. Interesting this, resilience. .. Is it
us. Interesting this, resilience... Is it impossible
resilience... Is it impossible to
resilience... Is it impossible el e a i)
resilience... Is it impossible R R RIS
resilience... Is it impossible to become impervious to shocks
to become impervious to shocks such as pandemics? Well, it is
such as pandemics? Well, it is e
such as pandemics? Well, it is A
such as pandemics? Well, it is not impossible to be
not impossible to be impervious, but it could be
impervious, but it could be very
impervious, but it could be Yol ilw1]( 8
impervious, but it could be very difficult, especially with
very difficult, especially with disruptions
very difficult, especially with I o)
very difficult, especially with IO
disruptions such as earthquakes, which we are
earthquakes, which we are experiencing
earthquakes, which we are SO EL LRSS
earthquakes, which we are ORI TS E (Y
earthquakes, which we are experiencing just recently in
experiencing just recently in Turkey. But for pandemics, |
Turkey. But for pandemics, | think
Turkey. But for pandemics, | e
Turkey. But for pandemics, | think we can do much better
Turkey. But for pandemics, | R NN et el a e s
think we can do much better in s
think we can do much better in el
think we can do much better in RO Rl s Ta
terms of environmental management, in terms
I R R LT L management, in terms of
management, in terms of ensuring that the
ensuring that the epidemiological arrangements
epidemiological arrangements Py
epidemiological arrangements are pristine. And that we are
are pristine. And that we are knowledgeable as to how to
knowledgeable as to how to operate, when
knowledgeable as to how to LR IR
knowledgeable as to how to operate, when to act, how to
operate, when to act, how to F{a
operate, when to act, how to act, and how to
operate, when to act, how to o M AL
operate, when to act, how to o B A LGS N
act, and how to keep ourselves e
act, and how to keep ourselves N R
act, and how to keep ourselves N RO
act, and how to keep ourselves NS R CRE VAN
act, and how to keep ourselves out of the way of much of
act, and how to keep ourselves R ORI R R
out of the way of much of the O
out of the way of much of the virus, which is in the
virus, which is in the atmosphere, as the case may be.
atmosphere, as the case may be. 1)
atmosphere, as the case may be. Ry
atmosphere, as the case may be. R R
atmosphere, as the case may be. RO E RO Y
So there is the possibility that, with more knowledge,
that, with more knowledge, IEIG
that, with more knowledge, greater information on how to
greater information on how to manage our immediate
manage our immediate environment, we can stave
manage our immediate AN PR RN B R
environment, we can stave off )
environment, we can stave off 101 R [
environment, we can stave off R R
environment, we can stave off some types of pandemics or
some types of pandemics or Il
some types of pandemics or SR T (LY
some types of pandemics or SR G LG R
some types of pandemics or epidemics. You alluded to many
epidemics. You alluded to many ]S
epidemics. You alluded to many popular hotspots, holiday
popular hotspots, holiday e
popular hotspots, holiday hotspots, experiencing
hotspots, experiencing disruptions with greater
disruptions with greater reqularity, droughts, cyclones
regularity, droughts, cyclones and
reqularity, droughts, cyclones and floods, but also
and floods, but also earthquakes as you mentioned.
earthquakes as you mentioned. 3
earthquakes as you mentioned. R R
earthquakes as you mentioned. Is climate change undermining
Is climate change undermining tourism
Is climate change undermining e T
Is climate change undermining tourism as a viable of economic
tourism as a viable of economic L]
tourism as a viable of economic I g3
tourism as a viable of economic growth countries? Climate
growth countries? Climate change
O[T RTT dga a Ty FY change definitely is, in
growth countries? Climate change definitely is, in fact
change definitely is, in fact it’s
change definitely is, in fact TR )
change definitely is, in fact it’s the big elephant in the
it’s the big elephant in the ]
it’s the big elephant in the iR e
it’s the big elephant in the room insofar as tourism
it’s the big elephant in the IR IR e B
room insofar as tourism is e h
room insofar as tourism is e IR 1
room insofar as tourism is concerned. What that
IR EIE-FR T concerned. What that does
IR EIE-FR T e IR LR R s R
IR EIE-FR T concerned. What that does is to
concerned. What that does Is to invite
concerned. What that does Is to IR G
concerned. What that does is to invite people to be more
invite people to be more ]
invite people to be more responsible and to act more
responsible and to act more IR G
responsible and to act more immediately in
responsible and to act more IR G AR
responsible and to act more immediately in terms of dealing
immediately in terms of dealing with mitigation, adaptation,
with mitigation, adaptation, and
with mitigation, adaptation, IR e
with mitigation, adaptation, and other methods
with mitigation, adaptation, IR s LR
with mitigation, adaptation, and other methods of ensuring
and other methods of ensuring that
and other methods of ensuring R
and other methods of ensuring e )
and other methods of ensuring that we are in
and other methods of ensuring e IR LET
and other methods of ensuring that we are in full control, or
that we are in full control, or as much as possible, in
NIV IR I Y E ]
=L [V LTI ) enabling the staving
as much as possible, in enabling the staving off of
enabling the staving off of G G|
enabling the staving off of G R %N
enabling the staving off of something that might be
something that might be inevitable but
something that might be RIS N )
something that might be RIS N R N e
something that might be TS N R N Gl R
something that might be inevitable but we know that if
inevitable but we know that If Y
inevitable but we know that If N lud
inevitable but we know that if we act properly, we can save.
we act properly, we can save. T4
we act properly, we can save. IEL SN
SRS
Before | go, the markets.
Wall Street’s top regulator has proposed toughening safequards
around investors’ assets after the collapse of several
high-profile crypto companies last year revealed that
customer funds were not as safe I LR N i
The US Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday agreed
to propose rules that T s R e Mt s s e
to secure all the client assets that they manage including
so-called alternatives, such as cryptocurrencies and art,
with qualified custodians.
[LiE1L @0
Thank you for your time and company.
Thank you for your time and Il A
Thank you for your time and Sl I A R
Thank you for your time and I L AR L
Thank you for your time and company. If you are watching
company. If you are watching internationally,
company. If you are watching NGO EL I AR
company. If you are watching NGO =L AR TR E T
company. If you are watching internationally, you have got
internationally, you have got me for your
internationally, you have got RIS UL S
internationally, you have got me for your headlines soon,
me for your headlines soon, LR
The last few days have been pretty settled with high
pressure in charge, but things are about to change
and Thursday is going to be an overcast day across most
Drizzle if not rain, really very murky
conditicns to start with.
And then towards the end RO R M e 0GR O],
turn very wild across some northern parts of the UK.
we’ll get to that. Here’s the satellite picture.
Here’s all of that cloud moving off the Atlantic.
It’s a small weather SR G E R R R [T
across the UK during the course of Thursday and there
are more weather systems out in the Atlantic coming our way.
So, early in the morning, we have thick cloud across many
parts of England, Wales B e R Eash
Outbreaks of rain, drizzle, hill fog too,
mild with that - 5to 7 Celsius.
But across the north B E PR R L R VR
clear skies, so perhaps PRGN R
So really very murky, grey, overcast, whatever
you want to call it, first thing in the morning.
Later in the day, it does look as though most of that
rain should peter out, at least across England
and Wales, and we’ll see one or two bright or sunny spells -
with a bit of luck, one or two decent sunny spells.
13 or 14 Celsius in the south, a little bit
Now, on to Friday - nasty low pressure will be
sweeping across Scotland.
That is going to bring severe gales.
Exactly where the worst RO R R R
still a little uncertain, but it does look as though it’s
northern Scotland that will get the worst of the winds,
but not only northern Scotland, ISR IR [ 818"
windy through the lowlands and particularly to
the northeast of England, R N R AU L
in fact, the apps are already indicating gusts
of over 70 miles an hour, for example, in Newcastle.
So, these winds will cause problems, disruption,
possibly blow some trees R
So, really keep track SR RO
The details may change, but it does look as though it’s
the northern half of the UK that will be very blustery
and quite possibly stormy for a time.
Later on Friday, the winds will die down and then
in the south, actually, IR RN L P
Breezy, yes, but we’re not going to get the gales,
and it will stay mild - up to around 14 Celsius.
Now, here’s a daisy chain of weather systems as we go
through the weekend.
Se, more cloud pushing our way.
RS G LGSR [ RN raining particularly heavily,
but I think there will be a lot of cloud during the course
of Saturday and Sunday, but one or two glimmers
of brightness, too, G NE R GEALY
SRS
On this island, they actually graft.
CHANTING: |
This job Is geing to spit you out.
Och, Wendy, have you got an admirer?
Lots, | didn’t expect flowers though.
You could have told him AL RAlR
You’re the new fella El O &L
that everyone’s talking about.
Yes. Yes, | am. Er, so what are they saying?
So, why Shipton Abbott?
Well, Martha, my fiancee, T R g e
Please try not to create any more havoc.
| just prefer good, old-fashioned policing.
Everything is not quite what it seemed.
We were trying to prove something that never actually happened.
What’s on your mind?
Your mind is en my mind.
So how did you get into this mess?
He started off as me informant,
but then he started to PG d iR L e
I’m not sure | can do it any more.
So quit the force.
It’s not that simple.
We never chose to be the people that we are,
but we are punished for being them anyway.
We are stretched in the NHS for beds.
It feels like on a minute-by-minute basis we make difficult decisions.
It’s mind-boggling
somebody’s willing to place their life in your hands.
Just knowing that you’ve fixed somebody.
Thank you. All right, now.
It is the best reward you can ever get.
Onwards and upwards!
You’re not the only one finding it hard to talk money with your kids.
IS A RN tips and advice, go to...
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast with Naga Munchetty
and Charlie Stayt.
Our headlines today -
the search begins for a new First Minister of Scotland,
after the shock announcement that Nicola Sturgeon is standing down.
LR gy Lancashire police’s decision
to reveal that missing mother Nicola Bulley had
"significant issues™ with alcohol.
Record profits expected RGN I A R e
In the next hour, Centrica, which owns the UK’s largest
energy supplier, will reveal how it performed last year.
Actor Raquel Welch, who will be remembered as one of the sex symbols
of the ‘60s, has died EI R G ELER RV
Takeover at the top - Manchester City re-assert themselves
at the top of the Premier League, after winning at Arsenal to overtake
them on goal difference, in a statement of intent.
Today will be clouded with EL I I
Today will be clouded with [EL I L
Today will be clouded with patchiness, hell fog, and some rain.
patchiness, hell fog, and some rain. e
patchiness, hell fog, and some rain. Clearer skies across the north
patchiness, hell fog, and some rain. R A A e R - N e B
Clearer skies across the north of Scotland,
Clearer skies across the north of Y CL s PN S
Clearer skies across the north of Scotland, but we should see a little
Scotland, but we should see a little e )
Scotland, but we should see a little sunshine developed elsewhere later
sunshine developed elsewhere later on. Tonight and tomorrow, the
on. Tonight and tomorrow, the northern
on. Tonight and tomorrow, the e el
on. Tonight and tomorrow, the eI R
on. Tonight and tomorrow, the I R R
on. Tonight and tomorrow, the northern half of the country
YRRl TR (el [ g (AR 4y 1) northern half of the country will
northern half of the country will have gales or
GG I IV R G R T A have gales or even severe
G TG I IV R G R A have gales or even severe gales. All
have gales or even severe gales. All )
have gales or even severe gales. All W sl G
have gales or even severe gales. All M EH AR e
have gales or even severe gales. All the details later in
have gales or even severe gales. All M S EH AR R
have gales or even severe gales. All the details later in the programme.
Good morning.
It’s Thursday 16th February.
Our main story -
the search for a new First Minister of Scotland has begun,
after Nicola Sturgeon’s surprise decision yesterday to stand down,
after more than eight years in the job.
The Scottish National Party’s National Executive Committee
will meet this evening
to draw up a timetable for a leadership race.
Our Scotland correspondent Lorna Gordon is in Holyrood this morning.
KeIg PR LGN R 131, isn’t going to be easy.
Many questions about what lies YN
ahead. Yes, good morning, Charlie. Y TR e 8
ahead. Yes, good morning, Charlie. Parliament is in recess this week
Parliament is in recess this week T
Parliament is in recess this week here in Edinburgh, so there will be
here in Edinburgh, so there will be )
here in Edinburgh, so there will be Ol
here in Edinburgh, so there will be Rl L IR s
here in Edinburgh, so there will be no First Minister’s Questions as is
no First Minister’s Questions as Is usual on a Thursday. But whoever
usual on a Thursday. But whoever ST
usual on a Thursday. But whoever SR
usual on a Thursday. But whoever takes over from Nicola Sturgeon to
takes over from Nicola Sturgeon to T
takes over from Nicola Sturgeon to answer questions from leaders of
answer questions from leaders of L]
answer questions from leaders of opposition parties and from other
opposition parties and from other MSPs
opposition parties and from other NI
opposition parties and from other MSPs is likely
opposition parties and from other RN A
opposition parties and from other MSPs is likely to face
opposition parties and from other R R R X
MSPs is likely to face a IR
MSPs is likely to face a competition, not a coronation,
MSPs is likely to face a competition, not a corenation, to
competition, not a coronation, to )
competition, not a coronation, to take on
competition, not a coronatien, to N R
competition, not a coronatien, to IR E e
competition, not a coronatien, to MR R e i e
competition, not a coronatien, to take on that role after Nicola
take on that role after Nicola Sturgeon’s
take on that role after Nicola Sturgeon’s unexpected and abrupt
Sturgeon’s unexpected and abrupt ETalaeoalw-Tn1l0118
Sturgeon’s unexpected and abrupt XA Ta e T la e et e a1 o
Sturgeon’s unexpected and abrupt announcement that she
Sturgeon’s unexpected and abrupt N e i R R L
Sturgeon’s unexpected and abrupt announcement that she was resigning
announcement that she was resigning less than 24
announcement that she was resigning YR LW N e
announcement that she was resigning less than 24 hours ago. Alexandra
less than 24 hours ago. Alexandra MacKenzie now
less than 24 hours ago. Alexandra Rl AN A o
Scotland’s first female and longest serving First Minister
Nicola Sturgeon is now preparing to step aside.
Giving absolutely everything of yourself to this job
s the only way to do it.
The country deserves nothing less.
But in truth, that can only be done by anyone for so long.
For me, it is now in danger QR R LA TR
# Bye-bye, Nicola... #
Across Scotland and the political parties, people were quick to react
to the surprise resignation.
Nicola and I didn’t agree on everything,
but in the short time that we did work together,
| was pleased that we were able to announce two freeports
in Scotland, that’s joint working T NG e g s
Those freeports are going to attract investment and create jobs
in Scotland, which is great, and | look forward to working
with whoever the new First Minister ER R TER I 3|
constructively to deliver for the people of Scotland.
One thing you can’t doubt is this has someone that is an able
politician, someone who has been in politics for 20 years,
and that level of service is, of course, worthy
of respect and thanks.
Alex Salmond was once e - R i ARt s e
Now he’’s a political opponent.
The key litmus test is going to be whether the next leader
sees the opportunity to redefine the strateqy
for independence, to broaden the base of the independence campaign,
and starts articulating the fundamental case
for Scottish self-determination.
| am not going to say who my preference will be to succeed me,
But many are asking that question.
One possibility is the Deputy First Minister, John Swinney, who has done
the job before, or Angus Robertson, the former SNP Westminster leader
and now Constitution Secretary.
The Finance Secretary, Kate Forbes, who is currently on maternity leave,
the Health Secretary Humza Yousaf R UL ERNER G A
a critic of Nicola Sturgeon’s leadership.

Citation: BBC News, 01:55 16/02/2023, BBC1 Scotland, 245 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3C091295?bcast=138373539 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)