Further south and east,
most places looking dry with long X RN AL L R
but i1t will feel cold once again,
with top temperatures for most of us between 2 to 6 degrees on Tuesday.
Now, we do hold on to that northerly flow through Tuesday night
and on into Wednesday as well,
so more heavy snow showers,
the snow really accumulating across parts of Scotland.
Northern Ireland, Wales as well seeing some of those showers,
QTG EGCRGERET(VR T of Wednesday could make their way
through the Midlands and into parts of southern England as well,
but it’s going to be another cold night with temperatures,
particularly in the east,
down to around minus 4, even in some IR s Rt
A touch milder towards the west,
we’ve got more of a breeze RN
and through the day on Wednesday we’re going to see a few more
showers, wintry in nature, e R NG
and with low pressure just moving AL RO A gt e i Bl ]
and north-east England,
the winds are going to be picking up close to the north-east coast
and there could be a bit of wintriness making its way inland,
probably rain close to the coast.
You can see where we’re likely R RN T R e
for other western areas,
but in between these two zones, a lot of dry,
settled weather again, some wintry sunshine,
temperatures about 4 to 7 degrees by this stage in the week.
Now, looking ahead towards Thursday, we’ve got a ridge
of higher pressure that’s going to be moving in for a time at least.
That should squeeze away R ARG R e
Still the chance of some sleet IR
perhaps across the far north-east of Scotland,
but | think for much of the UK, some mist and some fog
VRS E UL DEN A but quite a bit of dry, clear,
sunny, cold weather developing during the afternoon.
So top temperatures between about 4 to 8 degrees during this stage.
And then further ahead towards Friday now.
Initially, we start off with the blue colour,
the cold air mass with us, but a warmer air mass
and a weather front starts to IR R
LGSR CVACN delT] a period of rain, perhaps preceded
for a time by some snowfall in the west during the course of Friday.
It looks like this front tends to fizzle out as it bumps inte that
higher pressure that still holds on towards the south and the east.
So 4 or 5 degrees for most of us in the east, but back into double
figures for the likes of Plymouth IR E eI aa
Now, that takes us through into the weekend
and a real change in the TR RN YN O
We’re all back into double figures during Saturday and Sunday.
There will be quite a lot of cloud, the breeze picking up at times
and perhaps a bit of rain, especially towards the west,
but as we look further ahead now into next week, well,
it looks like the jet stream will be pushing its way north
to the north of the UK,
allowing high pressure to build IR S R AV
building its way in from the south.
It looks like that theme should keep us largely dry
and settled into next week as that high pressure builds.
Things will be certainly warming up compared to this cold spell
that’s with us at the moment,
perhaps some rain across the MO AR AU
but many of us seeing a more settled W RO
through the course of next week. Bye-bye.
You upended your entire comfortable life to become a pirate.
1L
Pirating is not for everyone.
ARG RN G RV R G LN and we’re gonna cause some havoc.
How violent do we expect this to get?
We’re swashbuckling! We’re looting!
L et’ VR R iR s
Who knew there was so much to learn about pirating?
And we’re quite certain ORI
One appears to be a heavy-set woman in a silk dressing gown.
Everybody, hide!
Whichever way | turn, there’s a trap.
LTI
Your job is to deliver the heir.
SR R QIR ELE[CR RIS
| will chase her all the way back to Vienna.
History is not kind to losers.
What sort of a husband are you?!
I’m thinking in particular countries in the Middle East
and parts of Africa.
This is an excellent question.
What we have seen is food SR L
But there Is distinct difference between North
America, Asia on one side, where this is more visible,
in other words, food prices are lower, and sub-Saharan
Africa, Europe, where this is not yet happening.
And if the deal that was struck on exporting Ukrainian grain
breaks down, for those that are most dependent on importing
food from Ukraine, LR R (A LI L R
to North Africa, it’s going to be very, very difficult.
| would move the attention today to fertilisers,
because this is where we see LI EIR G R (R L]
production and therefore food prices in 2023.
i (T g1 remain very high.
Production of ammonia in the European Union,
for example, IERLEIETEL(] ("2
All of this is connected, of course, to the impact
of Russia’s war on gas prices and gas availability.
But on a more positive note, what we do see is a stronger
impetus for policymakers to quickly shift gear
to address problems G E IR I
In other words, we learned our lesson from the pandemic
Expect the unexpected.
Scan the horizon for what may come.
Take early action.
One other thing we know the war in Ukraine has done is it’s
caused a global fragmentation broadly, Kristalina,
between those Western countries who have imposed sanctions
and others like China and India and many Gulf states
You have 190 countries as members.
Does this fragmentation concern you about the ability
It is our job to keep this 190 members together for the sake
of macroeconomic and financial stability.
And so far, we have seen a remarkable resilience
among our membership to act decisively, where the Fund has
to step up.
And my job is to relentlessly work with the membership
to recognise one simple thing.
Together we are much stronger than we are drifting apart.
And to bring forward the evidence of the benefits
of global cooperation.
Look, over the last 30 years, because of us working together,
because of the peace dividend from the end of the Cold War,
the world economy tripled.
Emerging markets in developing economies
are the biggest T e Ed e
They quadrupled and even advanced economies doubled.
IR G IR we are all wealthier.
So when we think about how we work together, the role
of trade collaboration, we have to remember that
if we fail, we all would be poorer and the world
would be less secure.
And Kristalina, we know you’re going to the World Economic
s B RV
Kristalina, do you think anything useful will come out
of this gathering?
| am optimistic.
I think that just getting together, private sector,
public sector and talking about the incredible challenges
we are faced with would help us to come up
And we know that when we put our minds and our forces
together, it is a good outcome that we reap off from it.
Remember in 2020, when the world came together
to diagnose what the Covid crisis was and then stepped up
to support businesses and households?
How that helped us to avoid what could have been
a Great Depression.
Now we are faced with a similar AR R R LR R T
are so complex that only WRE IR R G
defining the problems correctly, we can have
solutions to these problems.
So my message to Davos is strength in unity.
And finally, let me end RO G EER
what are the bright spots?
| mean, any glimmers of light?
Do you do you see in 20237
There are bright spots on the economic horizon,
for sure.
You look at a country like India that has
dramatically benefited from digitalisation
of its economy.
Covid put digital in India MG N R TR -
quite an impressive growth and very good performance
NGB i LR
We see the concentration in Africa on diversifying
production of vaccines, A I R SR L
VIR to future shocks.
And if | were to take one big message, that notion
of resilience to shocks is penetrating strongly
in the business community and among policy makers.
Yes, we have our work cut out for us, but at least we know
that we have to have policies that build buffers,
build resilience for the shocks to come, because they will.
Well, on that point, Kristalina Georgieva,
AT TR ol e 23 of the IMF, | always
appreciate your time.
appreciate your time.
Thanks for joining me and I’ll talk te you soon.
Thank you, my friend.
You know, the world of second-hand clothing has
traditionally been - well, it’s been for charity shops.
Now, the hunt for a designer bargain is moving online,
and for big bucks.
My next guest says that 23 million people use his site
to buy and sell secend-hand luxury clothes and accessories.
So, can your clothes increase in value, like a painting?
Well, | sat down and caught up with the big boss
of Vestiaire Collective, Maximilian Bittner.
A real pleasure having TR RO R A
Thanks for your time.
And Max, let’s start with this.
Look, as we know, | mean, ISR E LR Rdn
for the global economy, so I’m just wondering,
from your perspective, are you seeing a change
in in the way people are using your site?
You know, | think we’re really at the moment at a somewhat
perfect storm in a negative sense that we see hoth
the financial and economic crisis unfolding and at
the same time, seeing the sustainability challenges
that the planet is facing, you know, colliding
at the same time.
And we’re in this intersection between sustainability,
luxury and tech.
Hnm-mm.
If you think about it from a seller perspective,
this is a period where they might face, you know,
personal uncertainty, financial uncertainty.
You know, let’s be a bit honest, you know, people,
just because it’s a difficult period, will not stop
being vain, will not stop being on social media.
They still want to look good and they want to continue
consuming these wonderful products that we buy and sell
on the platform.
But they can get it on our platform at a much cheaper
price than they would get it first hand, so, you know,
In many ways, you know, our model is somewhat built
for this kind of a period of disruption.
Let me ask you this - I BRI G R
million pieces listed on your platform.
What is it that people should be buying if they want
their piece to rise as an investment, almost?
Yeah, and you should think about it as investment,
L
We have 30,000 new items coming onto the platform every day.
Every day?
Every day, 30,000 new items.
And the way | think about what | buy first hand
or second hand is de facto looking at it,
what has the highest likelihood to resell at a good price?
And the more luxurious you go or the more hot you go or sexy
you go, depending on on the brand and whatever market cycle
we’re in, the more likely you are able to sell it
at the same, maybe even higher, or just at a smaller discount
So, If you think about the hot brands today, you know,
Dior absolutely is hot.
So, Dior is reselling C RGN e[
But if you really look at it DRI S N L]
you almost need to not think luxury clothing but you need
to think luxury and that’s, you know, you’re very quickly
in the Hermes bag, Chanel bag or the main, you know,
known watch brands that we can all think of, whether it’s
But, sorry, are you talking about certain products that
would resell higher than the original purchase point?
I mean, if you think about a Birkin bag, it’s
probably selling at two times the original purchase.
Two times the price?
Two times, four times, because, you know, the luxury industry
has constrained as business model and made itself
as attractive as it is TR U A IR C R e
the availability of the products.
So, If you want to buy a Birkin bag today and you go to Hermes,
they probably tell you to come back two years later to get it.
You need to build a relationship with them over
Same with the most famous and exclusive watch brands.
And If you think about Vestiaire, you can go and buy
these products today.
What’s the most expensive item R AR e R 1
you’ve sold on the platform?
In the summer of last year, we sold Hermes Birkin bag
for 158,000 euros.
Sorry, 158,000 euros?
Yeah, it was a very TR
Birkin bag Faubourg, of which there’s four different
87/s[-1F
And you have collectors who specifically were looking
for these bags, which are almost impossible to get
158,000 euros it was sold for.
Would you have known the original purchase price?
I’m not 100% sure, but | would expect it to be about 15,000
15,000-20,000 to buy, and they sold it for 158,0007
It’s a pretty good investment.
Considering most other investments at the moment, yes.
Before | move on, can you give me any other examples
of what you’ve seen consumers make money on -
buying - buying on your site?
| think you have incredibly savvy micro-entrepreneurs
who buy and sell on Vestiaire in some sort of ways
using global arbitrage.
You think about the US - historically, luxury goods
are 20% more expensive than in Europe.
That’s always been the case.
But in the last 6-10 weeks, months, with the inflation
unfolding, American interest rates going up faster,
obviously the euro got much weaker, as is the dollar.
So we had a huge amount of American buyers, arbitrage
being European prices as being much cheaper.
And US sellers, despite US buyers not having to pay
shipping fees, not having to pay import tariffs,
it was cheaper for them RV RGN
You’re a business, obviously.
How do you make your money?
So, we take a 15% cut, on average, plus a 3% payment
01 G | R g (oY
..of every single product G E R TR ]
on the platform.
How do you police the authenticity of the goods
) E1 Y TR,
This is the core and the heart of our business, how we’ve
Sl LT TSN to eBay, 12, 13 years ago
when the business [ ET Y RIS
We’ve built so much expertise through the authenticators
that we have in our five global authentication hubs.
So real people in these five locations ?
Physically.
So, every time you buy a product on Vestiaire,
VYR QTR R R "] want this product
"to be physically authenticated”.
For any product that is north of 1,000 euros or £1,000,
we automatically N e e
And then, we have it checked by these experts.
And you know, the nice story | like telling
is when we started off ten-plus years ago, we’ve hired these
experts from auction houses.
The only two authenticators we’ve lost over the last years
TR T VR T by auction houses from us.
N1
Because the only way you can get better as an authenticator
s by touching as many products, you know,
to practice your skill, to keep your skill up to date.
Max, let me ask you this - the UK is now in somewhat three
years into Brexit.
I’m just wondering what impact did that have or pessibly
still having on your business?
I Like explaining Vestiaire as literally a microcosm
of how terrible Brexit has been for both Europe and the UK.
If you think about it R R T L
perspective before Brexit, in the UK, only around 20-25%
Before Brexit, in the UK, TGPl Ry iy
of products being bought by English buyers were bought
UG R DTS BN
The rest would come from Europe.
And the logic behind that is that UK was part
of the bigger European AU el
the bigger supply and demand.
And with Brexit, overnight, when Brexit happened,
a lot of focus was on the import tariffs.
SNSRI GRS URNTTGIL on every single product
being bought and sold in Europe TR R LR - R e
a VAT mark-up of up to 20%.
Ty T
So, for every UK buyer, every European product
being sold was 20% more expensive and vice versa.
So literally overnight, all the products became
20% more expensive.
CUGCTIR TN LRV ) the complexity of the customs
and the extra time to have those products pass
through customs and so, it had a huge impact
onh our business - | mean, T U B R e e Ta
20%, 30% Literally overnight.
Ty T
We’ve recovered now, but our business has completely
been transformed from a - historically UK being part
of Europe business, e
25%, only being bought from UK sellers - to now 75%,
80% being UK to UK business.
So, It’s been G
And for us as a business R QTR EILY
the impact on UK buyers and sellers suffering from not
being part of the bigger supply and demand market.
But for us as a business, the complexity of shipping
the products.
But the main thing was that we used to have our products
authenticated outside of Paris, so we had to build
a new logistics operation, a new authentication
(I LRI
Here in the UK?
So, south-west of London, and had to rebuild our presence
basically, so we had to completely rethink the UK
(LD G European Unien any more.
Max, let me end on this.
On the 29th of December last year, the queen of British
fashion, Dame Vivienne Westwood, iconic fashion
designer, unfortunately passed EEVE RGN R R 1R
How does the death of a designer impact the value
of their designs?
ISR G g1 important to highlight how
tragic this is.
I mean, just to think about it, we have our main management
boardroom where | spend most of my meetings and it’s
actually called Vivienne Westwood.
No, really?
So, It’s really our main meeting room in Paris
on the third floor, it’s called Vivienne Westwood.
So | spend most of my time.
"I’ll see you in Vivienne Westwood_ "
So for us, it’s very meaningful because she’s in many ways been
the pioneer of - of thinking sustainable around the way
you consume and thinking sustainable about the whole
industry and so, it’s very tragic for us.
And | think we just see her YR N AR R
inspired the founders to build the business that it is today.
You know, again, if something like this happens, we do see
spikes in interest.
You know, these IR e
You mean - sorry, if a designer does pass away, you’ll see
asplkein...?
We’ve had, you know, sadly, | think last year,
quite a few of the more known A EN Y RN E
and every time something like this happens, we do see
spikes in search for these products.
Well, on that point, Maximilian Bittner, a real
pleasure having RGO
Thanks for your time, mate.
Thanks so much for having me.
111918
Well, that’s it for this week.
| hope you enjoyed the show.
Don’t forget, you can keep up with the latest on our global
economy on the BBC website RGN I R
Of course, you can also T R
Tweet me, I’ll tweet you back.
You can get me @BBCAaron.
Thanks for watching.
I’ll see you soon.
SRS
Hello again.
I’m sure you’d agree, it’s been a very bitter start
to the new working week, R e i R L N ]
DL AT LRI with some snowy scenes around
as well - that was overlooking Skiddaw,
in Cumbria earlier on Monday.
But the other story we’ve been WM R )
either - we still have R R RZETGIR G
in force, the majority across stretches of the Severn,
the River Avon, and for groundwater
HCLGRTR IR GRS ]
And although we’'ll e R
snow showers across northern and western areas over the next
few hours, leading (R AL [l
actually with water still seeping
HCINRIEGE R R U
wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost,
temperatures minus three te minus seven widely.
Well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy
heading into Tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous
actually underfoot and under-tyre first
thing in the morning.
LT IR B I [ LI LT IN T as low as minus 10 in Scotland,
freezing cold start e ]
showers piling in through the day
IR et i -
So, really, it’s northern and western areas of Scotland
across Northern Ireland, the north-west of both England
and Wales will be prone to seeing
further accumulations of snow.
Modest Hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
And after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day,
even in the sunshine - which many of us will have
a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much
above freezing.
It will feel pretty bitter.
More of that to come RO E AR
Another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
Could see rather more in the way
of showers just clipping the east coast of England,
and some heavier showers work across Northern Ireland
into parts of Wales and south-west England -
probably hear more ROl
a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in,
and temperatures just WL IR L LT AT
in Cardiff and Plymouth - s0 signs that temperatures
are very slowly starting R L E L
By Thursday, after a frosty and cold start again,
showers will probably Y e e Nl
(3 dglu LR R G e R A Ela P
Otherwise, a lot of dry R A L
But after, again, a freezing cold start to the day,
temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe
eight towards Plymouth.
Otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
If you really don’t like the cold
LR G IR you’ll have to wait
till the weekend before we get something a lot milder,
as south-westerly winds return across the country.
With that, there’ll TR e e
in the way of cloud heading RN R NG R i G R
of rain around as well.
But eventually, temperatures widely
LR ETe TR LI ER LIS
Welcome to BBC News.
Our top stories:
No survivors, but Sunday’s fatal plane crash in Nepal
raises a raft of questions.
The pilot allegedly didn’t report any problems
on the approach.
Hundreds of police officers are continuing their work here.
They’ve given up hope on finding any survivors,
but now, as they pick QUL RO R E LY
they’re trying to find clues to work out how
this tragedy happened.
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation, Wagner, has claimed asylum in Norway
G I g i T the mercenary group.
Police in Romania say they’re widening their investigation
into the social media influencer Andrew Tate who’s
facing charges of human trafficking and rape.
Andy Murray will be on court A a8
at the Australian Open LG
Novak Djokovic starts his bid for the championship
later on Tuesday.
The Italian movie icon Gina Lollobrigida has died
at the age of 95.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
Again In
Again in Seuth
Again in South Asia. -- we begin.
Rescuers in Nepal have recovered two more bodies
from the site of Sunday’s plane crash.
They say they don’t expect to find any survivors.
72 people from at least nine countries were on board
NN [ R RN 3T
A British man, Ryan Calum Crighton,
is one of the latest il R N e E e f
The plane was on an internal flight from the capital
Kathmandu to the tourist town of Pokhara
when it crashed just before landing.
Our South Asia correspondent Rajini Vaidyanathan
eI (IR R
Scattered across the riverbank, fragments of Flight 691.
UL R A &
Seats mangled close by.
Like pieces of a broken toy,
the remnants SR ET IR G
So, you saw the plane come down from the sky?
Yeah, yes.
People living near the gorge, like Indraprasad Sapkota,
say they are thankful the plane did not land
on their houses close by.
TRANSLATION: | looked at the sky
and saw the plane LRI WIR GG
It was shaking.
To me, It looked like one of the propellers was not working.
Now, hundreds IR
are continuing their work here.
LSRN RV ] on finding any survivors,
but now, as they pick through the wreckage,
they are trying to find clues
to work out how this tragedy happened.
Today, rescue teams recovered GRS LT
which they hope will shed more light on what happened.
Nepal has a history I REIC IR {EL LIS
The mountain terrain and unpredictable weather
can be tricky to navigate.
Outdated aircraft and weak regulation
have also been blamed for previous accidents.
This footage appears to show the flight’s last moments.
It came down just before landing at Pokhara airport.
the pilot asked to change runways on approach.
After he was given the clear, O EH RN
21-year-old Nira Chhantyal,
a regular flyer with Yeti Airlines,
was onboard the fateful flight.
A folk singer, she was on her way to perform at a festival.
She was your friend? vy
Tonight, her friends say they are still waiting
for her body to be released.
TRANSLATION: She was a very talented artist,
and used to sing folk songs.
(I EVEITRTLTG to describe the loss.
As armed police guard the hospital,
families wait cutside.
It has been a painful few days (AN
LRIy (Y still wants closure.
Rajini Vaidyanathan, BBC News, Pokhara.
A former commander with GEGTEAEL T EIE Tt 1s%
Wagner Group, which Russia uses to carry out some
of its fighting in Ukraine,
has deserted and claimed asylum in Norway.
Andrey Medvedev, who’s 26,
crossed the border into Norway last Friday,
where he was detained by border guards.
Our news reporter Stephanie Prentice is here.
What more do we know? Wi
What more do we know? We do not have
What more do we know? We do not T
What more do we know? We do not have new reports confirming
have new reports confirming Medvedey
have new reports confirming P A
have new reports confirming Medvedev dev cross into Norway
Medvedev dev cross into Norway and
Medvedev dev cross into Norway AR
Medvedev dev cross into Norway LR
Medvedev dev cross into Norway IR R E
Medvedev dev cross into Norway and that he made it across
and that he made it across under duress according to a
under duress according to a I3E ]
under duress according to a Russian human rights group.
Russian human rights group. 57
Russian human rights group. IS
Russian human rights group. ISR
Russian human rights group. LGS AR S
Russian human rights group. They say he was under
Russian human rights group. LGS A L Rl
Russian human rights group. They say he was under fire, was
They say he was under fire, was (N
They say he was under fire, was being chased by
They say he was under fire, was G EIG R T
They say he was under fire, was being chased by dogs. He was
being chased by dogs. He was quickly
being chased by dogs. He was VI (AELC]
being chased by dogs. He was quickly taken to Oslo.
being chased by dogs. He was quickly taken to Osle. He was
quickly taken to Oslo. He was W EIO 0]
quickly taken to Oslo. He was charged with
quickly taken to Oslo. He was S EIGELRYTG D]
quickly taken to Oslo. He was charged with an illegal
charged with an illegal a3
charged with an illegal crossing and given a lawyer
crossing and given a lawyer that
crossing and given a lawyer LI 0]
crossing and given a lawyer that would represent him, and
that would represent him, and )
that would represent him, and the lawyer has been speaking to
the lawyer has been speaking to el
the lawyer has been speaking to i A
him now. TRANSLATION: We don’t go on
TRANSLATION: We don’t go on asylum
TRANSLATION: We don’t go on 0T B g
TRANSLATION: We don’t go on R TR IR Z IR S
TRANSLATION: We don’t go on asylum for war criminals of
asylum for war criminals of this
asylum for war criminals of I
asylum for war criminals of this as an important assessment
this as an important assessment R
this as an important assessment I e A
this as an important assessment I IR A R o)
this as an important assessment OV AU L)
this as an important assessment interview must be analysed very
interview must be analysed very carefully. This is information
carefully. This is information correct?
carefully. This is information e se a L
carefully. This is information correct? This is something that
correct? This is something that s
correct? This is something that is assessed for everyone who
is assessed for everyone who seeks asylum in
is assessed for everyone who L ORI M
is assessed for everyone who LS ORI AT )
Is assessed for everyone who seeks asylum in Norway stop but
seeks asylum in Norway stop but T VAL
seeks asylum in Norway stop but obviously in this case it will
obviously in this case it will 1y
ST VAT RGN L S R
ST VAT RGN L S be assessed particularly
LRI RGN LR I be assessed particularly and
be assessed particularly and thoroughly. He went on to say
thoroughly. He went on to say to
thoroughly. He went on to say R
thoroughly. He went on to say R
thoroughly. He went on to say to Medvedev did bring evidence
to Medvedev did bring evidence N
to Medvedev did bring evidence A et Ela]
to Medvedev did bring evidence of human rights abuses in
of human rights abuses in &I
of human rights abuses in Ukraine with him and that he is
Ukraine with him and that he is willing to share that evidence
willing to share that evidence with
willing to share that evidence R
willing to share that evidence with people investigating in
with people investigating in )
with people investigating in the coming weeks. This reminds
the coming weeks. This reminds us,
the coming weeks. This reminds IR
the coming weeks. This reminds us, who is
the coming weeks. This reminds IR R R
the coming weeks. This reminds us, who is the wagoner group
us, who is the wagoner group and what
us, who is the wagoner group LR
us, who is the wagoner group IR BR e
us, who is the wagoner group and what is their involvement
and what is their involvement 3
and what is their involvement inthe
and what is their invelvement in the war in Ukraine.
and what is their invelvement R IR E IR LY
and what is their invelvement RO IR E R LS EIG
in the war in Ukraine. They are PN
in the war in Ukraine. They are an independent polymeric hairy.
an independent polymeric hairy. 57
an independent polymeric hairy. IS
an independent polymeric hairy. They have existed in a shadowy
They have existed in a shadowy capacity. They work alongside
capacity. They work alongside )
capacity. They work alongside AR
capacity. They work alongside the Russian government and we
the Russian government and we )
the Russian government and we R A ]
the Russian government and we do know as
the Russian government and we R ]
the Russian government and we R LR i
the Russian government and we do know as a conflict in
do know as a conflict in &I
do know as a conflict in Ukraine has escalated they have
Ukraine has escalated they have taken on a bigger role there.
taken on a bigger role there. P18
taken on a bigger role there. Recent estimates
taken on a bigger role there. e R R L
taken on a bigger role there. Recent estimates ocut of
taken on a bigger role there. Recent estimates out of the
taken on a bigger role there. e R R R R ¢
Recent estimates out of the UK Y-\
Recent estimates out of the UK VAU
Recent estimates out of the UK VA A )
Recent estimates out of the UK VAUV
Recent estimates out of the UK say may be as many
Recent estimates out of the UK VA RN K
Recent estimates out of the UK VAU CE IR
Recent estimates out of the UK VAU CE U LR
say may be as many as 10% of ey
say may be as many as 10% of TR e8]
say may be as many as 10% of RV A )
say may be as many as 10% of R A RO
say may be as many as 10% of forces currently on the ground
forces currently on the ground e
forces currently on the ground NI
forces currently on the ground RSN e 01 sl
forces currently on the ground in Ukraine could be from
forces currently on the ground MR IR T RN it R )
in Ukraine could be from the wagoner
in Ukraine could be from the LI [T B
in Ukraine could be from the wagoner group. A lawyer from
wagoner group. A lawyer from )
wagoner group. A lawyer from Andre Medvedey
wagoner group. A lawyer from Andre Medvedev says as part of
Andre Medvedev says as part of that
Andre Medvedev says as part of G E1 [ TT])
Andre Medvedev says as part of that group he was a commander
that group he was a commander and
that group he was a commander Y
that group he was a commander IR R s |
that group he was a commander and he witnessed things that
and he witnessed things that RiET Y
and he witnessed things that made him with the war crimes
made him with the war crimes and people in the group being
and people in the group being I el
and people in the group being SN0
and people in the group being executed by an
and people in the group being SN RSN
and people in the group being executed by an internal police
executed by an internal police e
executed by an internal police T e TR )
executed by an internal police T e RNy
executed by an internal police T e IR NN s
executed by an internal police force. We have heard from
executed by an internal police T IR N N IR R
force. We have heard from the T d
force. We have heard from the founder of
force. We have heard from the T [ R
force. We have heard from the founder of the group. He
founder of the group. He fas e alas sl
founder of the group. He T el
founder of the group. He confirmed Medvedev was a
confirmed Medvedev was a e
confirmed Medvedev was a a1 )
confirmed Medvedev was a member. He disputed the details
member. He disputed the details e
member. He disputed the details but we
member. He disputed the details N
member. He disputed the details R TN o)
member. He disputed the details but we have heard so far and
but we have heard so far and labelled him
but we have heard so far and BRG]
but we have heard so far and labelled him a highly dangerous
labelled him a highly dangerous individual.
labelled him a highly dangerous LLINGOE S C O ELIES
labelled him a highly dangerous individual. Stephanie, thank
individual. Stephanie, thank IR
Let’'s take a look at some MRS ARG L G
The UK government says it’ll block a law passed in Scotland
that makes it easier for people to change their legal gender,
saying it will conflict with UK-wide equality laws.
It’s the first time the government in Westminster
has blocked a bill passed in Scotland, and the move’s
been branded R T iR & T o &
on the Scottish parliament
o) RGNV first minister,
who says they will appeal.
The Attorney-General’s office in Brazil has filed
an indictment against 39 people for their alleged involvement
In coup activities related to the storming
of Brazil’s Senate building.
The indictment says they were among a core group
of conspirators who tried to abolish the democratic order.
The former president, Jair Bolsonaro,
denies instigating R e
Thousands of Iranians living in Europe have demonstrated
outside the EU Parliament,
demanding that Iran’s Revolutionary Guard
s listed as a terrorist group.
They accuse the guards of playing a key role
in suppressing anti-government protests
that have occurred acroess Iran
since the death in custody SR LR LR R U e
MR N
MRV N s
Please save our expanding in two
Please save our expanding in |
Please save our expanding in two and retired. They have
two and retired. They have seized
two and retired. They have AL LR
two and retired. They have AN SR R
two and retired. They have A LR R e
two and retired. They have seized cars to Mr Tate’s
seized cars to Mr Tate’s S LI
seized cars to Mr Tate’s I L
seized cars to Mr Tate’s LR RG]
seized cars to Mr Tate’’s I LR R G
seized cars to Mr Tate’’s compound and rated seven more
compound and rated seven more O LN
The 36-year-old British-American citizen has
LI T TR LRk Ty of an investigation
into allegations of human trafficking and rape,
aleng with his brother.
Both men deny all the allegations made against them.
Lucy Williamson sent this report from Bucharest.
Weeks after police came for their owner,
they returned for his cars.
The power of a Ferrari
paralysed in the grip R R (1
Whatever the truth about life DRGSR E
its secrets are now being scrutinised by investigators.
This fleet of luxury cars,
the toys of a successful businessman
or the proceeds of a trafficking ring?
This man was in charge R R R O R LG
compound and describes himself as a close friend
Why everybody comes now and talk make a lot
of statements in front SR IEE sl Ria st
of the police about how bad is Andrew Tate.
You doubt all the women, but you never doubt Andrew?
Why do you doubt L IR TR N e e el e Is
Because they are young and stupid.
Y E I ]ol (3
If you’re living in the Western world, this is probably 40%...
In an online video, NG R )
the move to Romania in 2017 in part
for what he saw R R e e
approach to sexual assault claims.
He and his brother Tristan are being held in detention
for 30 days while police investigate
whether they set up a trafficking operation
and forced women to work online in adult chat rooms.
They are also investigating an allegation of rape.
Both men deny the charges.
RS RN of them being aggressive.
Police have Bl R s
as potential victims,
but last week, two of them publicly denied
=[N CE [ by the Tate brothers.
TRANSLATION: I’ve never been frightened.
If | had been,
| wouldn’t have been stupid enough
to stay in that house.
| have a tattoo on my left arm that
says ‘Tate girl’, which | got out of respect for them.
Andrew Tate’s reputation hangs on this case,
but Remania’s does, as well.
Its message - that trafficking claims will be investigated,
no matter how rich or famous you are.
Lucy Williamson, BBC News, Bucharest.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: Italy’s most wanted mafia boss is finally
under arrest after 30 years on the run.
Donald Trump is now the 45th President of the United States.
He was sworn in before several LG RO I I
on the steps of Capitol Hill in Washington.
It’s going to be IR
Demonstrators N LR LCRE il
were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
Anti-Apartheid campaigners say
AN 1R R G LR G throughout the tour.
They called him BRI RN L
Klaus Altmann is being held on a fraud charge in Bolivia.
The West Germans want to extradite him
for crimes committed in wartime France.
There, he was the Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie.
Millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot -
a tide of humanity QRSB RG] G
No survivors, but Sunday’s fatal plane crash in Nepal
raises a raft of questions.
The pilot allegedly didn’t report any problems
on the approach.
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation, Wagner, has claimed asylum in Norway
G I g i T the mercenary group.
It’s the second day of the Australian Open
in Melbourne, and the day that NIRRT R R
biggest stars have been eagerly awaiting, none more
so than fans of Novak AL R TG
to the competition for the first time since being
deported from Australia I N N LR R s Bl
against Covid-19.
We can turn now to
We can turn now to
Y T R lga e R R
We can turn now toc the BBC
We can turn now to the BBC who 3
We can turn now to the BBC who AL
We can turn now to the BBC who is joining us from Melbourne.
s Joining us from Melbourne. i
s Joining us from Melbourne. Ras
s joining us from Melbourne. IR
s joining us from Melbourne. AR En
s joining us from Melbourne. XA R il
s joining us from Melbourne. PRI R il
s joining us from Melbourne. Let us talk now first of all
Let us talk now first of all FYe L
Let us talk now first of all E[ -1
Let us talk now first of all about Andy Murray. He is due on
about Andy Murray. He is due on 11y
about Andy Murray. He is due on 14 quarter of an
about Andy Murray. He Is due on 14 quarter of an hour from now.
14 quarter of an hour from now. *Y
14 quarter of an hour from now. Py
14 quarter of an hour from now. ST )
14 quarter of an hour from now. He is due Encore very shortly
He is due Encore very shortly ]
He is due Encore very shortly ]
He is due Encore very shortly on the Rod
He is due Encore very shortly MR LR e
He is due Encore very shortly on the Rod Laver Arena, Andy
on the Rod Laver Arena, Andy T
on the Rod Laver Arena, Andy I AT
on the Rod Laver Arena, Andy VA E TR VR
on the Rod Laver Arena, Andy VR T R VR G F
Murray faces Italy’s Matteo Berrettini in
Murray faces Italy’s Matteo e IEh
Murray faces Italy’s Matteo Berrettini in his first
Murray faces Italy’s Matteo Berrettini in his first round,
Berrettini in his first round, e
Berrettini in his first round, first game.
Berrettini in his first round, Il
Berrettini in his first round, first game. It was a day of
first game. It was a day of P tai- e e 8
first game. It was a day of S ta i il R e
first game. It was a day of el i R )
first game. It was a day of excitement for the yesterday.
excitement for the yesterday. Emma Raducanu made it to
excitement for the yesterday. A NIER LN IR E N R e R
Emma Raducanu made it to the Yo sl
Emma Raducanu made it to the 3 R R
Emma Raducanu made it to the second round, she won her first
second round, she won her first game
second round, she won her first N GG
second round, she won her first game despite that ankle sprain.
game despite that ankle sprain. We also saw
game despite that ankle sprain. I I ET Y
game despite that ankle sprain. N R I U R ST g
game despite that ankle sprain. We also saw Jake Draper put
We also saw Jake Draper put on Y
We also saw Jake Draper put on R VR )
We also saw Jake Draper put on a really good fight against the
a really good fight against the dial
a really good fight against the RIS e ]
a really good fight against the dial even though he ended up
dial even though he ended up LGN
dial even though he ended up losing, he
dial even though he ended up L AL
dial even though he ended up losing, he is through to the
losing, he is through to the Yo sl
losing, he is through to the second round him being the
second round him being the NG
second round him being the SEENLIGLEGEI IR
second round him being the NIRRT T R
second round him being the NG RA E T I R R
second round him being the defending champion. We are also
defending champion. We are also expecting
defending champion. We are also e RO &L GRS
defending champion. We are also expecting constable or later on
expecting constable or later on today, same court, she is
today, same court, she is facing
today, same court, she is I RO
today, same court, she is facing that in check. She is
facing that in check. She is hoping this will
facing that in check. She is L TG R TR W1
facing that in check. She is hoping this will be a good
hoping this will be a good WL
hoping this will be a good opening for the 2023 season
opening for the 2023 season for T3
opening for the 2023 season for Ty
opening for the 2023 season for Y Y- e Ta i)
opening for the 2023 season for her. She came really close with
her. She came really close with )
her. She came really close with the Wimbledon
her. She came really close with R e s ]
her. She came really close with the Wimbledon and US finals
the Wimbledon and US finals last season,
the Wimbledon and US finals F YIS i A-1a |
the Wimbledon and US finals last season, and she is hoping
last season, and she is hoping that
last season, and she is hoping R )
last season, and she is hoping R R 1]
last season, and she is hoping that she could pick up a
that she could pick up a title 3
that she could pick up a title inthe
that she could pick up a title in the Australian Open. A bit
in the Australian Open. A bit of
in the Australian Open. A bit S
in the Australian Open. A bit of a disappeintment for
of a disappointment for Australian fans,
of a disappointment for TS E LR - e L
Australian fans, especially Nick
Australian fans, especially V470
Australian fans, especially Nick Kyrgios fans. He was due
Nick Kyrgios fans. He was due to
Nick Kyrgios fans. He was due R )
Nick Kyrgios fans. He was due to play today but he pulled out
to play today but he pulled out A OEVE
to play today but he pulled out yesterday due
to play today but he pulled out RO E R TR
to play today but he pulled out R QORI R CE]
to play today but he pulled out yesterday due to a knee injury,
yesterday due to a knee injury, saying
yesterday due to a knee injury, WL
yesterday due to a knee injury, saying he was devastated to
saying he was devastated to miss his home tournament. As |
miss his home tournament. As | mentioned, the
miss his home tournament. As | N PR G R L)
miss his home tournament. As | mentioned, the return of Novak
mentioned, the return of Novak LGN
mentioned, the return of Novak Djokovic. She was kicked out of
Djokovic. She was kicked out of Australia last time. Much
Australia last time. Much anticipation about the Serbian
anticipation about the Serbian player returning? All eyes are
player returning? All eyes are L
player returning? All eyes are going to be
player returning? All eyes are VML REGR R
player returning? All eyes are ARG RCR R R
player returning? All eyes are going to be on the Rod Laver
going to be on the Rod Laver Arena.
going to be on the Rod Laver Y- -}
going to be on the Rod Laver Arena. A lot
going to be on the Rod Laver YO - )
going to be on the Rod Laver YU N R - m e P
going to be on the Rod Laver Arena. A lot of action, but
Arena. A lot of action, but Eieyd
Arena. A lot of action, but later tonight this is where
later tonight this is where Novak Djokovic is going to make
Novak Djokovic is going to make his first
Novak Djokovic is going to make RIS EEIC R
Novak Djokovic is going to make R RGN
Novak Djokovic is going to make his first appearance, by his
his first appearance, by his e
his first appearance, by his first match
his first appearance, by his Ao B
his first appearance, by his A EL R R
his first appearance, by his TRt R N e s
first match of the Australian b1
first match of the Australian Open 2023. He will face Spain’s
Open 2023. He will face Spain’s Roberto. In his first return
Roberto. In his first return after
Roberto. In his first return R4
Roberto. In his first return after that drama
Roberto. In his first return RO s ER
Roberto. In his first return AW ER AR
Roberto. In his first return RO E I ERI A S L
after that drama of last year, el
after that drama of last year, LT E
after that drama of last year, him being detained, appearing
him being detained, appearing in court and
him being detained, appearing NN e e e
him being detained, appearing in court and then challenging
in court and then challenging )
in court and then challenging N e ETs]
in court and then challenging the Australian government in
the Australian government in court
the Australian government in e Slaa s |
the Australian government in court and deported just before
court and deported just before )
court and deported just before the game. The unvaccinated
the game. The unvaccinated Y IEN]
the game. The unvaccinated Serhian star
the game. The unvaccinated Serbian star split opinion here
Serbian star split opinion here in Australia about what
in Australia about what happened to him. He thought he
happened to him. He thought he Ty
happened to him. He thought he was unfairly treated.
happened to him. He thought he LT R L 1102
was unfairly treated. Any people thought
was unfairly treated. Any LSRG T
was unfairly treated. Any people thought he should have
people thought he should have T R
people thought he should have T LRGN
people thought he should have T LRGNl
people thought he should have T LRGN
followed the rules. That was last year. This year we have
last year. This year we have Nl
L ST I ERE TR N been speaking to tennis
L S E I I ERE TR E been speaking to tennis fans
been speaking to tennis fans T
been speaking to tennis fans here in Melbourne Park and they
RO R GG LR T L R G E Py
RO R GG LR T L R G E are saying
here in Melbourne Park and they EICEF W R 1Y
here in Melbourne Park and they EI RN LR
here in Melbourne Park and they are saying they are happy to
are saying they are happy to T
are saying they are happy to see him back. Greater see
are saying they are happy to AR R N e
see him back. Greater see him back. You have to let the
see him back. Greater see him ISR T RS R N
back. You have to let the best players play. It might have
players play. It might have T
players play. It might have LN
players play. It might have been bits overreacting at the
been bits overreacting at the S i)
been bits overreacting at the time but now
been bits overreacting at the AN e A
been bits overreacting at the time but now he is
been bits overreacting at the st T A N )
been bits overreacting at the time but now he is here so
been bits overreacting at the AN e A N R R A
time but now he is here so was )
time but now he is here so was QR
time but now he is here so was the point of
time but now he Is here so was I RO
time but now he Is here so was the point of the? He is here.
the point of the? He is here. 13"
the point of the? He is here. Very happy. He should never
Very happy. He should never have
Very happy. He should never LYY -l
Very happy. He should never E T a L
Very happy. He should never have not been. Really excited.
have not been. Really excited. Really excited he is here this
Really excited he is here this T
Really excited he is here this year. Last year we were waiting
year. Last year we were waiting to
year. Last year we were waiting R}
year. Last year we were waiting to see what was going to happen
to see what was going to happen SR Y
to see what was going to happen SR N
to see what was going to happen before we booked tickets
to see what was going to happen S R N LR T
before we booked tickets so really excited
before we booked tickets so A GG
before we booked tickets so really excited he is here and
really excited he is here and Y
really excited he is here and we could come to
really excited he is here and NIRRT
really excited he is here and NG R - N
really excited he is here and N IR R N PR N
we could come to see him. We’'ll el
we could come to see him. We’'ll TR Ttd
we could come to see him. We’'ll find out what kind of reception
find out what kind of reception he
find out what kind of reception TR ey
find out what kind of reception he receives when
find out what kind of reception TR e R
find out what kind of reception he receives when he walks out
he receives when he walks out qa1ne]
he receives when he walks out e R
he receives when he walks out onto the court, but judging
onto the court, but judging Tee I8t
onto the court, but judging TR
onto the court, but judging from the warm shear and
from the warm shear and applause that he received when
applause that he received when 1Y
applause that he received when TN 1)
applause that he received when he came out onto
applause that he received when TR e e e )
applause that he received when TR e RN RN
he came out onto the Rod Laver Y]
he came out onto the Rod Laver TRl
he came out onto the Rod Laver LR
he came out onto the Rod Laver Arena on Friday for an
Arena on Friday for an exhibition match with Nick
exhibition match with Nick Kyrgios,
exhibition match with Nick GO Y3
exhibition match with Nick Kyrgios, here’s hoping for
exhibition match with Nick OISR LD R
Kyrgios, here’s hoping for a similar
Kyrgios, here’s hoping for a similar one. He says that while
similar one. He says that while )
similar one. He says that while N
similar one. He says that while R R
similar one. He says that while the events of last
similar one. He says that while QR IR F S 1
similar one. He says that while QRS IR F S LRl
the events of last year will 3
the events of last year will stay with them,
the events of last year will VA QR )
the events of last year will stay with them, he is willing
stay with them, he is willing to move
stay with them, he is willing ety Nl
stay with them, he is willing eI s |
stay with them, he is willing to move on and eyeing that 10th
to move on and eyeing that 10th R
to move on and eyeing that 10th (L)
to move on and eyeing that 10th title, a record extension in
title, a record extension in e )
title, a record extension in EEAOIGE
title, a record extension in Melbourne Park, and the
Melbourne Park, and the E[(R T e N
Melbourne Park, and the all-important 22nd men’s
Melbourne Park, and the all-important 22nd men’’s title,
all-important 22nd men’’s title, Grand Slam title, record
Grand Slam title, record I N11iM
Grand Slam title, record I ]
Grand Slam title, record currently held by Rafi Nadal.
currently held by Rafi Nadal. We
currently held by Rafi Nadal. TYRTT e
currently held by Rafi Nadal. We won’t keep you any longer.
We won’t keep you any longer. il
We won’t keep you any longer. TR R )
We won’t keep you any longer. YRR R
We won’t keep you any longer. You have tennis to watch. Tough
You have tennis to watch. Tough gig
You have tennis to watch. Tough SR
You have tennis to watch. Tough LI YL
You have tennis to watch. Tough gig but someone has to do it.
gig but someone has to do it. Shaimaa Khalil in Melbourne,
Shaimaa Khalil in Melbourne, thank you very much.
One of the world’s most wanted men, a godfather
of the Sicilian mafia, Matteo Messina Denaro,
has been arrested by police in Italy.
He’s considered the boss of the much-feared Cosa Nostra
criminal organisation NG EE e R =il
The Italian prime minister has hailed his capture as a major
blow te organised crime.
Our security correspondent, Frank Gardner, reports.
Caught at last - Italy’s most wanted Mafia fugitive,
Matteo Messina Denaro, had been on the run for 30 years.
Local residents in Palermo thanked the police.
They had tracked him down R R U e L K= 1]
where he was being treated for cancer.
For Italy, this is huge.
Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni flew
down to congratulate those who helped catch him.
"It’s a day of celebration,” she says.
WV I GTRVE:[) IRl e ]
Denaro was convicted in absentia
for the murders of two anti-Mafia
eI TR R LS
The following year, he was implicated in deadly
bombings in Milan, AN R LT
He once boasted he could fill a small cemetery
So why has it taken so long to find him?
Well, one reason R G R ARG
very old photographs AR R
e[« =] to digitally age them
in order to guess what he would look like today.
Now they have caught him, they have immediately
circulated this up-to-date R RIE VRS
biggest Mafia catch.
He kept for 30 years all Rt NG R T
between the Mafia and parts of the state
and the political class.
In Palermo and across USRI RO G
s a collective sigh of relief.
A notorious fugitive who seemed untraceable
will now be facing justice.
Frank Gardner, BBC News.
British TV presenter and newspaper columnist
Jeremy Clarkson says he’’s written to the Duke and Duchess
of Sussex, Harry and Meghan, to apologise over a newspaper
column in which he said he "hated" Meghan.
Our culture editor, Katie Razzall, told us more.
If you remember, there was outrage because he said
he wanted to see her paraded naked through the streets
and that he wanted excrement thrown at her.
More than 25,000 people complained
to the press regulator - it is investigating.
So today, we had a much more fulsome apology.
Six pages on Instagram in which he reveals that
on Christmas Day he reached out to the Duke and Duchess
to say sorry.
Far from accepting the apology and in an interview since,
Prince Harry has suggested the column proved
G NI XN Tl EL NI
Mr Clarkson today writes
he abhors violence against women, he is not sexist.
He also says that Amazon and ITV were incandescent
Of course, he is a popular TV presenter and there is a report
in Variety today that Amazon, R
plans to part company with Mr Clarkson next year,
once the shows, Clarkson’s Farm The Grand Tour,
O R commissioned from him,
have aired.
My sources do dispute GEREE AT 18
but Amazon have said TR W e et el e
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have issued
a statement in response.
They say, "While a new public apology has been issued today
"by Mr Clarkson, what remains to be addressed
"long-standing pattern of writing articles that spread
"hate rhetoric, dangerous S RO
"and misogyny."
VO NI R entertainment journalist
and host of the podcast Lauren Interviews.
She joins us now from New York.
Thanks to being with us. Good to
Thanks to being with us. Good R}
Thanks to being with us. Good R RY TN
Thanks to being with us. Good to see you. What
Thanks to being with us. Good TR LRI EIS 1]
Thanks to being with us. Good to see you. What you make
to see you. What you make of Jeremy’s
to see you. What you make of Jeremy’s apology?
to see you. What you make of Jeremy’s apology? Yes, thanks
Jeremy’s apology? Yes, thanks e
Jeremy’s apology? Yes, thanks A I
Jeremy’s apology? Yes, thanks I LR S
Jeremy’s apology? Yes, thanks for having me. Do you are think
for having me. Do you are think Jeremy
for having me. Do you are think BTN G
for having me. Do you are think Jeremy woke up that morning and
Jeremy woke up that morning and Y0l
Jeremy woke up that morning and YR
Jeremy woke up that morning and O LR N adla )
Jeremy woke up that morning and read the article and
Jeremy woke up that morning and LR R el e N 1]
Jeremy woke up that morning and read the article and said let
read the article and said let me
read the article and said let N
read the article and said let TR R
read the article and said let me beat this woman it
me beat this woman it submission? | don’t think
me beat this woman it AN A AR R R a1 €L
submission? | den’t think that Ty
submission? | den’t think that LNy
submission? | den’t think that was his plan.
submission? | don’t think that was his plan. It got completely
was his plan. It got completely e
was his plan. It got completely N
was his plan. It got completely Al
was his plan. It got completely NN A )
was his plan. It got completely out of hand. He got very
out of hand. He got very o 8 il Ta1
out of hand. He got very confident in
out of hand. He got very i B R
out of hand. He got very i AR
out of hand. He got very i R R a ]
out of hand. He got very i R R e R E R
confident in the fact that the media was coming down on Meghan
media was coming down on Meghan and Harry and the media was
and Harry and the media was coming
and Harry and the media was IR
and Harry and the media was coming down on Harry because of
coming down on Harry because of his
coming down on Harry because of e 4
coming down on Harry because of his book so
coming down on Harry because of R SN
coming down on Harry because of his book so he thought let me
his book so he thought let me pile this on here. We’re in
his book so he thought let me pile this on here. We’re ina
pile this on here. We’re in a 134G
pile this on here. We’re in a AR
pile this on here. We’re In a A R LG E R
pile this on here. We’re ina society now, whether we like it
society now, whether we like it N
society now, whether we like it g
society now, whether we like it a TLs
society now, whether we like it A A
society now, whether we like it or not, it is a work culture.
or not, it is a work culture. N
or not, it is a work culture. Being this
or not, it Is a work culture. Being this negative towards
Being this negative towards ]
Being this negative towards s o1 0s]
Being this negative towards e A s s 01 a e
Being this negative towards women should not be part of
women should not be part of M
women should not be part of e
women should not be part of woke, it should be in general,
woke, it should be in general, Y
woke, It should be in general, we women take a lot of crap,
woke, it should be in general, we women take a lot of crap, if
we women take a lot of crap, if you will,
we women take a lot of crap, If TR | (WS
we women take a lot of crap, If you will, excuse my language.
you will, excuse my language. We
you will, excuse my language. R )
you will, excuse my language. We take a lot of this.
you will, excuse my language. R R RO RG]
you will, excuse my language. We take a lot of this. We don’t
We take a lot of this. We don’t )
We take a lot of this. We don’t YR 3
We take a lot of this. We don’t R G Y|
We take a lot of this. We don’t need this piled on by some
need this piled on by some opinion
need this piled on by some IR Gl
need this piled on by some opinion writer for the sun,
opinion writer for the sun, e ]
opinion writer for the sun, G
opinion writer for the sun, someone like Jeremy
opinion writer for the sun, AT EC LT
opinion writer for the sun, AT EC AT
someone like Jeremy Clarkson. | )
someone like Jeremy Clarkson. | [ la 14
someone like Jeremy Clarkson. | el sl e
someone like Jeremy Clarkson. | LR s G
someone like Jeremy Clarkson. | R R R Y
someone like Jeremy Clarkson. | do not think that he woke
someone like Jeremy Clarkson. | RIS G R R LG
do not think that he woke up and
do not think that he woke up IR I
do not think that he woke up N R s
do not think that he woke up and this on purpose but | think
and this on purpose but I think 3
and this on purpose but I think HRTE
and this on purpose but | think it was completely inappropriate
it was completely inappropriate and
it was completely inappropriate NG
it was completely inappropriate and his apology was even worse.
and his apology was even worse. i
and his apology was even worse. It was very clear to me
It was very clear to me his TReE
It was very clear to me his RHE R
It was very clear to me his RHEIR SR
It was very clear to me his NI R e Y
It was very clear te me his TR R RO I CR L T
initial tweets that he wrote, he
initial tweets that he wrote, ]
initial tweets that he wrote, Y
initial tweets that he wrote, IR A VY
initial tweets that he wrote, I AL AT
initial tweets that he wrote, G AT 1Y
he did not really put any QI
he did not really put any thought into
he did not really put any GG AR
he did not really put any thought into it. He saw all the
thought into it. He saw all the %14
thought into it. He saw all the R Y
thought into it. He saw all the T R L
thought into it. He saw all the heat he was getting and said
heat he was getting and said maybe
heat he was getting and said uE N
heat he was getting and said maybe I’ll do something about
maybe I’ll do something about G
maybe I’ll do something about this. And that he had there was
this. And that he had there was ey
this. And that he had there was ST TR
this. And that he had there was rumours that Amazon
this. And that he had there was ST R E - N F R i)
this. And that he had there was rumours that Amazon would cut
rumours that Amazen would cut ey
rumours that Amazen would cut ties with
rumours that Amazon would cut ties with him,
rumours that Amazon would cut ARG R G A
rumours that Amazon would cut ties with him, they’d already
ties with him, they’d already e )
ties with him, they’d already N L]
ties with him, they’d already e (LRI
ties with him, they’d already cancelled a press conference to
cancelled a press conference to 1
cancelled a press conference to my knowledge, this is what
my knowledge, this is what Variety reported and
my knowledge, this is what A L
my knowledge, this is what Variety reported and he said
Variety reported and he said let
Variety reported and he said Ny
Variety reported and he said PSR e )
Variety reported and he said e R
Variety reported and he said let me make this a little bit
let me make this a little bit T
let me make this a little bit R e
let me make this a little bit more serious and to seven
more serious and to seven Instagram post. Either way,
Instagram post. Either way, NG T
Instagram post. Either way, NP E
Instagram post. Either way, I’ll, that his comments were
I’ll, that his comments were S
I’ll, that his comments were off. To me, that’s
I’ll, that his comments were i N R G ER 0]
I’ll, that his comments were 1 A O R O E IR T L
I’ll, that his comments were off. To me, that’s you are a
off. To me, that’s you are a S EIh
off. To me, that’s you are a coward. What
off. To me, that’s you are a WL o MR ET ST
off. To me, that’s you are a coward. What your comments on!
coward. What your comments on! Jeremy
coward. What your comments on! |G A
coward. What your comments on! IR SIS
coward. What your comments on! Jeremy Clarkson is no stranger
Jeremy Clarkson is no stranger [
Jeremy Clarkson is no stranger LR A
Jeremy Clarkson is no stranger LRV ALY
Jeremy Clarkson is no stranger to controversy. As this is
to controversy. As this Is el st laEla 4
to controversy. As this Is dominant teacup or will
to controversy. As this is dominant teacup or will it sink
dominant teacup or will it sink his career? No, unfortunately,
his career? No, unfortunately, i
his career? No, unfortunately, Bk
his career? No, unfortunately, | don’t think
his career? No, unfortunately, Gk EGhaill
his career? No, unfortunately, RGBT
his career? No, unfortunately, R EE G aid B
IR G SIS UL ] e
| don’t think it’ll sink his 1 A )
| don’t think it’ll sink his career because he is a
LR GRS U L career because he is a man. I’m
career because he is a man. I’m el
career because he is a man. I’m R R IR e
career because he is a man. I’m not some feminist over hearsay
not some feminist over hearsay mandala with everything, no, |
mandala with everything, no, | think
mandala with everything, no, | i e nIE
mandala with everything, no, | i EGIC R
mandala with everything, no, | I RO R
mandala with everything, no, | OISR GRS AU
mandala with everything, no, | OISR G AR L1
think this is the way the world e
think this is the way the world T Y
think this is the way the world works. People forget about this
works. People forget about this and in
works. People forget about this and ina
works. People forget about this and in a few weeks, | hate
works. People forget about this ORI R A TR R LR )
and in a few weeks, | hate to Y-\
and in a few weeks, | hate to FVA
and in a few weeks, | hate to VR ST
and in a few weeks, | hate to say it, us in
and in a few weeks, | hate to FVA TR R (R
and in a few weeks, | hate to say it, us in the US, Meghan
say it, us in the US, Meghan is e
say it, us in the US, Meghan is not very popular. People
say It, us in the US, Meghan is not very popular. People don’t,
not very popular. People don’t, this
not very popular. People don’t, IR
not very popular. People don’t, this was completely disqusting.
this was completely disgusting. i
this was completely disgusting. It was
this was completely disqusting. 1R LR
this was completely disqusting. IR LR [P LR e 014
this was completely disqusting. IR LR T )
this was completely disqusting. It was ridiculous, out of hand,
It was ridiculous, out of hand, s
It was ridiculous, out of hand, not OK.
It was ridiculous, out of hand, AT 0] T4
It was ridiculous, out of hand, not OK. But |
It was ridiculous, out of hand, ARG
It was ridiculous, out of hand, not OK. But | think Meghan was
not OK. But I think Meghan was s
not OK. But I think Meghan was T 1
not OK. But | think Meghan was A e
not OK. But | think Meghan was LR R
not OK. But | think Meghan was L RO
not OK. But | think Meghan was LR R RS e
not as not there is sweetheart that
not as not there is sweetheart Ela i
not as not there is sweetheart G E R (R
not as not there is sweetheart that will say I’m done
not as not there is sweetheart that will say I’m dene with
that will say I’m done with this guy.
that will say I’m doene with this quy. After that, that
that will say I’m dene with this quy. After that, that was
this guy. After that, that was 3
this guy. After that, that was HRid
this guy. After that, that was it for me.
this guy. After that, that was R )
this guy. After that, that was eI il
this guy. After that, that was I R Ty
this guy. After that, that was it for me. He will move on and
it for me. He will move on and everyone
it for me. He will move on and S LR L
it for me. He will move on and everyone will forget
it for me. He will move on and A N R LS G A
it for me. He will move on and everyone will forget in a
it for me. He will move on and A R S G I ST R
everyone will forget in a few e
everyone will forget in a few LG
everyone will forget in a few G R
everyone will forget in a few months. OK, we will leave it
months. OK, we will leave it HcE
months. OK, we will leave it there. Lauren Conlin, thank you
there. Lauren Conlin, thank you very
there. Lauren Conlin, thank you AR
there. Lauren Conlin, thank you very much. Thanks for having
very much. Thanks for having M
very much. Thanks for having I |
very much. Thanks for having T IN LR s
very much. Thanks for having NN G R G
very much. Thanks for having IR NG GL
very much. Thanks for having me! And our apologies if you
me! And our apologies if you Py
me! And our apologies if you R i |
me! And our apologies if you are offended by some of the
are offended by some of the language there.
The Italian actress Gina Lollobrigida has died
at the age of 95.
She was one of the biggest film stars in the world
B R LRV
In later life she forged a successful career
as a photographer and sculptor, snapping Fidel Castro
Wendy Urquhart looks N A S dh
You came back inte my life like a wolf in snake’s clothing!
Gina Lollobrigida YL R L
The camera absolutely SR
and she was often described YR a1 R et
RN i alo P
She grew up in the mountain village of Subiaco -
some 40 miles from Rome - G G
her dad, Giovanni, who was a furniture maker,
and her mother, Giuseppina.
When the family moved to Rome after World War Il,
Gina took singing and acting lessons, and was soon
starring in Italian films.
She married Milko Skofic in 1949,
but when she was spotted by Hollywood talent scouts,
Howard Hughes took R R g
and whisked her off to America.
He suggested that she divorce Milko
before she signed ER O [ Rt aldg-[n
and when he got wind of that, (R LIS R R L
- 50 she went back to Italy.
Gina became a household name in the 1950s after starring
in her first English-language film,
Beat The Devil, opposite Humphrey Bogart.
A raft of great Hollywood roles followed, including Trapeze,
The Hunchback of Notre Dame. ..
| am less afraid of you now.
..Solomon and Sheba, and Women of Straw.
She courted controversy when she made a documentary
about Fidel Castroe in 1975, IR L e
between the two dogged the actress for years.
When La Lolla finally bid farewell to the silver screen,
she turned her talents to photography and sculpture,
and exhibitions of her work were held in Paris, Moscow,
In 2013, she auctioned i ST C ALYy
and donated the entire $2.9 million
to stem cell therapy.
Gina Lollobrigida, who’s died at the age of 95.
There i1s much more
There is much more on
There i1s much more on all those
There is much more on all those stories
There is much more on all those ]
There is much more on all those RO R )
There is much more on all those RO RN
There is much more on all those RO ROl
stories on the BBC News e
stories on the BBC News website. You can
IR R G L1 T website. You can go
stories on the BBC News website. You can go to
website. You can go to S o T e et Taa s oy
website. You can go to o T T e
website. You can go to bbc.com/news or you can
bbc.com/news or you can download
bbc.com/news or you can e e )
bbc.com/news or you can RN
bbc.com/news or you can s el s Ll T
bbc.com/news or you can download the BBC News app.
download the BBC News app. e
download the BBC News app. That’s it from us here
download the BBC News app. IR R R B - s
LIRS (I RV IR London.
LGSR IRV TR s s PR la e
LGSR IRV TR Londen. Once very
L LR S (I RV IR Lendon. Once very much your
London. Once very much your company. From all of us, we
company. From all of us, we [ oL
company. From all of us, we ET LR ]
company. From all of us, we appreciate you watching and we
appreciate you watching and we il
appreciate you watching and we YY)
appreciate you watching and we LR
appreciate you watching and we will see you next time. Bye-bye
will see you next time. Bye-bye e
will see you next time. Bye-bye A
Hello again.
I’m sure you’d agree, it’s been a very bitter start
to the new working week, R e i R L N ]
DL AT LRI with some snowy scenes around
as well - that was overlooking Skiddaw,
in Cumbria earlier on Monday.
But the other story we’ve been WM R )
either - we still have R R RZETGIR G
in force, the majority across stretches of the Severn,
the River Avon, and for groundwater
HCLGRTR IR GRS ]
And although we’'ll e R
snow showers across northern and western areas over the next
few hours, leading (R AL [l
actually with water still seeping
HCINRIEGE R R U
wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost,
temperatures minus three te minus seven widely.
Well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy
heading into Tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous
actually underfoot and under-tyre first
thing in the morning.
LT IR B I [ LI LT IN T as low as minus 10 in Scotland,
freezing cold start - e ]
showers piling in through the day
IR et i -
So, really, it’s northern and western areas of Scotland
across Northern Ireland, the north-west of both England
and Wales will be prone to seeing
further accumulations of snow.
Modest Hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
And after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day,
even in the sunshine - which many of us will have
a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much
above freezing.
It will feel pretty bitter.
More of that to come on Wednesday as well.
Another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
Could see rather more in the way
of showers just clipping the east coast of England,
and some heavier showers work across Northern Ireland
into parts of Wales and south-west England -
probably hear more ROl
a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in,
and temperatures just WL IR L LT AT
in Cardiff and Plymouth - s0 signs that temperatures
are very slowly starting R L E L
By Thursday, after a frosty and cold start again,
showers will probably Y e e Nl
(3 dglu LR R G e R A Ela P
Otherwise, a lot of dry R A L
But after, again, a freezing cold start to the day,
temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe
eight towards Plymouth.
Otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
If you really don’t like the cold
LR G IR you’ll have to wait
till the weekend before we get something a lot milder,
as south-westerly winds return across the country.
With that, there’ll TR e e
in the way of cloud heading RN R NG R i G R
of rain around as well.
But eventually, temperatures widely
LR ETe TR LI ER LIS
M
eI
IR R
Rescuers in the bowl
YA IR R e e il N
Rescuers in the bowl have G
Rescuers in the bowl have LR R
Rescuers in the bowl have called off this search for any
called off this search for any et
called off this search for any e e
called off this search for any survivors. The pilot did not
survivors. The pilot did not (3ol ]gd
survivors. The pilot did not S0
survivors. The pilot did not (A G
survivors. The pilot did not report any problems when coming
report any problems when coming into land.
72 people were onboard the Yeti Airlines flight
and 70 of them are known to have perished.
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation, Wagner, has claimed asylum in Norway
G I g i T the mercenary group.
Andrey Medvedev allegedly fled
CH RGN e s LR
It’s thought to be the first time a member of the group
has defected to the West.
Police in Romania say they’re expanding their investigation
into the social media influencer Andrew Tate.
They’ve seized a fleet of luxury cars from Mr Tate’s
compound in Bucharest.
He and his brother are facing charges
of human trafficking and rape.
They both deny the allegations.
Now on BBC News, TR dl
Let’s get 2025 started in style.
Welcome to Las Vegas, where there’s lights,
sounds and a whole lotta shakin’ going on.
Uh, not sure this is what they meant, though.
Did that make you feel better?
LS Sy AR Rl Ry [ feel everything.
Yes, every January, the tech el R RN E )
Consumer Electronics Show, spread throughout the Las Vegas
Convention Center and surrounding hotels.
It’s great to be here, IR RGN
overlooking part of the show.
Yeah, only part, though, because this place is big.
QI Very big.
To give you an idea of how huge, I’ll tell you what,
should we give them a whistlestop tour?
I’ll go that way, you go that way,
I’ll meet you halfway around. XN
All of the halls have pretty spectacular stands in,
and you even get ARG R :Y
This is the North Hall
and I’m getting health care vibes from this place.
Here at the Venetian Expo is my favourite bit -
Eureka Park - where some start-ups get small stands
to set out their big ideas.
The West Hall is shiny and new,
and this is where RNl A
And now we’re in the Central Hall
to try out some haptic gloves that mean,
when you touch things in virtual reality,
you can feel them.
Here, shake my hands. Hello ?
L T RN} LAUGHS
You’re tickling me! | am!
Have a little tickle. Do you fancy a Jenga battle?
Sure, why not? All right.
You could feel the blocks as you pick them up!
That is really incredible.
And you could drop them on your hand and feel...och!
As | grip this book over here, | can actually feel resistance.
LR R (RN RV YN I’m being stopped,
LT R SRR ORI
that there is a solid thing between my hands!
It’s the air pressure that’s used in there,
=R EREIT E [ l eIl
so you can feel every little A i
Oh, my fingers are double jointed!
We’ve forgotten to do the Jenga.
This is much more fun, actually.
Oh, we have.
Let’s move this out the way and play the game.
\C-FLI L
N[V CRiPR TN VNI LR a0
Here we go. O TS
That’s actually a bit tricky. | tell you what...
| don’t have as much U AR GE
| tell you what | do when | lose, is that.
Oh, no. i)
I’m going to prod you for that! T
So, the use cases for this are suggested to be,
first of all, training, so you can train people
to use equipment and they get R ER A Aar - o
Also, design -
you could design a new car, for example,
and run your fingers RGN0
before it actually exists.
Big leap forward for haptics, would you say?
Yeah, | would.
Big difference from anything I’ve used in the past.
It really is good to see CES
getting back up towards its pre-pandemic size.
The question, of course, is whether these hig expos
have permanently changed as a result of Covid.
And the person who is responsible for bringing
the beast that is CES to heel is Gary Shapiro.
Thanks for having us back, cFI’A
Thank you for that unique intreduction,
and thank you for coming.
LAUGHS It was our pleasure.
Obviously, CES 2021, it didn’t happen in the reels.
This feels kind of like it’s getting back to normal now.
Is that how you see it?
After three years of the pandemic,
| think this feels phenomenal,
and the excitement, the crowds.
What are the big trends ORI
Every company here is talking about efficiency,
sustainability and leaving a better world
for our kids and grandkids through technology.
VR TCRAN S el GUN RIS
an energy crisis IRl - R
Do any more expensive, IS T LA
carbon-emitting devices?
Well, when you frame the question that way,
| don’t know what the answer is, but I’ll tell you what we
do need, is we need solutions to fundamental human problems
in health care, NN EO A A
and things like that, and that the product
introductions we’re seeing B N R R
The other good news s,
you talk of more expensive products.
I’m happy to say consumer technologies in this industry
LRGN WAL LV i) LI AENEE LI R R
actually fighting inflatien.
Smartphones are cheaper, IR
laptops are cheaper.
And why Is that?
Because the chips are getting better,
they’re using less energy, they’re getting more compact.
There are two countries that have the world’s attention
for the wrong reasons Y RN
You’ve got China with a Covid explosion,
and you’ve got Russia with its invasion of Ukraine.
Are there many Chinese or Russian companies here?
I spent a lot of time this morning at the Ukrainian
pavilion talking to Ukrainians there,
=R TTI (I3 we are supporting them,
and there is not one Russian company exhibiting.
Is that a decision that you’ve taken?
It’s a decision we’ve made as an organisation that we’re
not allowing Russian exhibitors.
In times of the Chinese which you raised, we have
one-third of the number of Chinese we had in 2020.
Gary, thanks for having us back.
Thanks for seeing us. Thank you!
Thank you for that NG R =1 S O
| appreciate that.
One of the big themes in 2023,
as It was in 2022, ‘21 and ‘20, is virtual reality.
And there are a couple of big, new headsets on the block
this year, which Zoe Kleinman EIN YN R LR
ZOE: | am getting IR U LA G
O PR
Oh, I’ve been hit by some sort of...
Putting on a headset to experience a virtual world
isn’'t anything new in gaming.
NS GIgIA G really mainstream,
companies which make them need to tempt
a lot of people to buy one to use in their everyday lives.
First up, | tried the Meta Quest Pro.
It’s been on the market for a couple of months
and it costs almost £1,500.
Meta won’t tell us how many they’ve sold.
What | want to do Is to get these floating buildings,
which for me, are here and here,
and put them down.
How... YW Y
Now I’ve got just one selected.
There we go, right.
This is fiddly.
What is your expectation with -
in terms of how long it would take somebody
LR GG TRV R
Am | doing terribly badly?
No, it’s a more complex app that we have.
SN TR T G T ML R Rl
except what’s looking back at me,
unless my appearance has changed very dramatically
in the last few minutes,
is a female face IGIICEU R ALY
And whatever | do with my face, she does.
So if | go...ahhh...
..she is doing that!
If | squeeze my eyes shut, A R E RN
| can wink at her, KL e
she’s got a much better Instagram pout than | have,
Welcome back! Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
It’s a little more... It’s smaller, this room.
Now, Is this the solution R R A G
on long car journeys?
The Taiwanese company HTC is hoping to tempt people
to buy a holoride pack RO R
It costs around 900 euros.
You need a bit of kit R R OB R G e )
a yearly subscription, and a headset, of course.
So, I’m short-sighted. Do | need to wear my glasses?
No worries.
So If you’re short-sighted,
we can dial in with the glasses for HTC.
I will set it up for TR N R T
But is it worth the money
when you can currently only play ten games on it?
Basically, I am a flying robot in the sky.
(NIRRT T within this screen.
And as the car moves, e e B
And when we stop at lights, the robot also stops,
so it is perfectly in sync R C RA G N
That wasn’t very friendly.
The whole environment around you
s basically generated TG RORUEF D EICR
Oh, is it?
We know where the streets are and can put this in game.
So, for example, you know there is a right-turn road,
but the creator says, S SRR GG EL LY
but just place asteroids left and right,
and all of a sudden, you move through an asteroid,
evade, and you think, "How does the game know this?"
This is how we leverage this.
The newest headset,
unveiled at the CES tech show in Las Vegas just last week,
was the HTC Vive XR Eli
And | was one of the first journalists
to get my head in it.
All right, let’s have a go. What do | do?
This headset is also pricey, coming in at almost £1,300.
But it does fold up N AINELS
My drawing is dreadful! WX
I mean, | think, you know, that someone like Picasso
would be quite proud of that masterpiece.
| am very pleased with it. T
And there is lots of speculation
(OEIR G N (A R G
that Apple launches some kind of mixed reality glasses,
T[S NI ol a much-needed iPhone moment
for the whole thing.
But as ever, these devices are currently
all let down by battery life,
and even the most expensive headsets need to be charged
every two hours or it’s game over.
With product launches aplenty,
CES saw the big players hitting the headlines as usual.
Lenovo teamed up with Motorola to unveil its ThinkPhone,
a smartphone that syncs with ThinkPad laptops.
Lenovo says the two devices
will have unparalleled functionality together.
Sony used its keynote speech
te announce a PlayStation 5 controller for disabled gamers.
Sony says it’s a highly customisable kit of different
buttons, triggers and sticks that allow players to create
a setup that suits their needs.
We’re really excited to see the impacts of the controller
on helping to make access to gaming available
to many more people.
Wikipedia’s operator has denied claims
that the Saudi government infiltrated its team
Two international human rights groups have said that
Saudi officials altered e
The Wikimedia Foundation said RSl e R AT ]
Top YouTuber Logan Paul has apologised to fans
who lost money after investing in his cryptocurrency game,
ST I VAT B
He’d encouraged people to buy crypto collectables
for what he called a really fun game that makes you money.
But more than a year after its launch,
no game has materialised.
I’ve come out here to test an automatic car inspection
app called Raven.
It uses Al to assess any damage MG N R e
So if you’re returning a rental car, buying a car
or got an insurance claim,
it can do some of the work for you.
Let me show you how it works.
You start your scan like this
and then where there is VI EL
there is some here RN ]
you zoom in and it should identify what the damage is.
Dent on left front door - RIS [
You can either approve It, AR A
If | keep moving around,
I’ll take a closer look at the tyres.
You need to make sure that you have the whole car in shot.
It also takes some photos,
so when you’ve finished, it’ll send you some snapshots,
known as the beauty shots,
as well as a full report of NV EIEL LR G S L R (T L
CH DR R TG to this side,
it tells me the job X R R
In amongst all of the screens,
and the cars and all the other AR N R A
there are plenty of home appliances too.
Some of them can roam around RN RGN VA
but have you wondered how they find their way about?
Well, many of the modern ones use something called
simultaneous location and mapping.
T EA g I El P
Modern, domestic and industrial robots
are not just bump and go, you know.
The need to build up a map of where they live
to make sure each spring cleaning
Isn’t a brand-new voyage IO
that means they might forget the occasional nook and cranny.
One common way to scan your surroundings is lidar,
which uses a spinning laser
G IR G LR T to everything around you.
But lidar has its shortcomings.
LRI R G R R is if you want high
LRI R G R R is if you want high
performance, they’re I E RS Y
can be thousands of dollars.
So that’s not going to cut it for commercial products
at all in the consumer space.
But then the low cost ones, which you see on many
of the consumer products out there, just are very
They degrade over time and they also capture a tiny
amount of spatial information compared to the amount
of information you capture with a camera.
We’re able to access that e R (g E L
but using very low cost processes and silicon.
This vacuum robot is running new software developed
by SLAMcoere, which builds up a map using vision
This allows the software to more intelligently work out
not just how far it is from SR IR GRS i
Is and whether it’s likely to stay there.
When it knows where it Is, it needs to know what are
the obstacles in its way, RN & (Y (o ]
s it going to crash if it tries to go through
a certain space?
The next level of spatial intelligence is knowing how
the world aroeund you Is shaped just from a geometry point
of view, so knowing what’s occupied space and what’s not.
Once the software’s labelled everything, it can do different
things with the information.
For example, if it’s committing the layout of your flat
to memory, it might want to remove objects it knows
aren’t permanent, like books, other stuff that’s strewn
around, or even people L R e e |
Don’t worry about the look of this particular vacuum bot.
At the moment, it’s wearing a low cost stereo camera
AN FI R g on its head, but the plan
IR (@GR G integrated into vacuum
cleaners, drones, and other autonomous devices
The point here Is that a few low cost peripherals
are all devices like this would need to collect enough
data to feed Owen’s software, which is the real breakthrough
here.
A really small, tight, neural network lightweight
enough to be stored in the device that can label
everything and work out how to respond to different
types of objects.
One of the big benefits of a robot or a machine knowing
the objects it’s encountering is it may choose to modify
its behaviour depending on the type of object that is.
So, for example, a drone may see a person and want to keep
a really wide berth N R R TGRS
a safety risk there.
But if it’s going to get through a door or somewhere
a bit more narrower where there’s only inanimate objects
around, then it can have a much smaller safety margin to be
able to make it through.
Plenty of ways, then, for a new way of navigating
the world to help you to clean up.
LARA: Honestly, this is the first time I’ve ever
Now, at CES, healthcare often takes centrestage.
But the Covid pandemic is really proven the importance
of innovation in the area.
Three years ago, mRNA T oe R R TR
or generally even heard of, but Pfizer and Moderna’s
groundbreaking and effective formulations played a major
LU RIT Tl Y back to normality.
Unlike conventional vaccines that contain a spiked protein,
messenger RNA instructs your IRt e R e
A novel idea for dealing with viruses for something that
has been researched for a while for treating cancer.
And a few weeks ago, in a collaboration with Merck,
Moderna announced positive results of a phase Il trial
from its personalised R YRl R s el -]
I’ve been talking to the CEO of Moderna, Stephane Bancel,
and asked him what he thinks N e R e 4
| think as we move away from chemotherapy and into
immunotherapy and personalised treatment, | think we will
start to see less side effects of what we saw with chemo,
which was very drastic, chemo was going with a a big
hammer on everything and very hard for cancer patients.
What we know today which we didn’t know 20 years from now
LR G F I E I TRV R R R U (1S
It’s a mutation in our DNA TG AL R 4 %)
you have, so what we do then is we make a product for one
human being, so we build a robot to make product for one
human being at a time.
It takes us around 60 days, having been by the time
we launch, it will be around 30 days, from the biopsy
ICRTITIG G DR BT B like a Covid vaccine,
getting in your arm, the medicine that is made just
for you, for your cancer, designed based on the sequence
R TI[ ey [e I
Then is it one vaccine, is it a series of vaccines?
How will the process work?
It’s a good question.
Today, what we try in N TR R
a 44% reduction in recurrence or death, compared to the best
drugs available today in the UK or the US,
with all technology.
I IR N intramuscular, so just
in your arm, put a Band-Aid RGN G UGS
But what we’ve shown TRGEIR R RN e 00s
might be enough.
So we still are going to do a phase Il study with nine,
to make sure we keep that good data, but then we do a lot
of studies to see can we shrink it, to possibly go to only
Precision medicine is obviously the dream, but whenever I’ve
looked at it before in other SO R
like we’re at the very of collecting the kind of data
that can make a huge difference in the future,
but right now it’s quite challenging to make
a difference with it, isn’t it?
Yes, but | think that...I’m very excited about this.
We know this study is real, why it was powered, 150 people,
and the statistical value, the P value of a study is very,
very small, so any creation BN EE R I
super excited N RO R}
And what other cancers are you hoping to be
| think, you know, the lung is the next obvious big one.
Kidney, breast cancer.
| think colon is a good RO R
VRGN D IR L R L R E L OIS
very well-funded, $18 billion R P R Rt
going to be shy to use that capital to try a lot of things
at the same time.
People are dying.
| don’'t want to try one thing after the other,
| try all at the same time.
Thank you very much, really, really interesting.
Another big theme this e R R R )
help disable people.
Paul Carter has toured the show TR R R e
who Is created away to help people with low vision see
the world differently.
She’s visually impaired and navigating her first CES.
She’s the creator of an app RO C RIS N
navigate the world better.
| have a rare disease called albinism, which basically means
that my body doesn’t create enough pigment or melanin,
which is why my hair, skin and eyes are the colour
that they are.
In addition to that, it affects the development
and the maintenance ORISR
As a result of that, | have really an uncorrectable
impairment where no amount of glasses or lasik or really
any current treatments can aid the problems that | have.
And what | found growing up G LRI SR E R e
really was no assistive technology that was appropriate
for someone like me who had a vision impairment that
couldn t be corrected.
I’m still actually even able I A e N
But I still, despite that, have trouble sometimes
during normal everyday tasks, like reading the posters
The app makes it easier for people with low vision
to see things around them.
It uses customisable smartphone camera filters that users can
change to suit their own unique visual impairment.
Because | have an impairment, it’s really easy to fall
"Well, | know what’s best for these people.
"I know what they need or what they want.”
Our ReBokeh app spent about a year in beta
with about 100 beta users, where our sole goal
was to solicit feedback from people with vision
impairment, optometrists, ophthalmologists.
And over the course of that year we added or adjusted more
than ten different features.
How might the app be useful for looking at something like this?
Yeah, so | can totally show you.
So this is actually really hard for me to differentiate,
especially because there’'s so much going on right here.
There’s just a lot of images.
So what we can do is actually point it up, and with one
finger - it’s meant to be one-handed - so with just one
finger | can kind NFSNEELERLE
So let’s pick one to look at, maybe this picture
of a computer and whatnot.
What we can do is we can actually add some contrast...
Oh, wow.
..to make things a little bit brighter.
The light’s a little R
We can also add actually e LRl
So this particular screen has a lot of green on it.
So there’s a whole lot that we can kind of do to. .
See, now, everything’s RN
But to kind of make certain colours or certain features pop
out a little bit, you know, now I’m kind of understanding
L EIR IR Ty [oE T LTI IR AT I
a whole lot of chaotic kind of images.
In a way, It’s quite a simple process, but | can imagine it’s
quite liberating just being able to instantly be able
te point your phone at something and see something
I {IgNa A
LY TR
For a lot of people, IRl ey
between being able to read a menu at, you know,
Starbucks or McDonald’s when it’s up in the back
G LD [ [ R RS U A R I (8
And, you know, if you’re by yourself, sometimes that’s
totally an independence issue.
QLR T RN T T R VETE LTS for iPhone and iPad,
but Rebecca also has plans to make ReBokeh a community
for visually impaired people.
There’s about 25 million people RGO R e e e )
with some type of moderate, uncorrectable vision
impairment.
UL RN RV TP el CTo i (o1 able to also showcase and bring
awareness to that population, to give those people a space
to come and gather and say, we have our own very unique set
of life experiences and needs and challenges and wants,
and to give them an opportunity to come together with people
more similar to them to talk about those things is really
what we ultimately want ReBokeh to grow into.
See, CES is full of big, shiny, colourful tech companies
but it’s also full of brilliant human stories like that
one as well.
And that’s all we’ve got time for from Vegas,
or shall we do some R
Yeah, why don’t we?
Why not?
Mare from here next week.
Thanks for watching, see you then.
SRS
Hello again.
I’m sure you’d agree, it’s been a very bitter start
to the new working week, R e i R L N ]
DL AT LRI with some snowy scenes around
as well - that was overlooking Skiddaw,
in Cumbria earlier on Monday.
But the other story we’ve been WM R )
either - we still have R R RZETGIR G
in force, the majority across stretches of the Severn,
the River Avon, and for groundwater
HCLGRTR IR GRS ]
And although we’'ll e R
snow showers across northern and western areas over the next
few hours, leading (R AL [l
actually with water still seeping
HCINRIEGE R R U
wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost,
temperatures minus three te minus seven widely.
Well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy
heading into Tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous
actually underfoot and under-tyre first
thing in the morning.
And, with temperatures i AL LRI TR
freezing cold start - e ]
showers piling in through the day
IR et i -
So, really, it’s northern and western areas of Scotland
across Northern Ireland, the north-west of both England
and Wales will be prone to seeing
further accumulations of snow.
Modest Hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
And after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day,
even in the sunshine - which many of us will have
a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much
above freezing.
It will feel pretty bitter.
More of that to come on Wednesday as well.
Another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
Could see rather more in the way
of showers just clipping the east coast of England,
and some heavier showers work across Northern Ireland
into parts of Wales and south-west England -
probably hear more ROl
a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in,
and temperatures just WL IR L LT AT
in Cardiff and Plymouth - s0 signs that temperatures
are very slowly starting R L E L
By Thursday, after a frosty and cold start again,
showers will probably Y e e Nl
(3 dglu LR R G e R A Ela P
Otherwise, a lot of dry R A L
But after, again, a freezing cold start to the day,
temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe
eight towards Plymouth.
Otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
If you really don’t like the cold
LR G IR you’ll have to wait
till the weekend before we get something a lot milder,
as south-westerly winds return across the country.
With that, there’ll TR e e
in the way of cloud heading RN R NG R i G R
of rain around as well.
But eventually, temperatures widely
LR ETe TR LI ER LIS
Welcome to BBC News.
Our top stories:
No survivors, but Sunday’s fatal plane crash in Nepal
raises a raft of questions.
The pilot allegedly didn’t report any problems
on the approach.
Hundreds of police officers are continuing their work here.
They’ve given up hope on finding any survivors,
but now, as they pick through the wreckage,
they’re trying to find clues as to how this tragedy happened.
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation the Wagner Group has claimed asylum in Norway
G I g i T the mercenary group.
LN EI LT R R G Duke and Duchess of Sussex
for Jeremy Clarkson,
who apologised in writing TRt e R L
about Meghan in a newspaper column.
Andy Murray will be on court A a8
at the Australian Open LG
Novak Djokovic starts his bid for the championship
later on Tuesday.
The Italian movie icon Gina Lollobrigida has died
at the age of 95.
Hello,
LGN
Hello, and welcome to the
Helle, and welcome to the JeNIEIuES
Helle, and welcome to the proegramme. We
Helle, and welcome to the programme. We begin in South
programme. We begin in South IYAER
IR LTk have recovered two more bodies
from the site of Sunday’s plane crash.
They say they don’t expect to find any survivors.
72 people from at least nine countries were on hoard
NN [ R RN 3T
A British man, Ryan Calum Crighton,
is one of the latest il R N e E e f
The plane was on an internal IO (T RO LR T
Kathmandu, to the tourist town of Pokhara
when it crashed just before landing.
Our South Asia correspondent Rajini Vaidyanathan
eI (IR R
Scattered across the riverbank, fragments of Flight 691.
Windows still intact. Seats mangled close by.
Like pieces of a broken toy,
the remnants SR ET IR G
So, you saw the plane come down from the sky?
Yeah, yes.
People living near the gorge, like Indraprasad Sapkota,
say they are thankful the plane did not land
on their houses close by.
TRANSLATION: | looked at the sky
and saw the plane LRI WIR GG
It was shaking.
To me, It looked like one of the propellers was not working.
Now, hundreds IR
are continuing their work here.
LSRN RV ] on finding any survivors,
but now, as they pick through the wreckage,
they are trying to find clues
to work out how this tragedy happened.
Today, rescue teams recovered GRS LT
which they hope will shed more light on what happened.
Nepal has a history I REIC IR {EL LIS
The mountain terrain and unpredictable weather
can be tricky to navigate.
Outdated aircraft and weak regulation
have also been blamed for previous accidents.
This footage appears to show the flight’s last moments.
It came down just before landing at Pokhara airport.
the pilot asked to change runways on approach.
After he was given the clear, O EH RN
21-year-old Nira Chhantyal,
a regular flyer with Yeti Airlines,
was onboard the fateful flight.
A folk singer, she was on her way to perform at a festival.
She was your friend? vy
Tonight, her friends say they are still waiting
for her body to be released.
TRANSLATION: She was a very talented artist
and used to sing folk songs.
(I EVEITRTLTG to describe the loss.
As armed police guard the hospital,
families wait cutside.
It has been a painful few days (AN
LRIy (Y still wants closure.
Rajini Vaidyanathan, BBC News, Pokhara.
A former commander with GEGTEAEL T EIE Tt 1s%
Wagner Group, which Russia uses to carry out some
of its fighting in Ukraine,
has deserted and claimed asylum in Norway.
Andrey Medvedev, who’s 26,
crossed the border into Norway last Friday,
where he was detained by border guards.
Our news reporter Stephanie Prentice is here.
Rich, we do now have numerous sources confirming
Gr1 Andrey Medvedev did cross
into Norway and that he made it
across under duress Ll LR GERTIE]
human rights group.
I kNS
Lo VRN
It gave an account of a journey sl d
It gave an account of a journey MR NI
It gave an account of a journey R TR = )
It gave an account of a journey under duress, someone who
It gave an account of a journey R IR R A
under duress, someone who had to run down a river
under duress, someone who had RO U R G C)
under duress, someone who had to run down a river away from
to run down a river away from LI PR TCY
to run down a river away from gunfire, there were dogs
gunfire, there were dogs chasing him, and he made his
chasing him, and he made his LGV
chasing him, and he made his way through a fence
chasing him, and he made his RO R R )
chasing him, and he made his way through a fence and found a
way through a fence and found a makeshift border town. We know
makeshift border town. We know he was taken
makeshift border town. We know TR IR R )
makeshift border town. We know he was taken to Oslo, charged
he was taken to Oslo, charged with illegal entry into Norway
with illegal entry into Norway and
with illegal entry into Norway LR ALY
with illegal entry into Norway E R IGIN
with illegal entry into Norway and was given a lawyer to
and was given a lawyer to represent
and was given a lawyer to N
and was given a lawyer to (U T LT
and was given a lawyer to represent him. That lawyer has
represent him. That lawyer has T
represent him. That lawyer has been speaking about what may
been speaking about what may EIe
been speaking about what may A
been speaking about what may happen next. We
been speaking about what may SRR
been speaking about what may happen next. We can take a
happen next. We can take a i3
happen next. We can take a quick listen.
TRANSLATION: We don’t grant R RN E R LN
NI N U@ G [N a very important assessment
and everything must be analysed very carefully.
Who is he? Where’s he from?
Is this is information correct, etc.
This is something that is assessed for everyone who seeks
asylum in Norway, but obviously, in this case it
will be assessed particularly thoroughly.
He went on
He went on to say that Mr Medvedey
He went on to say that Mr Medvedev has evidence of
He went on to say that Mr P [ A L N A s
Medvedev has evidence of human i
Medvedev has evidence of human rights abuses
Medvedev has evidence of human ORISR
Medvedev has evidence of human rights abuses in Ukraine and
rights abuses in Ukraine and LG
rights abuses in Ukraine and alleged war crimes, and that
alleged war crimes, and that his intention is
alleged war crimes, and that RN G AR R ]
alleged war crimes, and that RN LR O ]
alleged war crimes, and that his intention is to share that
his intention is to share that evidence with groups
evidence with groups investigating those crimes in
investigating those crimes in )
investigating those crimes in QRO Lh]
investigating those crimes in the coming weeks. Just remind
the coming weeks. Just remind us, what more do we know about
us, what more do we know about this mercenary organisation a
this mercenary organisation a Wagner Group and what is their
Wagner Group and what is their IR i a1
Wagner Group and what is their invelvement in
Wagner Group and what is their IR )
Wagner Group and what is their I T R e a il
Wagner Group and what is their invelvement in the conflict in
involvement in the conflict in I
involvement in the conflict in Ukraine? Many
involvement in the conflict in IR L F A GES
involvement in the conflict in IR L P A O R
invelvement in the conflict in Ukraine? Many there was would
Ukraine? Many there was would have
Ukraine? Many there was would YU N0
Ukraine? Many there was would YTl
Ukraine? Many there was would A R R
Ukraine? Many there was would have heard of the group, but
have heard of the group, but they existed in a much more
they existed in a much more AELN
they existed in a much more shadowy capacity. They are an
shadowy capacity. They are an independent militia and they
independent militia and they R
independent militia and they G E IEAE]
independent militia and they bolster Russian troops
independent militia and they NS EL R SRl
bolster Russian troops in 2 1al LY
bolster Russian troops in el TR aai e el
bolster Russian troops in various territories including
various territories including I
various territories including Ukraine. Recently there have
Ukraine. Recently there have T
Ukraine. Recently there have presence in Ukraine has
presence in Ukraine has NI
presence in Ukraine has RIee I T 11
presence in Ukraine has increased. Some sources say
increased. Some sources say around 10% of
increased. Some sources say IR A R e
increased. Some sources say around 10% of forces on the
around 10% of forces on the IO
around 10% of forces on the ground there right now could
ground there right now could belong to that group. That
belong to that group. That lawyer that was all that
lawyer that was all that present
lawyer that was all that N
lawyer that was all that present Mr Medvedev has said we
present Mr Medvedev has said we SN
present Mr Medvedev has said we N el T - Ts|
present Mr Medvedev has said we -- he witnessed war
present Mr Medvedev has said we N AT R el ]
-- he witnessed war crimes sl
-- he witnessed war crimes needed him
-- he witnessed war crimes Y- sl R
-- he witnessed war crimes G R R R E )
-- he witnessed war crimes AR
-- he witnessed war crimes needed him to leave the group,
needed him to leave the group, as
needed him to leave the group, Rl
needed him to leave the group, YR T
needed him to leave the group, EIRA XYY |
needed him to leave the group, IR XY R G 1]
needed him to leave the group, as well as seeing them as
as well as seeing them as LG
as well as seeing them as EILEL L AN
as well as seeing them as allegedly being executed for
CIED VR LI TN LR aYihl]
CIED VR LI TN LR R
allegedly being executed for trying to defect as well. The
trying to defect as well. The Xl
trying to defect as well. The TR
trying to defect as well. The R )
trying to defect as well. The sound of the group has spoken
sound of the group has spoken out,
sound of the group has spoken NI
sound of the group has spoken out, and said Medvedev did work
out, and said Medvedev did work e
out, and said Medvedev did work TR
out, and said Medvedev did work for the group. He has said
for the group. He has said his FYuns a8
for the group. He has said his account is not
for the group. He has said his Y ane 018 Bl R a i)
for the group. He has said his Y ane Tls BNl s N
for the group. He has said his account is not true of what he
= T G R (RGBT E g [ T
= T G R (RGBT E g [ TR
account is not true of what he has said so far and labelled
has said so far and labelled him
has said so far and labelled M)
has said so far and labelled him a highly dangerous
him a highly dangerous individual. Stephanie, thank
individual. Stephanie, thank IR
The British television N IR
columnist Jeremy Clarkson says he has written to the Duke
and Duchess of Sussex to apologise over a newspaper
column in which he said he "hated" Meghan.
ILEE:[gd [« N L S ST
has since been taken offline by the
British newspaper, the Sun.
Our culture and media editor Katie Razzall
told us more about what he said,
and the repercussions.
If you remember, there was outrage because he said
he wanted to see her paraded naked through the streets
and that he wanted excrement thrown at her.
More than 25,000 people complained
to the press regulator - it is investigating.
So today, we had a much more fulsome apology.
Six pages on Instagram in which he reveals that
on Christmas Day he reached out to the Duke and Duchess
to say sorry.
Far from accepting the apology LR R R AR
Prince Harry has suggested the column proved
G NI XN Tl EL NI
Mr Clarkson today writes,
he abhors violence against women, he is not sexist.
[T IR El Amazon and ITV
R T [ e T N e R ey
Of course, he is a popular TV presenter
CI TR N {Tel g in Variety today
that Amazon, the streamer,
plans to part company with Mr Clarkson next year,
once the shows, Clarkson’s Farm The Grand Tour,
O R commissioned from him,
have aired.
My sources do dispute the Variety story,
but Amazon have said TR W e et el e
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex N AN R s e e
about Jeremy Clarkson’’s apology,
and it seems they may not have fully forgiven him.
1 RE¥: )Y
Benjamin Linsay is news editor
with the digital entertainment news site The Wrap.
He has been covering 18
and joins us from Los Angeles.
Good to see you. Tell us what "l
Good to see you. Tell us what R
Good to see you. Tell us what kind of coverage is this
kind of coverage is this getting
kind of coverage is this LR
kind of coverage is this UL RLRGT
kind of coverage is this getting in the US? Yes,
kind of coverage is this VGG RLRG R IRYA CI
getting in the US? Yes, it Y
getting in the US? Yes, it really started picking up
really started picking up around Christmas time of 2022,
around Christmas time of 2022, and really through the lens of
and really through the lens of his
and really through the lens of YRR - ]
and really through the lens of his media relations, his
his media relations, his CELI
his media relations, his meaning Jeremy Clarkson of
meaning Jeremy Clarkson of course, his media relations in
course, his media relations in )
course, his media relations in AR
course, his media relations in the US, obviously he is a
the US, obviously he is a il
the US, obviously he is a iLPICRL]
the US, obviously he is a HGICRLRGT
the US, obviously he is a figure in the international
figure in the international OB IElnihD]
figure in the international programming on
figure in the international pregramming en Amazon
figure in the international programming on Amazon prime and
programming on Amazon prime and Ty
programming on Amazon prime and use Saw
programming on Amazon prime and use saw the report and variety
use saw the report and variety today that claims that once the
today that claims that once the commission ‘s errors are
o0y [ T RN TR I
o0y [ T RN TR UL
commission ’'s errors are QIR W2
commission ’'s errors are through in 2024 they
commission ‘s errors are through in 2024 they will... No
through in 2024 they will... No IS
through in 2024 they will... No longer be working with
longer be working with dE
longer be working with Clarkson. Similar to your
Clarkson. Similar to your reporting and my correspondence
reporting and my correspondence with Amazon
reporting and my correspondence G FF RGN
reporting and my correspondence O RO ARG
reporting and my correspondence W FF RO A N R
reporting and my correspondence with Amazon they have said they
with Amazon they have said they Py
with Amazon they have said they are not commenting on the
are not commenting on the El I
are not commenting on the i e o 018
are not commenting on the Rl o T Ao
are not commenting on the matter, but it really is
matter, but it really is MG ND]
matter, but it really is MG NLES
matter, but it really is NS LR R
matter, but it really is interesting to see how
pEI I T RV ML AU
pEI I T RV NIRRT ARG
interesting to see how this all iyl
interesting to see how this all il E
interesting to see how this all ull [ A EVAT
interesting to see how this all might play out and the
Gl EN AT = [ [ consequences that
Gl EN AT = [ [ SN R AU
might play out and the consequences that the media
consequences that the media & |
consequences that the media firebrand like Clarkson, he
firebrand like Clarkson, he L
firebrand like Clarkson, he CE (A1)
firebrand like Clarkson, he really could be facing some
really could be facing some yFIkig
really could be facing some major conseguences
really could be facing some major consequences for this
major consequences for this one. Talk about him as
major consequences for this IR ]
major consequences for this one. Talk about him as a media
one. Talk about him as a media e IEhs
one. Talk about him as a media firebrand. You are there in the
firebrand. You are there in the land
firebrand. You are there in the (PR
firebrand. You are there in the land of the free,
firebrand. You are there in the LR R R TR
firebrand. You are there in the land of the free, the land
firebrand. You are there in the R R R R U LR
land of the free, the land of )
land of the free, the land of Rl
land of the free, the land of R e s lail- e 8
land of the free, the land of the first Amendment. Want
land of the free, the land of AR Nt e at T et s a sl
the first Amendment. Want do people make of persenalities
people make of personalities ey
people make of personalities like Jeremy
people make of personalities TR
people make of personalities like Jeremy Clarkson? Yes,
people make of personalities like Jeremy Clarksen? Yes, me
like Jeremy Clarkson? Yes, me personally,
like Jeremy Clarkson? Yes, me LA
like Jeremy Clarksen? Yes, me N R
like Jeremy Clarksen? Yes, me personally, | will speak to my
personally, | will speak to my own
personally, | will speak to my T Y[ o
personally, | will speak to my own experience with just
own experience with just absorbing
own experience with just EXIGIRLRGT
own experience with just EX RO NI o)
own experience with just absorbing the presence of
absorbing the presence of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry.
Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. s
Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. a e
Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. (IS
Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. I FEEI N
Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. It has always been a
Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. I FEE R R i
Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. It has always been a bit before
It has always been a bit before huddling
It has always been a bit before IGGIT TR
It has always been a bit before huddling to me to see folks in
huddling to me to see folks in )
huddling to me to see folks in i
huddling to me to see folks in R G ]
huddling to me to see folks in LI E R
huddling to me to see folks in the UK media Llike Clarkson
the UK media like Clarkson JIE1S
the UK media like Clarkson speak with such vitriol of
speak with such vitriol of Michael and Harry. | can
Michael and Harry. | can T % ]
Michael and Harry. | can understand may an over
NG e Tl E R [ O Ol AT
NG e Tl E R [ O ARG
NG e Tl E R [ O NI R G AN
NG e Tl E R [ O saturation, they have a
understand may an over saturation, they have a new
saturation, they have a new Netflix
saturation, they have a new iR R )
saturation, they have a new iR R N
saturation, they have a new iR e R A
Netflix the release of the N Ch
Netflix the release of the books. Obviously you have
books. Obviously you have e
books. Obviously you have R
books. Obviously you have closer ties with
books. Obviously you have AR R R
books. Obviously you have closer ties with the Royal
closer ties with the Royal FE1IY
closer ties with the Royal Family and the dramatic settle
Family and the dramatic settle ]
Family and the dramatic settle e ihdsls]
Family and the dramatic settle MR ARG
Family and the dramatic settle R ARG LS
Family and the dramatic settle MR RO R G|
Family and the dramatic settle MR ARG AR
Family and the dramatic settle on within there, but | am yet
on within there, but I am yet to
on within there, but I am yet R}
on within there, but | am yet RGN O
on within there, but | am yet to see anything that Meghan
to see anything that Meghan (Y
to see anything that Meghan Markle in particular has done
Markle in particular has done to
Markle in particular has done I e )
Markle in particular has done I N A
Markle in particular has done A N iR
Markle in particular has done I N A R
Markle in particular has done to deserve kind of the public
to deserve kind of the public 14
to deserve kind of the public e e re d o
to deserve kind of the public e e v d o
to deserve kind of the public violent rhetoric that people
violent rhetoric that people like Clarkson
violent rhetoric that people R By
violent rhetoric that people like Clarkson have shared. That
like Clarkson have shared. That T
like Clarkson have shared. That has heen
like Clarkson have shared. That (LN N3
like Clarkson have shared. That has been my main take away from
has been my main take away from this
has been my main take away from QR
has been my main take away from this for sure. What do you
this for sure. What do you make N
this for sure. What do you make RN I
this for sure. What do you make of the response from Harry and
of the response from Harry and Meghan?
of the respense frem Harry and Meghan? They were pretty
Meghan? They were pretty critical
Meghan? They were pretty oo 114
Meghan? They were pretty gl A
Meghan? They were pretty critical it is fair to say.
critical it is fair to say. Yes,
critical it is fair to say. =18
critical it is fair to say. Yes, certainly fair to say, and
Yes, certainly fair to say, and sl
Yes, certainly fair to say, and s
Yes, certainly fair to say, and AR - o el
Yes, certainly fair to say, and kind of echoed some
Yes, certainly fair to say, and AR R i R N
Yes, certainly fair to say, and AR R R - )
kind of echoed some of the S
kind of echoed some of the R GEN
kind of echoed some of the gripes that | had with the
gripes that | had with the apology. |
gripes that I had with the apology. I think it is a
gripes that | had with the apology. I think it is a little
apology. I think it is a little befuddled
apology. I think it is a little hefuddled link
apology. I think it is a little befuddled link to that this
apology. I think it is a little GG E G R G R R IR
befuddled link to that this was i)
befuddled link to that this was written in
befuddled link to that this was e R E L )
befuddled link to that this was written in haste or
befuddled link to that this was e AN R N )
befuddled link to that this was written in haste or he didn’t
written in haste or he didn’t 4
written in haste or he didn’t V)
written in haste or he didn’t R ]
written in haste or he didn’t get a second pair of eyes
get a second pair of eyes on it. He forgot to draw the line
it. He forgot to draw the line to game of thrones in his book
to game of thrones in his book 3
to game of thrones in his book Y
to game of thrones in his book in as explicit a way
to game of thrones in his book S R K
to game of thrones in his book in as explicit a way as he had
in as explicit a way as he had hoped to. But at the end of
In as explicit a way as he had hoped to. But at the end of the
hoped to. But at the end of the day, he was still sharing and
day, he was still sharing and "l
day, he was still sharing and R
day, he was still sharing and kind of echoing from things
day, he was still sharing and R R NG R T R GBI
kind of echoing from things in )
kind of echoing from things in QR
kind of echoing from things in QLN R OELS
kind of echoing from things in the past that he
kind of echoing from things in QN ES R G R
kind of echoing from things in the past that he said violence,
the past that he said violence, I
the past that he said violence, misogyny and | think
the past that he said violence, misogyny and I think that
misogyny and | think that TG
misogyny and | think that people are just, the court of
people are just, the court of public
people are just, the court of I IR
people are just, the court of public epinion has less
public opinion has less )
public opinion has less IR
public opinion has less patience for a kind of
patience for a kind of tolerating that kind of speech.
tolerating that kind of speech. To Jeremy Clarkson is no
To Jeremy Clarkson is no LG
To Jeremy Clarkson is no stranger to controversy. The
stranger to controversy. The reason
stranger to controversy. The IR
stranger to controversy. The N R e
stranger to controversy. The Y NI R ]
stranger to controversy. The reason he went to Amazon
stranger to controversy. The NI R N RO - iV E
stranger to controversy. The NI N RO T NI AN R
reason he went to Amazon on the e
reason he went to Amazon on the first place is
reason he went to Amazon on the U A Fl - e
reason he went to Amazon on the first place is because of
first place is because of all e
first place is because of all out with
first place is because of all N R
first place is because of all R RN
first place is because of all N R N e LT
first place is because of all R N OEG RLTE es
out with the BBC. This received sl
out with the BBC. This received record numbers
out with the BBC. This received T B Tt e
out with the BBC. This received record numbers of complaints to
record numbers of complaints to I R
record numbers of complaints to I EI R By
record numbers of complaints to Britain’s mass requlator. Do
Britain’s mass regulator. Do you think
Britain’s mass regulator. Do you think this is the final
you think this is the final i
you think this is the final e )
you think this is the final B R
you think this is the final nail in the coffin
you think this is the final LB R R i iR ]e
you think this is the final BRGNS
nail in the coffin for his media career? | can’t say if it
media career? | can’t say if it s the
media career? | can’t say If it is the final nail
media career? | can’t say If it TGN iLE IR El B
media career? | can’t say If it RGBT
is the final nail in the coffin,
s the final nail in the 0 111 P 0 4
s the final nail in the coffin, but |
s the final nail in the o 11l P 0L s 11514
s the final nail in the iR ARG
s the final nail in the coffin, but I think he will
s the final nail in the P A R L R
coffin, but | think he will be thinking twice before he
thinking twice before he e la al T
thinking twice before he e e A1a Tl s
thinking twice before he e R )
thinking twice before he continues on the firebrand path
continues on the firebrand path that he
continues on the firebrand path el N E
continues on the firebrand path e N e Tl
continues on the firebrand path that he has built his
that he has built his reputation on. Benjamin, thank
reputation on. Benjamin, thank IR T
reputation on. Benjamin, thank TR L EL SR
Much more detail about this on our website, including
RN R T G RTT @D ETa what Mr Clarkson said
which caused so much offense,
and the details of what he says in his apology.
Just log on to bbc.com/news or go via the BBC app.
The Attorney-General’s office in Brazil has filed
an indictment against 39 people for their alleged involvement
In coup activities,
related to the storming of Brazil’s Senate building.
They haven’t yet been named
and more charges could RN
Sofia Bettiza reports.
AR LS
He was nowhere to
R LR RN
R LR RO -
R LR RN iR
He was nowhere to be seen for )
He was nowhere to be seen for QR
He was nowhere to be seen for G A
He was nowhere to be seen for QN R AL i
He was nowhere to be seen for the past week. But Brazil’s
the past week. But Brazil’s e
the past week. But Brazil’s former president Bolsenaro
former president Bolsonaro finally
former president Bolsonaro N VA
former president Bolsonaro NLE (TR CIE
former president Bolsonaro finally broke his silence.
finally broke his silence. TRANSLATION: | regret what
TRANSLATION: | regret what happened on the eighth of
happened on the eighth of JELUEL’A
happened on the eighth of January. It is unbelievable.
January. It is unbelievable. Unfortunately
January. It is unbelievable. W (R O E L A L
January. It is unbelievable. Unfortunately people understood
Unfortunately people understood vty
Unfortunately people understood what politics is got to know
what politics is got to know )
what politics is got to know the political powers and
QRN [ WO ORI [ Rl
QRN [ WO ORI [ IR
QRN [ WO ORI [ started to value
the political powers and R CHEO R ZI R D
the political powers and R HE R ZIN R ie
started to value freedom. He Ty
started to value freedom. He Rl )
started to value freedom. He Rl s ls]
started to value freedom. He was filmed in Florida
started to value freedom. He LR I G RN A G E R Y
started to value freedom. He LR I G R R G E R R
was filmed in Florida by some N
was filmed in Florida by some A
was filmed in Florida by some of his supporters. He was
of his supporters. He was VR
of his supporters. He was SN LS
of his supporters. He was defensive, but admitted the
defensive, but admitted the mistakes
defensive, but admitted the HRE )
defensive, but admitted the mistakes made by his
mistakes made by his government.
[l TRANSLATION: | never stopped
TRANSLATION: | never stopped L
TRANSLATION: | never stopped following the constitutional
following the constitutional principles. There are some
principles. There are some holes
principles. There are some T
principles. There are some holes of course. You slip up.
holes of course. You slip up. wWho
holes of course. You slip up. Who doesn’t?
holes of course. You slip up. Who doesn’t? Slipping up is
Who doesn’'t? Slipping up is I
Who doesn’'t? Slipping up is quite the
Who doesn’t? Slipping up is quite the understatement.
Who doesn’t? Slipping up is RGN N I R T
quite the understatement. When ey
quite the understatement. When NI Rl
quite the understatement. When these diehard supporters
these diehard supporters smashed their way into the
smashed their way into the SN
smashed their way into the S R
smashed their way into the Supreme Court, Congress and the
Supreme Court, Congress and the presidential
Supreme Court, Congress and the AL W F L
Supreme Court, Congress and the A W F - G
Supreme Court, Congress and the presidential palace, they burn
presidential palace, they burn furniture, destroyed valuable
furniture, destroyed valuable artwork and caused millions of
artwork and caused millions of I Ele
artwork and caused millions of dollars in damages. Thousands
dollars in damages. Thousands of
dollars in damages. Thousands SR ]
dollars in damages. Thousands SRR )
dollars in damages. Thousands SR IR ]
dollars in damages. Thousands RGN Wl R
dollars in damages. Thousands of them have been arrested. And
of them have been arrested. And Tl A K
of them have been arrested. And now Brazil’s Attorney General’s
now Brazil’s Attorney General’s Siiley
now Brazil’s Attorney General’s office has
now Brazil’s Attorney General’s il e Rl 0 sl
now Brazil’s Attorney General’s office has filed an
now Brazil’s Attorney General’s il LR s s R s s a1 Ts1 4
office has filed an indictment against 39 people. The
against 39 people. The s Tasatl-Te14
against 39 people. The s ITa gl e ds e -
against 39 people. The indictment does not name any
indictment does not name any individuals. But it says that
individuals. But it says that they
individuals. But it says that S A G
individuals. But it says that they were among a core group of
they were among a core group of I 1]
they were among a core group of N IR L)
they were among a core group of NI R
they were among a core group of conspirators who use violence
conspirators who use violence and
conspirators who use violence IR e
conspirators who use violence LRI ]
conspirators who use violence and threat to try to abolish
CLRGIE S (R AL N )
and threat to try to abolish il n el
and threat to try to abolish AN et n e afelelgs1g
and threat to try to abolish the democratic order in Brazil.
the democratic order in Brazil. That
the democratic order in Brazil. G A
the democratic order in Brazil. That is a serious allegation in
That is a serious allegation in Y
That is a serious allegation in a country that still remembers
R IT1 "R G W=y LIy L[ Tge )
R IT1 "R G W=y LIy L[ Tge the legacy
a country that still remembers the legacy of military rule,
the legacy of military rule, el
the legacy of military rule, which only
the legacy of military rule, T W A LY
the legacy of military rule, which only ended in 1985. And
which only ended in 1985. And with many officials being
with many officials being TSN
with many officials being investigated by the Supreme
investigated by the Supreme s
investigated by the Supreme Court, including Bolsonaro
Court, including Bolsonaro A
Court, including Bolsonaro himself, more arrests are
himself, more arrests are likely
himself, more arrests are AN
himself, more arrests are VARG N
Sofia Bettiza, BBC News.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: Novak Djokovic is getting ready to compete
in the Australian Open a year after being banned
We’ll have the latest TG
Donald Trump is now the 45th President of the United States.
He was sworn in before several hundred thousand people
on the steps of Capitol Hill in Washington.
It’s going to be IR
Demonstrators N LR LCRE il
were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
Anti-Apartheid campaigners say
AN 1R R G LR G throughout the tour.
They called him BRI RN L
Klaus Altmann is being held on a fraud charge in Bolivia.
The West Germans want to extradite him
for crimes committed in wartime France.
There, he was the Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie.
Millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot -
a tide of humanity QRSB RG] G
No survivors but Sunday’s fatal JENCRA IR L
raises a raft of questions.
The pilot allegedly didn’t (A G
on the approach.
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation, Wagner, has claimed asylum in Norway
G I g i T the mercenary group.
Police in Romania say they’re expanding their investigation
into the social media influencer Andrew Tate.
They’ve seized a fleet of luxury cars
from Mr Tate’s compound in Bucharest,
and raided seven more IO R
The 36-year-old British-American citizen has
LI T TR LRk Ty of an investigation
into allegations of human trafficking and rape -
aleng with his brother.
Both men deny all the allegations made against them.
Lucy Williamsen sent this LR I
Weeks after police came for their owner,
they returned for his cars.
The power of a Ferrari
paralysed in the grip R R (1
Whatever the truth about life DRGSR E
its secrets are now being scrutinised by investigators.
This fleet of luxury cars,
the toys of a successful businessman
or the proceeds of a trafficking ring?
This man was in charge R R R O R LG
compound and describes himself as a close friend
Why everybody comes now and talk make a lot
of statements in front SR IEE sl Ria st
of the police about how bad is Andrew Tate.
You doubt all the women, but you never doubt Andrew?
Why do you doubt L IR TR N e e el e Is
Because they are young and stupid.
Y E I ]ol (3
If you’re living in the Western world, this is probably 40%
of the reason | moved el hiCh I
In an online video, NG R )
the move to Romania in 2017 in part
for what he saw R R e e
approach to sexual assault claims.
He and his brother Tristan are being held in detention
for 30 days while police investigate
whether they set up a trafficking operation
and forced women to work online in adult chat rooms.
They are also investigating an allegation of rape.
Both men deny the charges.
RS RN of them being aggressive.
Police have Bl R s
as potential victims,
but last week, two of them publicly denied
=[N CE [ by the Tate brothers.
TRANSLATION: I’ve never been frightened.
If | had been,
| wouldn’t have been stupid enough
to stay in that house.
| have a tattoo on my left arm that
says ‘Tate girl’, which | got out of respect for them.
Andrew Tate’s reputation hangs on this case,
Its message - that trafficking claims will be investigated,
no matter how rich or famous you are.
Lucy Williamson, BBC News, Bucharest.
Let’s bring you some breaking news from Florida.
At least eight people T N - e
at a Martin Luther King Jr Day celebration in Fort Pierce
according to the St Lucie I R i R T L
ORI RUE TR critical condition.
Four other people were injured in the chaos following
the gunfire, according NI R i
People had gathered at llous Elise Park
for a MLK Car Show and Family Fun Day.
We will bring you much more on that
We will bring you much more on G E 18
We will bring you much more on U IR
We will bring you much more on G E I A
We will bring you much more on that story as it comes
We will bring you much more on OE S I R R R U R )
We will bring you much more on O R U R R U
that story as it comes into the Sl
It’s been a national holiday across the US
to celebrate the life and legacy of the civil rights
campaigner, Martin Luther King.
Doctor King, who would have been 94 on Sunday,
VRIS N O famous ‘l have a dream’ speech.
That challenged Americans to judge each other not
by the colour of their skin, but by the content
It’s the second day of the Australian Open
in Melbourne,
and the day that fans of some of tennis’ biggest stars have
been eagerly awaiting.
None more so than fans of Novak Djokovic,
who’s returning to the competition for the first time
since being deported from Australia
because he wasn’t vaccinated against Covid-19.
Our correspondent Shaimaa Khalil is in Melbourne
and she gave me this update.
USRI L R (] MBS -]
A lot of action, but really later tonight this is where
Novak Djokovic is going to make RIS EEIC R
play his first match of the Australian Open 2023.
He will be facing Spain’s Roberto Carballes Baena,
in his first return after that drama of last year,
him being detained, appearing in court -
or challenging the Australian government in court -
and then deported just before the game.
The unvaccinated Serbian star split opinion here in Australia
about what happened to him.
He thought he was unfairly treated.
Many people thought that he AR R LRGN T
That was last year.
This year we have been speaking to tennis fans
here in Melbourne Park and they are saying
TR G [ A TR [ o[ 8
You’ve got to let the best players play.
It might have been bits overreacted at the time
but now he is here so what was QR R %144
You know, he is here.
Very happy.
Yeah, | reckon too.
Really excited.
Yeah, really, really excited G R R U L
Last year we were kind of waiting to see
what was going to happen before we booked tickets,
G VAT LY RO R
=LV RN TT L T over to see him.
we’ll find out what kind of reception he receives
when he walks out onto the court,
but judging from that warm cheer and applause
that he received when he came AN R R S k]
on Friday for an exhibition match with Nick Kyrgios,
he’s hoping for a similar one.
He’s saying that while ORI R F S LS
will stay with him, R R G TR
He’s eyeing that 10th title -
RO RSN RN e
and of course the all-important 2RI N R R
Grand Slam title that is -
a record that is currently held by Rafael Nadal.
China’s population has fallen TR R ARy
LRI ETORTY IS
Official data says that the country’s population
at the end of December was 1.41175 billion people -
down by 85 million people from the previous year.
The birth rate was the lowest R e RN VR T s da
with just 6.77 births per 1,000 people.
LI F R G T than the death rate,
which was 7.37 deaths per 1,000 people.
The death rate was the highest since 1976
and was higher in 2022 than it was in 2021
No reason has been given but the number of deaths
coincides with outbreaks of Covid-19 -
an illness which China has blamed
for relatively few deaths.
The Italian actress, Gina Lollobrigida has died
at the age of 95.
She was one of the biggest film stars in the world
B R LRV
Wendy Urquhart looks N A S dh
You came back inte my life like a wolf in snake’s clothing!
Gina Lollobrigida YL R L
The camera absolutely SR
and she was often described YR a1 R et
RN i alo P
She grew up in the mountain village of Subiaco -
some 40 miles from Rome - G G
her dad, Giovanni, who was a furniture maker,
and her mother, Giuseppina.
When the family moved to Rome after World War Il,
Gina took singing and acting lessons,
and was soon starring in Italian films.
She married Milko Skofic in 1949,
but when she was spotted by Hollywood talent scouts,
Howard Hughes took R R g
and whisked her off to America.
He suggested that she divorce Milko
before she signed ER O [ Rt aldg-[n
and when he got wind of that, (R LIS R R L
- 50 she went back to Italy.
Gina became a household name in the 1950s after starring
in her first English-language film,
Beat The Devil, opposite Humphrey Bogart.
A raft of great Hollywood roles followed, including Trapeze,
The Hunchback of Notre Dame. ..
| am less afraid of you now.
..Solomon and Sheba, and Women of Straw.
She courted controversy when she made a documentary
about Fidel Castroe in 1975, IR L e
between the two dogged the actress for years.
When La Lolla finally bid farewell to the silver screen,
she turned her talents to photography and sculpture,
and exhibitions of her work were held in Paris, Moscow,
In 2013, she auctioned i ST C ALYy
and donated the entire $2.9 million
to stem cell therapy.
The Italian actress, Gina Lollobrigida,
who’s died at the age of 95.
ILF
That’s it from us for now.
You can reach me on twitter - I’m @RichPreston
[LiE1L @0
Thank you for watching and see you next time.
Hello again.
I’m sure you’d agree, it’s been a very bitter start
to the new working week, R e i R L N ]
DL AT LRI with some snowy scenes around
as well - that was overlooking Skiddaw,
in Cumbria earlier on Monday.
But the other story we’ve been WM R )
either - we still have R R RZETGIR G
in force, the majority across stretches of the Severn,
the River Avon, and for groundwater
HCLGRTR IR GRS ]
And although we’'ll e R
snow showers across northern and western areas over the next
few hours, leading (R AL [l
actually with water still seeping
HCINRIEGE R R U
wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost,
temperatures minus three te minus seven widely.
Well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy
heading into Tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous
actually underfoot and under-tyre first
thing in the morning.
LT IR B I [ LI LT IN T as low as minus 10 in Scotland,
freezing cold start - further snow showers piling
in through the day across northwestern areas.
So, really, it’s northern and western areas of Scotland
across Northern Ireland, the north-west of both England
and Wales will be prone to seeing
further accumulations of snow.
Modest Hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
And after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day,
even in the sunshine - which many of us will have
a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much
above freezing.
It will feel pretty bitter.
More of that to come on Wednesday as well.
Another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
Could see rather more in the way
of showers just clipping the east coast of England,
and some heavier showers work across Northern Ireland
into parts of Wales and south-west England -
probably hear more ROl
a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in,
and temperatures just WL IR L LT AT
in Cardiff and Plymouth - s0 signs that temperatures
are very slowly starting R L E L
By Thursday, after a frosty and cold start again,
showers will probably Y e e Nl
(3 dglu LR R G e R A Ela P
Otherwise, a lot of dry R A L
But after, again, a freezing cold start to the day,
temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe
eight towards Plymouth.
Otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
If you really don’t like the cold
LR G IR you’ll have to wait
till the weekend before we get something a lot milder,
as south-westerly winds return across the country.
With that, there’ll TR e e
in the way of cloud heading RN R NG R i G R
of rain around as well.
But eventually, temperatures widely
LR ETe TR LI ER LIS
IR LTk have called off the search
for any survivors of Sunday’s plane crash.
The pilot allegedly did not report any proeblems
when coming in to land.
72 people were onboard the Yeti Airlines flight.
All are believed to have been killed.
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation, Wagner, has claimed asylum in Norway
G I g i T the mercenary group.
Andrey Medvedev allegedly fled
CH RGN e s LR
LSRG I ] Rl Ry
a member of the group has defected to the West.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have rebuffed Jeremy Clarkson’s
written apology over a column for the Sun newspaper
in which he said (R EICO R G R
Harry and Meghan said QRN T R I S
Those are our latest stories )
Those are our latest stories W
Good morning.
Global Questions: Sri Lanka - Rising Global Civil Unrest.
Welcome to Global Questions with me, Zeinab Badawi,
from the heart of Sri Lanka’s capital, Colombe.
(NI the presidential office,
and today, its pristine exterior is well guarded.
But six months ago, angry antigovernment protesters
stormed this building, as well as the presidential
palace, forcing the president to flee the country.
They were angry at just how desperate their economic
situation had become, and they blamed government
corruption and mismanagement for it.
Sri Lanka Is saddled with heavy debt, soaring inflation
and impossibly high food and fuel costs.
And it’s become something MR e
Il T I e e et ol aa
World leaders are looking to see whether Sri Lanka
can overcome its worst economic crisis for more than 70 years,
and whether its experience marks a growing trend
Welcome to the magnificent National Museum
here in Celembo,
which charts the history of this beautiful island,
as It marks 75 years of independence from Britain,
and we’ve got a top panel here from Sri Lanka
who are going to be answering questions
from our local audience.
Let me tell you AR R
for this edition of Global Questions.
Ali Sabry is Sri Lanka’s SRR A
Until very recently, he was minister of finance,
and hence played a leading role in international negotiations
for an economic bailout.
At the end of last year,
he held high-level talks in Washington
about the economic and political crisis.
Harini Amarasuriya is a Member of Parliament
for the National People’s Opposition Party.
She’s a former lecturer C I Y18
=R RY T Wl of the government.
And Dushni Weerakoon is one of Sri Lanka’s leading economists.
She was a member of the board RN i BT 4
and is a consultant to various bodies such as the World Bank,
she’s also executive director
of the Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka.
That’s our panel. A R GRS
And remember, you too can join the conversation.
Lots of questions IR G B
so let’s go to our first one from Ranmini Ariawanshe.
Ranmini.
How can Sri Lanka survive LR [ IR R
IR QT [ X to more civil unrest?
Foreign Minister Ali Sabry.
Thank you very much R GEI SN
It’s a very difficult R A
| hoped that | had a ready-made answer for that, you don’t have
it, it’s not easy to T RiEhI S iR
Internationally, prices have gone up, rupee has depreciated,
particularly the energy, petroleum, coal, 35%
of what we are relying on for our electricity,
grain and all those things, but what we are trying to do
Is to control the inflation, e R R IEN R R
B Bl dge =T P
(RGN R R i A
95% of the inflation which was in June-july
had come down to 70 or 60%,
that the food and the general inflation
has also come down from 85% to 50s.
So, therefore, | think QAR Dl S
but the only way out is to increase the export,
reduce the import, preserve the dollars and repurposed it
for import of important items,
which is necessary for day-to-day movement.
LAl d
And Ranmini’s second part of her question was -
could it lead to more civil unrest?
Are we going to see millions of people
out on the streets again?
Hopefully, | don’t see that,
but | feel that there is a little bit of progress,
| think you will agree with me,
compared to what - as this initial visual shows,
we have - we don’t have the full queues any longer,
and that also been because we introduced a QR code,
as a result of which, the 40% of the demand has been
cut off, and that’s NN
LR LRI DR G R IR TS
which we have been IR
LGl
So the answer is no,
you’re not going to see people on the streets again?
I’m optimistic that we could get out of it.
Let’s see what a member of the opposition thinks.
Well, | think there’s a ot more that needs to happen
before we can be guaranteed that people will not get
on the streets because the key problems that led to the crisis
Minister Sabry talked about the full crisis,
but what we are seeing now - the lack of queues -
is not because there’s a sufficient supply of fuel,
T[T T has been restricted.
So this cannot go on indeterminately,
there has to be some resolution for this,
and also, what | see is that
this is not just NN o st st R
This is a political crisis.
When people got on the streets last year, people were
demanding a change in the political culture.
They were demanding a change in the political system.
Well, they saw off the president, didn’t they?
| mean, Rajapaksa...
Yes, that’s part one...
..went to Singapore and resigned by e-mail from there.
LAUGHS That’s part one.
They got rid of someone they didn’t like.
But have we replaced the person we didn’t like
LG that we have chosen?
Dushni Weerakoon, your response to that question?
Well, | think Sri Lanka is -
I mean, we are through the worst of the crisis,
but I think that R R a1
not out of the woods yet.
If the economic downturn I D)
and recessionary conditions drag on,
there is a sense that people’s IR AL LR
their livelihoods and their basic sort of living standards
are not going to see T R Y S
7RG two to three years.
So it can lead to a sense BRI N
and | think it’s quite right
that this is not only an economic crisis,
it is also a political crisis -
loss of faith in governance and our political institutions.
So there has to be some sense of momentum,
that the problems have been recognised
and some changes are coming.
Otherwise, what would happen?
Otherwise | think a sense R R LR L s
into a repeat of what we saw.
Thank you very much indeed.
Let’s go to our NS ()
Ancka Abeyrathne, your guestion, please.
ST TR R gl N which is the leading reason
IR G R T g TR AR A
be curbed to ensure sound policies and governance?
Ooh, Anoka’s sticking out her head there, isn’t she?
So, we know about all the external factors that have
gone on, but Anoka’s question is that the internal factors,
principally corruption, is the culprit.
Let’s go to you first, Harini.
Yeah, | think that’s the key issue.
If you look at the protests last year, one of the key
demands of people was "give our stolen money back”
and all those who were responsible
for corruption accountable.
So, addressing W E AR ogidw:
but that requires a political change,
a political reform, and that’s the point
| made earlier as well -
If we see this purely in terms NN (R e
that would be missing Gl N
This is a political crisis,
and the decisions and choices that politicians have made
led to this crisis,
and those politicians have to be held accountable
for the decisions they made
and the consequences and the suffering
that people have had to undergo YW R
So unless that accountability is taken care of,
I think we will never be able to really resolve this crisis
and, in that, OO G
OK, just - everybody here in the audience
in Sri Lanka is aware of what’s been going on,
but just give a quick couple of lines to our audience
N GETCRT L RTIVECE S T A
What do you mean exactly?
Well, during the protests last year,
one of the key demands of the people,
of the protesters was "give our stolen money back” -
that was one of the big slogans.
Yeah, sure.
That led - that was from the idea that people had
that the economic crisis that they were experiencing...
Yeah, but | mean, A e
are you talking about misappropriated funds...
Misappropriation... ..economic mismanagement...
R o[ __backhanders. ..
..excessive privileges that people in power enjoy,
backroom deals, commissions - IR RO N
And this has been going on for a very long time.
This has been going on for years, and that’s why | think
it’s also important to recognise that this is not
just about Covid or the last three years.
This is something that is systemic.
All right. Ali Sabry.
Yeah, corruption is another emblematic problem,
but then we have, by the 21st Amendment,
NN (D) the independent councils,
LK LRI G Tl Te 2 of developing that,
and then by that,
we have recognised IR S R A
and also, the anticorruption law will come into the place.
But corruption is one of the key demand,
and very popular one,
but to be honest, G E IS GG RG]
We have an extra-large size (oo ATy g Y[
of 1.6 million people, which works out to 16:1,
whereas India has 177:1, R N R - oe 0la R
86% of our last year’s revenue
went only for payment of salaries,
SO you can’t run a country like that.
Our of 70% of our entirety of the budget this year
went for loan payment and loan interest repayments,
so it’s easy to say that the corruption alone,
it’s just one point,
there are massive reforms which are necessary...
But it is a factor? SR N AR a g
A CTNEFE VL) it’s one amongst a few,
but what tangible actions R e e 8 113
are being implemented
to ensure that you have that accountability of funds
in the country?
We are looking at an anticorruption law in the style
of Hong Kong to give further power to the independent
commissions of corruption LR A
so that more prosecutions can take place.
Harini wants to say something to you, Ali Sabry.
Yes.
Say it to him, not to me! VN Y
But | think the issue here IR (EI A N
as we’ve understood, it’s systemic here, right,
and it’s not just a case of...
It’s about holding people accountable.
This government has been in power for three years already.
Three years now? 2.5, three years.
Where Is the accountability?
What has really happened
even when they’ve been N 4
And what about QNG DR O i s e
LR VR G R S e [ TR TR R ‘S
of corruption going on.
The minister also spoke -
you also spoke about the blow to the public sector.
Who is responsible for that? Who hired those people?
We’re going to come to that.
I’m so sorry, Ali Sabry, NN
but they like what Harini is saying
and you didn’t get any applause RGN
But, anyway, let’s see what Dushni has to say.
Dushni, your response to the question about corruption.
| tend to agree with what the minister said
to the extent that corruption is one of the sort of,
you know, manifestations RGN el RN AL
of accountability and weakening of institutions that we’ve had,
and | think we need to - NN E e e et ne Tl
and places in place, but I think one of the biggest
areas or reforms that people are demanding is actually
in the political leadership,
oI [T N Tggi]od L]y has not sprung on us overnight,
and the economic crisis did not spring up overnight either.
This has been successive governments
over the last few decades
where we have persistently seen institutions being weakening.
So there’s no quick fix.
LGl
Now, I’m going to take the next two guestions together
T TR G T G 1 4 something that’s related.
So let’s go first with Thanuki Goonesinghe.
How important does the panel IR e e T e
will be in the coming months to support those most affected
by the cost-of-living crisis?
0L O 4 =D STIVREL LR S v to Maheesha Weerasinghe.
A nutritious meal for children and the general population
as a whole has been absent for a long time.
What are the immediate steps that have been taken
that would be successful even in the long run?
Dushni, | mean, W R O e
one is about sort of emergency welfare for people
who are in a desperate situation right now.
| mean, people are sort of choosing about
whether they should eat,
whether their children I GR-L
which child should go to school,
which child shouldn’t R CEI N
| mean, you know, it really is a dire situation,
and what can be done RO LRI
Well, | think - there has not been a disruption
to Sri Lanka’s welfare schemes related to schoolchildren.
There is a free midday meal,
schooling is accessible I e R
The issue is that we’ve had significant high food inflation
in this country, running at over 90%.
So whatever midday meals were being provided
by the government, you are not able to provide that same meal
now, because the cost LRI s T e
LU {Te (T =1 given the fact that
we are In an ecenomic crisis and the government needs to cut
back on expenditures means there isn’t that amount
of funding there to top up what we should have topped
o) T
So I think all of this means we are relying on multilateral
EL LN AR N (R funding, but in the long term,
we need to get all of the IMF programmes, all of that
tightened up so that budgetary support comes to scale these
up, otherwise it will continue R RG] G
OK, Harini Amarasuriya, | mean, the United Nations is really
sounding the alarm bells, you know, they’re saying that
half of the population in Sri Lanka could really
fall into poverty.
NIRRT RG] with targeting, and with
effectiveness of existing welfare programmes.
That is also due to heavy politicisation of welfare
programmes where governments that come in to power tend
to provide the welfare based I G R E LG
So that has become a major N MR R R N ETe)
O DETN TR LGS
LGl
Minister Sabry, your response to the question?
One of the conditions of the IMF programme is also
to roll over a social protection net to see the most
vulnerable there and, of course, the midday meal
programme Is going on, IR (AT L T
more than 3 million families have been covered.
I NG R LR QTR 1 Al A LRI R N s e e -
There are some people who have already been graduated
from this project, but still getting it,
there are some who have been iR G R R i
There is a new programme, which is going on, along
with the World Bank, in order to identify that
and upgrade that so that you...
NSy LREN T T R P T -
I mean, people are really very hungry right now,
and the government is, it seems, virtually
on the verge of bankruptcy.
| mean, even the President said a few months ago,
President Wickremesinghe, that trying to find $1 million
was a bit of a challenge.
Of course, but if you look at it, about 700 million worth
of US dollar worth of funding came in from the multilateral
agencies, and larger part of it, about US$350 million,
were directed towards the social security net,
and that is how we have been met.
Of course, we all tend to agree there is no two word about it,
we are not out of the woods, people are suffering,
but if you look at the March and the May, people were told
that we will starve in September, starve in October.
That had not happened because a lot of funding
was put in to fertilise that...
Yeah, but it might happen - it might happen, right?
It might happen.
It has happened.
There are people going hungry as we speak, so it’s not
as If we are ocut of the woods.
| mean, we do get...
Of course we are not out of the woods.
..reports from schools of children fainting
during a school assembly because they go to school
hungry.
It’s also not just about filling your stomach.
It’s about nutrition, and that’s the real issues,
whether they are getting nutritious food, whether
they’re having access e SLeaisl IR s
So there really needs to be some emergency response,
and that needs to happen.
And you don’t see that?
Not enough, not on the scale that is required.
Thank you for that.
Let’s go to our next question.
Talal Rafi, your question, please.
Sri Lanka has one of the largest public sectors
in the world - around 1.6 million people for a population
of 22 million, and according to a minister, 86% of government
revenue goes to paying salaries and pensions.
So this is definitely unsustainable.
So how can we reduce this?
Ali Sabry, | mean, if you include the defence
forces, the army in Sri Lanka is huge and, you know,
as the question has just said, we’ve seen various figures
between 70% and 80% of national spending goes
inte paying salaries.
That’s insupportable, isn’t it?
LA E ST TR Ry A
Right now, it had come down to 65% because the revenue has
gone up because of the...
OK, but still very high.
VAR AR R (R D)
But the problem is some of my friends in the party goes
into the university, drag down the people
to the street, not get them to study, and they once
they come back, they are not employable.
When they are not employable, you force them to get
GGG Tl [ o they organise themselves...
..they organise themselves an unemployed graduate union,
they want to fix the public sector, public sector
So these are challenges, but this is not a time to point
fingers at each other.
All of us have to be blamed on this.
Because 1971, the price in 1988-'90 uprising,
[T To AR (1N T NoAu
They are trying to say that they’re a Paragon of virtue.
No, that’s not the case!
LS LR NI T N my party is also responsible,
all the parties are responsible for what we have today,
ISR
We all must be honest to admit that and deal with it.
| think that’s a really callous response to the situation
that we are in right now.
People are not getting DRGSR TR O
choose to get on the streets.
They’re getting on the streets YN R sk
problems.
I think it’s a very glib answer to say that it’s the education
sector that’s to blame for the poor economy
in this country.
The economy is the response that - the economy needs
GRGOG[N the economy needs to be
resilient enough to absorb those who are coming out
O G RTINS RS Gl
And people are getting RGN RO
government, including the President, Ranil
Wickremesinghe, was quite happy to see students on the streets
before he became president of this country, and now,
students have become enemy number one.
He has to remember how he got to the position that he is.
He’s an unelected president and he got to that position
because of the protests MR A
So, now to blame students for what is happening is really
not taking responsibility TR N e R e Tl
a situation that led people to the streets.
Just remind people - Ranil Wickremesinghe was prime
minister at the time, when Gotabaya Rajapaksa left
office in July.
He then became President, and a lot of people
in Sri Lanka believe he obviously does not
have a mandate to be AL
But how does this relate to the question that was asked
by Talal about how you can reduce the bloated size
of the public sector?
Exactly.
It has to be - sorry, Harini, please, go ahead.
You’re being very polite R R e A
No, we are polite.
She’s my colleague!
The public sector certainly...
We...our position is the public
sector needs to be strengthened
- strengthened doesn’t mean expansion or bloating,
and If you look at why the public sector has been
bloated and if you look at in which sectors it’s been
bloated, it’s in areas, in resources where it’s people
who are really unproductive, who’ve been chucked
into the public sector.
There are lots of vacancies in areas that actually need
I’ve got to bring - Dushni, you’ve got to break up
this bilateral RGN )
Dushni, your response?
| mean, | think Sri Lanka has I a1 4
far too large.
There is no dispute about that.
The reason why it’s grown in size is also political
because each government that comes in has -
they come under pressure to absorb more and more people
into the public sector.
Some of it is unemployed graduates, but a larger chunk
of it is also politicians providing employment
(RG] oTe g (163 QIO R R G
that they control.
111918
Now, yes, so that’s the problem.
We’re running out of time, so let’s go to our next
question.
Your question, please.
So, my question to you is L EY IR R (UG 31E
on which countries Sri Lanka should look at aligning
themselves economically TR R R R
cost-of-living crisis, given Sri Lanka’s current
precarious financial predicament, as well as for
future growth and sustainability?
Dushni, you kick off MR ]
I think if you look at long-term economic
interests, my sense Y NE ARG E R
better aligned to the Asian region because Asia has been
identified as a centre of growth for the next two
to three decades.
Most of our investment is coming from Asia,
most of the technology transfer is coming from Asia,
most of our imports are coming NI AT (8]
are of course headed RO A
But we need to diversify our export base, find new markets,
and | think for us, finding new markets will also be mostly
In the Asian region.
LGl
So that’s my short answer.
Very quick answer to that one.
| mean, China, India, Japan - big countries that give a lot
of money to Sri Lanka.
| agree with Dushni IR N TR R e
with everybody, but then Asia, this is the century of Asia
for at least the next two, three decades, so we have
India is growing, you have to partner with them,
integrate with them, and have that opportunity
So as far as China Is concerned, we need to look
at it, how to export more than now we are importing.
Very quickly on China, Harini - maybe you could address this.
A lot of people are unhappy about the fact that China
builds these infrastructure projects, but at hugely
inflated costs, and then MR R O R G R Rk
up and they buy the family jewels, like the port.
Well, | think that’s part of the earlier issue we spoke
about of corruption.
But actually, the biggest problem with indebtedness
s not really China.
It’s the international sovereign bonds, which have
been - which we borrowed on private - privately.
So that’s the real problem, not so much the bilateral loans
111918
ALFEIN 3344
Your question, please.
Thank you, Zeinab.
A lot of Sri Lankans are migrating and are now
on the verge of migrating.
As much as it does help generate foreign exchange
to the country, in the long run, we are losing top talent
and prospective entrepreneurs.
Also, start-ups and many other various skills that could Lift
the country to a much better state imaginable.
I G LRI Ty LR R 1013
and retain young talent?
OK, very important question, AN R LR A LV
go into reforms and policies, but it is a sad state
of affairs - more than 300,000 people left the country last
year - that’s the highest figure ever.
Very quickly, Dushni.
I mean, we are losing talent OEI RIS LR =L (1]
to because Sri Lanka is a rapidly ageing demography,
we need our young people, and the only way that we can
keep them back is to give them a sense of some material,
systemic change that’s going to come to the country
on the political front, as well as on the economic
If we don’t have the confidence, they’ll keep
leaving.
Harini?
People are leaving because they’ve lost hope
and they don’t think that they can build a future
in this country, and that needs to change.
People have to have hope, people have to have confidence
that they can carve a life out for themselves in this country,
and for that, there needs to be political change.
Minister Ali Sabry - final point.
Yeah, | feel there has to be deep economic reform,
as well as structural and political reforms,
because although we say that there’s a lot of people
are gone, yes, 312,000, but even in 2014, 304,000
people left, they will go TR A el e
So what the alternative is is to provide an epportunity
LSRRI R L L E R that we can retain them
and there is opportunity for them.
But even in India, in the early '80s, people started to go.
Now they have come back and they have started coming back.
I’m hopeful, if we all work together without this partisan
approach, we can rebuild our country.
Foreign Minister Ali Sabry, Harini Amarasuriya, Opposition
MP, and economist Dushni Weerakoon, thank
you very much indeed.
LU T T R ] edition of Global Questions
on whether Sri Lanka is managing to put a lid
on the political discentent, which was triggered
by that economic crisis.
And | hope we’ve also discussed some of the lessons learned
for other countries beset by similar problems.
Remember - we are the programme that brings you the trend lines
hehind the headlines.
From me, Zeinab Badawi, from here in Colombo,
thank you to you, whatever you’re watching or listening
to this programme.
For me and the rest of the Global Questions team,
goodbye.
Hello again.
Well, it’s been a pretty bitter start to the new working week,
and we’ve got more N RGE IR e
over the next few days.
Right now, we’re XA R A ML
pile in across nerthern LR e
that will lead to some icy stretches, but,as well,
after the weather’s been so wet recently, we’re seeing some
seepage from fields TGRSR
You can imagine with the widespread
frost heading into Tuesday morning,
we’re looking at probably quite extensive and dangerous ice -
both under-tyre and underfoot as we head into Tuesday
morning.
Now, those snow showers (e a s TR e i s
northern and western Scotland, for Northern Ireland,
the northwest of both England and Wales,
with further accumulations NGNS
Maybe 5-10cm in places, IR GEG IR I N e e T
accumulations at low RGN
After that really cold start, even though most areas
will actually have AT )
through the day, temperatures won’t get much above freezing.
And we’ve got more R GEIECT (Y
cold weather to come over the next few days -
you have to wait until the weekend
before the weather turns a lot milder, with temperatures
inte double figures.
Our top stories:
No survivors, but Sunday’s fatal plane crash in Nepal
raises a raft of questions.
The pilot allegedly didn’t report any problems
on the approach.
Hundreds of police officers are continuing their work here.
They’ve given up hope on finding any survivors,
but now, as they pick QUL RO R E LY
they’re trying to find clues to work out how
this tragedy happened.
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation, Wagner, has claimed asylum in Norway
G I g i T the mercenary group.
LN EI LT R R G Duke and Duchess of Sussex
for Jeremy Clarkson, who apologised in writing
for comments he made about Meghan in a newspaper column.
Police in Romania say they’re widening their investigation
into the social media influencer Andrew Tate
who’s facing charges of human trafficking and rape.
Andy Murray will be on court shortly at the Australian Open
Novak Djokovic starts his bid for the championship
later on Tuesday.
You
You walk back into my life...
Tributes pour in for DG ARt e i et ls
Gina Lollobrigida who’s died at the age of 95.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
We begin In
We begin in South Asia.
Rescuers in Nepal have recovered two more bodies
from the site of Sunday’s plane crash.
They say they don’t expect to find any survivors.
PP ToN TR e e Tl a el
were on board Yeti Airlines Flight 691.
A British man, Ryan Calum Crighton,
is one of the latest il R N e E e f
The plane was on an internal IO (T RO LR T
Kathmandu, to the tourist town of Pokhara
when it crashed just before landing.
Our South Asia correspondent Rajini Vaidyanathan
sent this report TR e
Scattered across the riverbank, fragments of Flight 691.
Windows still intact. Seats mangled close by.
Like pieces of a broken toy,
the remnants SR ET IR G
So, you saw the plane come down from the sky?
Yeah, yes.
People living near the gorge, like Indraprasad Sapkota,
say they are thankful the plane did not land
on their houses close by.
TRANSLATION: | looked at the sky
and saw the plane LRI WIR GG
It was shaking.
To me, It looked like one of the propellers was not working.
Now, hundreds IR
are continuing their work here.
LSRN RV ] on finding any survivors,
but now, as they pick through the wreckage,
they are trying to find clues
to work out how this tragedy happened.
Today, rescue teams recovered GRS LT
which they hope will shed more light on what happened.
Nepal has a history I REIC IR {EL LIS
The mountain terrain and unpredictable weather
can be tricky to navigate.
Outdated aircraft and weak regulation
have also been blamed for previous accidents.
This footage appears to show the flight’s last moments.
It came down just before landing at Pokhara airport.
the pilot asked to change runways on approach.
After he was given the clear, O EH RN
21-year-old Nira Chhantyal,
a regular flyer with Yeti Airlines,
was onboard the fateful flight.
A folk singer, she was on her way to perform at a festival.
She was your friend? vy
Tonight, her friends say they are still waiting
for her body to be released.
TRANSLATION: She was a very talented artist
and used to sing folk songs.
(I EVEITRTLTG to describe the loss.
As armed police guard the hospital,
families wait cutside.
It has been a painful few days (AN
LRIy (Y still wants closure.
Rajini Vaidyanathan, BBC News, Pokhara.
A former commander with GEGTEAEL T EIE Tt 1s%
Wagner Group, which Russia uses to carry out some
of its fighting in Ukraine, T e s R Ela i
asylum in Norway.
Andrey Medvedev, who’s 26, crossed the border into Norway
last Friday, where he was detained by border quards.
OINg(-olead0g Stephanie Prentice has more.
We do now have numerous reports confirming that
Andrey Medvedev did cross from Russia into Norway
and that was in a bid to leave the Wagner Group.
His most detailed account came from the human rights group.
SRV R E R oy T R R R
was being chased by dogs.
He made it through a metal fence and he was quickly
When there, he was charged with an illegal crossing
and given a lawyer that I GRS
and the lawyer has been L
we can take a quick listen.
TRANSLATION: We don’t grant R RN E R LN
NI N U@ G [N a very important assessment
and everything must be analysed very carefully.
Who is he? Where’s he from?
Is this is information correct, etc.
This is something that is assessed for everyone who seeks
asylum in Norway, but obviously, in this case it
will be assessed particularly thoroughly.
He went on to say that Mr Medvedev did bring evidences
- evidence of human rights abuses in Ukraine with him,
and alleged war crimes,
and that he’s willing to share that evidence with people
investigating human rights abuses in the coming weeks.
Stephanie, just remind us - who are the Wagner Group
and what’s their invelvement in the war in Ukraine?
Many viewers will have heard of )
Many viewers will have heard of the group, but
Many viewers will have heard of GO P T )
Many viewers will have heard of the group, but even until
the group, but even until (oA
the group, but even until (ARG
the group, but even until recently, they existed in a
recently, they existed in a St 1ile1]
recently, they existed in a e sl e
recently, they existed in a U IR
recently, they existed ina much more shadowy capacity.
much more shadowy capacity. 57
much more shadowy capacity. IS
much more shadowy capacity. They are an independent militia
They are an independent militia and they bolster Russian troops
and they bolster Russian troops 3
and they bolster Russian troops RRIE e
and they bolster Russian troops in Ukraine. Their presence in
in Ukraine. Their presence in Ukraine has increased. Some
Ukraine has increased. Some ey
Ukraine has increased. Some sources say
Ukraine has increased. Some T L T
Ukraine has increased. Some SRV I I R[]
Ukraine has increased. Some sources say around 10% of
sources say around 10% of ey
sources say around 10% of forces on
sources say around 10% of T e R
sources say around 10% of forces on the ground right now
forces on the ground right now feTI0!
forces on the ground right now could belong to that group.
could belong to that group. That
could belong to that group. I E S
could belong to that group. S RS
could belong to that group. That lawyer we saw that
That lawyer we saw that L] SYTh 6
That lawyer we saw that SN T
That lawyer we saw that represents Mr Medvedev, said he
represents Mr Medvedev, said he T
represents Mr Medvedev, said he witnesses human rights abuses,
witnesses human rights abuses, war
witnesses human rights abuses, el
witnesses human rights abuses, war crimes and
witnesses human rights abuses, e gt -1 4
witnesses human rights abuses, e R A
witnesses human rights abuses, e et LR AR s
war crimes and that is what -l et
war crimes and that is what caused him to
war crimes and that is what SRR s
war crimes and that is what caused him to need to
war crimes and that is what A SRR SRR
war crimes and that is what SR SRR R
caused him to need to leave the o[V
caused him to need to leave the O D
caused him to need to leave the O R
caused him to need to leave the ST AR TR (R
caused him to need to leave the group, as well as seeing
group, as well as seeing e e
group, as well as seeing members executed for trying to
members executed for trying to defect
members executed for trying to (3 a1
members executed for trying to e N
members executed for trying to e LS
members executed for trying to LR R )
members executed for trying to LR LN s
defect as well. The sound of )
defect as well. The sound of the group
defect as well. The sound of QL[
defect as well. The sound of GO I E R LG
defect as well. The sound of the group has spoken out
the group has spoken out LTI
the group has spoken out unusually and said Medvedev did
unusually and said Medvedev did a4
unusually and said Medvedev did i
unusually and said Medvedev did R
unusually and said Medvedev did work for the group and said his
work for the group and said his account
work for the group and said his FYuss 0l A
work for the group and said his FYuns s a4
work for the group and said his Yo ns s s R aei]
work for the group and said his Y AR R aei- e a
work for the group and said his Yo R ReI R A 1l
work for the group and said his account is not true of what he
= T G R (RGBT E g [ 10
= T G R (RGBT E g [ I )
= T G R (RGBT E g [ IR R IR
account is not true of what he said so far, and has labelled
said so far, and has labelled el
said so far, and has labelled him a highly dangerous
him a highly dangerous individual.
Let’s take a look at some other RO ARG LI
At least eight people T N - e
at a Martin Luther King Jr Day celebration in Fort Pierce.
It’s on Florida’s east coast,
about 200km or 120 miles T eiRe AL B IR
The St Lucie County Sheriff’s office told the BBC
one person is in a critical condition.
The UK government says it’ll block a law passed in Scotland
that makes it easier for people to change their legal gender,
saying it will conflict with UK-wide equality laws.
It’s the first time the government in Westminster
has blocked a bill passed in Scotland, and the move’s
been branded a full-frontal attack on the Scottish
parliament by the country’s NGNS ORI S
they will appeal.
Thousands of Iranians living in Europe have demonstrated
outside the EU Parliament, demanding that Iran’s
Revolutionary Guard is listed as a terrorist group.
They accuse the guards of playing a key role
In suppressing antigovernment protests that have occurred
Elug el i)
since the death in custody SR LR LR R U e
Here in the UK, R DR R R T S
Metropolitan Police has been revealed as one of Britain’s
most prolific sex offenders P e s tlia s s e Ta 1
of rapes and sexual offences
over a period of almost 20 years.
48-year-old David Carrick pleaded quilty to 49 offences
against 12 women, including 24 counts of rape.
The force has apologised after it emerged he had come
to the attention of police over nine alleged incidents.
Let us go to Seouth
Let us go to South America now.
The Attorney-General’s office in Brazil
has filed an indictment against 39 people
for their alleged involvement RO 1
related to the storming of Brazil’s Senate building.
They haven’t yet been named
and more charges TGRS N R
Sofia Bettiza reports.
He was nowhere to be seen RO EE A
But Brazil’s former president, Jair Bolsonaro,
finally broke his silence.
TRANSLATION: | regret what happened on January 8.
It 1s unbelievable.
Unfortunately, people learned, understood what politics is,
got to know the political powers
and started to value el
He was filmed in Florida by seme of his supporters.
He was defensive, but admitted that mistakes were made
by his government.
TRANSLATION: | never stopped following
the constitutional [Tl lelo] (I
There are some holes of course.
You slip up. Who doesn’t?
UL TRV is quite the understatement.
When these diehard supporters
smashed their way into the Supreme Court, Congress
and the presidential palace,
they burned furniture, destroyed valuable artwork
and caused millions of dollars in damages.
Thousands of them N B R E
And now, Brazil’s N IO S R NG R E
filed an indictment against 39 people.
The indictment does not name any individuals,
but it says that they were among a core group
of conspirators who used e R
to try to abolish the democratic order in Brazil.
That is a serious allegation in a country
that still remembers the legacy
of military rule, O W A LR R LY
And with many officials being investigated
1 the Supreme Court,
including Bolsonare himself,
R84 CICR LGRS )
Sofia Bettiza, BBC News.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Novak Djokovic is getting ready to compete
in the Australian Open
a year after being banned due to Covid.
We’ll have the latest TG
Donald Trump is now the 45th President of the United States.
He was sworn in before several hundred thousand people
on the steps of Capitol Hill in Washington.
It’s going to be IR
Demonstrators N LR LCRE il
were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
Anti-Apartheid campaigners say
AN 1R R G LR G throughout the tour.
They called him BRI RN L
Klaus Altmann is being held on a fraud charge in Bolivia.
The West Germans want to extradite him
for crimes committed in wartime France.
There, he was the Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie.
Millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot -
a tide of humanity QRSB RG] G
This is BBC World News.
No survivors but Sunday’s fatal plane crash in Nepal
raises a raft of questions.
The pilot allegedly didn’t (A G
on the approach.
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation, Wagner, has claimed asylum in Norway
G I g i T the mercenary group.
Police in Romania say they’re expanding their investigation
into the social media influencer Andrew Tate.
They’ve seized a fleet of luxury cars from Mr Tate’s
compound in Bucharest, and raided seven more
properties.
The 36-year-old British-American citizen has
LI T TR LRk Ty of an investigation
into allegations of human trafficking and rape -
aleng with his brother.
Both men deny all the allegations made against them.
Lucy Williamsen sent this LR I
Weeks after police came for their owner,
they returned for his cars.
The power of a Ferrari
paralysed in the grip of a dowdy police truck.
Whatever the truth about life DRGSR E
its secrets are now being scrutinised by investigators.
This fleet of luxury cars,
the toys of a successful businessman
or the proceeds of a trafficking ring?
Bogdan Stancu was in charge of security
at the Tate compound
and describes himself YW el 11 R ial e s |
Why everybody comes LR
and make a lot of statements in front of the media
and in front of the police about how bad is Andrew Tate.
You doubt all the women, but you never doubt Andrew?
Why do you doubt L IR TR N e e el e Is
Because they are young and stupid.
Y E I ]ol (3
If you’re living IR GRS R i o F
this is probably 40% AR ]
| moved tc Remania...
In an online video, Andrew Tate said he moved to Roemania
in 2017 in part for what he saw as its more lenient approach
to sexual assault claims.
He and his brother Tristan are being held in detention
for 30 days while police investigate
whether they set up a trafficking operation
and forced women to work online in adult chat rooms.
They are also investigating an allegation of rape.
Both men deny the charges.
RS RN of them being aggressive.
Police have identified six women as potential victims,
but last week, two of them publicly denied
=[N CE [ by the Tate brothers.
TRANSLATION: I’ve T A T NR G e
If | had been, | wouldn’t have been stupid enough
to stay in that house.
I have a tattoo on my left arm that says ‘Tate girl’,
which | got out of respect for them.
Andrew Tate’s reputation hangs on this case,
Its message - that trafficking claims will be investigated,
no matter how rich or famous you are.
Lucy Williamson, BBC News, Bucharest.
The British television N IR
columnist, Jeremy Clarksen, says he has written to the Duke
and Duchess of Sussex to apologise over a newspaper
column in which he said he "hated" Meghan.
The article, published last year, has since been taken
offline by the British newspaper, the Sun.
Our culture and media editor, Katie Razzall told us more
about what he said - and the repercussions.
If you remember, there was outrage because he said
he wanted to see her paraded naked through the streets
and that he wanted excrement thrown at her.
More than 25,000 people complained
to the press regulator - it is investigating.
So today, we had a much more fulsome apology.
Six pages on Instagram in which he reveals that
on Christmas Day he reached out to the Duke and Duchess
to say sorry.
Far from accepting the apology LR R R AR
Prince Harry has suggested the column proved
G NI XN Tl EL NI
Mr Clarkson today writes,
he abhors violence against women, he is not sexist.
[T IR El Amazon and ITV
R T [ e T N e R ey
Of course, he is a popular TV presenter
CI TR N {Tel g in Variety today
that Amazon, the streamer,
plans to part company with Mr Clarkson next year,
once the shows, Clarkson’s Farm The Grand Tour,
O R commissioned from him,
have aired.
My sources do dispute the Variety story,
but Amazon have said TR W e et el e
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex N AN R s e e
about Jeremy Clarkson’s apology and it seems they may not have
fully forgiven him.
1 RE¥: )Y
Thom Geier is an award winning journalist
who runs the website W -]
at Entertainment Weekly and the Wrap,
and joins us now from New York.
T T i w8114
What kind of conversation are people having about this in the
people having about this in the 1%
people having about this in the US? Well, Jeremy Clarkson is
US? Well, Jeremy Clarkson is s
US? Well, Jeremy Clarkson is T
US? Well, Jeremy Clarkson is RO
US? Well, Jeremy Clarkson is not quite the famous beloved
U (VIR G R E I VR T il
U (VIR G R E I VR T iLPICRL]
U (VIR G R E I VR T LR not quite the famous beloved HLDICRLR GG
U (VIR G R E I VR T LR not quite the famous beloved figure in the US that he is in
figure in the US that he is in the
figure in the US that he is in e
figure in the US that he is in N T
figure in the US that he is in N O e a1
figure in the US that he is in the UK. And does not have the
the UK. And does not have the sl
the UK. And does not have the s
the UK. And does not have the AR R Te e
the UK. And does not have the kind of track record here which
kind of track record here which s
kind of track record here which I3
kind of track record here which is why was
kind of track record here which RV Ao
kind of track record here which is why was such a big deal when
is why was such a big deal when F iy ]
is why was such a big deal when Amazon spent a small fortune to
Amazon spent a small fortune to bring him
Amazon spent a small fortune to VTR
Amazon spent a small fortune to R RN
Amazon spent a small fortune to bring him over after the whole
bring him over after the whole SIS i)
bring him over after the whole ISR
bring him over after the whole dust-up in 2015 with Top Gear
dust-up in 2015 with Top Gear and Jeremy Clarkson assaulting
and Jeremy Clarkson assaulting )
and Jeremy Clarkson assaulting N d
and Jeremy Clarkson assaulting RO R Y
and Jeremy Clarkson assaulting one of the producers
and Jeremy Clarkson assaulting R RO RO
and Jeremy Clarkson assaulting R IR ORI O R R =1
one of the producers of that i
one of the producers of that show and getting fired from
show and getting fired from that show.
show and getting fired from R A\
show and getting fired from that show. At that peint, Top
that show. At that point, Top ¥4
that show. At that point, Top Gear was airing on BBC America
Gear was airing on BBC America el
Gear was airing on BBC America which is a
Gear was airing on BBC America e BN Al |
Gear was airing on BBC America which is a kind of a
Gear was airing on BBC America LI RN LR R TR ]
which is a kind of a low-light 1o )
LI RERR AL R R cable station
LI RERR AL R R e AN e
LI RERR AL R R cable station here. So it was
LI RERR AL R R D1 cable station here. So it was a
cable station here. So it was a WY
cable station here. So it was a huge opportunity to kind of
huge opportunity to kind of expand his audience, expand his
expand his audience, expand his EuN
expand his audience, expand his brand, get a kind of
brand, get a kind of nationwide, worldwide audience.
natienwide, worldwide audience. What’s
nationwide, worldwide audience. What’s scler that the show
nationwide, worldwide audience. N R e R R A E Y
What’s scler that the show has e
What’s scler that the show has (T AT
What’s scler that the show has not really taken off. TheGround
not really taken off. TheGround Id
not really taken off. TheGround Tour is not one -- Grand Tour
Tour is not one -- Grand Tour 3
Tour is not one -- Grand Tour is not
Tour is not one -- Grand Tour T e ]
Tour is not one -- Grand Tour is not one of
Tour is not one -- Grand Tour TR R N R
Tour is not one -- Grand Tour IR RO )Y
s not one of the top performing shows for Amazon
performing shows for Amazon Prime. Since 2019 they
performing shows for Amazon e R - WA R G S A NGl R
Prime. Since 2019 they haven’t produced a full season. They
produced a full season. They produced just five episodes the
produced just five episodes the i
produced just five episodes the EREGI )
produced just five episodes the last three years. As you
last three years. As you A Ta |
last three years. As you mentioned earlier, have about
mentioned earlier, have about four
mentioned earlier, have about T TRt e
mentioned earlier, have about T NIt e N o]
mentioned earlier, have about four more to burn off
mentioned earlier, have about TN R e T Rl e
mentioned earlier, have about TN RN R R R
four more to burn off over the A3 4d
four more to burn off over the next two years. So this is
four more to burn off over the ISR R R R G IR
next two years. So this is a kind of,
next two years. So this is a R A EY
next two years. So this is a kind of, maybe a rationale for
kind of, maybe a rationale for parting of the ways in terms of
parting of the ways in terms of )
parting of the ways in terms of R
parting of the ways in terms of the latest dust-up with the
the latest dust-up with the Sussexes.
the latest dust-up with the Sussexes._ | think
the latest dust-up with the Sussexes_ | think this
the latest dust-up with the Sussexes._ | think this is
the latest dust-up with the Sussexes. | think this is a
Sussexes. | think this is a 0]
Sussexes. | think this is a long time coming. | think they
long time coming. I think they NN
long time coming. I think they overspent, as
long time coming. I think they W R
long time coming. I think they overspent, as many of
long time coming. I think they A R E L A R
overspent, as many of the R ey
overspent, as many of the streamers did in
overspent, as many of the e R R s
overspent, as many of the AR R R )
overspent, as many of the streamers did in the late 2010s
streamers did in the late 2010s to try
streamers did in the late 2010s oA
streamers did in the late 2010s to try to get top content. And
to try to get top content. And vty
to try to get top content. And G SY
to try to get top content. And what they found is that it’s
what they found is that it’s e
what they found is that it’s not been
what they found is that it’s TR TR e
what they found is that it’s TR LR
what they found is that it’s not been worth the price. We’ve
not been worth the price. We’ve heard
not been worth the price. We’ve ]
not been worth the price. We’ve heard a fair bit from Harry and
heard a fair bit from Harry and Meghan recently and one of the
Meghan recently and one of the e
Meghan recently and one of the W L Y
Meghan recently and one of the consistent messages from them,
consistent messages from them, Y
consistent messages from them, when they’ve had complaints
when they’ve had complaints FYe L
when they’ve had complaints Y]
when they’ve had complaints E LR RN
when they’ve had complaints about the way they’ve been
about the way they’ve been treated,
about the way they’ve been 1S
about the way they’ve been 1 PRI
about the way they’ve been treated, is all they wanted is
treated, Is all they wanted is PN
treated, Is all they wanted is an apology.
treated, is all they wanted is an apology. And Mr Clarkson has
an apology. And Mr Clarkson has apologised and yet they still
apologised and yet they still R4
apologised and yet they still don’t seem
apologised and yet they still don’t seem happy.
apologised and yet they still don’t seem happy. What’s
apologised and yet they still don’t seem happy. What’s your
don’t seem happy. What’s your )
don’t seem happy. What’s your take on
don’t seem happy. What’s your take on that? Well,
don’t seem happy. What’s your take on that? well, |
don’t seem happy. What’s your take on that? Well, | think
take on that? Well, | think that, you know, it’s one thing
that, you know, it’s one thing to
that, you know, it’s one thing R TR )
that, you know, it’s one thing N PR NN
that, you know, it’s one thing to be, to have a kind of
to be, to have a kind of one-off
to be, to have a kind of e AR )
to be, to have a kind of one-off mistake and to
one-off mistake and to E[ G [T
one-off mistake and to apologise fulsomely for that.
apologise fulsomely for that. But when
apologise fulsomely for that. R R )
apologise fulsomely for that. AT OO
apologise fulsomely for that. R RO ]
apologise fulsomely for that. LN R GG R Bl i)
apologise fulsomely for that. But when there is a pattern of
But when there is a pattern of MR
But when there is a pattern of offences, as there seems to be
offences, as there seems to be in the
offences, as there seems to be MR N
offences, as there seems to be RO EHCH
offences, as there seems to be in the case here, certainly
in the case here, certainly )
in the case here, certainly I
in the case here, certainly there are others who have
there are others who have SR
there are others who have consistently railed
QTR TCRI QTR N consistently railed against
there are others who have consistently railed against the
consistently railed against the I
consistently railed against the IR
consistently railed against the susLkJhs in the
consistently railed against the HU R R G
consistently railed against the susLkJhs in the past as well --
IR R R G R LR IS
susLkJhs in the past as well -- Sussexes in
susLkJhs in the past as well -- NS A R )
susLkJhs in the past as well -- Sussexes in the past
Sussexes in the past as (R F e [0
Sussexes in the past as well, ties harder to
Sussexes in the past as well,ties harder to buy
well, ties harder to buy the sincerity
well,ties harder to buy the el A
well,ties harder to buy the g A IR TLS
well,ties harder to buy the sincerity of that apology. It’s
sincerity of that apology. It’s worth in mind, the
sincerity of that apology. It’s s GRL N ILR G R RS
sincerity of that apology. It’s RO GRR GCETE LS
worth in mind, the susLk]hs in )
worth in mind, the susLk]hs in RS
worth in mind, the susLk]hs in ST
worth in mind, the susLk]hs in RS TN
worth in mind, the susLk]hs in the States are more popular
the States are more popular than they are in the UK. Jeremy
than they are in the UK. Jeremy AE ]
than they are in the UK. Jeremy Clarkson is a
than they are in the UK. Jeremy A R G )
than they are in the UK. Jeremy Clarkson is a less-known and
Clarkson is a less-known and e
Clarkson is a less-known and less-trusted figure. One of the
less-trusted figure. One of the things
less-trusted figure. One of the IRl
less-trusted figure. One of the things Harry said he was
things Harry said he was RG]
things Harry said he was disapoeinted in
things Harry said he was disapointed in is the fact
things Harry said he was disapoeinted in is the fact the
disapointed in is the fact the Oz
disapointed in is the fact the royal family didn’t
disapointed in is the fact the royal family didn’t come out
disapointed in is the fact the royal family didn’t come out in
royal family didn’t come out in support of him
royal family didn’t come out in o R L)
royal family didn’t come out in L AE LS
royal family didn’t come out in R L R RIS
support of him and his wife, LR
support of him and his wife, LR
support of him and his wife, L R R
support of him and his wife, Meghan. Do you think that’s
Meghan. Do you think that’s likely
Meghan. Do you think that’s A
Meghan. Do you think that’s LERCEGEL Y
Meghan. Do you think that’s likely to change? The
Meghan. Do you think that’s LRI YR L R
likely to change? The royal 4o l3g 8
likely to change? The royal AU
likely to change? The royal S ALGL A Gs
likely to change? The royal LG A Ll 1
likely to change? The royal SO A G e V1
experts know better but it I iR
experts know better but it doesn’t seem
experts know better but it TR R )
experts know better but it doesn’t seem like they’re
doesn’'t seem like they’re L]
doesn’'t seem like they’re offering a
doesn’t seem like they’re offering a lot of support to
offering a lot of support to )
offering a lot of support to AT
offering a lot of support to IS
offering a lot of support to A e
offering a lot of support to the Sussexes at the moment. And
the Sussexes at the moment. And Harry
the Sussexes at the moment. And FFls A
the Sussexes at the moment. And Harry is going to | think
Harry is going to | think Y
Harry is going to | think IR
Harry is going to | think struggle to get the family to
struggle to get the family to 11\
struggle to get the family to VTG |
struggle to get the family to [ EICTTL N
struggle to get the family to IR ]
struggle to get the family to | VEICTLGRT E RGI
rally areund him on this el
rally areund him on this e PR el 4
rally areund him on this occasion. Thank you
EINEIGTR L T R G occasion. Thank you very much
occasion. Thank you very much e
occasion. Thank you very much ISLTT
occasion. Thank you very much LIRS
occasion. Thank you very much for joining us. Appreciate it.
It’s the second day of the Australian Open
in Melbourne, and the day that NIRRT R R
biggest stars have been eagerly awaiting,
none more so than fans of Novak Djokovic who’s
returning to the competition for the first time since being
deported from Australia I N N LR R s Bl
against Covid-19.
Our correspondent Shaimaa Khalil is in Melbourne,
and she gave me this update.
USRI L R (] MBS -]
A lot of action, but really later tonight this is where
Novak Djokovic is going to make RIS EEIC R
play his first match of the Australian Open 2023.
He will be facing Spain’s Roberto Carballes Baena,
in his first return after that drama of last year,
him being detained, appearing in court -
or challenging the Australian government in court -
and then deported just before the game.
The unvaccinated Serbian star split opinion here in Australia
about what happened to him.
He thought he was unfairly treated.
Many people thought that he AR R LRGN T
That was last year.
This year we have been speaking to tennis fans
here in Melbourne Park and they are saying
TR G [ A TR [ o[ 8
You’ve got to let the best players play.
It might have been bits N O R R -Y
now he is here so what was QR R %144
You know, he is here.
Very happy.
Yeah, | reckon too.
Really excited.
Yeah, really, really excited G R R U L
Last year we were kind of waiting to see
what was going to happen before we booked tickets,
G VAT LY RO R
=LV RN TT L T over to see him.
we’ll find out what kind of reception he receives
when he walks out onto the court,
but judging from that warm cheer and applause
that he received when he came AN R R S k]
on Friday for an exhibition match with Nick Kyrgios,
he’s hoping for a similar one.
He’s saying that while ORI R F S LS
will stay with him, R R G TR
He’s eyeing that 10th title -
RO RSN RN e
and of course the all-important 2RI N R R
Grand Slam title that is -
a record that is currently held by Rafael Nadal.
You can
You can follow all the action on
You can follow all the action R )
You can follow all the action on the BBC Sport website.
The Italian actress Gina Lollobrigida has died
at the age of 95.
She was one of the biggest film stars in the world
Wendy Urquhart looks N A S dh
You came back inte my life like a wolf in snake’s clothing!
Gina Lollobrigida YL R L
The camera absolutely SR
and she was often described YR a1 R et
RN i alo P
She grew up in the mountain village of Subiaco -
some 40 miles from Rome - G G
her dad, Giovanni, who was a furniture maker,
and her mother, Giuseppina.
When the family moved to Rome after World War Il,
Gina took singing and acting lessons, and was soon
starring in Italian films.
She married Milko Skofic in 1949,
but when she was spotted by Hollywood talent scouts,
Howard Hughes took R R g
and whisked her off to America.
He suggested that she divorce Milko
before she signed ER O [ Rt aldg-[n
and when he got wind of that, (R LIS R R L
- 50 she went back to Italy.
Gina became a household name in the 1950s after starring
in her first English-language film,
Beat The Devil, opposite Humphrey Bogart.
A raft of great Hollywood roles followed, including Trapeze,
The Hunchback of Notre Dame. ..
| am less afraid of you now.
..Solomon and Sheba, and Women of Straw.
She courted controversy when she made a documentary
about Fidel Castroe in 1975, IR L e
between the two dogged the actress for years.
When La Lolla finally bid farewell to the silver screen,
she turned her talents to photography and sculpture,
and exhibitions of her work were held in Paris, Moscow,
In 2013, she auctioned i ST C ALYy
and donated the entire $2.9 million
to stem cell therapy.
The Italian actress Gina Lollobrigida
who’s died at the age of 95.
There’s much more on all those stories
There’s much more on all those ]
There’s much more on all those RO R )
There’s much more on all those RO RN
There’s much more on all those RO ROl
stories on the BBC News e
stories on the BBC News website. Or you can download
website. Or you can download )
website. Or you can download N
website. Or you can download the BBC News app.
website. Or you can download R T IR L]
website. Or you can download the BBC News app. You can reach
the BBC News app. You can reach i
the BBC News app. You can reach me. I’m
the BBC News app. You can reach - iR ]
the BBC News app. You can reach TR R
the BBC News app. You can reach me. I’m on Twitter. Please do
me. I’m on Twitter. Please do get in
me. I’m on Twitter. Please do LR CT R
me. I’m on Twitter. Please do get in touch. Thank you very
get in touch. Thank you very much
get in touch. Thank you very e Risld
get in touch. Thank you very much for your company. See you
much for your company. See you next
much for your company. See you kil
much for your company. See you next time. Goodbye.
Hello again.
I’m sure you’d agree, it’s been a very bitter start
to the new working week, R e i R L N ]
DL AT LRI with some snowy scenes around
as well - that was overlooking Skiddaw,
in Cumbria earlier on Monday.
But the other story we’ve been WM R )
either - we still have R R RZETGIR G
in force, the majority across stretches of the Severn,
the River Avon, and for groundwater
HCLGRTR IR GRS ]
And although we’'ll e R
snow showers across northern and western areas over the next
few hours, leading (R AL [l
actually with water still seeping
HCINRIEGE R R U
wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost,
temperatures minus three te minus seven widely.
Well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy
heading into Tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous
actually underfoot and under-tyre first
thing in the morning.
And, with temperatures down as low as -10 in Scotland,
freezing cold start - e ]
showers piling in through the day
IR et i -
So, really, it’s northern and western areas of Scotland
across Northern Ireland, the northwest of both England
and Wales will be prone to seeing
further accumulations of snow.
Modest Hills could see another 5-10cm in places.
And after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day,
even in the sunshine - which many of us will have
a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much
above freezing.
It will feel pretty bitter.
More of that to come on Wednesday as well.
Another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
Could see rather more in the way
of showers just clipping the east coast of England,
and some heavier showers work across Northern Ireland
into parts of Wales and southwest England -
probably hear more ROl
a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in,
G R NN IOV climbing to about 7
in Cardiff and Plymouth - s0 signs that temperatures
are very slowly starting R L E L
By Thursday, after a frosty and cold start again,
showers will probably Y e e Nl
(3 dglu LR R G et E AR B s ETa el
Otherwise, a lot of dry R A L
But after, again, a freezing cold start to the day,
temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe
8 towards Plymouth.
Otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
If you really don’t like the cold weather,
well, you’ll have to wait till the weekend before we get
something a lot milder,
as southwesterly winds return across the country.
With that, there’ll be a lot more in the way of cloud
heading into the weekend with a hit of rain around as well.
But eventually, temperatures widely
LR ETe TR LI ER LIS
Rescuers in Nepal have called off the search for any
survivors of Sunday’s plane crash.
The pilot allegedly did not report any problems when coming
72 people were onboard the Yeti Airlines flight.
All are believed to have been killed.
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation, Wagner, has claimed asylum in Norway,
G I g i T the mercenary group.
Andrey Medvedeyv allegedly fled after witnessing war
crimes in Ukraine.
It’s thought to be the first time a member of the group has
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have rebuffed Jeremy Clarkson’s
written apology over a column for the Sun newspaper,
in which he said (R EICO R G R
In a statement, Harry and Meghan said the TV
presenter’'s comments were not IR EL s s e
Now on BBC News, it’s time for HARDtalk.
Welcome to HARDtalk, TR e
NI CT LR 018
This place is home to the World Trade Organization,
the institution whose purpose is to maximise free and fair
international trade, on the assumption that
globalisation is good.
So what happens when many governments and people around
the world question that premise?
Well, my guest today TG e e e |
of the WTO, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala.
Will rising geopolitical AR R
weaponisation of trade?
Ngozi Okonjo-lweala, AR Re L LLhEE
Thank you, Stephen.
Now, you are one of the world’’s key advocates of ever freer
trade, more globalisation.
LGS RIS U CR GG L R job when the political tide
across the world is running against you?
The WTO’s purpose, the World Trade Organization, is...
Its purpose is to enhance living standards, to help
create employment and to support sustainable
[0 o ] [Tp 1
There could be nothing more worthy than that.
So, It’s supposed to deliver for people.
And that’s what | want people O L R PR G I -
Nobody could quarrel with those objectives and that sentiment,
but the truth is you are a membership organisation
with 160-plus members.
You have, clearly, key members, like the United States
and China, and you can only N A ARG N R e
of trust, of co-operation, of a desire for common
objectives, and look around the world today,
that doesn a3 d
Well, you’re absolutely right that the geopolitical tensions
are there and getting worse, and we have to manage them.
And I’ll come back to this point, because this is one
organisation where we have actually successfully tried
to manage these tensions, even though the trust,
as you say, is lacking NS
But let me say something.
You talked about globalisation and it is true that many people
(OGN SN0 for globalisation, well,
let’s say that perhaps globalisation as we knew it
before, that brand of globalisation may be over,
but that does not mean that a new type of globalisation,
which | shall call re-globalisation, cannot
We should remember that the globalisation we had before
brought more than 1 billion people out of poverty
and we can’t throw the baby T GRG N B
So, we should look at what were the good aspects of that,
what was, what were the bad?
| know people were left behind.
We need now the type of globalisation that
will bring those who were not included.
Poor, poorer countries should LRI I o]
within rich countries.
Globalisation, or re-globalisation,
should serve people.
The fact is what we see happening is the emergence
of rival economic and trading blocs, one largely made up
of the rich, democratic countries, led by the
United States, another representing those powers
like Russia, China and some other nations who clearly see
the United States-led bloc as a rival.
| acknowledge to you that geopolitical tensions
are there, we cannot deny that, and may be getting worse.
But that undermines what this place, the WTO, is all about.
Let me put it this way, that when you have those
tensions, it’s precisely having multilateralism,
multilateral organisations like the WTO, that’s
what you need.
Why do you need It?
Because there are some problems in the world that you cannot
solve by breaking into blocs.
You have glebal common goods.
You have issues like climate change.
You cannot solve them when you fragment.
Pandemic, you cannot solve It.
You can see it, it’s evident.
And let me say this...
But the pandemic surely taught us that the complex trading
relationships that the WTO has helped build over the last few
decades, they break down, whether it’s because of
a pandemic and everything that came with it in terms
of restrictions on travel and trade, or whether it be
IR R a1 R 51
Whatever the cause, the fact TR R A E e LI s eI o
R R T 18"
Well, let me let me disagree with you slightly, Stephen.
You say they break down.
There’s absolutely no doubt MBI R RG]
are vulnerabilities in the way our global supply chains
are built, and the pandemic and the war in Ukraine pointed
out those vulnerabilities.
There’s too much concentration of manufacturing of certain
products in parts of the world.
So, we do need to look at that and say, "How do
But | want to tell you this.
LD R T T To RN the problem in the pandemic.
If it was not for trade, you wouldn’t have been able
to get face masks, masks, pharmaceuticals from one part
of the world where they were VLR LR GEEL G
where they were being...
Where they were needed.
So you cannot say that el Nl
I’m not saying trade is dead.
I’m simply saying your concept of truly global trade may
RN T
Think of what the US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen
said, just a few months ago.
She said that the future for the US may well be
all about what she calls friend shoring.
That is, building trade ties amongst trusted partners
IR S G IR G E I for example, relying heavily
on imports from China.
She called on allies of the US RV S D[S G RN
quote, "Establish truly resilient supply chains.”
Now, are you a fan of friend shoring or...
I’m a fan of resilient supply chains.
But what we are advocating is this is a prime opportunity
to use the globalisation concept to deconcentrate supply
chains and build them in countries that were not part
of the global value A E R e
Now, when you say friend G ARG LR AT RN
say Is, who is a friend?
That is the point.
A friend today might not be a friend tomorrow,
so how do you define friend?
And we’ve seen examples of that.
LU TN RV S (R 1Y something else, Stephen.
Among our members, we talked about trust.
Even though we have issues SRR R
of geopolitical tension, | can tell you the WTO has been
the one, one of the few, if not the only organisation,
where you had commitments, agreements made in June
at our 12th ministerial G EG IR EIY
Russia, all around the table.
People do not believe that.
We actually signed legally binding agreements
on sustainability.
| want to talk about those, sustainability, fisheries.
So, | want to give, | want to give WTO members
credit for having overcome IR AN
One very important development MBI R R a
was a ruling coming out of the WTO on the United States
and its tariffs on AL e a0
You declared that they were illegitimate.
The United States, as | understand it, has
VAR BT EL E simply because they say this
is a case of national security trumping trade policy.
What’s your response?
My response Is as follows.
Every member has a right I N e R R
security Is.
T T e s R - 01
That ruling was made by the panel, and that is why
we have this dispute settlement system.
Usually, when a country does not get a ruling that favours
it, you know, the US is not the only member that has before
made comments when they get an adverse ruling.
So that does not mean that the WTO or the dispute
settlement system & Tl GITE
| beg to differ.
What it shows is that perhaps the most powerful economy
in the world now feels free to entirely ignore what comes
the WTO.
I’m going to quote there the US chief trade negotiator,
When she heard of the decision from you, from the WTO,
she said, "This body is unelected, not accountable.
BLUGE AR, to second guess "America’s
national security judgment.”
She said the WTO, quote, "Is walking on very thin ice.”
The United States is the biggest user of the WTO’s
dispute settlement system.
They have brought the largest T SRR
since the system was put in place.
And they’ve been pleased with the rulings they got
from many of them.
They also have the largest number of cases brought
against them, 157.
So, If the place is not given some satisfaction,
why are members still using it?
So, look, it is normal, it is normal that when a ruling
comes, you know, it may not please the member.
That does not mean that the WTO or the systems, you know,
(T R T T e R R e
SR aTo[o[Ta I
They actually do.
If the world didn’t have the WTO, it would really
be problematic, because then it would be might and power.
You know, there would be...
Trade would be a free for all.
And that is why it was made in the first place.
Secondly, if the world fragments into separate trading
blocs, we’ve actually done work here at the WTO that shows it
to be extremely costly for the world.
Yeah, | think your calculations e RO F R - Nalz
trading blocs emerge, it could cost the world roughly
5% of global GDP.
That’s an extraordinary figure.
The problem you’ve got right now is that the mechanisms that
exist here at the WTO to try and enforce fair trade policy
across the world, NN AN R IC N ]
and they’re paralysed chiefly because the United States has
for years now refused to allow the appointment of new judges
(RN ToJoF | ER o[ 15\
And without those judges, the appeals body cannot work.
And without the appeals body, you, as the arbiter of global
D ATl properly function.
How are you going to get out of this problem?
Stephen, | disagree, RS I R s
you what is happening.
It is true that our two-tier dispute settlement system has
a panel level and LB L)
LUV IRl that is the Appellate Body -
the second tier - that is paralysed because judges have
However, the panel level is working and, as we speak,
we have about 20 or so ongoing panel proceedings at the moment
So, it’s not quite right that the system is not working.
But | want to share with you that some countries
have also decided to use an alternative system.
Actually, some of some members have come together to create
an interim arbitration system which can handle an appeal,
and some of them are using that.
There are others who have also accepted the judgments.
But, look, you are right.
We need to reform the system.
We need to restore the entire system.
There’s something AR R[]
But it’s easy to say - how are you going to do it?
| think you’ve said in the past...
Oh, | have good news.
..that, "We’re going to fix this by 2024."
Well, we’re already in 2023 and there’s no sign
of it being fixed.
Absolutely not.
Stephen, let me tell RS G
It’s actually good news.
There’s been an agreement that we will fix it in 20...
iyl
So that’s what we’re going to do.
| want to share with you that the United States
is actually leading the working ARG b= SR
some consultations with other RO R TR
LU RGN EIE 1 TgY to trying to see, how
-l i 801K
I’m impatient to get the reforms done, but is there
value to your organisation?
1
Everyone recognises that is why 164 members...
We are the only multilateral organisation so far where
members came together and made agreements,
up te ten agreements, some of them legally-binding,
OIS E TN United States, China -
everyone round the table.
So. ..
We’ve talked a lot NG RIS Sl
KRRl (S bit about China.
In the words of the Australian government, "China is
increasingly testing the global "trade rules and norms
by engaging in practices "that "that are utterly inconsistent
There are some people around the world who think you’re
Are you?
| would say not.
That is absolutely not correct.
What | would say...
So, how come China hasn’t opened up its services sector?
[ GET T [
How come China is still accused by many countries of dumping
its products in their markets?
How come China doesn’t come AN LRI N R e Tee sl
labour and the impact that’s having on its trading policies?
You could do much more to get China to front up
on these Issues.
Some of the agreements and rules were made prior
to the time that China e
China became a member in 2001 of this organisation.
Let’s take the Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
Agreement - that was made in 1995, at the time that
Now things have changed substantially.
So, China...
So, Is it time for you, the WTO, to get tougher
What it is time to do is for the WTO members to say
to themselves if they are not happy with some of the earlier
GO R ORI E L) and the world is changing
and evolving - those agreements should be re-looked at,
they should be, you know, re-examined.
It’s not that, when you make an agreement, it’s set in stone
forever, because the world is changing rapidly.
So, what we should be doing is saying, "How do we need
"to look at these agreements?
"How do they need to change to reflect "the changes
So that’s what | I e -
And, actually, there is an emerging movement now
in referm of the WTO.
That’s what the reform process is, to reform those things that
are not working as well, because they were negotiated
at a time when the world RN
LGl
Right
And maybe one of the new shifting priorities of the WTO
has to be climate change and decarbonisation,
and the role that international trade maybe can play
In a decarbonisation agenda.
You have said, quote, "Greening trade is urgent.”
Well, it’s a nice phrase, but how do you "green” trade?
Well, | never use nice phrases unless | mean them,
Stephen.
And what | mean to say is that people typically think of trade
as part of the problem.
And, yes, to some extent it is, of course -
the logistics of trade.
Of course, logistics, shipping...
..the way some products are...
..transportation, packaging...
Yes, the way some products are traded and so on.
But trade is also squarely part of the solution.
ML [ IO R W =T U world, you cannot green
the world, you cannot cut carbon emissions
unless you have trade.
How do you diffuse the technology that you need
for greening and get it from one point to the other?
What about an agreement on environmental goods
and services that will enable faster adoption
of the new technologies?
Right
But if | may say so, here is where it gets complicated.
You will be well aware that Joe Biden’s administration has
just pushed through an Inflation Reduction Act
Now, that promises hundreds S R A BTy
in things like tax breaks for electric vehicles,
but crucially, electric N R 1 R N wetleTs
in the United States with components that come
from the US, Canada and Mexico.
Those are the vehicles that NG EP T8
Now, the Europeans EI N RIS
They’re saying that this approach is essentially another
form of protectionism under the disquise of going green.
They say it breaches at least nine different
What do you say?
What we say is that those AN LR G A ]
South Korea, others who feel that the Inflation Reduction
Act, in their opinion, breaches rules, they have
to address, have a dialogue with the United States.
It’s not that, each time, you have to build a case.
I think we’ve been using the formal system too much.
Now, what we are encouraging then is, if this is what you
feel, rather than come to the panel, have a dialogue,
talk to each other, use RO H IS
within the dispute settlement mechanism.
But, Madam Director-General...
Try to find a solution, and that’s what they’re
actually doing.
The EU is talking to the US, South Korea is talking
IR GRIEE T 111 through that mechanism,
they can find solutions.
The EU is responding with its own proposals
for a quote-unquote "green tariff" on imports.
They’re calling it a "carbon border adjustment mechanism”.
And that means that goods that are imported with a high carbon
emission content are going to face significant new taxes.
And in the developing world, they’re saying, again,
"This is just another form G S R T R
[T e T T
You say that trade, greening trade, is urgent and you’re
going to have to decide, in the end, what comes first -
your green agenda or your free trade agenda?
Well, the two are not opposed.
So, let me just tell you...
But as I’ve just told you, they can be.
Let me say that the EU’s carbon OGS G S A T =
it’s not quite a response to what the US is doing
with the Inflation Reduction Act.
It’s a policy that they’re using to try and help them get
IR Al B
Many countries are taking different approaches.
The EU is taking one approach - you mentioned it, the CBAM -
others are doing other approaches.
The US is using regulations.
If you quantify that, they all come to a price.
I TG R E] e the systems are too fragmented.
Right now, we have 70 fragmented different systems
of pricing carbon, and that is why developing
countries are complaining and saying it could be...
They are seeing it as protectionist, they’re seeing
it as too complicated.
Businesses from those WA LR
will have a difficult time managing that.
Therefore, what we are advocating, and working on now
s a global carbon pricing mechanism, and we’re actually
doing it with the IMF, the World Bank and the OECD.
Let’s stick with this theme, then, of what the developing
world expects and wants from you in your tenure
as Chief of the WTO, N N AR
significant that you are from Nigeria.
You said, on taking the job, "The ordinary person
"on the street in my village in Nigeria needs to "know why
G RV TN T s N A AR
"We have to do important and good things for them.”
What are you doing for them?
I am from the developing world, very proud to be.
In this job, I’m the head of a multilateral organisation,
And our job at the secretariat is to support all cur members.
That doesn’t take away from what | said, that,
if people in a developing country like mine, in my
village, do not know what the WTO is about,
there’s a problem.
So, we need to bring people back into the WTO so that
when we talk about it, people will know, "Oh,
"It’s all about supporting my living standards "and enhancing
the way | live.”
AULN RO R QLR basic things they need -
particularly in many countries in the developing world,
which have suffered from food price inflation
because of a food supply crisis, which has been
exacerbated by the Russia-Ukraine war -
they need to know, in the most basic trade terms, how you can
help them get ready access RGBT RN R G S A e
And we’re absolutely LG EIS
Our members came together and agreed that things
are tough for developing T LN E L R R
part of the solutien, not the problem.
So, there was an agreement, TR R R T R
absolutely no export restrictions on food,
humanitarian supplies, so that the World Food
Programme can purchase, get access easily and be able
(GR LRI QLR G feeding who are hungry
Secondly, they agreed in a declaration that they’ll
keep restrictions on food down, and we were at about 78
restrictions.
It’s down to 56 now.
So, members are actually making the effort.
You could not imagine how helpful this is to keeping
world prices less volatile and making it more affordable.
s it perfect?
IR AR
We want us to phase out as many restrictions as we possibly
can, so it’s a net contribution to making food cheaper
I have to end with this very simple question.
Do you ever wish you hadn’t taken this job, given
the geopolitics that you have to live with today,
given the fact that multilateral institutions,
from the United Nations itself to the WTO, are hamstrung
by this mistrust, WA ¥,
It makes your job impossible.
Well, | feel it’s a privilege to do this job.
So, | actually jump out of bed every morning,
wanting te go to work.
| want tc end on this note.
The organisation is not hamstrung.
The organisation just delivered the most amazing success
by having agreements such as the Fisheries Subsidies
Agreement to make our oceans NI i R e
sustainable so that poor people can have access,
to stop illegal fishing, to stop unreported fishing.
We just got this after two decades of trying
to negotiate it.
We got it seven months ago, in June.
So, how can you say we are hamstrung?
We are practically the only organisation delivering
on multilateralism.
So, you cannot say that - we’ve had a huge success.
We must build on that el e e B e LR a1
need to be reformed.
But I’m very proud of what our members have done.
LU RIBTINCR TSGR R B U D E G
s actually working, in spite of tensions,
which I acknowledge, RGN
But, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, | thank you very much indeed
for being on HARDtalk.
111918
Thank you, Stephen.
Hello again.
I’m sure you’d agree, it’s been a very bitter start
to the new working week, R e i R L N ]
DL AT LRI with some snowy scenes around
as well - that was overlooking Skiddaw,
in Cumbria earlier on Monday.
But the other story we’ve been WM R )
either - we still have R R RZETGIR G
in force, the majority across stretches of the Severn,
the River Avon, and for groundwater
HCLGRTR IR GRS ]
And although we’'ll e R
snow showers across northern and western areas over the next
few hours, leading (R AL [l
actually with water still seeping
HCINRIEGE R R U
wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost,
temperatures minus three te minus seven widely.
Well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy
heading into Tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous
actually underfoot and under-tyre first
thing in the morning.
LT IR B I [ LI LT IN T as low as minus 10 in Scotland,
freezing cold start - e ]
showers piling in through the day
IR et i -
So, really, it’s northern and western areas of Scotland
across Northern Ireland, the north-west of both England
and Wales will be prone to seeing
further accumulations of snow.
Modest Hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
And after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day,
even in the sunshine - which many of us will have
a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much
above freezing.
It will feel pretty bitter.
More of that to come on Wednesday as well.
Another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
Could see rather more in the way
of showers just clipping the east coast of England,
and some heavier showers work across Northern Ireland
into parts of Wales and south-west England -
probably hear more ROl
a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in,
and temperatures just WL IR L LT AT
in Cardiff and Plymouth - s0 signs that temperatures
are very slowly starting R L E L
By Thursday, after a frosty and cold start again,
showers will probably Y e e Nl
(3 dglu LR R G e R A Ela P
Otherwise, a lot of dry R A L
But after, again, a freezing cold start to the day,
temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe
eight towards Plymouth.
Otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
If you really don’t like the cold
LR G IR you’ll have to wait
till the weekend before we get something a lot milder,
as south-westerly winds return across the country.
With that, there’ll TR e e
in the way of cloud heading RN R NG R i G R
of rain around as well.
But eventually, temperatures widely
LR ETe TR LI ER LIS
I’m Sally Bundock, with the latest headlines
IRUEEIE R R G NI NI TR e h
A constitutional showdown in the UK, as British prime
minister Rishi Sunak says he’ll block the Gender Recognition
Bill, passed by the e R ET i
Britain’s Andy Murray and Italy’s Matteo Berrettini
GG L [o R TVl a2y o0y g I R GRS EL RO IRl
A former commander in the Russian paramilitary
organisation, Wagner, has claimed asylum in Norway,
G I g i T the mercenary group.
A royal rebuff from the Duke and Duchess of Sussex
for Jeremy Clarkson, who apologised in writing
for comments he made about Meghan in a newspaper column.
Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, has condemned
LRCISR AT
A very warm welcome to the programme.
A very warm welcome to the programme.
Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, has condemned
the UK government for blocking a piece of legislation passed
in Holyrood, saying TR LR i = e &
on Its parliament.
The measure had aimed to make (N SN R HER RIS
people to change gender.
But the Scottish Secretary, Alister Jack, said allowing
the bill to proceed would have a significant impact
on equality laws across Great Britain.
Here’s our political editor, Chris Mason.
This is the ceremonial mace.
It represents the Scottish Parliament’s authority.
We are seeing it here at the opening of
its sixth session the year before last.
And next, the Crown of Scotland,
a symbol of Royal authority.
But power is shared in the UK, IR G R N &
All the laws that are passed here are checked to make sure
they don’t contradict with laws for the whole of the UK.
If they do, they can be stopped,
but that is a power that has Pl NIl e e
never, that is, until tonight.
In a statement, the Secretary N GRS w ER
Alister Jack, said:
And the Gender Recognition Reform Scotland Bill is passed.
This was the moment just before Christmas
when the Scottish Parliament SN RSN
changing the law -
a moment of triumph for some, disappointment for others.
This was legislation long in the making,
IR ELIE T N resignations, rows, rebellions.
So what did it hope to achieve?
the process of legally changing gender faster.
Younger people would also have been able to apply -
(OB i [ Ts o1l from 18 to 16 -
and it would have been easier because the requirement
for medical reports to back up an application
would have been dropped.
The plan was days away from becoming law.
That isn’t going to happen - for now, at least.
Speaking before NSRRI
the First Minister’s SR LR
| think it will be using trans people,
already one of the most vulnerable, stigmatised
LTI AL NI T el [1 4T
as a political weapon,
and | think that will be unconscionable and indefensible
and really quite disgraceful.
Labour say the UK and Scottish governments need
to get round the table and find a solution to this.
But it looks like it (W et 0l
Chris Mason, BBC News, in Edinburgh.
Now let’s take you to Australia
Now let’s take you to Australia Ty
It’s Day Two at the Australian Open in Melbourne,
but the scorching heat halted outdoor matches,
and sent fans XL RN =LY
= [o o1 R RV ¢ put to their ultimate test.
Former world number one Andy Murray sweating it out
against Italian Matteo NI A G - ]
The woman’s second seed Is
IR O IEER s B - LRI
The woman’s second seed is an action
The woman’’s second seed Is an action later and Novak Djokovic
action later and Novak Djokovic on
action later and Novak Djokovic i Ree s
action later and Novak Djokovic on court today as well. Se
action later and Novak Djokovic on court today as well. So it
on court today as well. So it s
on court today as well. So it R-EL
on court today as well. So it is really packed agenda. Live
is really packed agenda. Live to now.
To Melbourne now, where we can speak to our Australia
correspondent Shaimaa Khalil.
LW
A really great day for the i
A really great day for the tennis fans today, extremely
tennis fans today, extremely I
tennis fans today, extremely 1Y
tennis fans today, extremely R
tennis fans today, extremely hot, as we mentioned, let’s
hot, as we mentioned, let’s start
hot, as we mentioned, let’s X lad i)
hot, as we mentioned, let’s REla R BVl e
hot, as we mentioned, let’s start with Novak Djokovic. Huge
start with Novak Djokovic. Huge Ele[FL R
start with Novak Djokovic. Huge El [ EL AT
start with Novak Djokovic. Huge anticipation, as far as he’s
anticipation, as far as he’s et R
anticipation, as far as he’s e - L
anticipation, as far as he’s concerned. This is
anticipation, as far as he’s e LI G
anticipation, as far as he’s concerned. This is the big
concerned. This is the big moment for Novak Djokovic. The
moment for Novak Djokovic. The Serbian tennis star has been in
Serbian tennis star has been in Australia
Serbian tennis star has been in e IERi g
Serbian tennis star has been in Australia for about three weeks
Australia for about three weeks A
Australia for about three weeks A
Australia for about three weeks L AR
Australia for about three weeks now. He has orally won
Australia for about three weeks A C E R E AT R G
now. He has orally won the Adelaide International, but all
Adelaide International, but all E
Adelaide International, but all NG
Adelaide International, but all eyes are going to be on the Rob
eyes are going to be on the Rob Lever Arena
eyes are going to be on the Rob X e e Tals|
eyes are going to be on the Rob e e s e s M)
eyes are going to be on the Rob XS R e Bt R s ]
eyes are going to be on the Rob Lever Arena behind me when he
Lever Arena behind me when he JE
Lever Arena behind me when he plays in a few hours. He is
plays in a few hours. He is facing his Spanish opponent,
facing his Spanish opponent, A
facing his Spanish opponent, i
facing his Spanish opponent, L AR ([
facing his Spanish opponent, L ARG L
facing his Spanish opponent, LI AR AN R
facing his Spanish opponent, sorry, | forgot his name, |
sorry, | forgot his name, | il
sorry, | forgot his name, | should know, Roberto
sorry, | forgot his name, | R G A R IR
should know, Roberto Tobias Vanaken in
should know, Roberto Tobias Vanakenin a
should know, Roberto Tobias NI OUINER i
should know, Roberto Tobias Vanaken in a few hours, and it
Vanaken in a few hours, and it 3
Vanaken in a few hours, and it )
Vanaken in a few hours, and it is a great deal of interest
is a great deal of interest FYe L
is a great deal of interest YR ]
is a great deal of interest about how Novak Djokovic is
about how Novak Djokovic is going to be
about how Novak Djokovic is LR NN R E
going to be received later, JOGLILL
going to be received later, judging from how he was
judging from how he was el
judging from how he was e s
judging from how he was e N B Ea
judging from how he was received in that warm up match,
received in that warm up match, )
received in that warm up match, RS i)
received in that warm up match, the exhibition match, he played
the exhibition match, he played with Nick
the exhibition match, he played iGN T
the exhibition match, he played with Nick Krygios on Friday,
with Nick Krygios on Friday, hopefully it’s going to be
hopefully it’s going to be fine, hopefully he is going to
fine, hopefully he is going to [y
fine, hopefully he is going to XL\
fine, hopefully he is going to be warmly welcomed. The Serbian
be warmly welcomed. The Serbian star
be warmly welcomed. The Serbian EIdI L
be warmly welcomed. The Serbian star had split opinion here
star had split opinion here last year
star had split opinion here ERACEIR G
star had split opinion here FRA IR W
star had split opinion here FR IR U R
star had split opinion here last year when he was detained
last year when he was detained and
last year when he was detained IR
last year when he was detained and then deported before
last year when he was detained RGN G e R R U
and then deported before the last
and then deported before the E - ae 1G]
and then deported before the last Australian Open. This time
last Australian Open. This time LA
last Australian Open. This time round, we’ve
last Australian Open. This time GO RS S G
last Australian Open. This time GO TSRS T G R o
last Australian Open. This time round, we’ve spoken to tennis
round, we’ve spoken to tennis Eh Y
round, we’ve spoken to tennis )
round, we’ve spoken to tennis fans here in Melbourne Park and
fans here in Melbourne Park and 11
fans here in Melbourne Park and they tell us they are
fans here in Melbourne Park and S A TR G IR0
fans here in Melbourne Park and they tell us they are happy to
they tell us they are happy to T
they tell us they are happy to see him back. Great to
they tell us they are happy to A iR R RN T
they tell us they are happy to see him back. Great to see him
see him back. Great to see him back
see him back. Great to see him T &2 sl
see him back. Great to see him YT R )
see him back. Great to see him back and we have
see him back. Great to see him N R A e R
see him back. Great to see him N LR e R
see him back. Great to see him NN A RO SR
back and we have to let the best players play. It might
best players play. It might have
best players play. It might TR
best players play. It might have been a
best players play. It might YR L4
best players play. It might N LN e
best players play. It might N R R e T Al
have been a bit over reactive 1
have been a bit over reactive R )
have been a bit over reactive RGN R
have been a bit over reactive RGN
have been a bit over reactive RO A
have been a bit over reactive at the time, now he’'s here,
have been a bit over reactive at the time, now he’s here, so
at the time, now he’s here, so )
at the time, now he’s here, so QR
at the time, now he’s here, so the point of all
at the time, now he’s here, so QR (R 1
at the time, now he’s here, so the point of all that, you
the point of all that, you know? Easier. They’re very
know? Easier. They’re very happy.
know? Easier. They’re very EIAR ]
know? Easier. They’re very happy. You should never have
happy. You should never have s
happy. You should never have TR
happy. You should never have not been. | reckon
happy. You should never have A R e R
happy. You should never have not been. | reckon too. Were
not been. | reckon too. Were really excited
not been. | reckon too. Were A I RO ELS
not been. | reckon too. Were A G R ORI G
not been. | reckon too. Were really excited that he is
not been. | reckon too. Were (S G R O A R
really excited that he is here this
really excited that he is here QIR
really excited that he is here this year. Last
really excited that he is here QIR AT
really excited that he is here this year. Last year we were
this year. Last year we were sl
this year. Last year we were s
this year. Last year we were [ GLESREL )
this year. Last year we were OGRS
this year. Last year we were kind of waiting to see what
this year. Last year we were LR RN R R R L A
kind of waiting to see what was L
kind of waiting to see what was going to happen before we
going to happen before we e - Ns|
going to happen before we L s Rl
going to happen before we booked tickets or anything so
booked tickets or anything so really excited
booked tickets or anything so A GG
booked tickets or anything so really excited he is here and
really excited he is here and Y
really excited he is here and we could come over to see him.
we could come over to see him. 1)
we could come over to see him. R e
we could come over to see him. R R )
we could come over to see him. So fans there saying that they
So fans there saying that they e
So fans there saying that they want to
So fans there saying that they T R ]
So fans there saying that they want to move on, they are here
want to move on, they are here e
want to move on, they are here TR
want to move on, they are here RO R WL
want to move on, they are here TR R I )
want to move on, they are here R QR UL RO
want to move on, they are here RO UL RO AL
for the tennis and they want )
for the tennis and they want N2
for the tennis and they want R A
for the tennis and they want one of the world’s
for the tennis and they want one of the world’s biggest
one of the world’s biggest i
one of the world’s biggest ChnIERa sy
one of the world’s biggest NI R ]
one of the world’s biggest N EIER R GV
one of the world’s biggest tennis stars to play in the
tennis stars to play in the Australian Open. The man
Australian Open. The man IR
Australian Open. The man himself, the world number five
himself, the world number five Novak Djokovic has said while
Novak Djokovic has said while )
Novak Djokovic has said while N
Novak Djokovic has said while R R
Novak Djokovic has said while the events of last
Novak Djokovic has said while QR IR F S 1
Novak Djokovic has said while QRS IR F S LRl
the events of last year will always stay with him, they will
always stay with him, they will )
always stay with him, they will (A1
always stay with him, they will R L]
always stay with him, they will R A I R )
always stay with him, they will be very hard to forget, he is
be very hard to forget, he is )
be very hard to forget, he is alse moving
be very hard to forget, he is also moving on. He is looking
also moving on. He is looking e
also moving on. He is looking TR e e o]
also moving on. He is looking for that record extending 10th
for that record extending 10th Ay
for that record extending 10th E
for that record extending 10th R
for that record extending 10th title at the Australian Open.
R G LT N RO B *Y
R G LT N RO B Py
title at the Australian Open. IRl
title at the Australian Open. P R
title at the Australian Open. He is still the king of
SRR G LR R Melbourne
SRR G LR R LG E L
SRR G LR R Melbourne Park, but
G CREEIR GRS Melbourne Park, but also that
Melbourne Park, but also that E[(R T e N
Melbourne Park, but also that all-important 22nd grand slam,
all-important 22nd grand slam, Y
all-important 22nd grand slam, e Yot ol
all-important 22nd grand slam, a record currently held
all-important 22nd grand slam, R RO GG R
all-important 22nd grand slam, a record currently held by Rafa
a record currently held by Rafa Nadal, the defending champion
Nadal, the defending champion T
Nadal, the defending champion YW
Nadal, the defending champion YN R e
Nadal, the defending champion here at Melbourne Park. Let’s
here at Melbourne Park. Let’s e
here at Melbourne Park. Let’s I 0
here at Melbourne Park. Let’s talk about Andy Murray. He is
talk about Andy Murray. He is on
talk about Andy Murray. He is i Ree s
talk about Andy Murray. He is on court right now and he’s
on court right now and he’s WL
on court right now and he’s LGRSO
on court right now and he’s IRLREIG IR
on court right now and he’s doing rather well, isn’t he?
doing rather well, isn’t he? Just
doing rather well, isn’t he? I il
doing rather well, isn’t he? Just fill us in.
doing rather well, isn’t he? Just fill us in. He is, he is.
Just fillus in. He Is, he Is. M
Just fillus in. He Is, he Is. WESEFIG
Just fillus in. He Is, he Is. They are on
Just fillus in. He is, he Is. LG EIC IR GG
Just fillus in. He is, he Is. They are on their third
Just fillus in. He is, he Is. G EIC RO GG RS
They are on their third set A
They are on their third set A
They are on their third set S A
They are on their third set now. He is facing Matteo
now. He is facing Matteo el
now. He is facing Matteo e Y
now. He is facing Matteo Berrettini. He is up 2-0. They
Berrettini. He is up 2-0. They Py
Berrettini. He is up 2-0. They PN ]
Berrettini. He is up 2-0. They YRR
Berrettini. He is up 2-0. They e R R R
Berrettini. He is up 2-0. They IR R R R s llgel
Berrettini. He is up 2-0. They MR R RGeS
Berrettini. He is up 2-0. They MR R R R Y
Berrettini. He is up 2-0. They R MR RO R R -
are on to the third set. He is looking quite good actually. He
looking quite good actually. He T
looking quite good actually. He has heen
looking quite good actually. He has been hitting aggressively,
has been hitting aggressively, he has
has been hitting aggressively, TN YT
has been hitting aggressively, he has been looking quite calm.
he has been looking quite calm. He normally does
he has been looking quite calm. S FL TG R G
he has been looking quite calm. S FI T R SR
He normally does look very, very
He normally does look very, VR N
He normally does look very, Y10 -5 1Y
He normally does look very, very calm, Andy Murray, and he
very calm, Andy Murray, and he T
very calm, Andy Murray, and he has actually been in control of
has actually been in control of that
has actually been in control of el
has actually been in control of that match. The expectation is
that match. The expectation is 1Y
that match. The expectation is Rl
that match. The expectation is he will hopefully whizz through
he will hopefully whizz through )
he will hopefully whizz through Rl
he will hopefully whizz through the first round
he will hopefully whizz through Rl s s |
he will hopefully whizz through the first round and into the
R TS AGITH LRI R4 Yo sl
the first round and into the second round
the first round and into the X e e Be sl
the first round and into the X e A Be TR )
the first round and into the A B T RGN VR BT
IR R GV E]Y o[ NN
IR R GV E]Y LT AT ]
second round of the Australian Open. Good to talk to you. We
Open. Good to talk to you. We e
Open. Good to talk to you. We I
Open. Good to talk to you. We shall get more later from the
shall get more later from the Australian Open, but just to
Australian Open, but just to Y-\
Australian Open, but just to say Andy
Australian Open, but just to R LA
Australian Open, but just to say Andy Murray currently up
VRN AL Vg AV =T VAT two sets,
say Andy Murray currently up two sets, 6-3, 6-3, and 2-1
say Andy Murray currently up two sets, 6-3, 6-3, and 2-1up
two sets, 6-3, 6-3, and 2-1up 3
two sets, 6-3, 6-3, and 2-1up inthe
two sets, 6-3, 6-3, and 2-1up TR aa R as el
two sets, 6-3, 6-3, and 2-1up in the third set.
A former commander with GEGTEAEL T EIE Tt 1s%
Wagner Group, which Russia uses to carry out some
of its fighting in Ukraine, T e s R Ela i
asylum in Norway.
Andrey Medvedev, who’s 26, crossed the border into Norway
last Friday, where he was detained by border quards.
Our news reporter Stephanie Prentice is here.
This is extremely interesting, isn’t
This is extremely interesting, N
This is extremely interesting, isn’t it, because of course it
isn’t it, because of course it s
isn’t it, because of course it is all about what information
s all about what information he
s all about what information \RUEN
s all about what information RNV e
s all about what information UGV e I (R
s all about what infermation he may disclose, etc. What’s
he may disclose, etc. What’s L
he may disclose, etc. What’s going on.
he may disclose, etc. What’s LR
he may disclose, etc. What’s going on. We now do have
going on. We now do have numerous sources confirming
numerous sources confirming that Andrey Medvedev did cross
that Andrey Medvedev did cross Tee I8t
that Andrey Medvedev did cross NI N
that Andrey Medvedev did cross from Norway into Russia,
from Norway into Russia, and Tl
from Norway into Russia, and EIR AT
from Norway into Russia, and that was part of a bid to
that was part of a bid to S
that was part of a bid to defect from
that was part of a bid to ST R R
that was part of a bid to defect from the Wagner
defect from the Wagner paramilitary group. The most
paramilitary group. The most e
paramilitary group. The most T lass Tla1d
paramilitary group. The most [T laas Tl )
paramilitary group. The most (T laes R )
paramilitary group. The most SN e R N e N
detailed account we have comes Tee I8t
detailed account we have comes from a Russian human rights
from a Russian human rights group.
from a Russian human rights LI DTMd
from a Russian human rights group. It claims it was a
group. It claims it was a LG
group. It claims it was a G AL
group. It claims it was a G S A L =1
group. It claims it was a journey under extreme duress,
journey under extreme duress, [T
journey under extreme duress, [ ReT:]
journey under extreme duress, he ran down the river through
he ran down the river through )
he ran down the river through U A
he ran down the river through QRN A ]
he ran down the river through RN A R
he ran down the river through the snow, pursued by dogs and
the snow, pursued by dogs and LI
the snow, pursued by dogs and LI
the snow, pursued by dogs and gunfire, he made it through a
gunfire, he made it through a T o]
gunfire, he made it through a fence into a border
gunfire, he made it through a RN e R U R
gunfire, he made it through a RO R e IR L L
O IR R I G I T BT T he was
fence into a border camp, and (TR LR ]
fence into a border camp, and he was taken to Oslo and
he was taken to Oslo and W EIO 0]
he was taken to Oslo and charged with illegal entry into
charged with illegal entry into )
charged with illegal entry into the country. He was given a
the country. He was given a lawyer, and that lawyer has
lawyer, and that lawyer has Nl
lawyer, and that lawyer has been speaking out
lawyer, and that lawyer has VRN L T 4L T
lawyer, and that lawyer has been speaking out about what
been speaking out about what iyl
been speaking out about what might happen to him next, and
might happen to him next, and Y
might happen to him next, and we can take a TRANSLATION: We
we can take a TRANSLATION: We R4
we can take a TRANSLATION: We SOLR el
we can take a TRANSLATION: We don’t grant asylum to war
don’t grant asylum to war ol
don’t grant asylum to war gl B )
don’t grant asylum to war e E I R
don’t grant asylum to war g eI LR
don’t grant asylum to war criminal so it is clear this is
criminal so it is clear this is Y
criminal so it is clear this is R
criminal so it is clear this is a very important assessment and
a very important assessment and very carefully because
a very important assessment and A VA TR
a very important assessment and very carefully because of who
I EC LGN IR R LT 3
I EC LGN IR R LT is he,
very carefully because of who I IR e
very carefully because of who I R
very carefully because of who is he, where is he from,
very carefully because of who I IR R R R s L (P S
very carefully because of who is he, where is he from, itis
s he, where Is he from, it s information
s he, where Is he from, it s R i R ae: nd
s he, where Is he from, it s information correct etc?
s he, where is he from, itis information correct etc? This
information correct etc? This s
information correct etc? This is something that is assessed
is something that is assessed to
is something that is assessed EATYT
is something that is assessed to everyone who seeks asylum in
to everyone who seeks asylum in Norway but obviously in this
Norway but obviously in this )
Norway but obviously in this eI
Norway but obviously in this Rl
Norway but obviously in this AR
Norway but obviously in this case it will be assessed
case it will be assessed particularly thoroughly. That
particularly thoroughly. That lawyer said he had brought
lawyer said he had brought evidence
lawyer said he had brought UGN
lawyer said he had brought N A ]
lawyer said he had brought evidence of human rights abuses
evidence of human rights abuses with him into the country,
with him into the country, his intention was to
with him into the country, his LR TR R
with him into the country, his AR o R e A E e e et
intention was to share them with
intention was to share them G I]o
intention was to share them with groups in Ukraine at the
with groups in Ukraine at the i
with groups in Ukraine at the T e e R Ty
with groups in Ukraine at the L R I
with groups in Ukraine at the T e e R TR e )
moment. Give us more information
moment. Give us more Rl e s 0L
moment. Give us more R R e
moment. Give us more information about the so-called
information about the so-called Wagner
infoermation about the so-called Wagner Group, this
information about the so-called Wagner Group, this mercenary
Wagner Group, this mercenary organisation. Many of our
organisation. Many of our organisation -- our viewers
organisation -- our viewers il
organisation -- our viewers IR
organisation -- our viewers RN
organisation -- our viewers BRI R )
organisation -- our viewers RN RO R ]
organisation -- our viewers RN R R e
organisation -- our viewers BN R R e E )
organisation -- our viewers RN RO R R LN R
will be used to the name of the Wagner Group but it existed in
Wagner Group but it existed in Y
Wagner Group but it existed in FE EL N
Wagner Group but it existed in a shadowy capacity. It bolsters
a shadowy capacity. It bolsters Russian forces in numerous
Russian forces in numerous e aahee e
Russian forces in numerous e T |
Russian forces in numerous e L
Russian forces in numerous LR )
Russian forces in numerous N LR e
Russian forces in numerous territories and as the war has
territories and as the war has gone
territories and as the war has IR
territories and as the war has LGN
territories and as the war has gone on in Ukraine, their
gone on in Ukraine, their )
gone on in Ukraine, their presence Andrey Medvedev was a
presence Andrey Medvedev was a T
presence Andrey Medvedev was a guite high
presence Andrey Medvedev was a IR LEERL)
presence Andrey Medvedev was a quite high ranking to
presence Andrey Medvedev was a IR LEER LRI
presence Andrey Medvedev was a quite high ranking to mind in
quite high ranking to mind in that group, he alleges he saw
that group, he alleges he saw YTaiET:]
that group, he alleges he saw human rights abuses as well as
human rights abuses as well as war
human rights abuses as well as el
human rights abuses as well as war crimes and even people
war crimes and even people i da sl
war crimes and even people R
war crimes and even people within the group
war crimes and even people GRG0
war crimes and even people within the group being executed
within the group being executed if they try to leave. He says
if they try to leave. He says that
if they try to leave. He says G A
if they try to leave. He says that is what caused
if they try to leave. He says UEAR IR Ba et
if they try to leave. He says that is what caused him to
that is what caused him to e
that is what caused him to R
that is what caused him to flee. The group’s, has denied
flee. The group’s, has denied IR
flee. The group’s, has denied this, he
flee. The group’s, has denied (I T
flee. The group’s, has denied this, he says he did work for
this, he says he did work for them
this, he says he did work for il L
this, he says he did work for iR sl
this, he says he did work for IR EIR 1l
this, he says he did work for NI NI R I E )
this, he says he did work for IR E R R T E
them but said what he was saying wasn’t true and
them but said what he was FW LR R RO R LR
saying wasn’t true and they called
saying wasn’t true and they =1 sl la]
saying wasn’t true and they called him a very dangerous
called him a very dangerous individual. Thank you very much
individual. Thank you very much IO h
The TV presenter and columnist | AR T LR L
apologised to the Duke and Duchess of Sussex
for an article he wrote, in which he stated he "hated”
Meghan, and was dreaming of the day she’d be paraded
through the streets naked.
The broadcaster said he was "profoundly sorry”
and called his language "disgraceful”.
Meghan and Prince Harry responded to the apology saying
the column hadn’t been an isolated incident,
but rather it was part R LR el
Our culture editor, Katie Razzall told us more.
If you remember, there was outrage because he said
he wanted to see her paraded naked through the streets
and that he wanted excrement thrown at her.
More than 25,000 people complained
to the press regulator - it is investigating.
So today, we had a much more fulsome apology.
Six pages on Instagram, in which he reveals
in which he reveals that,
on Christmas Day he reached out to the Duke and Duchess
to say sorry.
Far from accepting the apology, LR R R AR
Prince Harry has suggested the column proved
G NI XN Tl EL NI
Mr Clarkson today writes,
he abhors violence against women, he is not sexist.
[T IR El Amazon and ITV
R T [ e T N e R ey
Of course, he is a popular TV presenter
CI TR N {Tel g in Variety today
that Amazon, the streamer,
plans to part company with Mr Clarkson next year,
once the shows, Clarkson’s Farm The Grand Tour,
O R commissioned from him,
have aired.
My sources do dispute the Variety story,
but Amazon have said TR W e et el e
Manori Ravindran is Executive e e g E el e I
and Senior Writer with Variety magazine.
She broke the story that Amazon Prime is likely
to cancel Jeremy Clarkson’’s shows, once they go to air.
She joins us now from London.
Do tell us more, then, about vty
Do tell us more, then, about E ST
Do tell us more, then, about E ST
Do tell us more, then, about what you are hearing from
what you are hearing from Ik R
what you are hearing from Amazon. Basically what I’m
Amazon. Basically what I’m hearing is that well-placed
hearing is that well-placed ey
hearing is that well-placed sources suggest effectively
sources suggest effectively that
sources suggest effectively el e R
sources suggest effectively that once this round
sources suggest effectively el e RGN s R d
sources suggest effectively eI e R U R TR R e
that once this round of shows A0V
that once this round of shows effectively involving Jeremy
effectively involving Jeremy Clarkson go to air that we
SV DR LI Clarkson go to air that we are
Clarkson go to air that we are el
Clarkson go to air that we are not going to
Clarkson go to air that we are W& LR R
Clarkson go to air that we are not going to see any more
Clarkson go to air that we are AR IR AU R
not going to see any more of )
not going to see any more of ORI
not going to see any more of GGG
not going to see any more of ORISR IR
not going to see any more of G QR R GRS (R
the presenter on the streaming ey
the presenter on the streaming e R 13
the presenter on the streaming service was top
the presenter on the streaming R R LGS R
the presenter on the streaming service was top keep in mind we
service was top keep in mind we have
service was top keep in mind we LY e
service was top keep in mind we have another couple of years
have another couple of years T
have another couple of years YR da]
have another couple of years here with Clarkson starring and
here with Clarkson starring and remaining, the remaining four
remaining, the remaining four I R
remaining, the remaining four episodes of the grand tour and
episodes of the grand tour and two
episodes of the grand tour and AR E L
episodes of the grand tour and R
episodes of the grand tour and two seasons of Clarkson’s
episodes of the grand tour and AR N AL Rt
two seasons of Clarkson’s from 4
two seasons of Clarkson’s from but beyond
two seasons of Clarkson’s from but beyond that | don’t know if
but beyond that I don’t know |if any
but beyond that I don’t know |if AL
but beyond that | don’t know if any more new
but beyond that | don’t know if AN A A
but beyond that | don’t know if any more new shows will be
any more new shows will be I N
any more new shows will be commissioned, as | understand.
commissioned, as | understand. s
commissioned, as | understand. o
commissioned, as | understand. 1]
commissioned, as | understand. (SR
commissioned, as | understand. It is a really bold statement
It is a really bold statement Tee I8t
It is a really bold statement from Amazon,
It is a really bold statement e N I I L)
It is a really bold statement from Amazon, and | think it is
from Amazon, and | think it is a
from Amazon, and | think it is avery
from Amazon, and | think it is a very interesting way for
from Amazon, and | think it Is a very interesting way for them
a very interesting way for them to
a very interesting way for them R A VAT e
a very interesting way for them to effectively sort of
a very interesting way for them R VA Rl LS
to effectively sort of park TNy
to effectively sort of park waves with Clarkson, albeit in
waves with Clarkson, albeit in Y
waves with Clarkson, albeit in RV
waves with Clarkson, albeit in a way that gradually
waves with Clarkson, albeit in RV AGEI IR
waves with Clarkson, albeit in a way that gradually gets him
a way that gradually gets him i
a way that gradually gets him iR
a way that gradually gets him RO e
a way that gradually gets him RO L
a way that gradually gets him off the service. OK, and
off the service. OK, and according
off the service. OK, and Elae TR
off the service. OK, and according to your sources who
according to your sources who you
according to your sources who T
according to your sources who D]
according to your sources who you are hearing this from, is
you are hearing this from, is )
you are hearing this from, Is the reason
you are hearing this from, Is eI Rl e
you are hearing this from, Is the reason that Amazon has
you are hearing this from, is the reason that Amazon has made
the reason that Amazon has made this decision
the reason that Amazon has made IR (IS e ey ]
the reason that Amazon has made I SO AU
this decision now mainly T )
this decision now mainly TN
this decision now mainly N RO R )
this decision now mainly YN R R - il
this decision now mainly because of these articles about
because of these articles about PRIy
because of these articles about Prince Harry and Meghan? |
Prince Harry and Meghan? | o
Prince Harry and Meghan? | would say that when the column
would say that when the column Ty
would say that when the column ELRI I LR
would say that when the column was published, Amazon’s
would say that when the column was published, Amazon’s silence
was published, Amazon’s silence Ty
was published, Amazon’s silence was deafening. Obviously, we
was deafening. Obviously, we P
was deafening. Obviously, we had from ITV,
was deafening. Obviously, we ELR IR G
was deafening. Obviously, we had from ITV, they ultimately
had from ITV, they ultimately made a
had from ITV, they ultimately RS e
had from ITV, they ultimately made a statement through Kevin
made a statement through Kevin B[
made a statement through Kevin ROLELLIGEIIND]
made a statement through Kevin RGN R
Lygo addressing the broadcasting press Guild in
broadcasting press Guild in Britain,
broadcasting press Guild in g1 018
broadcasting press Guild in Britain, but Amazon
broadcasting press Guild in O N - EF O GCE L V
Britain, but Amazon really stayed quiet and they
Britain, but Amazon really S NS RO S I
stayed quiet and they are LT
stayed quiet and they are LY TR )
stayed quiet and they are declining to comment, but
declining to comment, but ultimately
declining to comment, but I FL VA LI
declining to comment, but W E A LR G
declining to comment, but ultimately behind the scenes,
ultimately behind the scenes, and of
ultimately behind the scenes, N e i)
ultimately behind the scenes, R R I E G
ultimately behind the scenes, and of course Jeremy Clarkson
and of course Jeremy Clarkson sl
and of course Jeremy Clarkson s
and of course Jeremy Clarkson AR el
and of course Jeremy Clarkson R
and of course Jeremy Clarkson AR A I R
and of course Jeremy Clarkson kind of hinted at this in
and of course Jeremy Clarkson BRI R G R N T
kind of hinted at this in his statement,
kind of hinted at this in his S G R
kind of hinted at this in his statement, in which
kind of hinted at this in his R RO e R
kind of hinted at this in his e G MRb R Ol RS
statement, in which he is saying
statement, in which he Is saying they are
statement, in which he is saying they are incandescent
saying they are incandescent over
saying they are incandescent N e i E
saying they are incandescent over what has happened. But |
over what has happened. But | think behind
over what has happened. But | i R e R
over what has happened. But | TR s R s e T
over what has happened. But | think behind the scenes this
over what has happened. But | I A h R R e N R O R
think behind the scenes this is %1\
think behind the scenes this is (VA
think behind the scenes this is A )
think behind the scenes this is X (AT R L]
think behind the scenes this is R (AT R L LA G S
think behind the scenes this is really not a good look for a
really not a good look for a company. | think six, seven
company. | think six, seven years ago
company. | think six, seven IR D RN
company. | think six, seven years ago when they came
company. | think six, seven LR AR U AU Rl
company. | think six, seven years ago when they came in to
years ago when they came in to eIl
years ago when they came in to o ]
years ago when they came in to rescue the original top
years ago when they came in to (LRGN F IR CT LT
rescue the original top gear team,
rescue the original top gear e
rescue the original top gear L PR R L
rescue the original top gear PR E R el
rescue the original top gear team, it was still not OK for
team, it was still not OK for them
team, it was still not OK for R
team, it was still not OK for them to come in, and given what
them to come in, and given what P
them to come in, and given what had transpired with
them to come in, and given what R RN R LR U
them to come in, and given what RGN R LRGN ]
had transpired with the BBC, a1\
had transpired with the BBC, certainly eyebrows were raised,
certainly eyebrows were raised, )
certainly eyebrows were raised, 18
certainly eyebrows were raised, AN S
certainly eyebrows were raised, NI S R R ]
certainly eyebrows were raised, A NI R R R AN ety a]
even at that time with Amazon coming
even at that time with Amazon = lGUED
even at that time with Amazon coming in but
even at that time with Amazon ILRELY T &1
even at that time with Amazon coming in but fast forward to
coming in but fast forward to Tl
coming in but fast forward to |
coming in but fast forward to LR
coming in but fast forward to now and the culture, it is very
now and the culture, it is very eRailetlid
now and the culture, it is very difficult to
now and the culture, it is very ailatIl e Re s s el ]
now and the culture, it is very sliilatIl e R e e R
difficult to reconcile the S EI
difficult to reconcile the company that takes bullying
company that takes bullying g\
company that takes bullying L)
company that takes bullying seriously and has
company that takes bullying VL R G
seriously and has these I
seriously and has these internal policies continuing to
internal policies continuing to a4
internal policies continuing to R 1ids]
internal policies continuing to R R
internal policies continuing to work with someone who has
work with someone who has written
work with someone who has R
work with someone who has written this article, the most
written this article, the most complained
written this article, the most I EI L
written this article, the most complained about article in
complained about article in A ¥ei & s ]
complained about article in iR
complained about article in IR R ]
complained about article in Britain to the media requlator.
Britain to the media regulator. )
Britain to the media regulator. There this
Britain to the media regulator. I ECR IS
Britain to the media regulator. There this previous incident
There this previous incident with
There this previous incident R )
There this previous incident G R GN]
There this previous incident GRG0
There this previous incident with the BBC, | figured has
with the BBC, | figured has ]
with the BBC, | figured has been difficult for them to
been difficult for them to EIC)
been difficult for them to IR
been difficult for them to square that away
been difficult for them to R U e L)
been difficult for them to R U LA
been difficult for them to square that away and | think
square that away and | think that
square that away and | think G A
square that away and | think G E R =\
square that away and | think that is effectively what has
that is effectively what has %l
that is effectively what has led to this decision. If Amazon
led to this decision. If Amazon Y
led to this decision. If Amazon WY
led to this decision. If Amazon WL LD
led to this decision. If Amazon does go ahead with
led to this decision. If Amazon WL LR G R T
led to this decision. If Amazon does go ahead with what you’re
does go ahead with what you’re XTI
does go ahead with what you’re hearing and remove itself from
hearing and remove itself from Jeremy
hearing and remove itself from | AL T IR
hearing and remove itself from | AL R
hearing and remove itself from | A S R TR G
Jeremy Clarkson’s shows, they FTey
Jeremy Clarkson’s shows, they are removed from Amazon Prime,
are removed from Amazon Prime, Y
are removed from Amazon Prime, TR
are removed from Amazon Prime, how big a loss is that for
how big a loss is that for Amazon?
how big a loss is that for I NiErahxdal
how big a loss is that for I A RG]
how big a loss is that for Amazon? | think it’s huge. When
Amazon? | think it’s huge. When )
Amazon? | think it’s huge. When QER L
Amazon? | think it’s huge. When the grand tour premiered, that
the grand tour premiered, that Ty
the grand tour premiered, that TN )
the grand tour premiered, that TN
the grand tour premiered, that NN R s
the grand tour premiered, that IR N R S Eee Y a1
the grand tour premiered, that was one of their mainstream --
LN N T T S AT )
LN N T T S AT R
was one of their mainstream -- the The Grand
was one of their mainstream -- RGO hE R
was one of their mainstream -- the The Grand Tour premiered,
the The Grand Tour premiered, 3
the The Grand Tour premiered, HRTE
QR ERCAET R LV I I R LR Y
QR ERCAET R LV I I it was more than the man in
the The Grand Tour premiered, it was more than the man in the
it was more than the man in the high
it was more than the man in the I CH
it was more than the man in the LT (G
't was more than the man in the high Castle, it has continued
high Castle, it has continued to
high Castle, it has continued R
high Castle, it has continued ]
high Castle, it has continued to be a really big unscripted
to be a really big unscripted proposition for them and we
proposition for them and we have
proposition for them and we IR
proposition for them and we I LR
proposition for them and we have seen the different spin
have seen the different spin offs,
have seen the different spin NPl
have seen the different spin offs, with all
have seen the different spin ViR AOELEY]
have seen the different spin offs, with all of the different
offs, with all of the different )
offs, with all of the different QRSN G
offs, with all of the different ORI ANGC
offs, with all of the different three presenters. | think
offs, with all of the different RN R QL1
offs, with all of the different three presenters. | think it is
three presenters. | think it is Y
three presenters. | think it is R
three presenters. | think it is a very big loss, and since this
a very big loss, and since this 301s%
a very big loss, and since this story broke, you have certainly
story broke, you have certainly L
story broke, you have certainly k)
story broke, you have certainly IINR GG
story broke, you have certainly seen the huge following that
seen the huge following that WEI o]
seen the huge following that WEI e s |
seen the huge following that Clarkson and his sort of gang
Clarkson and his sort of gang Y
Clarkson and his sort of gang AR
Clarkson and his sort of gang really has for that, a lot of
really has for that, a lot of TG
really has for that, a lot of people saying I’m coming up,
people saying I’m coming up, R
people saying I’m coming up, Gl
people saying I’m coming up, that’s it for
people saying I’m coming up, LR R )
people saying I’m coming up, LI R ]
people saying I’m coming up, L R R L kv B
LRI R R R T T RV 8 L R R L Gy s PTe
that’s it for me and Amazon. So 3
that’s it for me and Amazon. So it will
that’s it for me and Amazon. So TR
that’s it for me and Amazon. So R N8
that’s it for me and Amazon. So it will be very interesting.
(IR A L B e
(IR A L B The thing
it will be very interesting. The thing that | would say
The thing that | would say however
The thing that | would say i as
The thing that | would say T SR 14
The thing that | would say however is that clearly there
however is that clearly there s
however is that clearly there T3dlle
however is that clearly there is still a
however is that clearly there I3 4 (R
however is that clearly there XS (RO CX S
however is that clearly there is still a couple of years now
is still a couple of years now to
is still a couple of years now [
is still a couple of years now to go with him still very much
to go with him still very much on
to go with him still very much R )
to go with him still very much R e o)
to go with him still very much on the service with
to go with him still very much R e R A
on the service with his A ]
on the service with his commissioned programmes, and so
commissioned programmes, and so e
commissioned programmes, and so 1N
commissioned programmes, and so RG]
commissioned programmes, and so it gives them enough time
commissioned programmes, and so ISR QNG R R
it gives them enough time to el
it gives them enough time to MGE)
it gives them enough time to NGRS
it gives them enough time to find the next Clarkson, if you
find the next Clarkson, if you i
find the next Clarkson, if you will. OK,
find the next Clarkson, if you T T R 4 1a] 4
find the next Clarkson, if you will. OK, thank you so much
will. OK, thank you so much LI
will. OK, thank you so much B 3 el
will. OK, thank you so much indeed. Executive editor,
indeed. Executive editor, NI E e
indeed. Executive editor, international and
indeed. Executive editor, RGN R a1 d
indeed. Executive editor, international and senior writer
international and senior writer with variety magazine.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
Lo NI VI R {18 the Italian movie icon,
Gina Lollobrigida who’s died at the age of 95.
Donald Trump is now the 45th President of the United States.
He was sworn in before several hundred thousand people
on the steps of Capitol Hill in Washington.
It’s going to be IR
Demonstrators N LR LCRE il
were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
Anti-Apartheid campaigners say
AN 1R R G LR G throughout the tour.
They called him BRI RN L
Klaus Altmann is being held on a fraud charge in Bolivia.
The West Germans want to extradite him
for crimes committed in wartime France.
There, he was the Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie.
Millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot -
a tide of humanity QRSB RG] G
This is BBC News, AR R L s
A constitutional showdown in the UK as British prime
minister Rishi Sunak says he’ll block the Gender Recognition
bill passed by the e R ET i
Britain’s Andy Murray and Italy’s Matteo Berrettini
GG L [o R TVl a2y o0y g I R GRS EL RO IRl
The Italian actress, Gina Lollabrigida has died
at the age of 95.
She was one of the biggest film stars in the world
B R LRV
In later life she forged a successful career
as a photographer and sculptor, snapping Fidel Castro
Wendy Urquhart looks N A S dh
You came back inte my life like a wolf in snake’s clothing!
Gina Lollobrigida YL R L
The camera absolutely SR
and she was often described YR a1 R et
RN i alo P
She grew up in the mountain village of Subiaco -
some 40 miles from Rome - G G
her dad, Giovanni, who was a furniture maker,
and her mother, Giuseppina.
When the family moved to Rome after World War Il,
Gina took singing and acting lessons, and was soon
starring in Italian films.
She married Milko Skofic in 1949,
but when she was spotted by Hollywood talent scouts,
Howard Hughes took R R g
and whisked her off to America.
He suggested that she divorce Milko
before she signed ER O [ Rt aldg-[n
and when he got wind of that, (R LIS R R L
- 50 she went back to Italy.
Gina became a household name in the 1950s after starring
in her first English-language film,
Beat The Devil, opposite Humphrey Bogart.
A raft of great Hollywood roles followed, including Trapeze,
The Hunchback of Notre Dame. ..
| am less afraid of you now.
..Solomon and Sheba, and Women of Straw.
She courted controversy when she made a documentary
about Fidel Castroe in 1975, IR L e
between the two dogged the actress for years.
When La Lolla finally bid farewell to the silver screen,
she turned her talents to photography and sculpture,
and exhibitions of her work were held in Paris, Moscow,
In 2013, she auctioned i ST C ALYy
and donated the entire $2.9 million
to stem cell therapy.
The Italian actress, Gina Lollobrigida
who’s died at the age of 95.
Let’s return to the Australian
Let’s return to the Australian oI N
Let’s return to the Australian oI N
Let’s return to the Australian Open. Novak Djokovic takes to
Open. Novak Djokovic takes to s
Open. Novak Djokovic takes to IR LEVE
Open. Novak Djokovic takes to court today for the first time
court today for the first time in this
court today for the first time LRGN
court today for the first time in this Open but Andy Murray is
in this Open but Andy Murray is playing right
in this Open but Andy Murray Is playing right now.
Joining me now is tennis journalist Tanya Dendrinos.
KN
Lovely to see you. There Is so
Lovely to see you. There is so St 1ile1]
Lovely to see you. There is so e R Ani e a1
Lovely to see you. There is so much excitement about
Lovely to see you. There is so N R e R
Lovely to see you. There is so much excitement about this open
much excitement about this open with
much excitement about this open BV ] e
much excitement about this open with Novak Djokovic back. What
with Novak Djokovic back. What Py
with Novak Djokovic back. What IR G
with Novak Djokovic back. What are people saying
with Novak Djokovic back. What EI Yo RN L] LT
with Novak Djokovic back. What are people saying about his
are people saying about his return? Everybody is so excited
return? Everybody is so excited to
return? Everybody is so excited R}
return? Everybody Is so excited e N al
return? Everybody Is so excited R N R R )
return? Everybody Is so excited to see him make a return to the
to see him make a return to the tennis court at Melbourne Park.
tennis court at Melbourne Park. FI3 e
tennis court at Melbourne Park. Last year
tennis court at Melbourne Park. [F Il
tennis court at Melbourne Park. Last year it did not end the
Last year it did not end the LGV
Last year it did not end the way he was expecting. He wants
way he was expecting. He wants to
way he was expecting. He wants e )
way he was expecting. He wants to make it a Number 10 win at
to make it a Number 10 win at )
to make it a Number 10 win at the open and
to make it a Number 10 win at R UL A CE S
to make it a Number 10 win at ORI U A S LS
to make it a Number 10 win at R IR S R
to make it a Number 10 win at the open and last year he was
the open and last year he was LA 3
the open and last year he was sensationally deported from the
sensationally deported from the country when
sensationally deported from the A G
sensationally deported from the country when he arrived because
country when he arrived because of Australia’s
country when he arrived because S IR e
country when he arrived because S E VG R tda e s es - Nd
of Australia’s strict border s
of Australia’s strict border rules. He
of Australia’s strict border R A
of Australia’s strict border NI R E LR laula e s
of Australia’s strict border NI R LR laula s R i le
rules. He was unvaccinated for Covid-19
rules. He was unvaccinated for i C )
rules. He was unvaccinated for IR s
rules. He was unvaccinated for IR E G R
rules. He was unvaccinated for Covid-19 and that saw him out
Covid-19 and that saw him out and
Covid-19 and that saw him out st
Covid-19 and that saw him out IR i
Covid-19 and that saw him out LI R )
Covid-19 and that saw him out R R RN Tl E - e
and out of the tournament entirely.
and out of the tournament A A )
and out of the tournament NG VA R
and out of the tournament SN R I R )
and out of the tournament entirely. He wants to make it
entirely. He wants to make it Number 10
entirely. He wants to make it YR SRR
entirely. He wants to make it Number 10 this year and
entirely. He wants to make it NI YRR G [ L Rl
entirely. He wants to make it NI R R G L R
Number 10 this year and if he Y
Number 10 this year and if he does make it ten Australian
does make it ten Australian o0
does make it ten Australian Open wins
does make it ten Australian RN
does make it ten Australian SRR R e E
does make it ten Australian SRR S R E LS
Open wins he also takes his e
Open wins he also takes his total career Grand
Open wins he also takes his IR e et
Open wins he also takes his total career Grand Slam wins to
total career Grand Slam wins to and
total career Grand Slam wins to N Rdar]
total career Grand Slam wins to IR R e
total career Grand Slam wins to and that will equal Rafael
and that will equal Rafael Nadal historic feet. There is
Nadal historic feet. There Is G
Nadal historic feet. There Is plenty of
Nadal historic feet. There is plenty of excitement
Nadal historic feet. There Is plenty of excitement and
Nadal historic feet. There is plenty of excitement and we saw
plenty of excitement and we saw e dle
plenty of excitement and we saw historic numbers on
plenty of excitement and we saw NS XU E
plenty of excitement and we saw historic numbers on day one.
historic numbers on day one. Everyone
historic numbers on day one. ARGl
historic numbers on day one. ARG
historic numbers on day one. AL R G
historic numbers on day one. Everyone will be there behind
Everyone will be there behind him.
Everyone will be there behind Wi
Everyone will be there behind him. Andy Murray is playing at
him. Andy Murray is playing at )
him. Andy Murray is playing at the moment and
him. Andy Murray is playing at QR R T
him. Andy Murray is playing at QRN LG LR G
the moment and doing rather ol
the moment and doing rather [
the moment and doing rather well and that is good for
the moment and doing rather TGRS L R TR (1)
well and that is good for the e A a]
well and that is good for the I
well and that is good for the British people watching. It is
British people watching. It is extremely hot. Talk us through
extremely hot. Talk us through )
extremely hot. Talk us through QG
extremely hot. Talk us through QY L i1
extremely hot. Talk us through the logistics. It is really hot
the logistics. It is really hot 3
the logistics. It is really hot in Melbourne and temperatures
in Melbourne and temperatures have climbed into
in Melbourne and temperatures YU Rl R e R
in Melbourne and temperatures EN R [ LG AR TR GGG
in Melbourne and temperatures have climbed into the high 30s
have climbed into the high 30s today and
have climbed into the high 30s RV R TS
have climbed into the high 30s today and that forced
have climbed into the high 30s GOEVEN RO R (O B L
have climbed into the high 30s today and that forced play to
today and that forced play to )
today and that forced play to R
today and that forced play to be taken off
today and that forced play to TR R Y
today and that forced play to be taken off some of
today and that forced play to TR R N R
be taken off some of the outdoor
be taken off some of the YSlts s e e 0la
be taken off some of the outdoor courts. Thankfully for
outdoor courts. Thankfully for S
outdoor courts. Thankfully for everybody watching
outdoor courts. Thankfully for LA IR T
outdoor courts. Thankfully for everybody watching the Murray
everybody watching the Murray match that is not the case.
match that is not the case. Madge is
match that is not the case. EL LRI
match that is not the case. Madge is under way
match that is not the case. LRI L YRV ol
match that is not the case. Madge is under way and he has
Madge is under way and he has RIS 0L
Madge is under way and he has stormed out hard. He is
stormed out hard. He is TR
stormed out hard. He is unseated in the tournament so
unseated in the tournament so you would expect him to have
unseated in the tournament so IR GRS O R N CE:
you would expect him to have a ARaiTatite
you would expect him to have a difficult challenge ahead
difficult challenge ahead coming
difficult challenge ahead IR
difficult challenge ahead coming into the tournament and
coming into the tournament and Y
coming into the tournament and Ty
coming into the tournament and R W]
coming into the tournament and NN WL R ET
coming into the tournament and he is showing that out
coming into the tournament and AR LG R G R T )
he is showing that out on el
he is showing that out on court. He
he is showing that out on el R e
he is showing that out on e RO )
he is showing that out on e R RO iIe3
he is showing that out on e LR RO R
he is showing that out on e RO R R R R
court. He took the first set 63 and
court. He took the first set 63 T Rds s
court. He took the first set 63 RG]
court. He took the first set 63 and then the second
court. He took the first set 63 LRGN E R h 5N
court. He took the first set 63 LRGN R h s i
court. He took the first set 63 R GE G NE G ET hE s AT
and then the second 63. If he ]
and then the second 63. If he =l ol
and then the second 63. If he can hold on
and then the second 63. If he NI G
and then the second 63. If he NI NI e e
and then the second 63. If he can hold on here whether he
can hold on here whether he Y
can hold on here whether he Rl g
can hold on here whether he does it in
can hold on here whether he R AR
can hold on here whether he S R E e N d
can hold on here whether he R E e N i s
can hold on here whether he R AR E e N R s
does it in three or four it il
does it in three or four it IR
does it in three or four it will be a huge upset in round
will be a huge upset in round one. And
will be a huge upset in round I - R s
will be a huge upset in round N LR )
will be a huge upset in round one. And for the women, who is
one. And for the women, who Is playing today, who are we
playing today, who are we keeping an eye on? We need to
keeping an eye on? We need to )
keeping an eye on? We need to take a
keeping an eye on? We need to EI R
keeping an eye on? We need to take a look at
keeping an eye on? We need to A &l
keeping an eye on? We need to A & R
keeping an eye on? We need to R & RS R
take a look at all of the T
take a look at all of the I RG]
take a look at all of the women’s matches on
take a look at all of the NI R T R e e
take a look at all of the women’s matches on court. | am
women’s matches on court. | am e
women’'s matches on court. | am RS
women’'s matches on court. | am TR SR
women’'s matches on court. | am R ST R
women’'s matches on court. | am not briefed on the women’s at
not briefed on the women’s at )
not briefed on the women’’s at the moment so | may throw that
the moment so | may throw that )
the moment so | may throw that ke
the moment so | may throw that Nl &)
the moment so | may throw that one back to you. |
the moment so | may throw that NN R G
the moment so | may throw that one back to you. | know that
one back to you. | know that Emma
one back to you. | know that EFmma Radacanu
one back to you. | know that Emma Radacanu got through. And
Emma Radacanu got through. And that
Emma Radacanu got through. And L G
Emma Radacanu got through. And that made it look Llike
Emma Radacanu got through. And that made it look Like she
Emma Radacanu got through. And that made it look like she may
that made it look like she may e
that made it look like she may (L 4 )
that made it look like she may not play because of an injury.
not play because of an injury. e
not play because of an injury. )
not play because of an injury. But she got through
not play because of an injury. N S R G ICILEL D
not play because of an injury. But she got through and that is
But she got through and that is L]
But she got through and that is LG
But she got through and that is LR
But she got through and that is good news isn’t it? But
good news isn’t it? But everybody today will be
everybody today will be watching Novak Djokovic. They
watching Novak Djokovic. They a1
watching Novak Djokovic. They certainly will be. And great
certainly will be. And great APy
certainly will be. And great R
certainly will be. And great news for Emma
certainly will be. And great R A i ER . ELEl L Th
certainly will be. And great news for Emma Radacanu. To be
news for Emma Radacanu. To be playing in the next round and
playing in the next round and i)
playing in the next round and )
playing in the next round and she made some stunning wins
she made some stunning wins last year so | am sure all
she made some stunning wins FR IR A I (K
last year so | am sure all of Britain
last year so | am sure all of &R e
last year so | am sure all of SR il (T
last year so | am sure all of Britain will be backing her.
Britain will be backing her. Great to
Britain will be backing her. g r iR
Britain will be backing her. Great to see you. And we are
Great to see you. And we are CEL
Great to see you. And we are keeping a close
Great to see you. And we are LR ST
Great to see you. And we are keeping a close eye on all of
keeping a close eye on all of )
keeping a close eye on all of the action
keeping a close eye on all of e ladle e ls]
keeping a close eye on all of e R R
keeping a close eye on all of the action in the third
keeping a close eye on all of IR RGO R
the action in the third set A
the action in the third set (LT -0
the action in the third set now. Andy Murray
the action in the third set (AL AL AR
the action in the third set now. Andy Murray is down 3-
now. Andy Murray is down 3- four but
now. Andy Murray is down 3- T NI )
now. Andy Murray is down 3- T N s Y
now. Andy Murray is down 3- four but he does have the
now. Andy Murray is down 3- TR N R R R - R
four but he does have the first two
four but he does have the first e
Now if you’re watching in the UK where were you 40
years ago today?
Because on 17th January 1983 the BBC launched a new era
of early morning news programming when Breakfast Time
This may bring back memories.
| was ten years old at the iy
The show was revolutionary - it mixed hard news with showbiz
gossip, keep-fit exercises and LI I GL R &
Even the dress was different - the men wore jumpers rather
than a traditional suit and tie.
On Breakfast from six o’clock, the team
are marking the anniversary
with features and special IS RN TG TR §: 0T
Russell Grant, and Diana Moran R R R
So all that with Sally Nugent and Jon Kay in about
That is when BBC One switches to Breakfast. Next here with
to Breakfast. Next here with me, we
to Breakfast. Next here with PR R
to Breakfast. Next here with me, we still have half-an-hour
me, we still have half-an-hour together
me, we still have half-an-hour G
me, we still have half-an-hour S GEEENL R
me, we still have half-an-hour OGN RN
me, we still have half-an-hour OGN R EVCE L
me, we still have half-an-hour together and we have all the
together and we have all the top
together and we have all the )R
together and we have all the O RERN]
together and we have all the RIS
together and we have all the top is in its stories and we
top is in its stories and we il
TN R I R (IR R LYY S
TN R I R (IR R will look at
TN R I R (IR R Y & )
TN R I R (IR R I & R A
top is in its stories and we will look at the latest news
will look at the latest news coming from
will look at the latest news IR NG
will look at the latest news coming from China to show the
coming from China to show the iy
coming from China to show the e T e e sl
coming from China to show the world’s second biggest economy
world’s second biggest economy 3
world’s second biggest economy R
world’s second biggest economy LR
world’s second biggest economy RG]
world’s second biggest economy in is slowing in terms of
in is slowing in terms of SlOan
in is slowing in terms of [T GRS
in is slowing in terms of growth. What does that mean for
growth. What does that mean for )
growth. What does that mean for the global economy for the rest
the global economy for the rest N
the global economy for the rest of us? We
the global economy for the rest AR R
the global economy for the rest of us? We will analyse that
of us? We will analyse that Ty
of us? We will analyse that next. |
of us? We will analyse that ekl
of us? We will analyse that At R T
of us? We will analyse that next. | will see you
of us? We will analyse that 1 A R (RN TR
of us? We will analyse that next. | will see you in a
next. | will see you In a St
Hello again.
I’m sure you’d agree, it’s been a very bitter start
to the new working week, R e i R L N ]
DL AT LRI with some snowy scenes around
as well - that was overlooking Skiddaw,
in Cumbria earlier on Monday.
But the other story we’ve been WM R )
either - we still have R R RZETGIR G
in force, the majority across stretches of the Severn,
the River Avon, and for groundwater
HCLGRTR IR GRS ]
And although we’'ll e R
snow showers across northern and western areas over the next
few hours, leading (R AL [l
actually with water still seeping
HCINRIEGE R R U
wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost,
temperatures minus three te minus seven widely.
Well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy
heading into Tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous
actually underfoot and under-tyre first
thing in the morning.
LT IR B I [ LI LT IN T as low as minus 10 in Scotland,
freezing cold start - e ]
showers piling in through the day
IR et i -
So, really, it’s northern and western areas of Scotland
across Northern Ireland, the north-west of both England
and Wales will be prone to seeing
further accumulations of snow.
Modest Hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
And after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day,
even in the sunshine - which many of us will have
a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much
above freezing.
It will feel pretty bitter.
More of that to come on Wednesday as well.
Another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
Could see rather more in the way
of showers just clipping the east coast of England,
and some heavier showers work across Northern Ireland
into parts of Wales and south-west England -
probably hear more ROl
a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in,
and temperatures just WL IR L LT AT
in Cardiff and Plymouth - s0 signs that temperatures
are very slowly starting R L E L
By Thursday, after a frosty and cold start again,
showers will probably Y e e Nl
(3 dglu LR R G e R A Ela P
Otherwise, a lot of dry R A L
But after, again, a freezing cold start to the day,
temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe
eight towards Plymouth.
Otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
If you really don’t like the cold
LR G IR you’ll have to wait
till the weekend before we get something a lot milder,
as south-westerly winds return across the country.
With that, there’ll TR e e
in the way of cloud heading RN R NG R i G R
of rain around as well.
But eventually, temperatures widely
LR ETe TR LI ER LIS
This is BBC News with the latest Business headlines
for viewers in the UK NI TR e h
China’s population shrinks for the first time in 60 years
as its economic growth slows.
We get an expert view
on the outlook for the factory of the world.
The battle to keep skilled workers - the latest jobless
numbers in the UK are expected RV G RG]
it is for bosses CIE 1 L)
And we find out what are the latest
cunsumer trends that will shape
what we buy and sell RGN RN
We begin in China where we’ve just had a slew of data that
shows how deep the impact of both the pandemic
and its demographics is having on society and the economy.
Data from the National Bureau of Statistics shows China’s
economy grew by 2.9% year-on-year for the last three
That beat expectations - Reuters expected the economy
to grow by just 1.8%.
For the full year growth came My R L A IR
official target of 5.5%.
Excluding the year Covid hit in 2020, this is China’s worst
showing In nearly 50 years.
Also today, the news that China’s population has shrunk
for the first time in more than 60-years -
a change that is expected to have deep economic,
social and political implications for China.
AR R G R A S ) CHER S E LR e
Tell us more. That’s right. The
Tell us more. That’s right. The big figure that we’ve gotten
big figure that we’ve gotten today is China’s population
big figure that we’ve gotten today is China’s poepulation is
today is China’s population is still one.
today is China’s population is N T e
today is China’s population is still one. Four billion. It
still one. Four billion. It Tl
still one. Four billion. It LR
still one. Four billion. It sounds like a lot but the
sounds like a lot but the ey
sounds like a lot but the numbers are
sounds like a lot but the I e )
sounds like a lot but the numbers are there were about
numbers are there were about 850,000 fewer Chinese people at
850,000 fewer Chinese people at )
850,000 fewer Chinese people at |
850,000 fewer Chinese people at LR
850,000 fewer Chinese people at the end of 2022,
850,000 fewer Chinese people at QR R P2 I T R
850,000 fewer Chinese people at QR P IR T e R
the end of 2022, compared to )
the end of 2022, compared to T
the end of 2022, compared to TN
the end of 2022, compared to RN R
the end of 2022, compared to QRN RO S L
the end of 2022, compared to the same time last year. The
the same time last year. The T ]
the same time last year. The reason this
the same time last year. The IR G I
the same time last year. The reason this is problematic
the same time last year. The MR GRSl
reason this is problematic is SR
reason this is problematic is OV ARG
reason this is problematic is VAR
reason this is problematic is they’re seen not just as one
they’re seen not just as one T e e g
they’re seen not just as one short-term blip, but something
short-term blip, but something N
short-term blip, but something ]
short-term blip, but something of a trend. Many population
of a trend. Many population 4o l3g 8
of a trend. Many population experts think this
of a trend. Many population SRS GRS
of a trend. Many population ORGSO
of a trend. Many population experts think this is going to
experts think this is going to likely usher
experts think this is going to QI Al
experts think this is going to QI AL
experts think this is going to likely usher in a period of
likely usher in a period of decline in China’'s
likely usher in a period of decline in China’s population
decline in China’s population IR
decline in China’s population numbers. And
decline in China’s population i e s R e
decline in China’s population numbers. And the reason
decline in China’s population numbers. And the reason for
numbers. And the reason for this
numbers. And the reason for QI
numbers. And the reason for this being problematic is what
this being problematic is what Y
this being problematic is what i
this being problematic is what we call demographic decline.
we call demographic decline. T
we call demographic decline. [
we call demographic decline. It’s a problem where without a
It’s a problem where without a high birthday rate and without
high birthday rate and without )
high birthday rate and without s Na et e
high birthday rate and without the numbers in order to replace
the numbers in order to replace )
the numbers in order to replace the population, the question is
the population, the question is where
the population, the question is T e N
the population, the question is where is the labour
the population, the question is Y Y BB N Lo e Tl s a4
the population, the question is where is the labour force? Who
where is the labour force? Who 3
where is the labour force? Who is going
where is the labour force? Who LR
where is the labour force? Who is going to be
where is the labour force? Who R GCE DI
where is the labour force? Who is going to be able to make the
Is going to be able to make the L
Is going to be able to make the goods to
s going to be able to make the goods to fund the ageing
goods to fund the ageing demographic that China is going
demographic that China is going to
demographic that China is going R Ele )
demographic that China is going to face in the coming years?
to face in the coming years? We’re also hearing for example
We’re also hearing for example that India now is predicted to
that India now is predicted to e )
that India now is predicted to overtake China as the world’s
overtake China as the world’’s AT
overtake China as the world’s N LI
overtake China as the world’’s ML A I 148
overtake China as the world’’s most populous country by
overtake China as the world’s most populous country by the
most populous country by the )
most populous country by the sl 2
most populous country by the end of this year.
most populous country by the QR R I LR 1o
most populous country by the end of this year. As part of
end of this year. As part of )
end of this year. As part of the data today we’ve seen for
the data today we’ve seen for G
the data today we’ve seen for example China logged its
example China logged its WY
example China logged its highest death rate last year
highest death rate last year o)
highest death rate last year since 1976. Really basically
since 1976. Really basically vty
since 1976. Really basically T R
since 1976. Really basically RO
since 1976. Really basically what this is meaning is this
what this is meaning is this e ilge- e
what this is meaning is this current surge in Covid cases is
current surge in Covid cases Is likely
current surge in Covid cases Is AN
current surge in Covid cases is VARG
current surge in Covid cases is AR M RS 1
likely to further exacerbate this preblem.
likely to further exacerbate this problem. And therefore
this problem. And therefore we’re
this problem. And therefore NG
this problem. And therefore we’re unlikely to
this problem. And therefore NGV T
this problem. And therefore we’re unlikely to see a
this problem. And therefore N A LGV R R
we’re unlikely to see a boost Y
we’re unlikely to see a boost when it
we’re unlikely to see a boost Y Tl e 1
we’re unlikely to see a boost when it comes to that side
we’re unlikely to see a boost TN R R R e
when it comes to that side of I
when it comes to that side of things, when it comes to
things, when it comes to RS
things, when it comes to China’s population. We have
China’s population. We have L
China’s population. We have seen the birth
China’s population. We have A LRGN e B
China’s population. We have A N RGN e iR R e
China’s population. We have A MR iR R
seen the birth rate there is LT
TR G Rl E IR G declining. For every 1,000
declining. For every 1,000 ]
declining. For every 1,000 people, for
STl s A I R WY people, for example,
STl s A I A W ) people, for example, there’s
people, for example, there’s R
people, for example, there’s I T o]
people, for example, there’s almost one birth less each
almost one birth less each T
almost one birth less each year. China, with
almost one birth less each CE G IR R G
almost one birth less each year. China, with the legacy
year. China, with the legacy R
year. China, with the legacy e IR et
year. China, with the legacy that’s come about as a result
that’s come about as a result N
that’s come about as a result R
that’s come about as a result RN w10l
that’s come about as a result RGN G T
that’s come about as a result of the one-child policy, that
of the one-child policy, that Ty
of the one-child policy, that R el e 4
of the one-child policy, that was reversed back in 2015 but
was reversed back in 2015 but e
was reversed back in 2015 but it’s been
was reversed back in 2015 but TR )
was reversed back in 2015 but TR R N el
was reversed back in 2015 but it’s been so hard once
was reversed back in 2015 but R NE NN Ele e RN )
it’s been so hard once the S 1s]
it’s been so hard once the e
it’s been so hard once the trainis in
it’s been so hard once the train is in motion in order to
train is in motion in order to gt us
train is in motion in order to RO
train is in motion in order to correct this, Sally. That’s
HEI RN R R [ (] correct this, Sally. That’s one
correct this, Sally. That’s one of
correct this, Sally. That’s one SRy
correct this, Sally. That’s one of the big
correct this, Sally. That’s one I RGER LI TS
correct this, Sally. That’s one RGN LT TR
correct this, Sally. That’s one of the big problems for China’s
of the big problems for China’s e L
of the big problems for China’s economy going forward.
of the big problems for China’s economy going forward. Thank
economy going forward. Thank you
economy going forward. Thank TR
economy going forward. Thank IR IuB
economy going forward. Thank you so much, Katie.
Joining me now is Jinny Yan, Chief China Economist at ICBC
IR R e
Cheers. Good to talk to you. ey
Cheers. Good to talk to you. what do
Cheers. Good to talk to you. What do you make then of the
What do you make then of the news
What do you make then of the T Tt
What do you make then of the T )
What do you make then of the news about the demographics to
(LN GG EN L [l TR Ol
(LN GG EN L [l TR TR N
news about the demographics to ORI A
news about the demographics to begin with, as Katie outlined?
begin with, as Katie outlined? eIl
begin with, as Katie outlined? Going forward this is not good
Going forward this is not good TR
Going forward this is not good S
Going forward this is not good news, is it,
Going forward this is not good PR AR
Going forward this is not good news, is it, for China in terms
news, Is it, for China in terms of
news, Is it, for China in terms SR
news, Is Iit, for China in terms R[N G K
news, Is Iit, for China in terms RO G
news, Is Iit, for China in terms of future growth? | think
news, Is Iit, for China in terms of future growth? I think this
future growth? | think this T
of future growth? I think this has heen
of future growth? I think this has been much predicted.
has been much predicted. AT
has been much predicted. A PR G
has been much predicted. However, the reality is there’s
However, the reality is there’s negative
However, the reality Is there’s negative growth in population
negative growth in population and
negative growth in population L
negative growth in population iRl
negative growth in population and it will question how much
and it will question how much W E]
and it will question how much China can continue to
and it will question how much AR i e e tala TN ee o)
and it will question how much RN e s RN R
China can continue to be the NLILES
China can continue to be the NLLER
I ERE R TER R R [ engine of growth for the
China can continue to be the engine of growth for the global
engine of growth for the global e A
engine of growth for the global oo 1] 11T
engine of growth for the global economy. So that starker
economy. So that starker R
economy. So that starker A
economy. So that starker LSRR8
economy. So that starker statistic is very much a
statistic is very much a 11
statistic is very much a reality check. We’ve been very
reality check. We’ve been very el
reality check. We’ve been very et I o 01
reality check. We’ve been very worried about China
reality check. We’ve been very G L = R FL
worried about China mainly T )
worried about China mainly TN RO R
worried about China mainly YN R R R
worried about China mainly YN RO R R ILRC s
because of the Covid related s
because of the Covid related impact but certainly these
impact but certainly these pre-pandemic structural issues
pre-pandemic structural issues il
pre-pandemic structural issues e Nk 4
pre-pandemic structural issues will come back to the
pre-pandemic structural issues R N E N G R R
will come back to the fore. Talk us through what those
Talk us through what those T
Talk us through what those issues are? Yeah. There are
issues are? Yeah. There are urll
issues are? Yeah. There are many issues of course that
many issues of course that LG
many issues of course that predated the pandemic. And of
predated the pandemic. And of e
predated the pandemic. And of e N N
predated the pandemic. And of e R Y
predated the pandemic. And of course one of those in Asian
course one of those in Asian populations, declining
populations, declining DA
populations, declining productivity. Another, of
productivity. Another, of course,
productivity. Another, of -
productivity. Another, of course, is debt sustainability.
course, is debt sustainability. Y1l
course, is debt sustainability. Local governments have been
Local governments have been very much worried about the
very much worried about the NI e
very much worried about the sustainable revenue,
IS CI G CRGCEL S particularly those
sustainable revenue, particularly those who are
particularly those who are reliant on land
particularly those who are AR LR
particularly those who are reliant on land sales. Another
reliant on land sales. Another XY
reliant on land sales. Another issue that
reliant on land sales. Another TR G E e 1Y
reliant on land sales. Another R (G E G G Y
reliant on land sales. Another RO R G G A
issue that has really been worrying markets in particular
worrying markets in particular FYe L
worrying markets in particular A E]
worrying markets in particular ARG
worrying markets in particular NI R
worrying markets in particular AR R
about China is that the property sector is very much
property sector is very much )
property sector is very much the engine of
property sector is very much QNGRS R
property sector is very much QRN GRS R G R]
property sector is very much QNGRS G R LR G TR
R DN R G U G RL R 1 =] I
R DN R G U G RL R 1 =] LI
the engine of growth in China. INGIER )
the engine of growth in China. NG sl
the engine of growth in China. LI N - R
the engine of growth in China. And as we had that property
And as we had that property sector slow down, we obviously
sector slow down, we obviously P
sector slow down, we obviously had that
sector slow down, we obviously YR A ]
sector slow down, we obviously Y R A ey B[ s
sector slow down, we obviously had that slow down impact on
had that slow down impact on )
had that slow down impact on the China economy generally. In
the China economy generally. In s
the China economy generally. In el
the China economy generally. In RO R
the China economy generally. In R R R I 882
the China economy generally. In terms of the property sector,
terms of the property sector, )
terms of the property sector, R A
terms of the property sector, R L]
terms of the property sector, R LR e
terms of the property sector, there was a lot said. We
there was a lot said. We a1
there was a lot said. We certainly reported extensively
certainly reported extensively ]
certainly reported extensively R
certainly reported extensively on the collapse of Evergrande,
on the collapse of Evergrande, )
on the collapse of Evergrande, the huge property conglomerate
the huge property conglomerate and
the huge property conglomerate AR
the huge property conglomerate and that kind
the huge property conglomerate IR A (R i
the huge property conglomerate and that kind of flagged up,
and that kind of flagged up, AR
and that kind of flagged up, LR
and that kind of flagged up, didn’t it, just how fragile the
didn’t it, just how fragile the sector
didn’t it, just how fragile the sector is. What’s being done
sector is. What’s being done FYe L
sector is. What’s being done about that?
sector is. What’s being done NG AL
sector is. What’s being done about that? The contagion
about that? The contagion effect
about that? The contagion i el
about that? The contagion N it e R ]
about that? The contagion N i T e R R )
about that? The contagion N T e R LR R
about that? The contagion effect has been the fear. Not
effect has been the fear. Not Wi\
effect has been the fear. Not QA GS
effect has been the fear. Not S G R
effect has been the fear. Not only pockets of developers and
only pockets of developers and how much they can survive, but
how much they can survive, but how
how much they can survive, but N ER GG )
how much they can survive, but N ER e G R e
how much they can survive, but how sustainable their debt,
how sustainable their debt, oElafatl F1aAY
how sustainable their debt, oElaa ot YA
how sustainable their debt, I E NG
how sustainable their debt, particularly on the financial
particularly on the financial - u (0 1o
particularly on the financial sector, will
particularly on the financial XYn (IR W TET3 |
particularly on the financial sector, will bring greater
sector, will bring greater Tl Ele
sector, will bring greater T e R {1
sector, will bring greater Il R (R T
sector, will bring greater I R IR GRS
sector, will bring greater impacts for the wider economy.
impacts for the wider economy. Now, we
impacts for the wider economy. V[T FATY
impacts for the wider economy. VIR FAV T |
impacts for the wider economy. Now, we have had very much a
Now, we have had very much a a7
Now, we have had very much a A
Now, we have had very much a policy - a
Now, we have had very much a s - B
Now, we have had very much a policy - a series policy -
policy - a series policy - X!
policy - a series policy - ARG
policy - a series policy - TN R
policy - a series policy - AN LR R E
policy - a series policy - issued in the last month or so
issued in the last month or so to Lift
issued In the last month or so to lift funding, the
GRS T GIL[ERG availability of
to lift funding, the availability of bank lending
availability of bank lending and
availability of bank lending IR e
availability of bank lending and other forms
availability of bank lending R i et
availability of bank lending and other forms of financing
and other forms of financing e
and other forms of financing TR
and other forms of financing for these developers. And,
for these developers. And, number
for these developers. And, R R
for these developers. And, number two, also
for these developers. And, UL S I G )
for these developers. And, number twe, also help for
number two, also help for mortgage borrowers. So for
mortgage borrowers. So for NS
mortgage borrowers. So for RN
mortgage borrowers. So for buyers and home buyers to help
buyers and home buyers to help them
buyers and home buyers to help R
buyers and home buyers to help QRN
buyers and home buyers to help them to buy property market
LT RO ( g s E T Gl again. So a
them to buy property market again. So a healthy growth in
again. So a healthy growth in )
again. So a healthy growth in ORI L8
again. So a healthy growth in the property sector is starting
the property sector is starting to
the property sector is starting el ezl
the property sector is starting to resurface. And
the property sector is starting R LR )
the property sector is starting to resurface. And we think that
to resurface. And we think that il
to resurface. And we think that should at
to resurface. And we think that G A T
to resurface. And we think that G Al R R )
should at least see the I e e
should at least see the property sector bottom out
property sector bottom out already.
property sector bottom out ECE LA
property sector bottom out already. Now we’ve mentioned
already. Now we’ve mentioned L]
already. Now we’ve mentioned LU
already. Now we’ve mentioned growth of 3% for
already. Now we’ve mentioned O R R IR {1
already. Now we’ve mentioned O R IR G LTI
already. Now we’ve mentioned growth of 3% for the year. Way
growth of 3% for the year. Way below 5.5% which of course
growth of 3% for the year. Way helow 5.5% which of course is
below 5.5% which of course Is )
below 5.5% which of course Is the government’s
below 5.5% which of course is the government’s target.
below 5.5% which of course is the government’s target. We
the government’s target. We G
the government’s target. We e Rl e
the government’s target. We R RGO e ke
the government’s target. We ARG R G hEa)
the government’s target. We know that wouldn’t be reached
know that wouldn’t be reached T )
know that wouldn’t be reached NN R
know that wouldn’t be reached because of the problem
know that wouldn’t be reached TR RO R GG
GV R R G TR GDLIET Ry €
because of the problem with LR LR
because of the problem with VIR LT 0]
because of the problem with IR LR R e Gl
Covid. There’s zero lockdown policies.
Covid. There’s zero lockdown {101
Covid. There’s zero lockdown policies. But the outlook,
Covid. There’s zero lockdown policies. But the outlock, what
policies. But the outlook, what il
policies. But the outlook, what R =R et a1
policies. But the outlook, what will the Communist Party do
will the Communist Party do going forward to stimulate that
going forward to stimulate that el
going forward to stimulate that R
going forward to stimulate that LRI )
going forward to stimulate that kind of growth again?
going forward to stimulate that R G EIR R
going forward to stimulate that kind of growth again? We know
kind of growth again? We know ooyl
kind of growth again? We know OOl
kind of growth again? We know [ RIS
kind of growth again? We know growth is once again back as
growth is once again back as )
growth is once again back as R eI
growth is once again back as the focus for
growth is once again back as R IR i
growth is once again back as R IR VA T A G
the focus for 2023. Now this 334
the focus for 2023. Now this a0
the focus for 2023. Now this IR A A
the focus for 2023. Now this XS A R
the focus for 2023. Now this XA A E
the focus for 2023. Now this AL R R E R a e g
the focus for 2023. Now this R AR DR E IR R L E T
set of Q4 GDP was better than many had feared. Of course, we
many had feared. Of course, we g
many had feared. Of course, we RO
many had feared. Of course, we knew the final months of Last
knew the final months of last Crld
knew the final months of last year was deeply painful,
year was deeply painful, particularly given very strict
particularly given very strict lockdowns and controls
particularly given very strict YR G s Me e ataat R e
lockdowns and controls were still in place. However, that
still in place. However, that TN
still in place. However, that ERA b
still in place. However, that iEE AR
still in place. However, that fast lifting of restrictions,
fast lifting of restrictions, EIad
fast lifting of restrictions, faster than many had
faster than many had anticipated, very much | think
anticipated, very much I think Y
anticipated, very much I think Y
anticipated, very much I think SR
anticipated, very much I think gives some hope that
anticipated, very much I think SR N R G A
anticipated, very much | think gives some hope that very early
gives some hope that very early ]
gives some hope that very early B
gives some hope that very early BRG]
gives some hope that very early NI R Rl
gives some hope that very early R R G R I El g
gives some hope that very early SRR RGP E G
gives some hope that very early LG ERIGTE R R Ul
on in the first quarter of this Crld
on in the first quarter of this year we’ll see some recovery in
year we’ll see some recovery in Elad\iv’E
year we’ll see some recovery in Ela i L]
year we’ll see some recovery in activity and many hope a
activity and many hope a consumption-led recovery and
consumption-led recovery and R
consumption-led recovery and EIR e
consumption-led recovery and that’s what’s been
consumption-led recovery and MR W R R
consumption-led recovery and that’s what’s been the outlook,
that’s what’s been the outlook, Y
that’s what’s been the outlook, a consumption-driven,
a consumption-driven, sentiment-driven recovery at
sentiment-driven recovery at e
sentiment-driven recovery at first. However, sentiment has
first. However, sentiment has L
first. However, sentiment has CELVA
first. However, sentiment has really been outpacing
really been outpacing fundamentals. What | mean by
fundamentals. What | mean by Tl
fundamentals. What | mean by GRS
fundamentals. What | mean by O AR
fundamentals. What | mean by W ARG IR Y
fundamentals. What | mean by W ARG R N E N
fundamentals. What | mean by that is that we have not seen
that is that we have not seen L
that is that we have not seen enough data yet to show
that is that we have not seen LG E ER S S R T
that is that we have not seen enough data yet to show us that
enough data yet to show us that Elad\iv’E
enough data yet to show us that activity is starting to pick
activity is starting to pick N
activity is starting to pick up, production
activity is starting to pick T AL Il
Cla 13 AR g dly ol (N ][e 4 up, production is starting
activity is starting to pick up, production is starting to
up, production is starting to "]lo.d
up, production is starting to QN
up, production is starting to ST Ao
up, production is starting to pick up. Of course, we are
pick up. Of course, we are (=N
pick up. Of course, we are having to face a slowing down
having to face a slowing down of
having to face a slowing down SRy
having to face a slowing down RGN
having to face a slowing down SR
having to face a slowing down RN R
having to face a slowing down of the rest of the global
of the rest of the global economy.
of the rest of the global N AR ]
of the rest of the global economy. Thank you. Good to
economy. Thank you. Good to e
economy. Thank you. Good to )
economy. Thank you. Good to | (SRR
economy. Thank you. Good to & LS GRS
economy. Thank you. Good to talk to you. Chief China
talk to you. Chief China e el a1
talk to you. Chief China e a1 o
talk to you. Chief China Xl
talk to you. Chief China economist at ICRC Standard
economist at ICBC Standard NI
IR G RV G Ty fo R Ty Y TS CE in some sectors are fighting
to keep their skilled workers.
The latest jobless numbers R NN A Rl
and they are expected to show that unemployment remains
at the record low level of 3.7% while employment
is expected to see another monthly increase.
I REN LN GRS Tl where workers can job hop
as firms struggle to find talent.
Gareth Vale is Operations Director of Manpower Group UK.
Good morning to you,
Good morning te you, Gareth.
Good morning to you, Gareth. You’ve just done a quite broad
You’ve just done a quite broad RS
You’ve just done a quite broad survey within the
You’ve just done a quite broad A G R G LY
You’ve just done a quite broad survey within the jobs market
survey within the jobs market 3
survey within the jobs market inthe UK to
survey within the jobs market in the UK to sort of
survey within the jobs market RGN GO R e e e )
in the UK to sort of outline what’s ahead
in the UK to sort of outline N W - F R
in the UK to sort of outline O LR QIR |
in the UK to sort of outline what’s ahead this year. What
what’s ahead this year. What ey
what’s ahead this year. What R L
what’s ahead this year. What were your findings? Yeah.
were your findings? Yeah. Manpower Group’s survey found
Manpower Group’’s survey found )
Manpower Group’’s survey found e
Manpower Group’s survey found )
Manpower Group’s survey found there is a calling in the jobs
there is a calling in the jobs market
there is a calling in the jobs I ¢ e Tt
there is a calling in the jobs IR R e
there is a calling in the jobs IE R N
there is a calling in the jobs IR R e el
market but there is still intent to
market but there is still Rich R eN e
market but there is still R RN e a1
market but there is still intent to hire across pretty
intent to hire across pretty St 1ile1]
intent to hire across pretty TR G
intent to hire across pretty much every sector and
DI R TR T TR0 e’) much every sector and every
much every sector and every region in the UK. There’s a war
region in the UK. There’s a war e 4
region in the UK. There’s a war for talent out
region in the UK. There’s a war TR RN e
region in the UK. There’s a war for talent out there. And
for talent out there. And organisations
IR EICHI R R G IR organisations are having
IR EICH ST R G IR organisations are having to
organisations are having to think
organisations are having to OISR VAL
organisations are having to O A VAR R
organisations are having to think creatively, ins of not
think creatively, ins of not just a
think creatively, ins of not MR
think creatively, ins of not TSI R
think creatively, ins of not TSR GO
think creatively, ins of not just a --in terms of not just
just @ --in terms of not just retention, but attraction. Many
retention, but attraction. Many LT
retention, but attraction. Many N S
retention, but attraction. Many businesses have got this leaky
businesses have got this leaky e 18
businesses have got this leaky bucket analogy where they’re
bucket analogy where they’re o]
bucket analogy where they’re e R N
bucket analogy where they’re D R EL LR G R
bucket analogy where they’re putting lots and lots of people
putting lots and lots of people in
putting lots and lots of people TRy
putting lots and lots of people in the top and losing too many
in the top and losing too many 1
in the top and losing too many R )
in the top and losing too many RN je
in the top and losing too many at the bottom. So |
in the top and losing too many RGN R R
at the bottom. So | think organisations are having to
organisations are having to T
organisations are having to invest in training, in
invest in training, in development. They’re thinking
development. They’re thinking FYe L
development. They’re thinking YR ]
development. They’re thinking about how they can
development. They’re thinking E[ A RS AL s
about how they can better ae el s
about how they can better connect with
about how they can better e R
about how they can better connect with their employees
connect with their employees I
connect with their employees GBS
connect with their employees through their purpose
connect with their employees QIO RO D TRy )
through their purpose and I
through their purpose and GBS
through their purpose and QIR GRS N
through their purpose and through their vision. Some
through their vision. Some organisations are thinking
organisations are thinking Y0
organisations are thinking YR ]
organisations are thinking about how they can better
about how they can better protect
about how they can better e R G
about how they can better protect their workers
about how they can better IO R UL COE
about how they can better e R G IR R R AL
protect their workers as well I
protect their workers as well through longer-term notice
through longer-term notice IR
through longer-term notice periods. And salary is a
through longer-term notice L N L T F IR R D]
periods. And salary is a big i
periods. And salary is a big RO
periods. And salary is a big point there as
periods. And salary is a big NSO
periods. And salary is a big point there as well. It needs
point there as well. It needs to
point there as well. It needs R
point there as well. It needs to be competitive and
point there as well. It needs N R U U S
point there as well. It needs to be competitive and needs to
to be competitive and needs to W
to be competitive and needs to compete against the market.
compete against the market. 3
compete against the market. Cost of living of course is
Cost of Living of course s very much
Cost of Living of course is very much on the minds of most
very much on the minds of most people and wages is important.
people and wages is important. e
people and wages is important. SR s
people and wages is important. But what you’re
people and wages is important. LAY TR NN
people and wages is important. LAY AN RH
people and wages is important. AT E ANV RERT
But what you’re saying Is in ey
But what you’re saying Is in R e e )
But what you’re saying Is in NI R e h e R Y
But what you’re saying Is in R e e R e R
But what you’re saying Is in these sectors where there is a
these sectors where there is a ¥
these sectors where there is a real fight for talent is not
real fight for talent is not just about wages, is it?
just about wages, is It? T R
just about wages, is It? T R
just about wages, is It? There’s lots of other
just about wages, is it? There’s lots of other factors
There’s lots of other factors that
There’s lots of other factors Ela i
There’s lots of other factors eI IR s]
There’s lots of other factors that will retain talent? No.
that will retain talent? No. VO INe)
that will retain talent? No. You’re absolutely
that will retain talent? No. VNSO AT
that will retain talent? No. You’re absolutely right. So
You’re absolutely right. So pay’s
You’re absolutely right. So pay’s not
You’re absolutely right. So pay’s not keeping
You’re absolutely right. So pay’s not keeping pace
You’re absolutely right. So pay’s not keeping pace with
pay’s not keeping pace with inflation, which is putting
inflation, which is putting T
inflation, which is putting pressure on households. And for
pressure on households. And for )
pressure on households. And for i)
pressure on households. And for IR U ER N
pressure on households. And for some the only way to get a
some the only way to get a )
some the only way to get a payrise in line
some the only way to get a EV RN R
some the only way to get a payrise in line with inflation
payrise in line with inflation s
payrise in line with inflation TR )
payrise in line with inflation (R E [ OE]
payrise in line with inflation Rl OE AR
payrise in line with inflation is to actually leave their
is to actually leave their organisation. But | think
organisation. But I think there’s
organisation. But I think R E
organisation. But I think RO E e
organisation. But I think there’s mane other factors
organisation. But I think R L N R e R
there’s mane other factors that Py
there’s mane other factors that are driving
there’s mane other factors that are driving jobseekers at the
are driving jobseekers at the i
are driving jobseekers at the moment. |
are driving jobseekers at the R R
are driving jobseekers at the moment. | think they’re looking
moment. | think they’re looking e
moment. | think they’re looking T e ]
moment. | think they’re looking for more flexibility. People
for more flexibility. People IO
for more flexibility. People through Covid
for more flexibility. People G NG
for more flexibility. People through Covid got used to
through Covid got used to ]
through Covid got used to LA
through Covid got used to working in different patterns.
working in different patterns. Different locations and
Different locations and e e 4
Different locations and different hours. |
NN L R D) different hours. | think career
different hours. | think career progression is obviously
progression is obviously i1
progression is obviously critical. As | say, businesses
critical. As | say, businesses Py
critical. As | say, businesses RN G
critical. As | say, businesses are investing more
critical. As | say, businesses CICANES RN
critical. As | say, businesses are investing more in training
are investing more in training and development. |
are investing more in training G AU SR QLS
are investing more in training and development. | think the
and development. | think the )
and development. | think the whole kind of values-driven
whole kind of values-driven (12
whole kind of values-driven o
whole kind of values-driven piece - getting businesses
piece - getting businesses el
piece - getting businesses R
piece - getting businesses connected to purpose
piece - getting businesses W R R
piece - getting businesses connected to purpose - is
connected to purpose - is agisre1l
connected to purpose - Is critical again. And just in
critical again. And just in s
critical again. And just in R
critical again. And just in terms of support. Seo,
critical again. And just in terms of support. Se, you
critical again. And just in terms of support. So, you know,
terms of support. So, you know, that
terms of support. So, you know, L e Tl
terms of support. So, you know, that could be technology, it
that could be technology, it i
that could be technology, it e GE
that could be technology, it could be having the right
could be having the right T3
could be having the right TN
could be having the right processes in place, but it
processes in place, but it could
processes in place, but it TR
processes in place, but it could be having the right
could be having the right support
TGN RN R G R support when
TGN RN R G R I e R LN R GG
could be having the right support when things don’t go so
support when things don’t go so ol
support when things don’t go so s
support when things don’t go so R (G
support when things don’t go so well as well. I’m thinking
well as well. I’m thinking around
well as well. I’m thinking Y sl el
well as well. I’m thinking Y et e e T hda]
well as well. I’m thinking around mental health and
around mental health and supporting
around mental health and I LRI e
around mental health and SR RO
supporting employers when SR
supporting employers when they’re struggling. Those are
they’re struggling. Those are )
they’re struggling. Those are N R
they’re struggling. Those are some of the key factors
some of the key factors LG
some of the key factors LG
some of the key factors jobseekers are looking for.
jobseekers are looking for. e
jobseekers are looking for. ILELIS
jobseekers are looking for. Thank you very much, Gareth. We
Thank you very much, Gareth. We [ oL
Thank you very much, Gareth. We E[ LR 1
Thank you very much, Gareth. We appreciate that. When we get
appreciate that. When we get )
appreciate that. When we get R e
appreciate that. When we get R e
appreciate that. When we get R R R G
appreciate that. When we get the numbers, in terms of
the numbers, in terms of unemployment
the numbers, in terms of U S E R ES
the numbers, in terms of U SR T R (s
the numbers, in terms of unemployment numbers for the
unemployment numbers for the IR
unemployment numbers for the UK, we’ll update you. Last time
UK, we’ll update you. Last time )
UK, we’ll update you. Last time s Na et e
UK, we’ll update you. Last time ATt e Ta )
UK, we’ll update you. Last time R R R L
UK, we’ll update you. Last time the numbers came out, there was
the numbers came out, there was I
the numbers came out, there was quite a big difference between
quite a big difference between )
quite a big difference between RN
quite a big difference between the pay of those
quite a big difference between G RV ARG RN]
quite a big difference between the pay of those in the private
the pay of those in the private and public sector. So we’ll
the pay of those in the private and public sector. So we’ll see
and public sector. So we’ll see if
and public sector. So we’ll see T ET T
and public sector. So we’ll see R R
and public sector. So we’ll see if that is a
and public sector. So we’ll see R F I e s als 0l-Tel
and public sector. So we’ll see R G AR s TR s
The boss of the Bank of England is warning
there is still a "hangover effect” from the financial
instability seen during the prime ministership of
Andrew Bailey told MPs the cost of government borrowing,
which soared after the mini-budget, had normalised
but international investors are still wary about lending
money to the UK government.
Joining me now is Jane Foley, Head of FX Strateqy at Rabobank
Good morning, Jane. Lovely to T
Good morning, Jane. Lovely to RN
Good morning, Jane. Lovely to see you. Good
Good morning, Jane. Lovely to IR TG R nIE
Good morning, Jane. Lovely to see you. Good morning. So not
see you. Good morning. So not eI
see you. Good morning. So not surprised to hear
see you. Good morning. So not LR IR G
see you. Good morning. So not surprised to hear this warning
surprised to hear this warning coming
surprised to hear this warning iR
surprised to hear this warning coming from Andrew Bailey. He
coming from Andrew Bailey. He got a grilling by politicians
got a grilling by politicians GGV
got a grilling by politicians yesterday, didn’t he? Where he
yesterday, didn’t he? Where he Y
yesterday, didn’t he? Where he LR e R
yesterday, didn’t he? Where he Y LR Rl
yesterday, didn’t he? Where he revealed there’s still a
yesterday, didn’t he? Where he LRG| R
yesterday, didn’t he? Where he LR G I CR [ER E
revealed there’s still a lot of o]
revealed there’s still a lot of concern out
revealed there’s still a lot of e R )
concern out there internationally?
concern out there NSO EL R
concern out there internationally? He did say
internationally? He did say that.
internationally? He did say LI
internationally? He did say that. Of course, if we look at
that. Of course, If we look at )
that. Of course, if we look at the interest
that. Of course, if we look at A N E T )
that. Of course, if we look at A Rae ]
that. Of course, if we look at IR A R Y
the interest rate on these government
the interest rate on these N Y [
the interest rate on these government debts, what we see
government debts, what we see s
government debts, what we see is interest
government debts, what we see TR R A
government debts, what we see TR AR TR
government debts, what we see is interest rates have come
Is Interest rates have come Ll
s interest rates have come s PR L
s interest rates have come down. That basically means that
down. That basically means that T e
down. That basically means that RNk
down. That basically means that investors aren’t demanding
down. That basically means that investors aren’t demanding the
investors aren’t demanding the e
investors aren’t demanding the e
investors aren’t demanding the g A
investors aren’t demanding the sort of premiums that they were
sort of premiums that they were after
sort of premiums that they were )
sort of premiums that they were after the Liz Trus debacle in
after the Liz Trus debacle in )
after the Liz Trus debacle in e[ 101d
after the Liz Trus debacle in BRI
after the Liz Trus debacle in MO E a LEE
after the Liz Trus debacle in MO E LA
the debt market. There’s lots N
the debt market. There’s lots N
the debt market. There’s lots At e e e
the debt market. There’s lots N e R e
the debt market. There’s lots of other concerns for potential
of other concerns for potential I
of other concerns for potential IR
of other concerns for potential SN
of other concerns for potential buyers of government debt,
buyers of government debt, oElafatl F1aAY
buyers of government debt, ol FVADY
buyers of government debt, particularly in a country like
particularly in a country like )
particularly in a country like the UK.
particularly in a country like R R R e )
particularly in a country like U R R T R )
the UK. That’s because the government
the UK. That’s because the M
the UK. That’s because the government is selling from its
government is selling from its balance sheet an awful lot of
balance sheet an awful lot of )
balance sheet an awful lot of e[ 101d
balance sheet an awful lot of N o i
balance sheet an awful lot of N B Tana i
balance sheet an awful lot of N B lans IR ]
balance sheet an awful lot of the debt it accrued when it was
the debt it accrued when it was doing quantitative easing.
doing quantitative easing. There’s an awful Lot
doing quantitative easing. There’s an awful lot of supply.
There’s an awful lot of supply. TR )
There’s an awful lot of supply. RN
There’s an awful lot of supply. MR Rl
There’s an awful lot of supply. Plus the fact we have a
There’s an awful lot of supply. MR R i E e
There’s an awful lot of supply. Plus the fact we have a lot of
Plus the fact we have a lot of 114
Plus the fact we have a lot of o[ o s
Plus the fact we have a lot of 1 AR
Plus the fact we have a lot of (1 R4
Plus the fact we have a lot of 1 AR R ]
Plus the fact we have a lot of (1 AR R R
Plus the fact we have a lot of 1 ABNEG R LR
LML GER VLR G E e
LML GER VLR G E there’s a
debt in the UK and that means RN
debt in the UK and that means R
LML GER VLR G E there’s a lot of supply from
there’s a lot of supply from that
there’s a lot of supply from LR
there’s a lot of supply from eI h
there’s a lot of supply from that too. While we’re through
that too. While we’re through perhaps the hump, if
that too. While we’re through U RGN P R
that too. While we’re through perhaps the hump, if you like,
perhaps the hump, if you like, in
perhaps the hump, if you like, AL
perhaps the hump, if you like, R Ra
perhaps the hump, if you like, RN R R 4
perhaps the hump, if you like, RN ARG R Y
perhaps the hump, if you like, in interest rates that we had
in interest rates that we had in
in interest rates that we had TRy
In interest rates that we had in the autumn,
In interest rates that we had RGOl iR 4 14
In interest rates that we had RGO PR G R -
in the autumn, that there’s still
in the autumn, that there’s S
in the autumn, that there’s (R
in the autumn, that there’s still a lot of
in the autumn, that there’s still a Lot of concerns.
in the autumn, that there’s still a lot of concerns. But,
still a lot of concerns. But, you
still a lot of concerns. But, IR GA
still a lot of concerns. But, you know, because we’re through
you know, because we’re through that hump, what we have seen is
that hump, what we have seen is Y
that hump, what we have seen is A
that hump, what we have seen is A
that hump, what we have seen is a lot of fixed-rate mortgage
R RV LR ELCR e GED R
a lot of fixed-rate mortgage IRy
a lot of fixed-rate mortgage IR e e )
a lot of fixed-rate mortgage IR e A e
a lot of fixed-rate mortgage deals have come lower over
a lot of fixed-rate mortgage IR e LR R R
deals have come lower over the i
deals have come lower over the last couple of months and that
last couple of months and that of
last couple of months and that R
last couple of months and that A eI G
last couple of months and that SR R g
last couple of months and that SR R s
last couple of months and that of course is better news for
of course is better news for many
of course Is better news for many people out there today.
many people out there today. ‘(XN
many people out there today. ‘XM
many people out there today. 'CELMEEI R
many people out there today. Yeah, | mean, that is a bit of
Yeah, | mean, that is a bit of TS
Yeah, | mean, that is a bit of SR
Yeah, | mean, that is a bit of SRR
Yeah, | mean, that is a bit of S A LT
Yeah, | mean, that is a bit of S AR LY Eh e
relief for some. The Bank of England is continuing with the
England is continuing with the monthly meetings. We’ll see
monthly meetings. We’ll see vty
monthly meetings. We’ll see what happens at the next one.
what happens at the next one. T
what happens at the next one. It’s expected rates will
It’s expected rates will o e e
It’s expected rates will o e TR
It’s expected rates will continue to go up for a while,
continue to go up for a while, isn’t
continue to go up for a while, isn’t it, Jane? Talk us through
isn’t it, Jane? Talk us through vty
isn’t it, Jane? Talk us through IR 4
isn’t it, Jane? Talk us through N R e
isn’t it, Jane? Talk us through N R E CRe
what that means for RIS E e
what that means for international investors ?
international investors? )
international investors? Because that’s
international investors? A N R U SR A T AN LD
Because that’s attractive, isn’t it?
Because that’s attractive, i di A EIe
Because that’s attractive, i dieArEIes
Because that’s attractive, isn’t it? Talk us through the
isn’t it? Talk us through the )
isn’t it? Talk us through the N 2
isn’t it? Talk us through the IR R
isn’t it? Talk us through the Z R R R LI
isn’t it? Talk us through the value of the pound at
isn’t it? Talk us through the RGN L RO
LN QTN o g moment? That is
value of the pound at the moment? That is attractive and
moment? That is attractive and )
moment? That is attractive and N %] 4
moment? That is attractive and . i
moment? That is attractive and the Bank of England is widely
the Bank of England is widely |
the Bank of England is widely Ao TR o)
the Bank of England is widely Qe R RN
the Bank of England is widely expected to put up
the Bank of England is widely SR R R
expected to put up interest Iy
expected to put up interest CIANG
expected to put up interest rates by half
expected to put up interest EICR AR
expected to put up interest IR AR
SO LTa R TV AT Bl (01 rates by half of one percentage
rates by half of one percentage i
rates by half of one percentage point in February and perhaps
point in February and perhaps o
point in February and perhaps go again later on into the
go again later on into the ey g
go again later on into the winter and
go again later on into the I e a s R
go again later on into the R R ]
go again later on into the winter and to the spring. That
winter and to the spring. That T
winter and to the spring. That has an impact on variable rate
has an impact on variable rate mortgages but fixed rate
mortgages but fixed rate mortgages, which are looking at
mortgages, which are looking at NI
mortgages, which are looking at A
mortgages, which are looking at R A Rl
mortgages, which are looking at interest rates, will not worry
interest rates, will not worry FYe L
I CIC ST T gl I
I CIC ST T gl YR e
I CIC ST T gl about that. It should be a
interest rates, will not worry about that. It should be a bit
about that. It should be a bit e
about that. It should be a bit T e e )
about that. It should be a bit e o R e
about that. It should be a bit more attractive when short-term
more attractive when short-term interest
more attractive when short-term R AR
more attractive when short-term interest rates go up. The
more attractive when short-term NACSEEICEI AL
interest rates go up. The Bank of England was finding it
of England was finding it slailatlid
of England was finding it difficult to attract too
of England was finding it O G MR LRI EL
difficult to attract toe many T e
difficult to attract toe many T R a1 re]
difficult to attract toe many investors into sterling
difficult to attract toe many NS RN GRS LN
investors into sterling and R T
investors into sterling and R IR N
investors into sterling and MBI N A
investors into sterling and that’s because of the outlook
that’s because of the outlook e
that’s because of the outlook TR
that’s because of the outlook for the economy.
that’s because of the outlook R G AR
that’s because of the outlook for the economy. We may have
for the economy. We may have P sl
for the economy. We may have avoided recession into the end
aveided recession into the end N
aveided recession into the end of last
aveided recession into the end A A
avoided recession into the end of last year here in the UK
of last year here in the UK but e
of last year here in the UK but it is
of last year here in the UK but 148G
of last year here in the UK but it is very likely that we’re
it is very likely that we’re L
it is very likely that we’re going to hit recession
it is very likely that we’re VIR RS RS
going to hit recession this T
going to hit recession this Y I el ]
going to hit recession this I U R L
going to hit recession this year. Growth does look bad. The
year. Growth does look bad. The fundamentals are very sour. And
fundamentals are very sour. And R
fundamentals are very sour. And that’s something that is still
that’s something that is still dampening the LkJhLkJhLk]h
that’s something that is still dampening the LkJhLkJhLkJh look
dampening the LkJhLkJhLk]h look e
dampening the LkJhLk]hLk]h look T ]
dampening the LkJhLk]hLk]h look for the pound.
dampening the LkJhLk]hLk]h look R GER LA
dampening the LkJhLk]hLk]h look for the pound. OK, Jane. —-
dampening the LkJhLk]hLk]h look for the pound. OK, Jane. -- the
for the pound. OK, Jane. -- the a4
for the pound. OK, Jane. -- the i @id
for the pound. OK, Jane. -- the outlook for the pound.
for the pound. OK, Jane. -- the S IR G R T e
outlook for the pound. OK, Jane. Thank you.
Stay with us on BBC News.
VR ] out what are the latest
consumer trends that will shape
what we buy and sell RGN RN
Donald Trump is now the 45th President of the United States.
He was sworn in before several hundred thousand people
on the steps of Capitol Hill in Washington.
It’s going to be IR
Demonstrators N LR LCRE il
were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
Anti-Apartheid campaigners say
AN 1R R G LR G throughout the tour.
They called him BRI RN L
Klaus Altmann is being held on a fraud charge in Bolivia.
The West Germans want to extradite him
for crimes committed in wartime France.
There, he was the Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie.
Millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot -
a tide of humanity QRSB RG] G
This is BBC World News, AR R L S
A constitutional showdown In
A constitutional showdown in )
A constitutional showdown in i
A constitutional showdown in e
A constitutional showdown in U GCRGT
A constitutional showdown in the UK is the British Prime
the UK is the British Prime YR
the UK is the British Prime Minister says
QTN QORG-S W] Minister says he will block
the UK is the British Prime N QR R T T
Minister says he will block the IS
Minister says he will block the gender recognition
Minister says he will block the LRI
Minister says he will block the gender recognition bill passed
gender recognition bill passed hy
gender recognition bill passed by the
LG T R R T by the Scottish
LG T R R T RGO I E L
gender recognition bill passed by the Scottish Parliament. And
by the Scottish Parliament. And Britain’s
Andy Murray Is battling
Andy Murray is battling it out on centre court on
Andy Murray is battling it out B N e R
Andy Murray is battling it out on centre court on the second
on centre court on the second day of the Australian Open.
Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, is weaponising
Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, is weaponising
food, and the impact of that is being felt around
the world, the boss of one of the world’s biggest
fertiliser companies has warned.
Speaking to the BBC’s economics editor Faisal Islam
at the start of the World T AR ORI AN
the boss of Yara International, Svein Tore Holsether,
said the world needs to reduce its dependency
on Russia, after the shock to the global supply and cost
of food after its invasion of &N
Vladimir Putin has weaponised 0
Vladimir Putin has weaponised energy and they are weaponising
energy and they are weaponising Tl
energy and they are weaponising I
energy and they are weaponising R N
energy and they are weaponising IR Y
energy and they are weaponising DI T )
energy and they are weaponising food as well. For me once,
food as well. For me once, 12 1)
food as well. For me once, Nl
food as well. For me once, LB TR
food as well. For me once, LR L TR e
food as well. For me once, shame on you, twice, shame on
shame on you, twice, shame on Ty
shame on you, twice, shame on |
shame on you, twice, shame on TR i)
shame on you, twice, shame on me and with energy we are built
me and with energy we are built ]
me and with energy we are built B aeTwetle
me and with energy we are built R aetwetle N ls]
me and with energy we are built on infrastructure in Europe on
on infrastructure in Europe on cheap Russian gas and we see
cheap Russian gas and we see )
cheap Russian gas and we see the consequences
cheap Russian gas and we see RN TN
cheap Russian gas and we see the consequences and the cost
the consequences and the cost N
the consequences and the cost AT
the consequences and the cost MRGE
the consequences and the cost of that right now. With food
of that right now. With food and fertiliser. Half of the
and fertiliser. Half of the ey
and fertiliser. Half of the world’s food
and fertiliser. Half of the world’s food production depends
world’s food production depends on
world’s food production depends on fertiliser and
world’s food production depends R R hi
world’s food production depends MBI LR R
world’s food production depends on fertiliser and if we see
on fertiliser and if we see e
on fertiliser and if we see significant disruptions that is
significant disruptions that is Y
significant disruptions that is Rl
significant disruptions that is a powerful weapon. And you
a powerful weapon. And you think Russia
a powerful weapon. And you AR
a powerful weapon. And you QIS ER T |
a powerful weapon. And you think Russia is using it for
think Russia Is using it for leveraged? Of course. And we
leveraged? Of course. And we Saw
leveraged? Of course. And we ¥ R
leveraged? Of course. And we 1R G EI T
leveraged? Of course. And we saw that early in the war both
saw that early in the war both on
saw that early in the war both oh sanctions
saw that early in the war both on sanctions and
saw that early in the war both MR el A R
saw that early in the war both on sanctions and the threat
saw that early in the war both MR i R R Tl e
on sanctions and the threat to withhold and that is a
withhold and that is a i e e
withhold and that is a different reality than in the
different reality than in the past decade. So we cannot go
past decade. So we cannot go back to that again. And what
back to that again. And what could
back to that again. And what T R a1
back to that again. And what could this mean for
back to that again. And what R ICRtEaRie s e el
could this mean for food supplies
could this mean for food R
could this mean for food supplies in Europe and the
supplies in Europe and the developing world? These are
developing world? These are global markets so the impact is
global markets so the impact is VL
global markets so the impact is being felt everywhere
global markets so the impact is VNS W ECE L
being felt everywhere and Russia
being felt everywhere and AR )
being felt everywhere and Russia is the world’s
being felt everywhere and Russia is the world’s largest
Russia is the world’s largest g
Russia is the world’s largest IR
Russia is the world’s largest R R g U
Russia is the world’s largest LRI R )
Russia is the world’s largest AR IR Rl
exporter of fertiliser so it il
exporter of fertiliser so it IR
exporter of fertiliser so it I EYZ G E
exporter of fertiliser so it will have global implications
will have global implications and
will have global implications NGRS
will have global implications LR )
will have global implications NG R e
will have global implications RO R N
will have global implications RO R R R A
will have global implications and we see some of that on
will have global implications R R B NI R AL e R
and we see some of that on the disruption already and there is
disruption already and there is Y
disruption already and there is PRl
disruption already and there is LR e
disruption already and there is a need for Russian
disruption already and there is N LR AR a1 1e
a need for Russian fertiliser 3
a need for Russian fertiliser R R R ]
a need for Russian fertiliser in Europe to maintain global
in Europe to maintain global Tl
in Europe to maintain global food production
in Europe to maintain global LRI sl 101
in Europe to maintain global food production but my message
food production but my message 70
food production but my message Y
food production but my message AT R R i
food production but my message here is that we also
food production but my message T N RGUE R L N
food production but my message here is that we also need to
here is that we also need to think
here is that we also need to e 2
here is that we also need to GRS
here is that we also need to GO R N T4s
here is that we also need to think of the next phase to
think of the next phase to s [11e)
think of the next phase to s e -3 s |
think of the next phase to e o)
think of the next phase to e IR )
think of the next phase to reduce and avoid the dependency
reduce and avoid the dependency ]
reduce and avoid the dependency on Russia
reduce and avoid the dependency NN R e )
reduce and avoid the dependency on Russia because when it
reduce and avoid the dependency MR TN s A
on Russia because when it is VL
on Russia because when it is VLG
on Russia because when it is being used as
on Russia because when it is VNGRS RELE]
on Russia because when it is being used as a weapon in wall
being used as a weapon in wall Y
being used as a weapon in wall we cannot go
being used as a weapon in wall XN [ F1d 4
being used as a weapon in wall we cannot go back to how it
we cannot go back to how it M5!
we cannot go back to how it used to be. He is now at the
used to be. He is now at the el
used to be. He is now at the World Economic Forum
ETals
R
DR - B-F]s
DR R -1l e
and we will hear more as the week progresses.
Now, he invented a gadget in his garage that is now
being used by millions of people in their homes
Jamie Siminoff is the entrepreneur who developed
the Ring wireless doorbell that works with your phone.
His business advice might surprise you.
My advice Is
My advice is to not
My advice Is to not take
My advice is to not take advice.
T
We are all unique in
We are all unigue in this
We are all unique in this journey.
We are all unique in this G AL ]
We are all unique in this G AT L]
We are all unique in this journey. Creating a business is
journey. Creating a business is S
journey. Creating a business is like a fingerprint. It is our
like a fingerprint. It is our own
like a fingerprint. It is our s
like a fingerprint. It is our own and unique to who we are.
own and unique to who we are. We
own and unique to who we are. Y
own and unigue to who we are. We take advice
own and unigue to who we are. R VWil s |
own and unigue to who we are. We take advice and we
own and unigue to who we are. R VWi la LR R )
own and unigue to who we are. We take advice and we take what
We take advice and we take what happens to someone else with a
happens to someone else with a e e 4
happens to someone else with a I
happens to someone else with a I B R e lga st i3 e o
different set of circumstances and apply
different set of circumstances LG IEY ] AL
different set of circumstances LRI AR )
different set of circumstances RGN VAR X e
different set of circumstances and apply it to our business.
and apply it to our business. i
and apply it to our business. T
and apply it to our business. IR
and apply it to our business. [ (W TN ET)
and apply it to our business. It will never overlap directly.
It will never overlap directly. i
It will never overlap directly. ELhTe
It will never overlap directly. EGTE G
It will never overlap directly. BTG G R
It will never overlap directly. | think the mistake that
| think the mistake that entrepreneurs make is that they
entrepreneurs make is that they )
entrepreneurs make Is that they R e ls|
entrepreneurs make Is that they take that and apply it directly
take that and apply it directly to
take that and apply it directly RGN Y
take that and apply it directly to their journey and what they
to their journey and what they Py
to their journey and what they are trying to accomplish this
are trying to accomplish this 3
are trying to accomplish this TR L4
are trying to accomplish this R AT
are trying to accomplish this is what you should do which is
Is what you should do which is iG]
Is what you should do which is learn from it and learn
Is what you should do which is IR iRl -1t Riat 1]
learn from it and learn from everyone else, read books and
everyone else, read books and adjust the information so that
adjust the information so that you can then
adjust the information so that IR L RO I
adjust the information so that IR LRGN 1
adjust the information so that RS LRGN R G R )
adjust the information so that you can then use that to make
you can then use that to make )
you can then use that to make N3
you can then use that to make the best decision
you can then use that to make N A SR e
you can then use that to make N R AR 1018
the best decision for your unigue
the best decision for your THILOERLEITG Y
the best decision for your TGO RN
the best decision for your LGS L R LR
unique journey and where you e
unique journey and where you want to go to
unigue journey and where you want to go to on your mission
want to go to on your mission on
want to go to on your mission R
want to go to on your mission B TEN
want to go to on your mission B A VL
want to go to on your mission on your business and what you
on your business and what you e
on your business and what you want to
on your business and what you N A
on your business and what you N R e
on your business and what you want to achieve. When you
on your business and what you R O R LU LU [
want to achieve. When you do that
want to achieve. When you do LR
want to achieve. When you do WEIRO A
want to achieve. When you do that that is when you can have
that that is when you can have )
that that is when you can have the biggest success in the best
the biggest success in the best Attt
the biggest success in the best cutcome. Some
the biggest success in the best outcome. Some top tips there.
outcome. Some top tips there. *FYed
outcome. Some top tips there. Y S
outcome. Some top tips there. SIS e ile
outcome. Some top tips there. ISR T a0
outcome. Some top tips there. P S R TR R Tne Y
Part of our CEOs secrets e
It may be the age of artificial intelligence, but people
still seek out a human connection when it comes
to parting with their money.
The Global Consumer Trends report out today from
Euromonitor International says that people and machines
will have to work together IR RGN R i
consumers will expect.
Online shopping is also undergoing a people led
revolution, general browsing and researching products online
is in decline, with many consumers shifting to social
media sites such as TikTok and Instagram for trends
and user generated recommendations.
Joining me now is Alison Angus, Head of Practice Innovation
and Research, Euromonitor NG
R A a1
A welcome to the programme. i
A welcome to the programme. Tell us more. | admit | am
A welcome to the programme. Tell us more. | admitl am a
Tell us more. | admit I am a T T T
Tell us more. | admit | am a IR
Tell us more. | admit | am a NI R
Tell us more. | admit I am a N R L E)
Tell us more. | admit lam a technophobe so | always seek
technophobe so | always seek e
technophobe so | always seek )
technophobe so | always seek NG el
technophobe so | always seek NG Wl .10
technophobe so | always seek out the human. But what
technophobe so | always seek ARG E I R e e
technophobe so | always seek RGN E I R IR
out the human. But what are we LG
out the human. But what are we doing? There are a number of
doing? There are a number of things
doing? There are a number of QIR
doing? There are a number of things and |
doing? There are a number of things and I think, firstly, we
things and I think, firstly, we have what
things and I think, firstly, we R i E ]
things and I think, firstly, we R R R Rt ]
things and I think, firstly, we T R R R R el
have what the trend calls el
have what the trend calls control and scroll. We have had
contrel and scroll. We have had enough
contrel and scroll. We have had LI
control and scroll. We have had enough of mindlessly
control and scroll. We have had QIR W I AT ]
enough of mindlessly browsing and searching to find what we
and searching to find what we %1\
and searching to find what we A
and searching to find what we really want and
and searching to find what we CE AR LR
and searching to find what we really want and we are
and searching to find what we A LR IR d
really want and we are wasting Y
really want and we are wasting A
really want and we are wasting A
really want and we are wasting PR R R
really want and we are wasting a lot of time and not being
3 lot of time and not being O e AN
a lot of time and not being productive. So we are looking
productive. So we are looking to
productive. So we are looking N TN
productive. So we are looking to business to
productive. So we are looking TN R GG
productive. So we are looking to business to help us get
to business to help us get right
to business to help us get iR
to business to help us get right to the point and where we
right to the point and where we need to be. This
right to the point and where we RN R
right to the point and where we need to be. This comes back to
need to be. This comes back to your comment on artificial
your comment on artificial intelligence. Companies are
intelligence. Companies are WER b
intelligence. Companies are investing in Al as
intelligence. Companies are WS RLE LY
intelligence. Companies are investing in Al as a priority
investing in Al as a priority T )
investing in Al as a priority because with that
investing in Al as a priority TR ORGSO
investing in Al as a priority TR U R U R O G
investing in Al as a priority because with that they are able
because with that they are able to tailor what consumers want
to tailor what consumers want )
to tailor what consumers want so they can
to tailor what consumers want ROV EE [
to tailor what consumers want so they can get right to the
so they can get right to the (i
so they can get right to the I
so they can get right to the LI L)
so they can get right to the LR
so they can get right to the point. In a recent survey
so they can get right to the LR S GO AL
point. In a recent survey we el
point. In a recent survey we e R Tt
point. In a recent survey we carried out amongst industry
carried out amongst industry professionals over 40% said
professionals over 40% said that their companies
professionals over 40% said OEI R G R E R R
that their companies were TN
QT Gy o R T ICIR T investing more in those
investing more in those technology solutions such as Al
technology solutions such as Al T )
technology solutions such as Al because consumers
technology solutions such as Al N N e R e .
because consumers wanted. As you say
because consumers wanted. As IET VA
because consumers wanted. As you say is that just to save us
you say is that just to save us Y
you say is that just to save us A
you say is that just to save us A
you say is that just to save us PR R R
you say is that just to save us a lot of time and that is
a lot of time and that is o]
a lot of time and that is screen time, isn’t it, which we
screen time, isn’t it, which we Py
screen time, isn’t it, which we Ik
screen time, isn’t it, which we are all a bit fed up with post
are all a bit fed up with post pandemic.
are all a bit fed up with post EN T Y 1R Y
are all a bit fed up with post pandemic. We just want to get
pandemic. We just want to get to
pandemic. We just want to get Ry
pandemic. We just want to get to the point quickly. But the
to the point quickly. But the Tyl achis
to the point quickly. But the Il el
to the point quickly. But the important point is
to the point quickly. But the Ml e A N AR 1
to the point quickly. But the Ml AR G = R ]
important point is that you e
important point is that you want to
important point is that you T R N A ]
important point is that you want to know that whatever
important point is that you N S LG AU RIS e
want to know that whatever you Py
want to know that whatever you EICN I G}
want to know that whatever you EICN GG R
want to know that whatever you are researching is authentic,
are researching is authentic, )
are researching is authentic, sk
are researching is authentic, LR
are researching is authentic, DL R R
the advice of the recommendations of the reviews.
recommendations of the reviews. Absolutely.
recommendations of the reviews. Absolutely. It must
recommendations of the reviews. G A T
Absolutely. It must be YN s d
Absolutely. It must be YVl da e 4o 1a s ]
Absolutely. It must be N e (s R )
Absolutely. It must be N R )
Absolutely. It must be authentic and we are looking
authentic and we are looking e
authentic and we are looking for that human interaction as
for that human interaction as (R
for that human interaction as well, the emotional
well, the emotional interaction.
well, the emotional R el d e TR L)
well, the emotional interaction. We want technology
interaction. We want technology e
interaction. We want technology T ]
interaction. We want technology for speed and
interaction. We want technology T L N R I G
interaction. We want technology T L I R G TR
for speed and convenience, we e
for speed and convenience, we want the
for speed and convenience, we T R G R 1 a8
for speed and convenience, we T R G R L A 101
for speed and convenience, we want the authenticity but we
want the authenticity but we )
want the authenticity but we EIC R 1
want the authenticity but we LR s s et ls]
want the authenticity but we also want human interaction.
also want human interaction. Companies
also want human interaction. I ENE
also want human interaction. Companies need to balance that
Companies need to balance that Ty
Companies need to balance that NN d
Companies need to balance that use of technology with that in
use of technology with that in person element. And so where
person element. And so where Y
person element. And so where Rl
person element. And so where does viral technology come into
does viral technology come into this
does viral technology come into QIR G
does viral technology come into QIR GRS
does viral technology come into this thing? We talk about
this thing? We talk about wanting human interaction and
wanting human interaction and =
wanting human interaction and A E I
wanting human interaction and yet everyone is really
yet everyone is really NS
yet everyone is really investing in
yet everyone is really S LRLRG T
yet everyone is really investing in the meta- verse,
investing in the meta- verse, i a s
investing in the meta- verse, aren’t they?
investing in the meta- verse, IR RO AR
investing in the meta- verse, RSO AR U R s
investing in the meta- verse, aren’t they? And other beings
aren’t they? And other beings 3
aren’t they? And other beings inthe
aren’'t they? And other beings in the meta- verse.
aren’'t they? And other beings RGN e ER e )
aren’'t they? And other beings in the meta- verse. So our
in the meta- verse. So our S ELIN
in the meta- verse. So our companies, when it comes to
companies, when it comes to s
companies, when it comes to consumer behaviour and buying
consumer behaviour and buying and selling, seriously
and selling, seriously NS
and selling, seriously investing in that as well?
DRI R G ER T, Absolutely. There are
I DELR G T Absolutely. There are two
Absolutely. There are two things here. We have a trend
things here. We have a trend called Young and disruptive,
called Young and disruptive, this
called Young and disruptive, G
called Young and disruptive, this is all about generation Z,
this is all about generation Z, they
this is all about generation Z, S A G
this is all about generation Z, they were hit hard by the
they were hit hard by the pandemic
AV T IR R G pandemic at a crucial
QAT T IR R G pandemic at a crucial stage of
pandemic at a crucial stage of e
pandemic at a crucial stage of AN
pandemic at a crucial stage of AN
pandemic at a crucial stage of their life and they
pandemic at a crucial stage of QRGN RO LG
pandemic at a crucial stage of their life and they are all
their life and they are all FYe L
their life and they are all about online and platforms like
about online and platforms like ey
about online and platforms like TikTok and they are looking for
TikTok and they are looking for YN s d
TikTok and they are looking for authentic interaction
TikTok and they are looking for YN da s ol e e e Tedl sl a]
TikTok and they are looking for authentic interaction on those
authentic interaction on those platforms.
=[G Tl R R g [ platforms. Traditienal
platforms. Traditienal ELN NG|
platforms. Traditienal advertising will not cut it for
advertising will not cut it for them.
advertising will not cut it for QRN
advertising will not cut it for QR LA E
advertising will not cut it for them. They want online
them. They want online interaction. You
them. They want online R ST a e e MR Ao Vet atale s
them. They want online interaction. You mention the
interaction. You mention the e
interaction. You mention the MR e
interaction. You mention the meta- verse and we are
interaction. You mention the NI CRR I R YRS
meta- verse and we are seeing gaming going mainstream
gaming going mainstream spanning all age groups and
spanning all age groups and consumer types. It
spanning all age groups and SN R I
spanning all age groups and N R AR
spanning all age groups and N R R AR U
consumer types. It is the new ekl
consumer types. It is the new B -]
consumer types. It is the new social media platform and a
social media platform and a i)
social media platform and a chance for
social media platform and a L e R T
social media platform and a L e R R TR ]
chance for businesses to leveraged
chance for businesses to L LR
chance for businesses to leveraged or market for sales,
leveraged or market for sales, where they can reach consumers.
where they can reach consumers. I
where they can reach consumers. And that gaming is all about
And that gaming is all about )
And that gaming is all about e
And that gaming is all about the meta- verse as
And that gaming is all about R YRR
And that gaming is all about the meta- verse as well. So
the meta- verse as well. So e
the meta- verse as well. So NN cR e
the meta- verse as well. So consumers for everything in
consumers for everything in e
consumers for everything in AN
consumers for everything in NI
consumers for everything in their life are going
consumers for everything in QG MR ER
their life are going online, particularly young
QU CREIEL R E L N particularly young consumers.
particularly young consumers. NEEH A
particularly young consumers. NS TLE
particularly young consumers. NESNMLRGREIE
particularly young consumers. NSRRI UE
particularly young consumers. Interesting to talk to you,
Interesting to talk to you, thank you. | find it all
thank you. I find it all fascinating.
thank you. I find it all R AR LT
thank you. I find it all fascinating. That brings to a
fascinating. That brings to a Ay
fascinating. That brings to a close this programme. Just to
close this programme. Just to RN
close this programme. Just to mention, Andy
close this programme. Just to - N AL DTN
close this programme. Just to mention, Andy Murray is up in
LI AN LR L AR T By )
mention, Andy Murray is up in the fourth
mention, Andy Murray is up in R e R
mention, Andy Murray is up in the fourth set in
mention, Andy Murray is up in R A R
mention, Andy Murray is up in the fourth set in the match
the fourth set in the match I
the fourth set in the match currently at
the fourth set in the match R
the fourth set in the match ARG CY. V| ]
currently at the Australian oI N
currently at the Australian Open. 2-1
currently at the Australian Open. 2-1up and to set up so
Open. 2-1up and to set up so i
Open. 2-1up and to set up so Tl
Open. 2-1up and to set up so 1O AT
Open. 2-1up and to set up so =IO RV 1)
Open. 2-1up and to set up so IO | RV TR e T )
Open. 2-1up and to set up so far. If you are watching on BBC
far. If you are watching on BBC One,
far. If you are watching on BBC o1,
far. If you are watching on BBC LR G
far. If you are watching on BBC One, join them for their
One, join them for their ol ar
One, join them for their special celebration of 40 years
special celebration of 40 years N
special celebration of 40 years A
special celebration of 40 years of First TV. | will
special celebration of 40 years NG AV
special celebration of 40 years of First TV. | will be back
of First TV. | will be back 7YY
of First TV. | will be back YNl
of First TV. | will be back TN N1
of First TV. | will be back TR N R e sl
of First TV. | will be back here on BBC World News, stay
here on BBC World News, stay with
here on BBC World News, stay G
Hello again.
I’m sure you’d agree, it’s been a very bitter start
to the new working week, R e i R L N ]
DL AT LRI with some snowy scenes around
as well - that was overlooking Skiddaw,
in Cumbria earlier on Monday.
But the other story we’ve been WM R )
either - we still have R R RZETGIR G
in force, the majority across stretches of the Severn,
the River Avon, and for groundwater
HCLGRTR IR GRS ]
And although we’'ll e R
snow showers across northern and western areas over the next
few hours, leading (R AL [l
actually with water still seeping
HCINRIEGE R R U
wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost,
temperatures minus three te minus seven widely.
Well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy
heading into Tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous
actually underfoot and under-tyre first
thing in the morning.
LT IR B I [ LI LT IN T as low as minus 10 in Scotland,
freezing cold start - e ]
showers piling in through the day
IR et i -
So, really, it’s northern and western areas of Scotland
across Northern Ireland, the north-west of both England
and Wales will be prone to seeing
further accumulations of snow.
Modest Hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
And after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day,
even in the sunshine - which many of us will have
a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much
above freezing.
It will feel pretty bitter.
More of that to come on Wednesday as well.
Another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
Could see rather more in the way
of showers just clipping the east coast of England,
and some heavier showers work across Northern Ireland
into parts of Wales and south-west England -
probably hear more ROl
a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in,
and temperatures just WL IR L LT AT
in Cardiff and Plymouth - s0 signs that temperatures
are very slowly starting R L E L
By Thursday, after a frosty and cold start again,
showers will probably Y e e Nl
(3 dglu LR R G e R A Ela P
Otherwise, a lot of dry R A L
But after, again, a freezing cold start to the day,
temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe
eight towards Plymouth.
Otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
If you really don’t like the cold
LR G IR you’ll have to wait
till the weekend before we get something a lot milder,
as south-westerly winds return across the country.
With that, there’ll TR e e
in the way of cloud heading RN R NG R i G R
of rain around as well.
But eventually, temperatures widely
LR ETe TR LI ER LIS
Did you know that BBC Sounds is now available on your smart speaker?
All you have to do Is say "Open BBC Sounds"
and If you want to listen to some music, listen to a podcast,
or listen to live radio, just say "Play..."
And then the thing you want to play.
So, for example, N FIREL IR -
Then Anthems will play. Easy.
You upended your entire comfortable life to become a pirate.
1L
Pirating is not for everyone.
ARG RN G RV R G LN and we’re gonna cause some havoc.
How violent do we expect this to get?
We’re swashbuckling! We’re looting!
L et’ VR R iR s
Who knew there was so much to learn about pirating?
And we’re quite certain ORI
One appears to be a heavy-set woman in a silk dressing gown.
Everybody, hide!
Hello? I’m just in a warehouse!
We are back, and our challenges are bigger than ever.
The bathtub is underneath all of [GIEe
I’m going to change the rest of my life today.
Can we transform these families’ homes without breaking the bank
and restore joy to their lives...
Oh! Wow. ..all in just seven days?
What did you do with it? | love It.
Join Stacey and team for...
To understand how this movement emerged,
you need to go back to the beginning.
Hip-hop.. RECORD SCRATCHES
R AT
Turns out we are an enterprise.
But we have to address what is going on around us.
It was difficult for women to find their place.
It’s cool to entertain, R TN TR e
When you got power, then comes responsibility.
What you going to do with It?
Your category is...
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Sally Nugent
EHLE L N E)'
Our headlines today.
The Met Police is investigating 800 AR R i R ISl
and domestic abuse claims, after a serving constable admitted
49 offences, including YRR R
Teachers in England and Wales are set to strike over seven days
in February and March, in a dispute over pay.
A row erupts between the UK and Scottish governments,
after Westminster announced plans to block the Gender
Recognition Reform bill passed by Holyreod last month.
Why rising prices are still racing ahead of wages.
As inflation continues to leave us worse off,
we speak with the businesses struggling with rising
costs and recruitment.
How Andy’s conjured some of that old Murray magic in his opening
match of the Australian Open.
Good morning.
Once again it is
Once again it Is a
Once again it is a cold
L TR EI LN SR G 1 Ts
Once again it Is a cold and frosty
Once again it is a cold and frosty A%l
Once again it is a cold and frosty ey
Once again it is a cold and frosty e la iRl N
Once again it is a cold and frosty Rl RN
Once again it is a cold and frosty RN A R A )
Once again it is a cold and frosty start. The risk of ice on untreated
start. The risk of ice on untreated ezl Tl
start. The risk of ice on untreated s o
start. The risk of ice on untreated surfaces. But for many it will be
surfaces. But for many it will be dry with
surfaces. But for many it will be AU R G
surfaces. But for many it will be AU R I ST
surfaces. But for many it will be dry with winter sunshine. However,
dry with winter sunshine. However, )
dry with winter sunshine. However, e
dry with winter sunshine. However, RN AR )
dry with winter sunshine. However, there is snow in the forecast. |
there is snow In the forecast. | il
there is snow In the forecast. | R
there is snow In the forecast. | will tell you where later.
People
LT GRS
People say, television in the uInihhve
People say, television in the morning? That’s disqusting.
People say, television in the morning? That’s disgusting. A
morning? That’s disgusting. A WIS ]
morning? That’s disgusting. A disqusting idea! What
morning? That’s disgusting. A disgusting idea! What is
morning? That’s disgusting. A disqusting idea! What is happening
disgusting idea! What is happening in this country? People even used
in this country? People even used )
in this country? People even used Rl
in this country? People even used R R,
But we’re still here - 40 years later!
We’re celebrating a special birthday on the programme this morning,
and will be taking a few trips down memory lane.
Good morning.
It’s Tuesday, the 17th January.
The Metropolitan Police force is investigating a thousand
allegations of abuse involving around 800 of its officers.
LT R I WV RN R =TT & pleaded guilty to 49 offences,
including dozens of rapes - R e eI
of a serving police officer.
Met Police Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley apologised to
Carrick’s victims, LRI R R RGR e
Frances Read reports.
No justice, no peace!
They say change is necessary.
For them, promises from the Met police that no stone will go
unturned, not enough.
The force Is now investigating 1000 sexual and domestic abuse claims
involving around 800 TR ile I
And every one of the Met’s 45,000 officers and staff
are having their records checked against the national database.
It comes after David Carrick, a serving police
officer for two decades, admitted 249 offences.
He was able to commit multiple rapes and sexual assaults,
unnoticed by the force.
He served in the same unit IO IR E ) RS TP
Yesterday, the Met Commissioner apologised to Carrick’s victims.
Not only have we let than the women in this case,
the survivors who’ve courageously come forward, | completely recognise
that is going to be the reaction of many women across London, indeed
more widely.
All | can say Is, I’m sorry. I’m sorry that we let you down.
Because there were warnings ahead GG
Before he joined the Met he was a suspected to offences involving
a former partner.
The following year he passed the Met’s vetting procedure.
Between 2002 and 2009, he was Yl R R Tt Al e i
involving women, including harassment and domestic viclence.
In 2009, he applied to join QLN NN E L
Diplomatic Protection Squad.
Seven years later, he was a a harassment complaint.
IRV AL G IR T he got through his police
vetting again.
In 2019, he faced another allegation of domestic violence.
Then, in 2021, there was a rape complaint made against him.
Yet he was allowed to carry on working,
with only restricted duties.
gl RI SR E which is so troubling.
There will be other people like David Carrick who have
been allowed to continue with their abusive behaviour,
allowed to rape women whilst they are serving officers.
They are not being dealt with properly, they are not being dealt
with quickly, and they are not being taken out of the police service
where they have so much power.
And in my view, there are solutions, but
to do that, the Met, especially the Met, have to admit
they’ve got a problem.
What do we want? P
When do we want it? Yyl
In 2021, the murder of Sarah Everard at the hands

Citation: BBC News, 01:35 17/01/2023, BBC1 London, 265 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3C06D8C6?bcast=138224480 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)