Welcome if you’re watching here in the UK or around the globe.
Our top stories:
A high court in Pakistan orders police to halt
their operation to arrest former Prime Minister Imran Khan
until Thursday following clashes between police and his supporters.
Shares in the Swiss banking giant Credit Suisse fall to a record low
as investors remain worried RO ED R
Silicon Valley Bank.
The UK Chancellor sets out his Spring Budget in Parliament.
Extra help for childcare and scrapping the limit on tax-free
WS RN L RN g d of the Government’s plans.
Conflicting accounts from Washington LR e F LRI LT e )
crashes into the Black Sea, R s we T la e R ik sl
a Russian fighter jet.
And a small number of wolves settle in Belgium for the first time
in more than 100 years, I R R R A D
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
Helle and welcome to BBC News. In I
Hello and welcome to BBC News. In Pakistan, authorities have
Pakistan, authorities have UL
Pakistan, authorities have temporarily stopped the operation to
temporarily stopped the operation to e 1o
temporarily stopped the operation to N AR
temporarily stopped the operation to N R R e
temporarily stopped the operation to N R R d R
temporarily stopped the operation to Nt RN R AN IR e
arrest the former Prime Minister Imran Khan.
Police have clashed with his supporters outside his
residence in Lahore.
Unrest has continued through the night,
after the authoroities made another SR
enforcing a court order.
Imran Kahn accused the authorities, RIS R G YA
Pakistan’s Infoermation Minister said the government had nothing
to do with the move, but the court was only trying
to enforce the arrest warant in connection
with a corruption case.
el
VRV
Carrie Davies reports. Police have Tl
Carrie Davies reports. Police have now left
Carrie Davies reports. Police have A )
Carrie Davies reports. Police have now Left the stretch
Carrie Davies reports. Police have now left the stretch by Zaman Park.
now left the stretch by Zaman Park. e
now left the stretch by Zaman Park. LR
now left the stretch by Zaman Park. L R
now left the stretch by Zaman Park. LG RGN R
now left the stretch by Zaman Park. The police might have left but the
The police might have left but the TGy
The police might have left but the T )
The police might have left but the remnants of what happened
The police might have left but the I R R e R G
The police might have left but the remnants of what happened here have
remnants of what happened here have s
remnants of what happened here have A
remnants of what happened here have not lost can
remnants of what happened here have AN RN R N Clae )
remnants of what happened here have AN RN R N E e e
not lost can see the charred remains of
not lost can see the charred remains A e
not lost can see the charred remains of burned chairs, rocks on the
of burned chairs, rocks on the e
of burned chairs, rocks on the floor. We
of burned chairs, rocks on the IO R N e
of burned chairs, rocks on the floor. We know from eyewitnesses
floor. We know from eyewitnesses Tl
floor. We know from eyewitnesses R
floor. We know from eyewitnesses MR R N L
floor. We know from eyewitnesses RN R N LR
that there were rocks and sticks M5!
that there were rocks and sticks TR0
that there were rocks and sticks used by the PTI supporters. We also
used by the PTI supporters. We also PG )
used by the PTI supporters. We also know the supporters used water
know the supporters used water i ]
know the supporters used water e s 1a ]
know the supporters used water cannon and tier gas and it is that
cannon and tier gas and it is that -Xe
cannon and tier gas and it is that tear gas you can still sense in the
tear gas you can still sense in the 1
tear gas you can still sense in the CIIR 1]
tear gas you can still sense in the air, you can
tear gas you can still sense in the IR TR R
tear gas you can still sense in the IR TR LR Rl
tear gas you can still sense in the air, you can feel it in the back of
air, you can feel it in the back of your eyes
air, you can feel it in the back of |
air, you can feel it in the back of NS LR G I TL
air, you can feel it in the back of RS LRGSR L
air, you can feel it in the back of NS LRI F IS LR
your eyes and throat. This is Y
your eyes and throat. This Is IR )
your eyes and throat. This Is TR G R )
your eyes and throat. This Is because the police arrived
your eyes and throat. This is because the police arrived yesterday
because the police arrived yesterday IR
because the police arrived yesterday afternoon, saying
because the police arrived yesterday O IR LR
because the police arrived yesterday afternoon, saying they intended to
afternoon, saying they intended to e 1o
afternoon, saying they intended to et a8
afternoon, saying they intended to arrest Mr Khan and that is because
arrest Mr Khan and that is because they
arrest Mr Khan and that is because QS ATV
arrest Mr Khan and that is because they say he
arrest Mr Khan and that is because VRV R
arrest Mr Khan and that is because they say he did not turn up to
they say he did not turn up to multiple court appearances. Imran
multiple court appearances. Imran Khan has said
multiple court appearances. Imran G RN LRI
multiple court appearances. Imran Khan has said he didn’t appear
Khan has said he didn’t appear T )
Khan has said he didn’t appear NN
Khan has said he didn’t appear TR T8
Khan has said he didn’t appear because of security concerns. He was
because of security concerns. He was el
because of security concerns. He was et I o 01
because of security concerns. He was worried about his own safety,
worried about his own safety, L
worried about his own safety, LG
worried about his own safety, IR
worried about his own safety, turning up to those caught
turning up to those caught E IR
turning up to those caught ED Rl R )
turning up to those caught appearances. We had from the
appearances. We had from the YR
appearances. We had from the Minister of information
appearances. We had from the R R A I R A R )
appearances. We had frem the Minister of information the police
Minister of information the police operation has
Minister of information the police R EI
Minister of information the police operation has been temporarily
operation has been temporarily I ]
operation has been temporarily suspended and that is because the
suspended and that is because the Pakistan super league, cricket
Pakistan super league, cricket tournament,
Pakistan super league, cricket N E PR
Pakistan super league, cricket tournament, is ongoing and
Pakistan super league, cricket TG ET AR R G T R
Pakistan super league, cricket tournament, is ongoing and there is
tournament, is ongoing and there is I
tournament, is ongoing and there is due to
tournament, is ongoing and there is IR
tournament, is ongoing and there is due to be a semifinal happening in
due to be a semifinal happening in Lahore tonight. At the moment, there
Lahore tonight. At the moment, there s
Lahore tonight. At the moment, there %)
Lahore tonight. At the moment, there is alot
Lahore tonight. At the moment, there is a lot of
Lahore tonight. At the moment, there R K H O]
Lahore tonight. At the moment, there is a lot of disruption has
Lahore tonight. At the moment, there YOO R
Lahore tonight. At the moment, there IO O O R GG
is a lot of disruption has meant the city... Supporters who have not
city... Supporters who have not suggested... INAUDIBLE
suggested... INAUDIBLE Carrie
suggested... INAUDIBLE e N VI
suggested... INAUDIBLE Carrie Davies reporting from
Carrie Davies reporting from Pakistan.
Financial markets are down across Europe, as turmoil continues
in the banking sector.
Shares in Credit Suisse have fallen as much as 25% to a record low,
for the second consecutive day.
Investors remain on edge after the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank.
This, after Credit Suisse’s largest investor,
Saudi National Bank, said it could not provide the Swiss
bank with any further financial assistance.
Let’s get more on this with our Business Presenter Ben Thempson.
PRI
Let’s wind back a bit and remind e ey
Let’s wind back a bit and remind e R L
Let’s wind back a bit and remind N R R UG
Let’s wind back a bit and remind ourselves what happened last week?
ourselves what happened last week? Banking on the financial services
Banking on the financial services industries in
Banking on the financial services NI AR
Banking on the financial services industries in the spotlight because
industries in the spotlight because of
industries in the spotlight because SR )
industries in the spotlight because of those problems of
industries in the spotlight because of those preblems of Silicon Valley
of those problems of Silicon Valley NI
of those preblems of Silicon Valley Bank. That essentially was caused
of those problems of Silicon Valley Bank. That essentially was caused by
Bank. That essentially was caused by Y
Bank. That essentially was caused by PRIl
Bank. That essentially was caused by a run. Many
Bank. That essentially was caused by RO A L
Bank. That essentially was caused by a run. Many people remember similar
a run. Many people remember similar scenes
a run. Many people remember similar N
a run. Many people remember similar e N A e g
a run. Many people remember similar e N A e s Ba o e
a run. Many people remember similar scenes at Northern rock which
scenes at Northern rock which eI ]
scenes at Northern rock which prompted the financial crisis of
prompted the financial crisis of 2008. They’re some of the largest
2008. They’re some of the largest 114
2008. They’re some of the largest bank to collapse since 2008, the
bank to collapse since 2008, the [ed5}
bank to collapse since 2008, the 19th largest bank in the US. This
19th largest bank in the US. This S i)
19th largest bank in the US. This e
19th largest bank in the US. This s
19th largest bank in the US. This time it is very
19th largest bank in the US. This IR A G
19th largest bank in the US. This time it is very different, we should
time it is very different, we should )
time it is very different, we should el
time it is very different, we should be clear. This
time it is very different, we should s ol LIS
time it is very different, we should be clear. This is a very specific
be clear. This is a very specific 334
be clear. This is a very specific a0
be clear. This is a very specific AR R leatla i3 o
be clear. This is a very specific AR Rlgat e 01
be clear. This is a very specific AR Relgat R R N
be clear. This is a very specific AR Rdlcei Rl N A
be clear. This is a very specific AR Releei el R e A
set of circumstances but it is all R
set of circumstances but it is all A R
set of circumstances but it is all IR R
set of circumstances but it is all AR R R R lad
set of circumstances but it is all IR R R la e
set of circumstances but it is all I R R Rl A
related to the fact interest rates Py
related to the fact interest rates are rising. We know that. Central
are rising. We know that. Central e
are rising. We know that. Central banks arocund
are rising. We know that. Central banks around the
are rising. We know that. Central banks arocund the world are
are rising. We know that. Central banks around the world are raising
banks around the world are raising interest
banks around the world are raising R AR T )
banks around the world are raising interest rates to try and keep a lid
interest rates to try and keep a lid ]
interest rates to try and keep a lid on rising
interest rates to try and keep a lid NIRRT
interest rates to try and keep a lid on rising prices, to keep inflation
on rising prices, to keep inflation Ll
on rising prices, to keep inflation s PR L
on rising prices, to keep inflation down. That essentially causes
down. That essentially causes problems for how banks operate. What
problems for how banks operate. What banks tend to do is borrow in
problems for how banks operate. What ER R MR R ae e A R
banks tend to do is borrow in the i led
banks tend to do is borrow in the Al e ga]
banks tend to do is borrow in the A e R g ]
banks tend to do is borrow in the AR SR
banks tend to do is borrow in the short term and are lending the long
short term and are lending the long sl
short term and are lending the long MRhLEG
short term and are lending the long term. They make
short term and are lending the long LA LCRUE I
short term and are lending the long term. They make money by paying a
term. They make money by paying a e
term. They make money by paying a certain amount
term. They make money by paying a e A et 1o e e} d
term. They make money by paying a IR T R A
term. They make money by paying a certain amount of interest on
term. They make money by paying a eI T R R e A R s
certain amount of interest on what Y
certain amount of interest on what T
certain amount of interest on what we save with them
certain amount of interest on what N R Rt IE1a s ]
certain amount of interest on what we save with them and charge
we save with them and charge R e o
we save with them and charge R e T e
we save with them and charge interest on what you might borrow
interest on what you might borrow Tee I8t
interest on what you might borrow TR R
interest on what you might borrow TR
interest on what you might borrow from them. As soon as
interest on what you might borrow TR NI TR )
interest on what you might borrow from them. As soon as the gap starts
from them. As soon as the gap starts 0]
from them. As soon as the gap starts OGSO
from them. As soon as the gap starts ORIt Al e
from them. As soon as the gap starts to narrow, it causes problems for
to narrow, it causes problems for e
to narrow, it causes problems for TR T
to narrow, it causes problems for MR AR TR
to narrow, it causes problems for their business model. So there is a
their business model. So there is a e
their business model. So there is a i
their business model. So there Is a lot of attention on
their business model. So there Is a P A e e )
their business model. So there Is a lot of attention on the banking
lot of attention on the banking industry
lot of attention on the banking LIS A
lot of attention on the banking industry right now. That was one of
industry right now. That was one of )
industry right now. That was one of the problems but Silicon Valley
the problems but Silicon Valley Bank. We should
the problems but Silicon Valley TR T GRS
the problems but Silicon Valley LR R GE R - ]d
the problems but Silicon Valley Bank. We should be clear for
the problems but Silicon Valley LR R GE R LR e sl
Bank. We should be clear for Credit Suisse, it is
Bank. We should be clear for Credit Suisse, itis a
Bank. We should be clear for Credit Suisse, it is a different set of
Suisse, it is a different set of problems.
Suisse, It Is a different set of problems. They
Suisse, It Is a different set of IR SRS
Suisse, It Is a different set of 1 G R SR E Y
Suisse, It Is a different set of problems. They have been facing
problems. They have been facing T
problems. They have been facing issues for a
problems. They have been facing TN R e g
problems. They have been facing issues for a number of years. This
Issues for a number of years. This R
Issues for a number of years. This TR
Issues for a number of years. This relates to some of
Issues for a number of years. This A RO N R e
relates to some of their investments,
relates to some of their TR
relates to some of their investments, some mismanagement.
investments, some mismanagement. 57
investments, some mismanagement. ISR LG
investments, some mismanagement. They were caught
investments, some mismanagement. IS A E R ]
investments, some mismanagement. IS AR LR
investments, some mismanagement. They were caught up ina
They were caught up in a money-laundering
LGS AR V] ] money-laundering scandal is that
money-laundering scandal is that they made record losses
money-laundering scandal is that AN R e A CTR ]
money-laundering scandal is that they made record losses in 2022. The
they made record losses in 2022. The Iy
they made record losses in 2022. The RN I Z
they made record losses in 2022. The IR G ZEVRGTCI]
they made record losses in 2022. The bus is midway through a
they made record losses in 2022. The TR G VR G T [ R
bus is midway through a big restructuring, they have laid off
restructuring, they have laid off 9000
restructuring, they have laid off ST R i ]
restructuring, they have laid off ORI iR Tge-Ts|
restructuring, they have laid off ORI iR Jee s R )
restructuring, they have laid off ORI R e RO
restructuring, they have laid off SRR i R ee RO R E
9000 staff and forced to sell off )
9000 staff and forced to sell off N
9000 staff and forced to sell off R
9000 staff and forced to sell off some of their crown jewel assets to
some of their crown jewel assets to pay for it. Credit Suisse is in
some of their crown jewel assets to pay for it. Credit Suisse is ina
pay for it. Credit Suisse is in a different position but all of this,
different position but all of this, as you rightly said, related to the
as you rightly said, related to the fact
as you rightly said, related to the Elad e
as you rightly said, related to the fact banks are suddenly under
fact banks are suddenly under scrutiny
fact banks are suddenly under o Rl
fact banks are suddenly under LA
fact banks are suddenly under AL L R e
fact banks are suddenly under scrutiny and if people want to take
scrutiny and if people want to take e
scrutiny and if people want to take QAN
scrutiny and if people want to take QSRS
scrutiny and if people want to take their money out, those that are
their money out, those that are EIE
their money out, those that are already looking a bit dicey might
already looking a bit dicey might el
already looking a bit dicey might e
already looking a bit dicey might find it a
already looking a bit dicey might MR s
already looking a bit dicey might find it a bit difficult. But if
find it a bit difficult. But if Credit Suisse’s largest investor is
Credit Suisse’s largest investor is saying don’t look
Credit Suisse’s largest investor is FWLLE R A G0
Credit Suisse’s largest investor is saying don’t look to us, what are
saying don’t look to us, what are they
saying don’t look to us, what are Ao L]
saying don’t look to us, what are QAN TR
saying don’t look to us, what are they supposed to do? That is the
they supposed to do? That is the TN
they supposed to do? That is the T I
they supposed to do? That is the issue. Saudi National Bank bought a
issue. Saudi National Bank bought a 10%
issue. Saudi National Bank bought a RIS
issue. Saudi National Bank bought a 10% stake in Credit Suisse in
10% stake in Credit Suisse In October
10% stake in Credit Suisse In e o] )
10% stake in Credit Suisse In October of last
10% stake in Credit Suisse In e (A E AT
10% stake in Credit Suisse in o (R E S SR 51
10% stake in Credit Suisse in October of last year. What they have
October of last year. What they have 10
October of last year. What they have I
October of last year. What they have FIV R
October of last year. What they have RGOS LG
October of last year. What they have RO LG
October of last year. What they have said as they are not prepared to put
said as they are not prepared to put e
said as they are not prepared to put more money in to increase their
more money In to increase their 35
more money In to increase their state. So
more money in to increase their R R
more money in to increase their R
more money in to increase their state. So it is very difficult to
state. So it is very difficult to T
state. So it is very difficult to see where
state. So it is very difficult to AR e
state. So it is very difficult to see where we go because the Swiss
see where we go because the Swiss government,
see where we go because the Swiss N R T
see where we go because the Swiss government, the Swiss central bank,
government, the Swiss central bank, it
government, the Swiss central bank, G G CYa
government, the Swiss central bank, might decide it needs to prop up if
might decide it needs to prop up if e
might decide it needs to prop up if T
might decide it needs to prop up If it needs to
might decide it needs to prop up If I R ORI )
might decide it needs to prop up If I R I G R
might decide it needs to prop up If I R I R R
might decide it needs to prop up If I R G AR C RN
might decide it needs to prop up If I R R AR C RN CR U
it needs to step in to save the bank.
It needs to step in to save the bank. You will be
It needs to step in to save the FRI R LR N L)
It needs to step in to save the bank. You will be aware of
't needs to step in to save the IR LR N L A
bank. You will be aware of the phrase
bank. You will be aware of the IER O]
bank. You will be aware of the phrase too big to fail. We are not
phrase too big to fail. We are not 1
phrase too big to fail. We are not R4
phrase too big to fail. We are not IR GE I )
phrase too big to fail. We are not at that stage yet but nonetheless,
at that stage yet but nonetheless, )
at that stage yet but nonetheless, R3]
at that stage yet but nonetheless, GRSV VR
at that stage yet but nonetheless, the scrutiny right now is what
the scrutiny right now is what happens to it? And whether they have
happens to it? And whether they have enough
happens to it? And whether they have LR
happens to it? And whether they have L L R W CELY
happens to it? And whether they have enough cash ready cash, and that is
enough cash ready cash, and that is )
enough cash ready cash, and that is the issue
enough cash ready cash, and that is VR G
enough cash ready cash, and that is the issue here, liquid cash, to meet
the issue here, liquid cash, to meet e
the issue here, liquid cash, to meet their obligations should people want
their obligations should people want e
their obligations should people want their money. That is when
their obligations should people want QNS AR LR RO
their obligations should people want G AR LT RG]
their money. That is when this all 1y
their money. That is when this all A R
their money. That is when this all starts to fall apart, is of
starts to fall apart, is of TR 3 e 0]
starts to fall apart, is of investors start going to the Bank
investors start going to the Bank and asking for their money. They are
and asking for their money. They are e
and asking for their money. They are 1o
and asking for their money. They are T R r]
and asking for their money. They are (IR GE I
and asking for their money. They are (N EIRGEIES LR
and asking for their money. They are not at that stage yet but there is a
not at that stage yet but there is e
not at that stage yet but there is s
not at that stage yet but there is R RaaNd g
not at that stage yet but there Is a lot of scrutiny in
not at that stage yet but there Is a R T AL Rl
not at that stage yet but there Is a R T [ RL RE l
not at that stage yet but there Is a R RIS TRl
lot of scrutiny in Credit Suisse and that
lot of scrutiny in Credit Suisse and G A
lot of scrutiny in Credit Suisse and GE RN
lot of scrutiny in Credit Suisse and QR A
] K D AL RO L TR T T that is why we have
] K D AL RO L TR T T AR VA R G
] K D AL RO L TR T T that is why we have seen their
that is why we have seen their AR
that is why we have seen their R
that is why we have seen their shares fall, at
that is why we have seen their I CIC R ] A e
that is why we have seen their shares fall, at one point down about
shares fall, at one point down about 25% |
shares fall, at one point down about AN
shares fall, at one point down about AL L
shares fall, at one point down about A O )
shares fall, at one point down about 25%. | looked at the numbers, they
25%. | looked at the numbers, they Py
25%. | looked at the numbers, they e 0t 4
25%. | looked at the numbers, they are about 18% lower on the day but
are about 18% lower on the day but 3
are about 18% lower on the day but e 4
are about 18% lower on the day but el d
are about 18% lower on the day but 1 A
are about 18% lower on the day but it sort of gets us to a very
it sort of gets us to a very slailatlid
it sort of gets us to a very difficult position and there will be
difficult position and there will be Tl
difficult position and there will be A G
difficult position and there will be now people looking for a lot of
now people looking for a lot of R IR )
now people looking for a lot of R R
now people looking for a lot of R e TN i o]
now people looking for a lot of answers. We have heard from
now people looking for a lot of R eI A A O Ri R
answers. We have heard from the S A et R
answers. We have heard from the AR e R A slid
answers. We have heard from the chief Executive of Credit Suisse who
chief Executive of Credit Suisse who Y- )"
chief Executive of Credit Suisse who FV R
chief Executive of Credit Suisse who R GG
chief Executive of Credit Suisse who AU LR G
chief Executive of Credit Suisse who says they are stable and can meet
says they are stable and can meet e
says they are stable and can meet their demands but nonetheless, none
their demands but nonetheless, none N
their demands but nonetheless, none R
their demands but nonetheless, none of this looks good right now when
of this looks good right now when )
of this looks good right now when e
of this looks good right now when )
of this looks good right now when R
of this looks good right now when R R A e L
of this looks good right now when there is a lot of nervousness by the
there is a lot of nervousness by the banking industry. Ben Thompson,
banking industry. Ben Thompson, thank you.
The US and Russia are giving conflicting accounts about how
an American surveillance drone plunged into the Black Sea.
Washington says two Russian jets R RIS IR U R L G
before striking a propeller.
Russia’s Ambassador to the US has denied any collision took place
and claimed the aircraft’s presence LR e i
Here’s our North America correspondent, Peter Bowes.
An American MQ-9 drone and two Russian fighter jets.
Their encounter, according to the Pentagon, lasted up to 40
minutes in international airspace.
They were over the Black Sea, where tensions have risen ever
since Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014.
And where US surveillance airdraft have been flying
regularly since the start of the war last year.
The Pentagon says one of the Russian jets moved in front of the drone
and eventually forced the unmanned aerial vehicle, or UAV,
to crash into the sea.
IR Nyl ARG Y el
We are continuing to assess exactly what happened but | think,
based on the actions of the Russian pilots, it was clear it was unsafe,
TN R R RGNS the actions speak for themselves.
What we saw, again, were fighter aircraft dumping fuel in front
of this UAV and then getting R RO RO ga e i
that it actually damaged the propeller on the MQ-9.
We assess that it likely caused some damage to
the Russian aircraft as well.
Russia’s ambassador to the US called the drone’s presence a provocation.
He said the aircraft’s transponder, N BRI RO IR I e
collisions, was switched off and it had violated what Russia calls
QTR T g e E T regime, established since
The US says the Russian pilots were reckless.
But was It deliberate or a careless mistake that caused the drone
AUN-T IR G ag escalating tensions
between Washington and Moscow.
The Pentagon is engaging in diplo speak here, but it’s clear that
if you are flying in front of the drone, slowing down to match
speed, dumping fuel on it, this is a deliberate attempt
to bring down the drone, absolutely.
The Pentagon announced with this GRS GRS TS S (U RS A G
had these kind of incidents but it R N R R e
the first time the Russians have attempted to bring the drone
at all the way down instead AT & FIEIN G
So | think it is a serious e | EH IR G
This is the first publicly acknowledged confrontation
between the US and Russia since its invasion of Ukraine.
For now, it’s led to a war of words but the longer-term
consequences are far from clear.
] 11T BBC News.
Robert Fox, Defence Editor at The Evening Standard newspaper
in London says it’s difficult e RO
stage what to believe.
The fact is the American account has been consistent and the Russians
have changed their version.
First of all, they seemed to admit that there had been
a contact and damaged the propeller of the drone and then
that there hadn’t been.
LIS RO G IR something rather ominous
in the Russian statement, in that they are saying this
Is a temporary violation of their temporary regime
of airspace which they have declared over Crimea and its adjacent waters.
More problems could be on their way.
How great is the activity at the moment in this part
of the world and by whom?
Really huge.
It’s pretty huge.
There’s a lot of S EL IR (w118
We know that the RAF has been down e N G e
They are watching all the time.
There is a very well organised Nato patrol along the borders
of confrontation with Russia, T EE G G GUE R N R
of parancia on the part of Moscow, in that they are being continually
restricted and looked at and the sense of paranoia will be
reinforced if Finland joins Nato, which is expected very soon.
So how does this situation get de-escalated and by whom?
Well, | think it’s very difficult to see because there is no doubt
that things like the drone are very important in building up
the intelligence and the digital picture of what’s going on in a hot
conflict, in Ukraine.
This is the way intelligence is gathered, coordinates
are gathered, so they can see where reinforcements are coming up
to the Russian forces, along that area which is terribly
and bitterly contested at the moment, the Donbas,
and two or three other battle grounds as well,
QR RIS R G LR R G R SR I C R CE L
they’re passing on the infermation.
It’s a vital intelligence asset to the Ukrainians,
so | think they will try to aveid from this a further confrontation
because it does mean a Nato military piece of military equipment
being damaged or attacked or aggressed, one might say, by Russia.
And that really is very risky.
Just finally and briefly, Robert, LR EICE LRI R
of the varying political views of how this should be appreached
in the United States?
(RGN [l RN R [T R in the United States because | know
that the military command IR IO R R G LR A =N [
of complexion, particularly in the Lower House, the House
of Representatives, where you are getting
an almost isolationist wing of the new Republican right, so it
will be softly softly from here.
Robert Fox,
N gl Y PR =
Robert Fox, the defence editor at )
Robert Fox, the defence editor at the London
Robert Fox, the defence editor at QRGN
Robert Fox, the defence editor at the London Evening Standard
the London Evening Standard (L
It’s a big day in UK politics with the country’s Spring budget
unveiled in the House of Commons by the Chancellor Jeremy Hunt,
the first since the political turmoil that proceeded Rishi Sunak
becoming Prime Minister.
Mr Hunt said the UK will aveid a recession and he hailed a British
economy that he said is "proving G I SR T Lo
For more on this, I’m joined by Sir Steve Webb,
former minister of state SN 18
the coalition government.
[LiE1L @0
LIS RS
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much foer coming
Thank you very much fer coming in.
Thank you very much for coming in. e
Thank you very much for coming in. The reason we have
Thank you very much for coming in. IR R N R vt Ts|
Thank you very much for coming in. The reason we have invited you in is
The reason we have invited you in is )
The reason we have invited you in is N
The reason we have invited you in Is N )
The reason we have invited you in Is there has been a
The reason we have invited you in Is MR TG
The reason we have invited you in Is RGN i
The reason we have invited you in Is there has been a hit of a
The reason we have invited you in Is M N R N R R i e e
The reason we have invited you in Is N R TN RS R i a € s
there has been a bit of a shock on N
there has been a bit of a shock on pensions today
there has been a bit of a shock on pensions teday in the
there has been a bit of a shock on pensions today in the Budget. Just
pensions today in the Budget. Just explain if you would what has been
explain if you would what has been announced. That
explain if you would what has been N e R A
explain if you would what has been announced. That is right, there is a
announced. That is right, there is a lifetime
announced. That is right, there is a RS R i
announced. That is right, there is a lifetime Limit on how much
announced. That is right, there is a lifetime limit on hew much you can
Lifetime limit on how much you can build
Lifetime limit on how much you can I GRTT)
Lifetime limit on how much you can build up in
Lifetime limit on how much you can GETRLE]
lifetime limit en how much you can build up in a pension and
lifetime limit en how much you can W GETRGEN CS EL ERY
lifetime limit en how much you can build up in a pension and enjoy tax
build up in a pension and enjoy tax S
build up in a pension and enjoy tax relief on your pension
relief on your pension a8 aglo LA e
relief on your pension contributions. It
relief on your pension gl A LR A
relief on your pension contributions. It was rumoured that
contributions. It was rumoured that o
contributions. It was rumoured that L)
contributions. It was rumoured that would be increased
contributions. It was rumoured that G Bt T e
contributions. It was rumoured that T Rt T ]
contributions. It was rumoured that would be increased after a decade of
would be increased after a decade of ey
would be increased after a decade of il
would be increased after a decade of LR
would be increased after a decade of N R G N E e
would be increased after a decade of LR N R 1]
would be increased after a decade of cuts and the Chancellor said |
would be increased after a decade of LR R IR ]
cuts and the Chancellor said | am el
cuts and the Chancellor said | am not going to increase it
cuts and the Chancellor said | am A& LR RN IR T
cuts and the Chancellor said I am not going to increase it but scrap
not going to increase it but scrap e
not going to increase it but scrap LT GR
not going to increase it but scrap it altogether. So there is now no
it altogether. So there is now no Ry
it altogether. So there is now no DAl
it altogether. So there is now no lifetime limit, only
it altogether. So there is now no N Un A D
it altogether. So there is now no lifetime limit, only an annual limit
R T VR R L T TR TR gl and
R T VR R L T TR TR gl N Rdar]
lifetime limit, only an annual Limit R i E
lifetime limit, only an annual Limit and that has gone up as well.
lifetime limit, only an annual limit and that has gone up as well. What
and that has gone up as well. What 3
and that has gone up as well. What TRy
and that has gone up as well. What is the reaction been in
and that has gone up as well. What RGN e R - R R
and that has gone up as well. What RGN IR U RO R U R 4s
is the reaction been in the industry and politically? Over the last 24
and politically? Over the last 24 Yy
and politically? Over the last 24 hours this has
and politically? Over the last 24 e R G IR R - s ]
and politically? Over the last 24 hours this has been trailed in
hours this has been trailed in Elad«F1g
hours this has been trailed in particular today, people have been
particular today, people have been AR
particular today, people have been shocked. We got so used to the idea
shocked. We got so used to the idea tax
shocked. We got so used to the idea AT
shocked. We got so used to the idea tax breaks on pensions would be cut
tax breaks on pensions would be cut every year. Will he cut tax free
every year. Will he cut tax free lump sums?
every year. Will he cut tax free X - Gl
every year. Will he cut tax free O T X G RTINS
lump sums? After successive T e
lump sums? After successive e R R s e )
lump sums? After successive chancellors have done this year
chancellors have done this year after
chancellors have done this year SN
chancellors have done this year S PR U1
chancellors have done this year S IR GRS
chancellors have done this year S IR UK
chancellors have done this year after year, this is a screeching
after year, this is a screeching IR JIIGN
after year, this is a screeching U-turn, some would say 18 months
U-turn, some would say 18 months S
U-turn, some would say 18 months NSy
U-turn, some would say 18 months before an election
U-turn, some would say 18 months NN ad e N0t
U-turn, some would say 18 months before an election but partly driven
before an election but partly driven W
before an election but partly driven by the doctors.
before an election but partly driven RO CR (IR I )
before an election but partly driven by the doctors. There is an argument
by the doctors. There is an argument that
by the doctors. There is an argument QR T AR
by the doctors. There is an argument that says senior NHS doctors had
that says senior NHS doctors had ]
that says senior NHS doctors had NG ]
that says senior NHS docters had been retiring early because of
that says senior NHS doctors had been retiring early because of tax
been retiring early because of tax M
been retiring early because of tax limits and he seems to have dealt
limits and he seems to have dealt with
limits and he seems to have dealt R E
limits and he seems to have dealt R GE g
limits and he seems to have dealt with that problem. But that will not
with that problem. But that will not just
with that problem. But that will not P4 NG
with that problem. But that will not TS LS e G
with that problem. But that will not just benefit doctors, will it? They
just benefit doctors, will it? They headline reason for this is from a
headline reason for this is from a 114
headline reason for this is from a UK economy
headline reason for this is from a YA S
headline reason for this is from a UK economy point of view, the
UK econemy point of view, the Government says
UK econemy point of view, the NS AU AL E L
UK econemy point of view, the NS AU A LR
UK econemy point of view, the Government says they want to get
Government says they want to get )
Government says they want to get R el (8
Government says they want to get MR e AL
Government says they want to get more economically inactive people
more economically inactive people back into
more economically inactive people N ah R
more economically inactive people FN RN gt e
more economically inactive people AR g e T
more economically inactive people back into the workforce. How likely
back into the workforce. How likely s it
back into the workforce. How likely ic it that
back into the workforce. How likely is it that this
back into the workforce. How likely TR R G E IR RN
back into the workforce. How likely is it that this measure will do
is it that this measure will do that, do
is it that this measure will do G E A R
is It that this measure will do that, do you think? | think with the
that, do you think? I think with the exception
that, do you think? I think with the IR
that, do you think? I think with the exception of doctors who are a
exception of doctors who are a specifics case, the evidence is
specifics case, the evidence is people who
specifics case, the evidence is (L R I
specifics case, the evidence is people who are retired don’t want to
people who are retired don’t want to come
people who are retired don’t want to i N
people who are retired don’t want to W NS T3
people who are retired don’t want to come back. They are
people who are retired don’t want to W N S LS LR
people who are retired don’t want to come back. They are so said, no, no.
come back. They are so said, no, no. e
come back. They are so said, no, no. LN
come back. They are so said, no, no. The people who are out of work and
The people who are out of work and e
The people who are out of work and want to
The people who are out of work and T Rl
The people who are out of work and T R N e e
The people who are out of work and want to be back at
The people who are out of work and N RN N e & ]
The people who are out of work and want to be back at the long term
want to be back at the long term sick
want to be back at the long term &
want to be back at the long term AN IR |
want to be back at the long term sick and disabled and although there
sick and disabled and although there ey
sick and disabled and although there NN
sick and disabled and although there XN R IGL
sick and disabled and although there were some budget members for that
were some budget members for that LIV
were some budget members for that group, £1 billion spent. So the
group, £1 billion spent. So the NSl E e
group, £1 billion spent. So the TR e e
group, £1 billion spent. So the NS LR I
group, £1 billion spent. So the beneficiaries are people whoe
group, £1 billion spent. So the beneficiaries are people who are
beneficiaries are people who are EIE
beneficiaries are people who are already quite well off that might
already quite well off that might e
already quite well off that might T I weln i)
already quite well off that might T e N e
already quite well off that might not come back to work but what is
not come back to work but what is )
not come back to work but what is R led
not come back to work but what is Rl Fla ]
not come back to work but what is QR R
not come back to work but what is the impact on the Treasury come on
the impact on the Treasury come on us, the taxpayer? Ultimately it will
us, the taxpayer? Ultimately it will 1y
us, the taxpayer? Ultimately it will be £1
us, the taxpayer? Ultimately it will R 3 BT
us, the taxpayer? Ultimately it will R ARG S
us, the taxpayer? Ultimately it will bhe £1 billion less tax
us, the taxpayer? Ultimately it will RN R R ]
us, the taxpayer? Ultimately it will be £1 billion less tax revenue. If
be £1 billion less tax revenue. If TG
be £1 billion less tax revenue. If people shovel money
be £1 billion less tax revenue. If people shovel moeney back
be £1 billion less tax revenue. If people shovel money back into
be £1 billion less tax revenue. If people shovel moeney back into their
people shovel money back into their TIE N
people shovel money back into their pensions, that
people shovel money back into their RO E I
people shovel money back into their pensions, that money that doesn’t
pensions, that money that doesn’t get taxed and that is less money
pensions, that money that doesn’t get taxed and that is less money for
get taxed and that is less money for )
get taxed and that is less money for QUG]S
get taxed and that is less money for the general population and for
the general population and for younger people in particular, who in
younger people in particular, who in Y
younger people in particular, who in PRy
younger people in particular, who in PR )
younger people in particular, who in R R RIS BN
younger people in particular, who in a sense are subsidising relatively
a sense are subsidising relatively ol
a sense are subsidising relatively well off people, shovelling more
well off people, shovelling more NG
well off people, shovelling more money into their
well off people, shovelling more NS AN RO A N
well off people, shovelling more money into their pensions. Sir Steve
money into their pensions. Sir Steve N
money into their pensions. Sir Steve Y PR =11
money into their pensions. Sir Steve Webb, thank you
{18
{11
IR 3
for your time. At
At least 17 people have died in Iran
while celebrating a fire festival which the authorities disapprove of.
The authorities say the deaths were caused by home-made fireworks.
Parham Ghobadi reports.
"For freedom™, they sing, burning their headscarves.
This is the Fire Festival in Iran, RNl a eI RalIEI R
But this year, to also protest.
Scenes like these can potentially lead to your arrest in Iran.
Dancing in public, especially without a hijab, is not tolerated
by the Islamic regime.
Like these girls, who were immediately arrested last week
They were released after making a public apology.
But Iran’s Generation Z, who has been at the forefront
of anti-government protest which swept the country
In September, has shown no fear.
In this video, verified by BBC Persian, protesters in the capital,
Tehran, threw handmade fireworks CI R QR
they tried to move In.
The Iranian authorities have given a muted response,
focusing on the number SR R Rl o
TRANSLATION: This year, at least 26 people were killed,
which is five more than last year.
The protests started after the death of a young Kurdish woman,
Mahsa Amini, in police custody for allegedly not wearing
her hijab properly.
"Woman, Life, Freedom" is the chant.
Young people have not forgiven or forgotten.
Here in a northern city, QARG R IE R UG
leader, Ayatollah Khomeini, will be overthrown this year.
They say they want an end to the clerical establishment.
Parham Ghobadi, BBC News.
More than 200 people are now known to have
been killed in Malawi - in one of the most powerful storms
Dozens of children are among the dead, and almost 20,000
people have been displaced.
The country’s already battling one of the worst cholera
outbreaks in two decades, with warnings it
could now get worse.
In an unusual weather pattern - TR T R B R Ta d s B L
Storm Freddy has struck southern Africa - previously hitting
neighbouring Mozambique and Madagascar before reaching Malawi.
The rain is expected to continue for a few days still,
hampering the efforts of aid organisations.
Human Rights Watch says the United Arab Emirates
is arbitrarily detaining up to 2,700 Afghan asylum seekers in
increasingly miserable conditions.
The campaign group says many Afghans are suffering from psychological
problems and their children lack adequate education.
Interviewed detainees complained of overcrowding
In insect-infested makeshift housing, with strict
e R T (11 8"
LGSR RGN | am joined by Aalia Farzan
of the BBC Afghan Service.
you
VRN
VI VR TN
you have been speaking to some of )
you have been speaking to some of QRGN EER
you have been speaking to some of the refugees, what have they been
the refugees, what have they been telling
the refugees, what have they been GGG
the refugees, what have they been telling you? So as | spoke to some
telling you? So as | spoke to some N
telling you? So as | spoke to some R
telling you? So as | spoke to some of the refugees from the camp, they
of the refugees from the camp, they 0l
of the refugees from the camp, they told us the
of the refugees from the camp, they I GRIR G
of the refugees from the camp, they IBEIR G TR ad
of the refugees from the camp, they BN R G RN NS E el d T
of the refugees from the camp, they told us the same exact stories. They
told us the same exact stories. They 0l
told us the same exact stories. They told us that they
told us the same exact stories. They I GETR G R R G L
told us the same exact stories. They told us that they are living in a
U GRTER GEIROREICRUIN P RLE: N
U GRTER GEIROREICRUIN P RLE: I
told us that they are living in a prison, as they describe.
told us that they are living in a UGS A L R L
told us that they are living in a NGO A L RIS AT
prison, as they describe. They say that
prison, as they describe. They say R
prison, as they describe. They say B ]
prison, as they describe. They say LR NNl
prison, as they describe. They say that we do not have
prison, as they describe. They say BRI E )
prison, as they describe. They say that we do not have the permission
that we do not have the permission to get out
that we do not have the permission R A
that we do not have the permission R R R
that we do not have the permission to get out of the camp
that we do not have the permission R SR G R L D
that we do not have the permission to get out of the camp and whenever
to get out of the camp and whenever Y
to get out of the camp and whenever we want to go to do shopping, get
we want to go to do shopping, get groceries
we want to go to do shopping, get QIR
we want to go to do shopping, get groceries or whenever we want to go
groceries or whenever we want to go and
groceries or whenever we want to go )
groceries or whenever we want to go NG EN R )]
groceries or whenever we want to go LN R
groceries or whenever we want to go and have fresh air, they do not let
and have fresh air, they do not let us.
and have fresh air, they do not let (N
and have fresh air, they do not let T L 1)
and have fresh air, they do not let T (A
and have fresh air, they do not let us. Also, as | spoke to one mother
us. Also, as | spoke to one mother Ty
us. Also, as | spoke to one mother 1Y
us. Also, as | spoke to one mother who has been living there for more
who has been living there for more than a year, she said that she has
than a year, she said that she has ]
than a year, she said that she has been very
than a year, she said that she has N A D
than a year, she said that she has been very worried about
than a year, she said that she has IR A I T L
been very worried about her children’s education and in
been very worried about her G R e s s R s ]
children’s education and in that =1l
children’s education and in that camp they
children’s education and in that RO
children’s education and in that RN A
children’s education and in that camp they do not have
children’s education and in that I RUE R L R R T
children’s education and in that camp they do not have access to any
camp they do not have access to any N0 0g
camp they do not have access to any proper educational courses or
proper educational courses or e
I T LTIV 1 4o Ty L W TV 1T T I R
I T LTIV 1 4o Ty L W TV 1T T centres. Also, as it came in
proper educational courses or centres. Also, as it came in the
centres. Also, as it came in the el
centres. Also, as it came in the L i)
centres. Also, as it came in the report, she said
centres. Also, as it came in the I LRI R (T3
centres. Also, as it came in the L R RGOS LG
centres. Also, as it came in the report, she said they are living in
report, she said they are living in small
report, she said they are living in i Be e 3
report, she said they are living in small rcoms with
report, she said they are living in small rooms with bugs and insects,
small rooms with bugs and insects, that
small rooms with bugs and insects, R )
small rooms with bugs and insects, that she was
small rooms with bugs and insects, OEI R R R
small rooms with bugs and insects, that she was very worried about her
that she was very worried about her children. Also
that she was very worried about her G
that she was very worried about her Gl
that she was very worried about her children. Also as | spoke to another
children. Also as | spoke to another person
children. Also as | spoke to another IR
children. Also as | spoke to another person in the camp, he
children. Also as | spoke to another RN R G R L
children. Also as | spoke to another RO R PR R G LS
person in the camp, he said that they
person in the camp, he said that QAN G
person in the camp, he said that they have been dealing with anxiety
they have been dealing with anxiety and
they have been dealing with anxiety BRI R
they have been dealing with anxiety LRI | e
they have been dealing with anxiety and stress_ It is
they have been dealing with anxiety BRI - A
they have been dealing with anxiety and stress. It is all because their
and stress. It is all because their I ale ]
and stress. It is all because their AR R
and stress. It is all because their T A B a1
and stress. It is all because their situation is not clear
and stress. It is all because their TR Bl e T a ]
and stress. It is all because their situation is not clear and they do
situation is not clear and they do e
situation is not clear and they do not know what comes next. Now this
not know what comes next. Now this s not
not know what comes next. Now this 05
not know what comes next. Now this is not just happening in the UAE, is
s not just happening in the UAE, is it, where else are Afghans finding
it, where else are Afghans finding they
it, where else are Afghans finding GG
it, where else are Afghans finding ORI O 44
it, where else are Afghans finding they are stuck? UAE is not the only
they are stuck? UAE is not the only country that Afghans fled
they are stuck? UAE is not the only RO L E R LR
they are stuck? UAE is not the only country that Afghans fled to. So as
country that Afghans fled to. So as e
country that Afghans fled to. So as QIR
country that Afghans fled to. So as their country collapsed, many
their country collapsed, many people, thousands of Afghans fled to
people, thousands of Afghans fled to LN
people, thousands of Afghans fled to LTI TR
people, thousands of Afghans fled to neighbouring countries, Iran and
neighbouring countries, Iran and AL
neighbouring countries, Iran and R
neighbouring countries, Iran and Pakistan. | have been speaking to
Pakistan. | have been speaking to them
Pakistan. | have been speaking to iRy
Pakistan. | have been speaking to GRS
Pakistan. | have been speaking to them like every day
Pakistan. | have been speaking to QOSSR B R
Pakistan. | have been speaking to QIR L RO
Pakistan. | have been speaking to QO R RN RO S AIENG
them like every day and they have e gl )
them like every day and they have e R e
them like every day and they have terrible stories. They are short on
terrible stories. They are short on money,
terrible stories. They are short on LSRG
terrible stories. They are short on NS AR QAL
terrible stories. They are short on SR GS AL Sl
terrible stories. They are short on NS ARG AL L]
terrible stories. They are short on money, they cannot find a proper
money, they cannot find a proper LR
money, they cannot find a proper L1 AT
money, they cannot find a proper job. Even they cannot rent homes
job. Even they cannot rent homes Y
job. Even they cannot rent homes because most of their visas have
because most of their visas have TR A
because most of their visas have been expired and they
because most of their visas have RS LR UG A
because most of their visas have been expired and they do not have
been expired and they do not have )
been expired and they do not have e R ]
been expired and they do not have the access to renew their visas.
the access to renew their visas. Yes,
the access to renew their visas. (RO EIG
the access to renew their visas. Yes, they are living in tough
Yes, they are living in tough situations. You evacuated from
situations. You evacuated from Afghanistan only last August. When
Afghanistan only last August. When you
Afghanistan only last August. When R
Afghanistan only last August. When T IR O
Afghanistan only last August. When you hear these stories, what does it
you hear these stories, what does it et a sl
you hear these stories, what does it LR TR
you hear these stories, what does it (LRI AR E LS
you hear these stories, what does it remind you of, what memories does it
remind you of, what memories does it bring up for
remind you of, what memories does it LI RIS U
remind you of, what memories does it IO ET R R TR Y O] (A
remind you of, what memories does it bring up for you? Actually, it is
bring up for you? Actually, it is very sad. Sometimes |
bring up for you? Actually, it is very sad. Semetimes | think
bring up for you? Actually, it is very sad. Sometimes | think if
bring up for you? Actually, it is very sad. Semetimes | think if |
very sad. Sometimes | think if | AR
very sad. Semetimes | think if | IR R
very sad. Semetimes | think if | SRR E )
very sad. Semetimes | think if | didn’t have the privilege
very sad. Semetimes | think if | didn’t have the privilege to
very sad. Sometimes | think if | didn’t have the privilege to work
didn’t have the privilege to work with
didn’t have the privilege to work R )
didn’t have the privilege to work GRG0
didn’t have the privilege to work with the BBC and been
didn’t have the privilege to work T MR NG R Nl IE
didn’t have the privilege to work T R N R T Ul R e
with the BBC and been evacuated to )
with the BBC and been evacuated to AL
with the BBC and been evacuated to ARG E
with the BBC and been evacuated to RO e 0] o)
with the BBC and been evacuated to the UK, that could be me and | would
the UK, that could be me and | would )
the UK, that could be me and | would be hanging out with those people in
be hanging out with those people in refugee
be hanging out with those people in (TR T
be hanging out with those people in (IR s I T
be hanging out with those people in refugee camps. The sad thing is when
refugee camps. The sad thing is when you speak with
refugee camps. The sad thing is when TR L SR G
refugee camps. The sad thing is when you speak with them, as |
refugee camps. The sad thing is when TR L O R G U A G
refugee camps. The sad thing is when you speak with them, as | have with
you speak with them, as | have with '
you speak with them, as | have with my family back in Afghanistan, even
my family back in Afghanistan, even though
my family back in Afghanistan, even QL RGO
my family back in Afghanistan, even G R G L
my family back in Afghanistan, even though they are living in tough
though they are living in tough I OEL
though they are living in tough situations, they think about their
situations, they think about their families back in Afghanistan. |
families back in Afghanistan. | G
families back in Afghanistan. | LR
families back in Afghanistan. | NG
families back in Afghanistan. | spoke to one of
families back in Afghanistan. | RN R O R
families back in Afghanistan. | RN R G
families back in Afghanistan. | spoke to one of them, a gentleman
spoke to one of them, a gentleman Ty
spoke to one of them, a gentleman who had
spoke to one of them, a gentleman e s
spoke to one of them, a gentleman N L Nl IE |
spoke to one of them, a gentleman who had been evacuated without his
who had been evacuated without his family.
who had been evacuated without his A )
who had been evacuated without his family. He said, | don’t care
who had been evacuated without his family. He said, | don’t care what |
family. He said, | don’t care what | PYet]
family. He said, | don’t care what | ELG ]
family. He said, | don’t care what | E I Y
family. He said, | don’t care what | U ML R ]
family. He said, | don’t care what | am doing here and what | am
family. He said, | don’t care what | am doing here and what | am going
am doing here and what | am going IR
am doing here and what | am going through, |
am doing here and what | am going through, I think
am doing here and what | am going through, | think about my
am doing here and what | am going through, 1 think about my family
through, I think about my family back in Afghanistan. It’s very sad
back in Afghanistan. It’s very sad and
back in Afghanistan. It’s very sad L
back in Afghanistan. It’s very sad and it kind
back in Afghanistan. It’s very sad B R d
back in Afghanistan. It’s very sad IR R A
back in Afghanistan. It’s very sad B R A R
back in Afghanistan. It’s very sad LR A RS A A
back in Afghanistan. It’s very sad R R A R T
and it kind of makes me feel about )
and it kind of makes me feel about the situation in Afghanistan, the
the situation in Afghanistan, the tough situation of those people.
tough situation of those people. Finally,
tough situation of those people. [T F (YR S
tough situation of those people. ST LR E 10
tough situation of those people. Finally, what are the host countries
Finally, what are the host countries where this is happening, what are
where this is happening, what are they saying about why they are not
they saying about why they are not L]
they saying about why they are not giving them more freedom? Actually,
giving them more freedom? Actually, maybe it is their own policies that
maybe it is their own policies that )
maybe it is their own policies that Rl
maybe it is their own policies that R L
maybe it is their own policies that so far what happens to the people in
so far what happens to the people in 1]\
so far what happens to the people in UAE, they
so far what happens to the people in 7Y TSI
so far what happens to the people in UAE, they are waiting for their
UAE, they are waiting for their e
UAE, they are waiting for their cases to
UAE, they are waiting for their I RN )
UAE, they are waiting for their IR G R ]
UAE, they are waiting for their IR R R R
UAE, they are waiting for their IR LA e R RO
UAE, they are waiting for their cases to be improved or they are
cases to be improved or they are waiting for the UN
cases to be improved or they are N LR G RV E
cases to be improved or they are waiting for the UN to respond to
waiting for the UN to respond to them and
waiting for the UN to respond to QUL RS
waiting for the UN to respond to QUL E R U
waiting for the UN to respond to them and pave the way for their
them and pave the way for their evacuation
them and pave the way for their XV eI ale e R 1a o]
them and pave the way for their X eI A R oI )
them and pave the way for their X eI R ol Nt
them and pave the way for their e IE R oI R s iR e
evacuation and evacuate them to e
evacuation and evacuate them to other countries.
evacuation and evacuate them to NUEIR
evacuation and evacuate them to NUER UL G| W% IF)
evacuation and evacuate them to other countries. OK, Aalia Farzan
other countries. OK, Aalia Farzan Tee I8t
other countries. OK, Aalia Farzan e iR
other countries. OK, Aalia Farzan from the BBC
other countries. OK, Aalia Farzan NI RGN WS OB
other countries. OK, Aalia Farzan from the BBC Afghan service, thank
from the BBC Afghan service, thank ]
from the BBC Afghan service, thank you for bringing it to our
you for bringing it to our il
you for bringing it to our e h R LIE
you for bringing it to our ELC A L E
you for bringing it to our attention. This may surprise you.
The number of wolves in Europe and the area
that they roam in is growing.
Some people, such as conservationists, welcome the news.
Others, including farmers, say it’s deeply alarming.
Around 19,000 wolves are thought to be living
across 27 European countries.
The impact on farmers has led some members of the European Parliament
to push to reduce the legal protections presently
in place for wolves.
This report from our correspondent, Jessica Parker.
On heathland in the east of Belgium, a pack of wolves is on patrol,
curious about a camera set up RN G
Searching for signs of wolves in the area, Jan, a researcher,
knows exactly what to look for.
So, this is wolf faeces?
This is wolf faeces, yeah.
What remains after the rain is just R U GO A
Why are their numbers growing in Europe and why
are they back in Belgium - TR R ARy
IR VIO RT3
The reason they are back is mainly legal protection.
From the early ‘90s, really a lot has happened in Europe
and the wolves really started to disperse all over the continent.
The wolves sometimes roam here in this forest,
and this is one of the cameras that is keeping an eye on them.
There’s up to 40 of these across this part of eastern Belgium
and it tracks the wolves’ movements, their well being, whether they might
have been injured, as well as their numbers
I T R GRS
But also traceable are the rising attacks on livestock that’s led EU
lawmakers to challenge the wolves’ protected status.
Joan, a farmer, says he’s lost dozens of sheep and that current
compensation fails to cover R N
Every morning when we look QNG RO R G TRV I
to find some sheep killed.
Some people might say you just need to build a better fence.
Yes, we can use more wires, use more sticks, but | don’t think -
a wolf-proof fence exists.
The wolf is so smart, he over runs every fence.
Here, in its jaws, a wolf holds a baby wild bear.
Its mother gives chase A RO e
Wolves are predators, with warnings their growing numbers
In Europe cannet go unchecked.
Here we have another wolf print.
But why are they a positive thing?
AR 1 that they’re back?
Well, first of all, of course, you need to maybe also ask
If everything has to have a positive effect on the way
we see It as humans.
Some animals also just have a right to exist, not just
L RSN ] EHE IR
but across this densely-populated region, their presence
L[ T d[o-Ts
Jessica Parker, BBC News, Belgium.
N[V
ISRV AT
Let’s just remind you of the big political news here in
Let’s just remind you of the big U R AL R G
Let’s just remind you of the big political news here in the UK. The
political news here in the UK. The Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has been
Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has been setting
Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has been XSl
Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has been X3 R T a1
Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has been setting out his budget in his spring
setting out his budget in his spring statements. He
setting out his budget in his spring RN N E
setting out his budget in his spring RN L N R R
setting out his budget in his spring statements. He has delivered it
setting out his budget in his spring NN N R R R )
statements. He has delivered it to )
statements. He has delivered it to )
statements. He has delivered it to R
statements. He has delivered it to the House of Commons in parliament,
the House of Commons in parliament, saying that it will draw people back
saying that it will draw people back Ty
saying that it will draw people back TR R )
saying that it will draw people back into the workforce. The emphasis
into the workforce. The emphasis T
into the workforce. The emphasis here on growth. The opposition, for
here on growth. The opposition, for e
here on growth. The opposition, for Gl
here on growth. The opposition, for L N
here on growth. The opposition, for their part, have responded by saying
their part, have responded by saying )
their part, have responded by saying the Government is out of touch and
the Government is out of touch and putting the country on a
the Government is out of touch and RO R ELG]
the Government is out of touch and LRGSR G AL R ELG R
putting the country on a path of managed decline. The Chancellor
managed decline. The Chancellor WIEELICER
managed decline. The Chancellor disagrees, though.
managed decline. The Chancellor WD IR G T A T
managed decline. The Chancellor disagrees, though. He is trying to
disagrees, though. He is trying to e
disagrees, though. He is trying to draw people back by offering more
draw people back by offering more e iy
draw people back by offering more tax-free pension contributions and
tax-free pension contributions and e Rl s [e1a)
tax-free pension contributions and free childcare for
tax-free pension contributions and NG IR T A E L
You can reach me on twitter - I’m @MartineBRC
[LiE1L @0
Thank you for watching.
UG IR R
Hello. This week we are seeing some ]
Hello. This week we are seeing some hig swings
Hello. This week we are seeing some ISR
Hello. This week we are seeing some big swings in temperature from
Hello. This week we are seeing some R LRI R QU ORIt K
big swings in temperature from one day to the next.
And we’ve got more of the same TS IO RIS
We had a very cold start to the morning with temperatures
down at minus ten.
But over the next 24 hours or so, milder air will be pushing right
the way across the UK, bringing a big jump
In our temperatures.
Today, though, quite cold, [ O T b B U R R Ll
degrees Celsius pretty widely.
But if you take a look at the highs in Londonderry,
we’re going from eight today to about 15 degrees
Celsius tomorrow.
So you will notice that change GRS
Before we get there, though, as | say, today is a relatively cold
day with temperatures below average, a sunny and frosty start.
LI R G I starting to cloud over.
And in Northern Ireland, we’re seeing rain moving in,
and there have been a few flakes of snow just on the leading edge
of this weather front across some of the hills in Northern Ireland.
But during this evening, RO R R G S S G
bumps into the cold air, we could see a spell of snow
across the hills of northern England and Scotland,
the snow lasting longest R R RGN R R s
and could bring some localised areas of disruption.
But then later in the night, N B il s e
push of much milder air as the next band of rain works in.
And so temperatures will be climbing significantly.
RGN NG RG] 8 nine or ten degrees Celsius pretty
widely and even across northern Scotland will see temperatures
climbing well above freezing.
Now for Thursday, we’ve got that mild flow of southwesterly winds,
but it will be quite a wet and quite a windy kind of day.
The rain heavy enough to cause some localised surface
water flooding issues, the weather slowly brightening up
in Northern Ireland I think as we go QI RGO N
but with the risk of some heavy and thundery
showers later in the day.
Temperatures 14, 15 degrees Celsius. R R Rl
Even northern Scotland, ten in Aberdeen, still relatively
cold though In Lerwick.
For Friday, we might see some fairly prolonged outbreaks of rain
affecting eastern areas of England.
Otherwise, | think it’s going to be a cloudy day with some heavy
oI AT R I s the heaviest probably across western
areas of the UK, maybe even a bit of thunder mixed in.
Still mild, temperatures could go as high as 16 degrees
A R R G e
And then for the weekend, still lots of cloud around
on Saturday with bursts of rain, Sunday probably showers,
a few brighter spells in between, but still overall, quite a lot
of cloud expected.
And then if we take a quick look at the weather into next week, well,
it looks like for some of us e GRSl R
This is BBC News, the headlines...
A high court in the Pakistani city of Lahore has ordered police
to halt their operation to arrest main opposition leader and former
Prime Minister Imran GELE AR LT E
following clashes between police and his supporters.
Shares in the troubled Swiss banking giant Credit Suisse fall
to a record low as investors remain worried about the problems it faces
following the fallout from R E R I T R SR BT S
and Signature Bank.
The UK Chancellor Jeremy Hunt sets SR DRG]
in Parliament - extra help RIS LRI Tl T
the limit on tax-free pension savings are part of the government’s
plans to draw people FN R gt e
Conflicting accounts from Washington and Moscow as a US
drone crashes into the Black Sea R s we T la e R ik sl
Russian fighter jets - Ukraine’s foreign minister says
incidents like this are inevitable until Russia leave Crimea.
You’re watching BBC News.
Let’s return to one R RN
The Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has been setting out his Budget -
pledging te "build for the future”.
L RV Ty [y PR R to shrink this year -
N SIS R U (I 4o Ta T NN AR
Mr Hunt also says R FlA e R e eI
is to fall from above 10% - to just under 3% by the end of 2023.
But the Labour leader, Sir Keir Starmer, accuses
the government of "dressing up stagnation as stability”.
Well, let’s look at some of the key moments of the Budget: Energy
bills for a typical household RN TR 1 s Ta ala o)
to be capped at £2,500 until the end of June.
The 5p cut to fuel duty on petrol R R LR R )
for another year.
The duty on draught pints has also been frozen to help -
The duty on draught pints has also been frozen to help -
in the words of Jeremy Hunt - S QLN T W T
But people drinking AR B R
on other alcohol products - RGN R
soar by 10.1% in August - in line with inflation during
the peak of the cost-of-living crisis.
The lifetime limit on tax-free pensions
savings will be abolished.
In addition, the annual tax-free pension allowance will rise
And free childcare of 30 hours a week for working
parents in England is being expanded to cover one and two-year-olds -
but will only be fully implemented by September 2025.
Let’s get more on this with Shaun Ley who’s
outside Westminster, C QNN R
Welcome to you and everybody watching
Welcome to you and everybody LI
Welcome to you and everybody watching at Westminster. The big
watching at Westminster. The big question is,
watching at Westminster. The big ISR AT
watching at Westminster. The big question is, did it deliver is back
question is, did it deliver is back to
question is, did it deliver is back nhnee
question is, did it deliver is back to work budget, a for growth?
Carrie Rutland is a partner in BDO, an accountancy
and business advisory firm.
Let’s deal with a couple of points. il
Let’s deal with a couple of points. On the
N LRI - W T V01U Ty On the taxation side, the
Let’s deal with a couple of points. On the taxation side, the changes he
On the taxation side, the changes he made to taxation, some of which he
made to taxation, seme of which he 10
made to taxation, seme of which he IR )
made to taxation, some of which he said were designed
made to taxation, some of which he IR AL R )
made to taxation, some of which he said were designed to encourage
said were designed to encourage people back into the workforce,
sald were designed to encourage people back into the workforce, or
people back into the workforce, or to discourage them from leaving
to discourage them from leaving RGO EHGEA
to discourage them from leaving altogether, senior doctors were used
altogether, senior doctors were used as
altogether, senior doctors were used Y]
altogether, senior doctors were used as an example, retiring from the
as an example, retiring from the I RN
as an example, retiring from the Ry
as an example, retiring from the NHS, itis a
as an example, retiring from the NHS, it is a massive disadvantage to
NHS, it is a massive disadvantage to them
NHS, it is a massive disadvantage to i
NHS, it is a massive disadvantage to QNI RG]
NHS, it is a massive disadvantage to QR ROS A8
NHS, it is a massive disadvantage to them if they carry on because there
them If they carry on because there NS
them If they carry on because there IR
them If they carry on because there R T
them if they carry on because there pension will be penalised. | don’t
pension will be penalised. | don’t think people actually retire because
think people actually retire because N
think people actually retire because of their
think people actually retire because RGN E]
think people actually retire because of their pension pot, |
think people actually retire because RO G ARG
think people actually retire because RGN AR G
of their pension pot, | think people Xy
of their pension peot, | think people Sl N )
of their pension peot, | think people SN N R
of their pension peot, | think people retire because of the pressure and
retire because of the pressure and stress in
retire because of the pressure and R ANE
retire because of the pressure and R ARG
retire because of the pressure and stress in the NHS if
retire because of the pressure and R ARG A T
retire because of the pressure and ARG R N R )
retire because of the pressure and stress in the NHS if we are picking
stress in the NHS if we are picking doctors,
stress in the NHS if we are picking [ n e T g
stress in the NHS if we are picking doctors, or because they want to do
doctors, or because they want to do e
doctors, or because they want to do other things, so it is a nice
other things, so it is a nice T ey
other things, so it is a nice S F AN 0L
other things, so it is a nice measure but | do
other things, so it is a nice RN N AR R4
other things, so it is a nice N N AR R lla ] 4
other things, so it is a nice YN N ARl s &L
other things, so it is a nice RN N AR R R Ei R
measure but | do not think it will iy
measure but | do not think it will R
measure but | do not think it will SRR G
measure but | do not think it will RO G LG
measure but | do not think it will solve the problem. The other
measure but | do net think it will solve the problem. The other focus
solve the problem. The other focus 3
solve the problem. The other focus s
solve the problem. The other focus T R )
solve the problem. The other focus is on the abolition of
solve the problem. The other focus TR R el R e
solve the problem. The other focus TR R e R R R a e )
s on the abolition of the lifetime EM
s on the abolition of the lifetime TN ESTE e
s on the abolition of the lifetime pension allowance which presumably
pension allowance which presumably s
pension allowance which presumably is again hoping to make sure some of
is again hoping to make sure some of )
is again hoping to make sure some of the discrepancies caused by the
the discrepancies caused by the e Al a]
the discrepancies caused by the taxation system interact are
taxation system interact are eliminated and Labour will clearly
eliminated and Labour will clearly attack this as a thing which will
attack this as a thing which will favour
attack this as a thing which will BN e
attack this as a thing which will EV R R I e
attack this as a thing which will favour the wealthiest people. Does
favour the wealthiest people. Does e
favour the wealthiest people. Does )
favour the wealthiest people. Does VR
favour the wealthiest people. Does RO
favour the wealthiest people. Does I R SRl Ela
favour the wealthiest people. Does it have any other impact on public
it have any other impact on public finances? One of the things which
finances? One of the things which the
finances? One of the things which R T
finances? One of the things which the government announced and they
the government announced and they Py
the government announced and they are doing it in the autumn is
are doing it in the autumn is E{LGYL ]
are doing it in the autumn is allowing pension companies to invest
allowing pension companies to invest e
allowing pension companies to invest i Nl
allowing pension companies to invest more in high-tech companies and in
more in high-tech companies and in )
more in high-tech companies and in R LA
more in high-tech companies and in the economy, so that will boost
the economy, so that will boost L]
the economy, so that will boost L uRn]
the economy, so that will boost ORI
the economy, so that will boost growth in the economy and that was a
growth in the economy and that was a bRl
growth in the economy and that was a long-term good measure, and allowing
long-term good measure, and allowing people to put more into the pension
people to put more into the pension pot
people to put more into the pension el
people to put more into the pension pot will trickle down to those
pot will trickle down to those high-tech companies who need the
high-tech companies who need the funding.
high-tech companies who need the GG G
high-tech companies who need the funding. Between the long-term
funding. Between the long-term e
funding. Between the long-term measures, in
funding. Between the long-term measures, ina
funding. Between the long-term NN RN R
funding. Between the long-term measures, in a sense this is the
measures, in a sense this is the problem that
MR G IRG R R QIR 4 [ problem that the Chancellor
measures, in a sense this Is the problem that the Chancellor has,
problem that the Chancellor has, ooyl
problem that the Chancellor has, OO
problem that the Chancellor has, GG LR Ryl
problem that the Chancellor has, growth has been anaemic, he is
growth has been anaemic, he is going, well, we avoided recession,
going, well, we avoided recession, but
going, well, we avoided recession, )
going, well, we avoided recession, but the growth figures are pretty
but the growth figures are pretty ENE
but the growth figures are pretty anaemic, and the economy will shrink
anaemic, and the economy will shrink very
anaemic, and the economy will shrink A
anaemic, and the economy will shrink very slightly, although not hit the
very slightly, although not hit the el
very slightly, although not hit the e B Y
very slightly, although not hit the e B RN N
very slightly, although not hit the technical measure of two quarters in
technical measure of two quarters in succession
technical measure of two quarters in Mee e )
technical measure of two quarters in succession of restriction which
succession of restriction which o
succession of restriction which Rt G )
succession of restriction which R R
succession of restriction which would make it a recession. But the
would make it a recession. But the L]
would make it a recession. But the I T (]
would make it a recession. But the growth pencilled in is not that
growth pencilled in is not that strong and it
growth pencilled in is not that SUNLELLRIEH
growth pencilled in is not that strong and it is not that strong
strong and it is not that strong Y
strong and it is not that strong R
strong and it is not that strong when you get beyond the next
when you get beyond the next election in
when you get beyond the next e BRI
when you get beyond the next election in 18 months’
when you get beyond the next election in 18 months’ time?
when you get beyond the next election in 18 months’ time? The key
election in 18 months’ time? The key thing that businesses
election in 18 months’ time? The key QIR QR IR
election in 18 months’ time? The key thing that businesses want is
thing that businesses want is el
thing that businesses want is e USELD
thing that businesses want is stability and there was
thing that businesses want is S UL R GG ]
thing that businesses want is stability and there was a lot
QIR GV LRV stability and there was a lot of
stability and there was a lot of e
stability and there was a lot of I 0
stability and there was a lot of talk about a
stability and there was a lot of N B ETs|
stability and there was a lot of talk about a read map
stability and there was a lot of & L N LR ET RS
stability and there was a lot of talk about a road map for reducing
talk about a road map for reducing S
talk about a road map for reducing e
talk about a road map for reducing N AL
talk about a road map for reducing R AT
talk about a road map for reducing AN a AL R
talk about a road map for reducing NN AN AR
talk about a road map for reducing taxes but it looks Llike we are in
talk about a road map for reducing taxes but it looks like we are in a
taxes but it looks like we are In a high
taxes but it looks like we are In a LIRS
taxes but it looks like we are in a high tax economy and incentives
taxes but it looks like we are ina high tax economy and incentives and
high tax economy and incentives and S
high tax economy and incentives and R I
high tax economy and incentives and R EILREL R
high tax economy and incentives and R IR EL R R E B
relief designed to encourage innovation and capital
CUEEEILIEL R GRS innovation and capital spend, so we
innovation and capital spend, so we have
Innovation and capital spend, so we YN[l
innovation and capital spend, so we have ended up
Innovation and capital spend, so we have ended up with a
Innovation and capital spend, so we NN e R O R G
innovation and capital spend, so we have ended up with a more complex
have ended up with a more complex tax
have ended up with a more complex 1P AU )]
have ended up with a more complex tax system it when we are not
tax system it when we are not necessarily
tax system it when we are not oL 1a ]\
tax system it when we are not (T g AR Ta 1!
tax system it when we are not necessarily -- and not necessarily
necessarily -- and not necessarily )
necessarily -- and not necessarily R3] i
necessarily -- and not necessarily GRS UL
necessarily -- and not necessarily the stability and certainty that
the stability and certainty that N T
the stability and certainty that AN R
the stability and certainty that T IR RO 4 o]
the stability and certainty that businesses were looking for. The
businesses were looking for. The Chancellor in 2010 talked about
businesses were looking for. The N R VIR EIC I T TR
Chancellor in 2010 talked about tax Sl il
Chancellor in 2010 talked about tax simplification and a flatter system
simplification and a flatter system N
simplification and a flatter system of taxation where basically
of taxation where basically everybody knew where they stood and
SR G IR ORI GG Y
SR G IR ORI GG A
SR G IR ORI GG A
everybody knew where they stood and a lot of these
everybody knew where they stood and RIS R al A
everybody knew where they stood and RS R R R e R Y
a lot of these wrinkles were eliminated.
a lot of these wrinkles were NGRS R )
a lot of these wrinkles were eliminated. We seem to have added
eliminated. We seem to have added T
eliminated. We seem to have added R iala T
eliminated. We seem to have added IR iala Ao s o]
eliminated. We seem to have added IR U TR R
eliminated. We seem to have added MR O RN R GRS A U
more wrinkles into the system. T
more wrinkles into the system. I CVAGEGCE
more wrinkles into the system. G RS RUG
more wrinkles into the system. G RS UG T AL
Definitely there’s more complexity and
Definitely there’s more complexity R )
Definitely there’s more complexity and the budget adds to that. Good
and the budget adds to that. Good news for accountants!
and the budget adds to that. Good (R T E SR G
and the budget adds to that. Good (R I T T S G
and the budget adds to that. Good news for accountants! Keeps us in
news for accountants! Keeps us in I
news for accountants! Keeps us in business! The government documents
business! The government documents Py
business! The government documents I Red
business! The government documents are talk about simplification so if
are talk about simplification so if you
are talk about simplification so if IR GTS
are talk about simplification so if you look at
are talk about simplification so if TG IR TS
are talk about simplification so if you look at tax regimes aligned into
you look at tax regimes aligned into )
you look at tax regimes aligned into one regime, but we are a long way
one regime, but we are a long way Tee I8t
one regime, but we are a long way from getting there, so may be in the
from getting there, so may be in the future. What would
from getting there, so may be in the LTI E R T G YT
from getting there, so may be in the future. What would you have liked
future. What would you have liked the
future. What would you have liked R e e e
future. What would you have liked the Chancellor to do today? You are
the Chancellor to do today? You are impartial and
the Chancellor to do today? You are Il EI LR IR [
the Chancellor to do today? You are impartial and you do not care who is
impartial and you do not care who is in
impartial and you do not care who is RN EOC N
impartial and you do not care who Is in government, as long as there is a
in government, as long as there is a government and
in government, as long as there is a NEGENEL RGN
in government, as long as there is a government and they are making
government and they are making A
government and they are making decisions, so what would you have
decisions, so what would you have liked to have seen that he did not
liked to have seen that he did not o[
liked to have seen that he did not R
liked to have seen that he did not do this year
liked to have seen that he did not RO L]
liked to have seen that he did not R ORI L
liked to have seen that he did not VRO TE LG I R
liked to have seen that he did not do this year and he might consider
do this year and he might consider WL
do this year and he might consider LRGN
do this year and he might consider doing further down the line? In the
doing further down the line? In the autumn or the last budget before
autumn or the last budget before they face the
autumn or the last budget before QARG
autumn or the last budget before they face the voters again? More
they face the voters again? More LG R
they face the voters again? More funding for innovation and
funding for innovation and early-stage
funding for innovation and NS E LR T E LI
funding for innovation and early-stage companies because Al,
early-stage companies because Al, il
early-stage companies because Al, T Y )
early-stage companies because Al, Vinter, life sciences,
early-stage companies because Al, N R A O IR G
early-stage companies because Al, Vinter, life sciences, they are the
Vinter, life sciences, they are the ¥ 1ed
Vinter, life sciences, they are the heart blood of the UK
Vinter, life sciences, they are the heart bleod of the UK econemy
Vinter, life sciences, they are the heart blood of the UK economy -- for
heart blood of the UK economy -- for intact.
heart blood of the UK economy -- for T &ladl|
heart blood of the UK economy -- for R la a4
heart blood of the UK economy -- for intact. | think a
heart blood of the UK economy -- for Rl R R e
heart blood of the UK economy -- for intact. | think a more targeted
intact. | think a more targeted S
intact. | think a more targeted relief in
intact. | think @ more targeted S AR Y
intact. | think @ more targeted A ARG
intact. | think @ more targeted relief in those areas. Thanks
intact. | think a more targeted relief in those areas. Thanks for
relief in those areas. Thanks for LI
relief in those areas. Thanks for NGRS
relief in those areas. Thanks for NG ETERT Y
relief in those areas. Thanks for LGRS
relief in those areas. Thanks for joining us. We are going to talk to
joining us. We are going to talk to g
joining us. We are going to talk to our political correspondent
joining us. We are going to talk to [ S G R T L R LA
joining us. We are going to talk to our political correspondent now. The
our political correspondent now. The Chancellor spoke for an hour, and he
Chancellor spoke for an hour, and he gave all those statistics, but he
gave all those statistics, but he stressed
gave all those statistics, but he A R
gave all those statistics, but he stressed that it was a budget of
stressed that it was a budget of L)
stressed that it was a budget of L
stressed that it was a budget of LI
stressed that it was a budget of good news and that the fact is,
good news and that the fact is, o)
good news and that the fact is, A e N lare ) e
good news and that the fact is, since October things are heading
since October things are heading down again, but it looks better than
down again, but it looks better than e
down again, but it looks better than TRl
down again, but it looks better than it would have looked before October,
it would have looked before October, and
it would have looked before October, R i El
it would have looked before October, IR
it would have looked before October, and what he forgot to explain, I’m
and what he forgot to explain, I’m )
and what he forgot to explain, I’m N
and what he forgot to explain, I’m NI
and what he forgot to explain, I’m sure he did not forget, but what he
sure he did not forget, but what he ]
sure he did not forget, but what he N
sure he did not forget, but what he chose not to explain is the reason
chose not to explain is the reason that borrowing costs spike is the
that borrowing costs spike is the so-called
that borrowing costs spike is the Nl R
that borrowing costs spike is the N s R il e | s ]
that borrowing costs spike is the so-called fiscal and --
that borrowing costs spike is the LR R -
so-called fiscal and -- event AR
so-called fiscal and -- event VRO RN
so-called fiscal and -- event delivered by his predecessor, which
delivered by his predecessor, which )
delivered by his predecessor, which the markets reacted to,
delivered by his predecessor, which ORI R T - R LA |
delivered by his predecessor, which R R O R O TR B =)
delivered by his predecessor, which the markets reacted to, and then Liz
the markets reacted te, and then Liz I
the markets reacted te, and then Liz Truss was
the markets reacted to, and then Liz Truss was driven from office. Less
Truss was driven from office. Less than six months ago those
than six months ago those extraordinary
than six months ago those eI A L (]
than six months ago those extraordinary political events that
extraordinary political events that made it the shortest serving Prime
made it the shortest serving Prime R
made it the shortest serving Prime NG
made it the shortest serving Prime Minister of modern
made it the shortest serving Prime IS RN RS R
made it the shortest serving Prime IS RN R Rl A )
made it the shortest serving Prime Minister of modern times, and saw a
Minister of modern times, and saw a LG
Minister of modern times, and saw a spike in borrowing costs, mortgage
spike in borrowing costs, mortgage w3
spike in borrowing costs, mortgage WP g
spike in borrowing costs, mortgage R
spike in borrowing costs, mortgage cost, or the extra pressures
spike in borrowing costs, mortgage L A R R R TR 1
cost, or the extra pressures that ey
cost, or the extra pressures that were added to the other things like
were added to the other things like )
were added to the other things like the war
were added to the other things like R LIl
were added to the other things like the war and inflation. Things have
the war and inflation. Things have !
the war and inflation. Things have IRl ol s
the war and inflation. Things have DR R
the war and inflation. Things have calmed down but, waters are not
calmed down but, waters are not (TN
calmed down but, waters are not NI VAT
calmed down but, waters are not necessarily leaving the government
necessarily leaving the government in
necessarily leaving the government ina
necessarily leaving the government R
necessarily leaving the government in a happier political position?
necessarily leaving the government in @ happier political position? --
in @ happier political position? -- =1 la; ]
in a happier political position? -- NIRRT e
in a happier political position? -- calm waters. They are
in a happier political position? -- R R LG LR
in a happier political position? -- calm waters. They are still wading
calm waters. They are still wading in the problem is if you like, to
in the problem is if you like, to -l
in the problem is if you like, to extend your metaphor, and what this
extend your metaphor, and what this Ty
extend your metaphor, and what this TN L
extend your metaphor, and what this was about, cast your mind back, you
was about, cast your mind back, you P
was about, cast your mind back, you had the big problem, the big mess
had the big problem, the big mess with
had the big problem, the big mess R )
had the big problem, the big mess with the kamikaze budget, it was
with the kamikaze budget, it was called,
with the kamikaze budget, it was (LY
with the kamikaze budget, it was called, Jeremy Hunt brought in to
called, Jeremy Hunt brought in to stabilise
called, Jeremy Hunt brought in to SR G
called, Jeremy Hunt brought in to SE LR GGG
called, Jeremy Hunt brought in to SE R GG R TR
called, Jeremy Hunt brought in to stabilise things, this is about
stabilise things, this is about LT
stabilise things, this is about IR %L
stabilise things, this is about continuing that to
stabilise things, this is about IR E R R A )
stabilise things, this is about continuing that to try to say,
LR G EAR G IERER:L LTS continuing that to try to say, we
continuing that to try to say, we Py
continuing that to try to say, we are getting back on course, trying
are getting back on course, trying to start to
are getting back on course, trying R Gl R =
are getting back on course, trying to start to deliver, so you see
to start to deliver, so you see things
to start to deliver, so you see QI
to start to deliver, so you see things on child care and trying to
things on child care and trying to 4
things on child care and trying to L G
things on child care and trying to get people into the workforce or
get people into the workforce or )
get people into the workforce or keep them in the
get people into the workforce or RSB R G ER AT
get people into the workforce or RO RO ER L A - e U]
keep them in the workforce, but N
keep them in the workforce, but essentially the figures are not
essentially the figures are not A
essentially the figures are not pretty. You look at what has been
pretty. You look at what has been S
pretty. You look at what has been talked about, living standards,
talked about, living standards, fe
talked about, living standards, incomes, still far
talked about, living standards, T RS B I
talked about, living standards, incomes, still far out, 2027,
incomes, still far out, 2027, L]
incomes, still far out, 2027, NS
incomes, still far out, 2027, IR
incomes, still far out, 2027, looking like we still won’t be any
looking like we still won’t be any better
looking like we still won’t be any e i
looking like we still won’t be any S RG]
looking like we still won’t be any S RGN e 4
looking like we still won’t be any S RGN E s &)
looking like we still won’t be any hetter off than back in 2020
better off than back in 2020 according
better off than back in 2020 Elae TR
better off than back in 2020 according to the figures that came
according to the figures that came e
according to the figures that came out with
according to the figures that came R GRS
according to the figures that came out with this budget. The OBR
out with this budget. The OBR L PIGCN
out with this budget. The OBR HLDICRG)
out with this budget. The OBR figures, the pamphlet that comes
figures, the pamphlet that comes alongside it. 2022-2024,
figures, the pamphlet that comes EIGH LG LN Al 22 lirl )|
figures, the pamphlet that comes EIGH LG LN Al 2R lep S LW EATIET]
alongside it. 2022-2024, on average T leelat Iy
alongside it. 2022-2024, on average T iR 18
alongside it. 2022-2024, on average T iR e
alongside it. 2022-2024, on average incomes will have fallen
alongside it. 2022-2024, on average TR R R E G R
alongside it. 2022-2024, on average incomes will have fallen in real
incomes will have fallen in real s
incomes will have fallen in real IR
incomes will have fallen in real N R 18
incomes will have fallen in real terms by about 5.8% which is a big
terms by about 5.8% which is a big Y
terms by about 5.8% which is a big )
terms by about 5.8% which is a big RO G
terms by about 5.8% which is a big hit to people already being hit by
hit to people already being hit by e
hit to people already being hit by HOEA G
hit to people already being hit by other things like inflation. Yes,
other things like inflation. Yes, exactly, and that is what is driving
exactly, and that is what is driving T
exactly, and that is what is driving T
exactly, and that is what is driving 1A
exactly, and that is what is driving it. Right now what people are
it. Right now what people are ]
it. Right now what people are feeling is the
it. Right now what people are ARG
it. Right now what people are feeling is the hit. That will be,
feeling is the hit. That will be, things will be slightly better, but
things will be slightly better, but e
things will be slightly better, but not much
things will be slightly better, but TR R R
things will be slightly better, but not much better, so the question is
not much better, so the question is L
not much better, so the question is going to be for people at home,
going to be for people at home, around
going to be for people at home, IR
going to be for people at home, around the UK, they are
going to be for people at home, EIC LRGSR
going to be for people at home, around the UK, they are not going to
around the UK, they are not going to feel
around the UK, they are not going to N0
around the UK, they are not going to feel very different, really, in
around the UK, they are not going to R A UG VAT Y
feel very different, really, in a couple of
feel very different, really, ina couple of years down the line, and
couple of years down the line, and )
couple of years down the line, and RN
couple of years down the line, and N o)
couple of years down the line, and the measures in this, they might
the measures in this, they might have
the measures in this, they might LY R )
the measures in this, they might have some impact,
the measures in this, they might [ EVTNY TN o la o]
the measures in this, they might have some impact, in terms of
have some impact, in terms of getting
have some impact, in terms of LR
have some impact, in terms of getting people into the workforce,
getting people into the workforce, but
getting people into the workforce, NES ]
getting people into the workforce, but even those will
getting people into the workforce, bhut even those will take
getting people into the workforce, but even those will take time, so
but even those will take time, so )
but even those will take time, so el )
but even those will take time, so the childcare thing is a big deal,
the childcare thing is a big deal, N
the childcare thing is a big deal, e e
the childcare thing is a big deal, e 4
the childcare thing is a big deal, N e A
the childcare thing is a big deal, of course. It is also about getting
of course. It is also about getting enough
of course. It is also about getting QLI
of course. It is also about getting ST R
of course. It is also about getting enough people into the childcare
enough people into the childcare R
enough people into the childcare T 1
enough people into the childcare IR G R
enough people into the childcare business, as well, and we will hear
business, as well, and we will hear )
business, as well, and we will hear e Tt
business, as well, and we will hear R el s
business, as well, and we will hear more about that shortly.
business, as well, and we will hear N R G R g AR L
business, as well, and we will hear more about that shortly. Those over
more about that shortly. Those over )
more about that shortly. Those over the age of 50,
more about that shertly. Those over the age of 50, trying to tempt them
the age of 50, trying to tempt them back in, that is another issue, and
back in, that is another issue, and )
back in, that is another issue, and QR LA )
back in, that is another issue, and the opposition parties will focus
the opposition parties will focus Gl
the opposition parties will focus S GIIGEL]
the opposition parties will focus everything in on
the opposition parties will focus A G LRLE R G T
the opposition parties will focus everything in on the abolition of
everything in on the abolition of )
everything in on the abolition of a8 T
everything in on the abolition of R s
everything in on the abolition of the limits on Lifetime,
everything in on the abolition of the limits on lifetime, the amount
the limits on Lifetime, the amount N
the limits on Lifetime, the amount of money can
the limits on lifetime, the amount of money can pay into your pension
of money can pay into your pension N
of money can pay into your pension T R Tes]
of money can pay into your pension pot, which affects a relatively
pot, which affects a relatively small proportion of the population
small proportion of the population 4
small proportion of the population LI
small proportion of the population NI EL VAU
small proportion of the population but presumably they will say, you
but presumably they will say, you Py
but presumably they will say, you are doing something for them, what
are doing something for them, what Py
are doing something for them, what IR
are doing something for them, what are you doing
are doing something for them, what EICRT TG TR
are doing something for them, what are you doing for everybody else?
are you doing for everybody else? That
are you doing for everybody else? G A
are you doing for everybody else? That is the difficulty with that
That is the difficulty with that T )
That is the difficulty with that because that
That is the difficulty with that TR G A = ladlet Gl
That is the difficulty with that TR N g0 Gl 118
That is the difficulty with that (TR G a0 Gl
That is the difficulty with that TR G L Gl R G
because that particular bit of the changes we are seeing, the ability
changes we are seeing, the ability to
changes we are seeing, the ability eIt Ne o)
changes we are seeing, the ability e e
changes we are seeing, the ability R d e
changes we are seeing, the ability RGN LRI USR]
changes we are seeing, the ability GRS LRI UL R VR 1]
changes we are seeing, the ability RN CRIR UL R VR L )
changes we are seeing, the ability to remove or limits you can pay into
to remove or limits you can pay into your
to remove or limits you can pay into LS
to remove or limits you can pay into TR
IR TR T R T eI N NS R {1
IR TR T R T eI your pension pot for later in life,
your pension pot for later in Life, that
your pension pot for later in Life, GEIR
your pension pot for later in life, that was designed to fix one problem
that was designed to fix one problem el
that was designed to fix one problem which is senior doctors who
that was designed to fix one problem N e BRI s e R )
which is senior doctors who are leaving the profession because they
leaving the profession because they Ty
leaving the profession because they N e e sl
leaving the profession because they e e R
leaving the profession because they N Rl RN et
leaving the profession because they have reached the Limit and
leaving the profession because they S e Yo R N e s B4
leaving the profession because they e o R N B A
leaving the profession because they N e Y o R R s i a1
have reached the limit and it is not worth
have reached the limit and it is not e R a1]
have reached the limit and it is not worth them staying on
have reached the limit and it is not s GRGEES R R T
have reached the limit and it is not worth them staying on because any
worth them staying on because any e
worth them staying on because any RO
worth them staying on because any IR U A S
worth them staying on because any more they put into the pension pot
more they put into the pension pot s
more they put into the pension pot is taxed,
more they put into the pension pot TR )
more they put into the pension pot is taxed, so they
more they put into the pension pot (R RO R
more they put into the pension pot is taxed, so they are out.
more they put into the pension pot [ L RO IR Vo L )
Is taxed, so they are out. The IS RN
s taxed, so they are out. The WIS R EL L)
s taxed, so they are out. The guestion is, changing that, it
question is, changing that, it iy
question is, changing that, it NSl Rs a1
question is, changing that, it benefits doctors and
question is, changing that, it NS e e R
question is, changing that, it benefits doctors and the very rich
benefits doctors and the very rich 1
benefits doctors and the very rich R )
benefits doctors and the very rich at the expense of others and only a
G QLRGN RGN LI very
G QLRGN RGN LI IVEIEL
at the expense of others and only a very small number
at the expense of others and only a AN
at the expense of others and only a very small number of people really
very small number of people really el
very small number of people really NI )
very small number of people really overall so question there, should
overall so question there, should they
overall so question there, should QAN
overall so question there, should they have designed something
they have designed something specifically for
they have designed something o Ya e (A IR )
they have designed something specifically for the medical
specifically for the medical profession?
specifically for the medical I Y
specifically for the medical IR IR U
specifically for the medical profession? For the older age
profession? For the older age groups,
profession? For the older age O RO
profession? For the older age groups, the criticism has been, that
groups, the criticism has been, that s
groups, the criticism has been, that isa
groups, the criticism has been, that is a fairly limited measure, what
is a fairly limited measure, what FYe L
is a fairly limited measure, what about everyone else? The childcare
about everyone else? The childcare X&)
about everyone else? The childcare el
about everyone else? The childcare e )
about everyone else? The childcare RN RO g
about everyone else? The childcare RENE ROl
about everyone else? The childcare RN RGO R
about everyone else? The childcare RN RO RGN R
about everyone else? The childcare R R UEEN ORI LR RG]
EHEE IR UL LD R R G LR [ spectrum
EHEE IR UL LD R R G LR [ ol a Rl
staff at the other end of the age ORI
staff at the other end of the age O R G A I
staff at the other end of the age O R IR G A L R
staff at the other end of the age spectrum for new parents will take
spectrum for new parents will take a4l
spectrum for new parents will take until beyond the next election to
until beyond the next election to Y
until beyond the next election to A
until beyond the next election to really put that into place -- the
really put that into place -- the 1]
really put that into place -- the Il 1e N3t
really put that into place -- the childcare stuff. And
really put that into place -- the Il e 1e Rt R e
really put that into place -- the Il e Rt - UR Y
really put that into place -- the childcare stuff. And where are the
childcare stuff. And where are the 1]
childcare stuff. And where are the childcare places going
childcare stuff. And where are the oG] EILEI R I R
childcare stuff. And where are the childcare places going to be? It is
childcare places going to be? It is EIE
childcare places going to be? It is ECE LR it
childcare places going to be? It is already difficult to find anywhere
already difficult to find anywhere if
already difficult to find anywhere LA I
already difficult to find anywhere if you are a parent. So big problems
If you are a parent. So big problems in
If you are a parent. So big problems interms
If you are a parent. So big problems in terms of
if you are a parent. So big problems in terms of delivering this. It can
in terms of delivering this. It can bring people
in terms of delivering this. It can IR R ELe
in terms of delivering this. It can bring people back into work but the
bring people back inte work but the figures
bring people back inte work but the LDl G
bring people back into work but the figures that were produced alongside
DT R GELRLLCRG L I I DL it, the
figures that were produced alongside AR R
figures that were produced alongside IR G Rl
figures that were produced alongside it, the number crunches, saying the
it, the number crunches, saying the a1 4
it, the number crunches, saying the number of
it, the number crunches, saying the PR
it, the number crunches, saying the number of people who
it, the number crunches, saying the number of people whe could
it, the number crunches, saying the number of people who could end up
number of people who could end up back
number of people who could end up s ah)
number of people who could end up back in work is really uncertain
back in work is really uncertain Tee I8t
back in work is really uncertain from theirs,
back in work Is really uncertain from theirs, anywhere from 50,000 up
from theirs, anywhere from 50,000 up 0]
from theirs, anywhere from 50,000 up R VAN
from theirs, anywhere from 50,000 up to 250,000. -- uncertain from this.
to 250,000. -- uncertain from this. e
to 250,000. -- uncertain from this. Rl (8
to 250,000. -- uncertain from this. The economically inactive of
to 250,000. -- uncertain from this. I AL e AR R G
The economically inactive of the ]
The economically inactive of the working age group, is what 7 million
working age group, is what 7 million plus?
working age group, is what 7 million XA
working age group, is what 7 million AT ]
working age group, is what 7 million plus? Yes, if you do not count
plus? Yes, if you do not count OGN
plus? Yes, if you do not count OB TR G
plus? Yes, if you do not count students, | think, because they add
students, | think, because they add T e
students, | think, because they add another couple of million.
students, | think, because they add another couple of millien. Real
another couple of million. Real T la 1y
another couple of million. Real eI EL !
another couple of million. Real uncertainty and that is
another couple of million. Real eI RO R G
another couple of millien. Real uncertainty and that is where you
uncertainty and that is where you then get the opposition criticism
then get the opposition criticism el
then get the opposition criticism T RN
then get the opposition criticism which is, where is
then get the opposition criticism o R R
then get the opposition criticism which is, where is the big vision
which is, where is the big vision and
which is, where is the big vision R )
which is, where is the big vision and the big transfer made -- big
and the big transfer made -- big transformation behind this? They do
transformation behind this? They do e
transformation behind this? They do RN o]
transformation behind this? They do R e sl
transformation behind this? They do SRR RO
transformation behind this? They do S RN RO AT
transformation behind this? They do not see one and they say there
not see one and they say there il
not see one and they say there should be a bigger shift that the
should be a bigger shift that the government could be
should be a bigger shift that the N T G R E TR
should be a bigger shift that the government could be doing, bringing
government could be doing, bringing to
government could be doing, bringing Ry
government could be doing, bringing GRS U LA
government could be doing, bringing to the economy, not these measures,
to the economy, not these measures, 4
to the economy, not these measures, R
to the economy, not these measures, NG
to the economy, not these measures, RG]
to the economy, not these measures, but this is a big thing,
to the economy, not these measures, NS GERERILR G ARG
to the economy, not these measures, NS GERERLR G ARG T
oG TERERE R T[R4 ST ]
oG TERERE R T[R4 ST big things
but this is a big thing, they are big things that will impact on
big things that will impact on ]
big things that will impact on working parents and
big things that will impact on LRI L R
big things that will impact on working parents and many people will
working parents and many people will welcome
working parents and many people will Al Gl
working parents and many people will welcome them. Thanks for joining us.
welcome them. Thanks for jeining us. T
welcome them. Thanks for jeining us. One of
welcome them. Thanks for jeining us. N Ry
welcome them. Thanks for joining us. NN RGe
welcome them. Thanks for joining us. One of the other challenges the
One of the other challenges the Chancellor was trying to address was
Chancellor was trying to address was )
Chancellor was trying to address was the long-term challenge of reforming
the long-term challenge of reforming and
the long-term challenge of reforming LR LG
the long-term challenge of reforming and changing the way the economy
and changing the way the economy iTlaa
and changing the way the economy functions, growth to come from new
functions, growth to come from new GO I
functions, growth to come from new LIS
functions, growth to come from new industries, new energy opportunities
industries, new energy opportunities in
industries, new energy opportunities interms
industries, new energy opportunities R R
industries, new energy opportunities in terms of renewables or also
in terms of renewables or also nuclear
in terms of renewables or also Ml e )
in terms of renewables or also e e N )
in terms of renewables or also M R e
in terms of renewables or also nuclear because he talked about
in terms of renewables or also Ml T A RO R
nuclear because he talked about the Ty
nuclear because he talked about the new programme the government will
new programme the government will invest
new programme the government will T dnh]
new programme the government will R dRid
new programme the government will R ah Rl
new programme the government will R AR R s T Els
new programme the government will invest in for small modular nuclear
invest in for small modular nuclear TV
invest in for small modular nuclear I CL
invest in for small modular nuclear NI NG
invest in for small modular nuclear NI RIS R UL
invest in for small modular nuclear power stations rather than the kind
power stations rather than the kind of giant stations that we have at
of giant stations that we have at Sraanall
of giant stations that we have at S e
of giant stations that we have at Sizewell or Hinkley
of giant stations that we have at S L S
Carla Denyer is co-Leader of the Green Party in England.
There is a Green
There is a Green MP down in LG IR
There is a Green MP down in LI
There is a Green MP down In Brighton, of course, with Caroline
Brighton, of course, with Caroline NN
Brighton, of course, with Caroline &)
Brighton, of course, with Caroline &AL A
Brighton, of course, with Caroline DAL R R L)
Brighton, of course, with Caroline Lucas, and | would Like
Brighton, of course, with Caroline Lucas, and | would like to
Brighton, of course, with Caroline Lucas, and | would Like to have
Lucas, and | would like te have e
Lucas, and | would like to have several more at
Lucas, and | would like to have A I R N s
Lucas, and | would like to have several more at the next election.
several more at the next election. )
several more at the next election. There was a rallying cry for
There was a rallying cry for e
There was a rallying cry for renewables from the Chancellor and
renewables from the Chancellor and he
renewables from the Chancellor and TR
renewables from the Chancellor and RN CHE s
renewables from the Chancellor and TR CHE R
renewables from the Chancellor and YR R AR e e ]
renewables from the Chancellor and he talked about the world leading
he talked about the world leading D]
he talked about the world leading QIR
he talked about the world leading IR RO
he talked about the world leading AR RGN
he talked about the world leading position of the UK in terms of
position of the UK in terms of offshore
position of the UK in terms of e il
position of the UK in terms of e s
position of the UK in terms of e R s P T )
position of the UK in terms of e IR e ]
position of the UK in terms of offshore wind. But he did not talk
offshore wind. But he did not talk FYe L
offshore wind. But he did not talk N e
offshore wind. But he did not talk about onshore wind
offshore wind. But he did not talk YN A R s s s
offshore wind. But he did not talk about onshore wind which has been a
about onshore wind which has been a ARaiTatite
about onshore wind which has been a it iTa S R
about onshore wind which has been a i iTs S BN R e
about onshore wind which has been a difficult issue for the
difficult issue for the ORI E T
difficult issue for the N L)
difficult issue for the N N R R AT el e
difficult issue for the Conservatives and the situation has
Conservatives and the situation has W EW L]
Conservatives and the situation has changed but planning opportunities
changed but planning opportunities may take years to work through
may take years to work through although he did
may take years to work through G TG TG G IR ZILY
may take years to work through although he did talk about nuclear
although he did talk about nuclear and trying to find ways to speed up
and trying to find ways to speed up )
and trying to find ways to speed up the nuclear energy programme. | did
the nuclear energy programme. | did e
the nuclear energy programme. | did TS &4
the nuclear energy programme. | did T R e
the nuclear energy programme. | did RO SR L
the nuclear energy programme. | did not think there was much in
the nuclear energy programme. | did R R R R E LR B R
not think there was much in the budget for the
not think there was much in the LG SR G RIS
budget for the environment, actually.
budget for the environment, FlaOF| (VA Y
budget for the environment, Ela O (Y- 16
budget for the environment, actually. A lot of overreliance on
actually. A lot of overreliance on technologies
actually. A lot of overreliance on O GH TG
actually. A lot of overreliance on technologies like carbon capture and
technologies like carbon capture and storage
technologies like carbon capture and AEL RG]
technologies like carbon capture and storage which is
technologies like carbon capture and SR RN T
technologies like carbon capture and storage which is not commercially
storage which is not commercially viable yet rather than for example,
viable yet rather than for example, Y
viable yet rather than for example, N A ey i ls )
viable yet rather than for example, LA Te a1t
viable yet rather than for example, a nationwide home insulation scheme
a nationwide home insulation scheme as
a nationwide home insulation scheme PR
a nationwide home insulation scheme YR iR
a nationwide home insulation scheme as we have pushed for over many
as we have pushed for over many years.
as we have pushed for over many IR TN
as we have pushed for over many years. That was in there until 2010
years. That was in there until 2010 4
years. That was in there until 2010 e
years. That was in there until 2010 sl
years. That was in there until 2010 but it died a death
years. That was in there until 2010 R SR R e )
years. That was in there until 2010 but it died a death because of
but it died a death because of austerity. The Conservatives killed
austerity. The Conservatives killed 3
austerity. The Conservatives killed sl
austerity. The Conservatives killed TR
austerity. The Conservatives killed it and the result is that. .. The
I RGN TR F LA [ ORI E T
I RGN TR F LA [ N L)
I RGN TR F LA [ N L N R
I RGN TR F LA [ N TN RGN I
Conservatives and the Liberal (MRl Ine1 o
Conservatives and the Liberal Democrat coalition, to be fair. UK
Democrat coalition, to be fair. UK has
Democrat coalition, to be fair. UK (EIR
Democrat coalition, to be fair. UK IO
Democrat coalition, to be fair. UK has got the bleakest homes in
has got the bleakest homes in Europe, we
has got the bleakest homes in I IR ]
has got the bleakest homes in D IR LR DGR
has got the bleakest homes in Europe, we could have an insulation
Europe, we could have an insulation to
Europe, we could have an insulation R
Europe, we could have an insulation to reduce carbon emissions but also
to reduce carbon emissions but also bring
to reduce carbon emissions but also LT
to reduce carbon emissions but also bring down bills -- leakiest. You
bring down bills -- leakiest. You have
bring down bills -- leakiest. You (E\TE
bring down bills -- leakiest. You ENCE ]
bring down bills -- leakiest. You have got to spend the money first?
have got to spend the money first? Yes, but the
have got to spend the money first? VI R G R G T
have got to spend the money first? Yes, but the government could have
Yes, but the government could have ]
Yes, but the government could have R ]
Yes, but the government could have chosen to do that using effective
chosen to do that using effective G
chosen to do that using effective I G XY
chosen to do that using effective I GL I T S T
chosen to do that using effective technologies but they are putting
technologies but they are putting e
technologies but they are putting G
technologies but they are putting O R
technologies but they are putting their hopes on carbon capture and
their hopes on carbon capture and storage
their hopes on carbon capture and AEL RG]
their hopes on carbon capture and storage which is
their hopes on carbon capture and SR RN T
their hopes on carbon capture and storage which is not politically
storage which is not politically viable
storage which is not politically E R
storage which is not politically R )
storage which is not politically viable for the but nuclear
storage which is not politically R RGN N e
viable for the but nuclear is viable?
viable for the but nuclear is L YA
viable for the but nuclear is viable? Look at the deal George is
viable? Look at the deal George is bonded
viable? Look at the deal George Is a1 8
viable? Look at the deal George Is e R
viable? Look at the deal George Is L R R e
viable? Look at the deal George Is bonded at the start of the coalition
bonded at the start of the coalition government and it now looks like he
government and it now looks like he ool
government and it now looks like he did a good deal in terms of how much
did a good deal in terms of how much )
did a good deal in terms of how much the government would pay in terms of
the government would pay in terms of vty
the government would pay in terms of what we
the government would pay in terms of N R 1)
the government would pay in terms of what we are getting from Hinkley
what we are getting from Hinkley P Tetd
what we are getting from Hinkley Point -- the
what we are getting from Hinkley A R
what we are getting from Hinkley Point -- the deal George Osborne did
Point -~ the deal George Osborne did 1
Point -~ the deal George Osborne did R )
Point -~ the deal George Osborne did R R ed
Point -- the deal George Osborne did R el i
Point -- the deal George Osborne did N R R
Point -- the deal George Osborne did R R N lge sl ]
at the start of the correction. Nuclear
at the start of the correction. T Id
at the start of the correction. Nuclear is very slow to get off the
Nuclear is very slow to get off the SO
Nuclear is very slow to get off the ground and you can be a lot quicker
ground and you can be a lot quicker with wind and solar projects and
with wind and solar projects and )
with wind and solar projects and I
with wind and solar projects and there are hundreds of projects that
there are hundreds of projects that EIE
there are hundreds of projects that NI VAR
there are hundreds of projects that already have planning permission.
already have planning permission. 80% came about because of
already have planning permission. e O I N e N R )
80% came about because of the IR
80% came about because of the Conservative government, he said.
Conservative government, he said. That
Conservative government, he said. G A
Conservative government, he said. That is the
Conservative government, he said. L EI AR GRS D]
Conservative government, he said. That is the stage of the
That is the stage of the technological developer, they cannot
technological developer, they cannot &Y
technological developer, they cannot play much personal responsibility
play much personal responsibility e
play much persenal responsibility TR E
play much persenal responsibility for that. In terms of your
for that. In terms of your Pl [Ya i
for that. In terms of your prospects, you want to change the
prospects, you want to change the LGV
prospects, you want to change the way politics is
prospects, you want to change the A R
prospects, you want to change the R R L R
prospects, you want to change the R I CR LR OIS
prospects, you want to change the way politics is done in this country
way politics is done in this country and also
way politics is done In this country and also change the economy at the
and also change the economy at the )
and also change the economy at the ¥R
and also change the economy at the same time. Does this
and also change the economy at the R A R G = )
and also change the economy at the same time. Does this help you, the
same time. Does this help you, the sense
same time. Does this help you, the NN
same time. Does this help you, the sense of what the government has
sense of what the government has ]
sense of what the government has LGN
sense of what the government has been doing, does it help in the run
been doing, does it help in the run into
been doing, does it help in the run TR
been doing, does it help in the run into the next election? We
been doing, does it help in the run NIRRT e i YA I
into the next election? We are finding that voters have had enough
finding that voters have had enough of
finding that voters have had enough SR
finding that voters have had enough PR R L R L
finding that voters have had enough ISR R L Y o]
finding that voters have had enough of the Conservatives and they do not
of the Conservatives and they do not Y
of the Conservatives and they do not T
of the Conservatives and they do not really see much promising from what
really see much promising from what )
really see much promising from what WA
really see much promising from what the Labour Party are offering either
the Labour Party are offering either and so on the doorsteps people are
and so on the doorsteps people are L
and so on the doorsteps people are turning to the Green Party in great
turning to the Green Party in great et e
turning to the Green Party in great |
turning to the Green Party in great numbers and we are looking forward
numbers and we are looking forward to
numbers and we are looking forward Ry
numbers and we are looking forward to the local elections in May where
to the local elections in May where Y
to the local elections in May where 10
to the local elections in May where we are defending more seats than
LEEICIG LG L R CRE LR G El I d
LEEICIG LG L R CRE LR G El XS 5|
we are defending more seats than XS AR )
we are defending more seats than XSRS
we are defending more seats than ever and we are expecting to make
ever and we are expecting to make gains. Going back to the budget, |
gains. Going back to the budget, | Ty
gains. Going back to the budget, | was disappointed, as well as not
was disappointed, as well as not much on
was disappointed, as well as not iR R
was disappointed, as well as not much on the environment, there was
much on the environment, there was )
much on the environment, there was also not
much on the envireonment, there was also not much
much on the envireonment, there was I el et e s R s]
much on the envireonment, there was E[ R A K R
much on the envireonment, there was [N AR E ] Ju g
much on the envireonment, there was also not much on public sector pay
also not much on public sector pay and |
also not much on public sector pay RN IR )
also not much on public sector pay and | really wanted to see an
and | really wanted to see an inflation matching pay
and | really wanted to see an T EL N E G T o VA
and | really wanted to see an inflation matching pay rise for
inflatien matching pay rise for public
inflation matching pay rise for public sector workers but we did not
public sector workers but we did not get
public sector workers but we did not HAUEIN
public sector workers but we did not A
public sector workers but we did not G AT T
public sector workers but we did not get that. For now, thanks for
get that. For now, thanks for LI
get that. For now, thanks for NGRS
get that. For now, thanks for NG ETERT Y
get that. For now, thanks for joining us. We have a couple of gas
joining us. We have a couple of gas A
joining us. We have a couple of gas BT A )
joining us. We have a couple of gas now who can talk
joining us. We have a couple of gas R R NE & s 101
joining us. We have a couple of gas A R RN )
joining us. We have a couple of gas now who can talk about the impact of
now who can talk about the impact of W)Y
now who can talk about the impact of VN
now who can talk about the impact of pay and the impact of the incentives
pay and the impact of the incentives that exist as a result of
pay and the impact of the incentives MRS IR LR R R Y
that exist as a result of the decisions that
that exist as a result of the e R e R )
that exist as a result of the A R R A R ETa - D )s
that exist as a result of the decisions that the Chancellor makes
decisions that the Chancellor makes -— we
decisions that the Chancellor makes -- we have
decisions that the Chancellor makes N 1|
decisions that the Chancellor makes -- we have a couple of guests now.
Torsten Bell is chief executive at the Resolution Foundation,
which focuses on ways to improve the living standards of people
on low and middle incomes. In the past, he’s worked
at the Treasury and for the Labour Party.
You
N T e
You are starting to see promises of )
You are starting to see promises of WAL
You are starting to see promises of R Rl s (e 1a Y
You are starting to see promises of the universal childcare is system
the universal childcare is system that
QRTINS (g Ela i
QRTINS (g eI R4
QRTINS (g GwER IR
QRTINS (g that will kick in as maternity
the universal childcare is system that will kick in as maternity comes
that will kick in as maternity comes to an end. We have
that will kick in as maternity comes DR NI LR R
that will kick in as maternity comes to an end. We have been asking this
to an end. We have been asking this e
to an end. We have been asking this for many years and we had these
for many years and we had these conversations
for many years and we had these e R e
for many years and we had these conversations for many years but now
conversations for many years but now Y
conversations for many years but now we have seen it as one of the most
we have seen it as one of the most e
we have seen it as one of the most significant parts of the Spring
significant parts of the Spring LG LN
significant parts of the Spring Budget and that is such
significant parts of the Spring GO L LR E ARSI I
significant parts of the Spring Budget and that is such a sea change
Budget and that is such a sea change and
Budget and that is such a sea change R )
Budget and that is such a sea change and we know that parents are going
and we know that parents are going to
and we know that parents are going R ]
and we know that parents are going N R0
and we know that parents are going N R T oA
and we know that parents are going to be so happy to see this
to be so happy to see this e at et Iiaair-Ned
to be so happy to see this e et Iian TN e
to be so happy to see this Sl SN S R U
to be so happy to see this commitment so they can work and
commitment so they can work and e
commitment so they can work and their children can get a good
their children can get a good education.
their children can get a good e A TR
their children can get a good education. The Chancellor said there
education. The Chancellor said there T
education. The Chancellor said there has heen a
education. The Chancellor said there has been a 9% decline in
education. The Chancellor said there A MR A e R )
education. The Chancellor said there has been a 9% decline in the space
has been a 9% decline in the space of
has been a 9% decline in the space SRy
has been a 9% decline in the space of the year in terms of the number
of the year in terms of the number of
of the year in terms of the number IR G
of the year in terms of the number of people working as childminders
of people working as childminders and
of people working as childminders Y
of people working as childminders IR 2
of people working as childminders R R e R
of people working as childminders R R N R Rt )
of people working as childminders LR R N R Rt -t
of people working as childminders DR R N R Rt R e
and he wants to create an incentive e
and he wants to create an incentive ]
and he wants to create an incentive for them to
and he wants to create an incentive IR G R GRS ]
and he wants to create an incentive RGN RGOS )
and he wants to create an incentive for them to register and therefore
for them to register and therefore P )
for them to register and therefore come into
for them to register and therefore re st e R
for them to register and therefore [t Rt R d e
for them to register and therefore P e R R d s e
for them to register and therefore come into the workforce. If you add
come into the workforce. If you add that
come into the workforce. If you add EI S LG
come into the workforce. If you add G E R GL G
come into the workforce. If you add QR R GL ORI R TS
come into the workforce. If you add that together with the wraparound
that together with the wraparound schemes
that together with the wraparound e R E Y
that together with the wraparound o R ANy
that together with the wraparound A R AN R
that together with the wraparound schemes to make sure that schools
schemes to make sure that schools help parents from eight in the
help parents from eight in the uInihh
help parents from eight in the morning until
help parents from eight in the UGS
help parents from eight in the UGG AR
help parents from eight in the morning until six at night, talking
morning until six at night, talking FYe L
morning until six at night, talking EL N TN
morning until six at night, talking about dropping them off and picking
about dropping them off and picking them up, taken altogether, do you
them up, taken altogether, do you G
them up, taken altogether, do you A
them up, taken altogether, do you know how many numbers of people that
know how many numbers of people that o
know how many numbers of people that would bring back into work? It is
would bring back into work? It is hard to say.
would bring back into work? It is [ ETG R TVAG T G TI T EYe
would bring back into work? It is LRI R T A G G L L G L
would bring back into work? It is RGO T A GG L LG I
rd to say. Childminders are on boverty
hard to say. Childminders are on poverty wages because it
hard to say. Childminders are on VA D R S
hard to say. Childminders are on poverty wages because it just does
poverty wages because it just does s
poverty wages because it just does T G )
poverty wages because it just does not make sense financially which is
not make sense financially which is why we have seen it so many leave
why we have seen it so many leave )
why we have seen it so many leave R e )
why we have seen it so many leave the workforce are giving them this
the workforce are giving them this one-off
the workforce are giving them this Nl E UGl
the workforce are giving them this one-off payment of
the workforce are giving them this R U R A 0] ¢)
the workforce are giving them this one-off payment of £600 is not going
one-off payment of £600 is not going to change a lifetime
one-off payment of £600 is not going RN DR TR
one-off payment of £600 is not going to change a lifetime of poverty
to change a lifetime of poverty wages
to change a lifetime of poverty LR
to change a lifetime of poverty wages so I’m not too convinced
to change a lifetime of poverty wages 5o I’m not too convinced that
wages 5o I’m not too convinced that 3
wages 5o I’m not too convinced that R (L
wages so I’m not too convinced that is really going to change the
is really going to change the Wl
is really going to change the dynamics in terms of the number
dynamics in terms of the number childminders we
dynamics in terms of the number G e )
dynamics in terms of the number childminders we are seeing. Tall
your organisation tries to come up with
your organisation tries to come up BT
your organisation tries to come up T GG LR e
your organisation tries to come up with ideas for improving the
with ideas for improving the quality-of-life and living standards
quality-of-life and living standards e
quality-of-life and living standards ]
quality-of-life and living standards T A ]
quality-of-life and living standards IR LRIl G
quality-of-life and living standards for low and middle, families, did
for low and middle, families, did ]
for low and middle, families, did R
for low and middle, families, did TR RL e
for low and middle, families, did you see much to
for low and middle, families, did TR CR T R R =)
for low and middle, families, did you see much to help that the
you see much to help that the budget?
you see much to help that the L a1
you see much to help that the GG
you see much to help that the budget? It is a very
you see much to help that the GG A AR A
you see much to help that the budget? It is a very big budget
you see much to help that the budget? It is a very hig budget with
budget? It is a very big budget with Y
budget? It is a very big budget with a slightly
budget? It is a very big budget with RN (A
budget? It is a very big budget with R A S R 1
budget? It is a very big budget with a slightly better forecast even if
a slightly better forecast even if they
a slightly better forecast even if GG
a slightly better forecast even if they are a
a slightly better forecast even if OV EICE R
a slightly better forecast even if they are a bit grim on public
they are a bit grim on public finances, so it is good news to
finances, so it is good news to P
finances, so it is good news to ]
finances, so it is good news to N GIER e e la e 11
finances, so it is good news to avoid a technical recession, and the
avoid a technical recession, and the sl
avoid a technical recession, and the R e ]
avoid a technical recession, and the child measure stands up as being the
child measure stands up as being the 1Y)
child measure stands up as being the Y R )
child measure stands up as being the YR R Y
child measure stands up as being the YR e R N
child measure stands up as being the area where we have progress, but the
area where we have progress, but the i
area where we have progress, but the R
area where we have progress, but the ST
area where we have progress, but the bit you are focusing on, the free
bit you are focusing on, the free ey
bit you are focusing on, the free hours of
bit you are focusing on, the free IR Aol sl
bit you are focusing on, the free R Aol Il R a8
bit you are focusing on, the free hours of childcare will mainly
hours of childcare will mainly e ite
hours of childcare will mainly benefit middle and higher income
benefit middle and higher income households but it
benefit middle and higher income L LR N A
benefit middle and higher income households but it is a good focus
households but it is a good focus nevertheless. Some people take a
nevertheless. Some people take a e
nevertheless. Some people take a 1 a4
nevertheless. Some people take a career break and they never come
career break and they never come e
career break and they never come FI R )
career break and they never come back. We invest in training people
back. We invest in training people and
back. We invest in training people T Rds s
back. We invest in training people R GERG L R )
back. We invest in training people and then we kind
back. We invest in training people IR E N AR
back. We invest in training people and then we kind of forget them.
and then we kind of forget them. Absolutely. A lot of people do
Absolutely. A lot of people do e e 418 )
Absolutely. A lot of people do IR )
Absolutely. A lot of people do continue working but they are paying
continue working but they are paying I
continue working but they are paying through the
continue working but they are paying QIR R T
continue working but they are paying QIR R IR (W
continue working but they are paying through the nose for childcare but
through the nose for childcare but )
through the nose for childcare but ]
through the nose for childcare but the more important thing for poorer
the more important thing for poorer a3
the more important thing for poorer households is changes to Universal
households is changes to Universal WL
households is changes to Universal Credit, paying up the childcare
Credit, paying up the childcare support
Credit, paying up the childcare A
Credit, paying up the childcare GG RG]
Credit, paying up the childcare SR U
Credit, paying up the childcare support rather than arrears which
support rather than arrears which many people find to be a big
many people find to be a big i
many people find to be a big barrier. What about in terms of the
barrier. What about in terms of the impact... There was nothing on, the
impact... There was nothing on, the ]
impact... There was nothing on, the big debate
impact... There was nothing on, the RS
impact... There was nothing on, the S R GG
impact... There was nothing on, the o) debate we are having at the
big debate we are having at the N
big debate we are having at the LT
big debate we are having at the moment, public sector pay, | am off
moment, public sector pay, | am off ]
moment, public sector pay, | am off on a train to Devon tonight because
on a train to Devon tonight because )
on a train to Devon tonight because e
on a train to Devon tonight because ]
on a train to Devon tonight because there is no way | can get there
there is no way | can get there e et lagey
there is no way | can get there tomorrow to
there is no way | can get there et e R R
there is no way | can get there tomorrow to visit my elderly
there is no way | can get there N R ORI AL O A LGl
tomorrow to visit my elderly father Y
tomorrow to visit my elderly father T R )
tomorrow to visit my elderly father e RGN
tomorrow to visit my elderly father e RO NN
tomorrow to visit my elderly father because there are no trains, and
because there are no trains, and this
because there are no trains, and G
because there are no trains, and SRR
because there are no trains, and this is the same for everyone around
this is the same for everyone around )
this is the same for everyone around QR
this is the same for everyone around the country, but there was not much
the country, but there was not much 3
the country, but there was not much TRy
the country, but there was not much RGN E)
the country, but there was not much in this debate on
the country, but there was not much RGN R e R R )
the country, but there was not much in this debate on these issues?
in this debate on these issues? Slightly unusual budget which is
Slightly unusual budget which is that
Slightly unusual budget which is G
Slightly unusual budget which is that the country is wrestling with
that the country is wrestling with T e e g
that the country is wrestling with short-term problems, really big
short-term problems, really big 0
short-term problems, really big energy costs, squeezes on living
energy costs, squeezes on living standards and wages falling, and the
standards and wages falling, and the Wi Ea eI e
standards and wages falling, and the WL
standards and wages falling, and the e e R
standards and wages falling, and the R e R e R e |
standards and wages falling, and the W R e R e R ]
Chancellor is more focused on longer-term term reforms to boost
longer-term term reforms to boost OO
longer-term term reforms to boost OV
longer-term term reforms to boost growth, by getting activity down or
growth, by getting activity down or Elad\iv’E
growth, by getting activity down or activity up,
growth, by getting activity down or Ela a1 AT T3 1o}
growth, by getting activity down or activity up, and there was some
activity up, and there was some T e e g
activity up, and there was some R G R
activity up, and there was some i UL E ARG
activity up, and there was some I U IR GER L E)
activity up, and there was some short-term help, the delay in the
short-term help, the delay in the N0
short-term help, the delay in the YA
short-term help, the delay in the Energy Price Guarantee happening in
Energy Price Guarantee happening in July, which will make a difference
July, which will make a difference [T n G
July, which will make a difference to households and
July, which will make a difference I R
July, which will make a difference to households and fuel duty has been
to households and fuel duty has been a ] N
to households and fuel duty has been ] PR 1)
to households and fuel duty has been scrapped, the increase. To both of
scrapped, the increase. To both of (/N
scrapped, the increase. To both of RIS
scrapped, the increase. To both of you, thanks for joining us. By the
you, thanks for joining us. By the e
you, thanks for joining us. By the way, how old is
you, thanks for joining us. By the L R G R
you, thanks for joining us. By the way, how old is the baby now? Eight
way, how old is the baby now? Eight years.
way, how old is the baby now? Eight IR TN
way, how old is the baby now? Eight years. That tells you how long it
years. That tells you how long it T
years. That tells you how long it Tl
years. That tells you how long it has been going on. Thank you.
To England’s Black Country now, the birth place
of the industrial revolution.
Where once there was coal dust and furnaces - why the US
Consul described the region as black by day and red by night -
now there is the Haden HILl Leisure Centre in Cradley Heath
and my colleague Phil Mackie.
We have been here all day talking to Y
We have been here all day talking to A
We have been here all day talking to A
We have been here all day talking to R T )
We have been here all day talking to a lot of people initially with their
a lot of people initially with their (LT
a lot of people initially with their hopes and fears of the budget and
hopes and fears of the budget and ]
hopes and fears of the budget and TR
hopes and fears of the budget and R )
hopes and fears of the budget and now we are talking about reactions.
now we are talking about reactions. We are here in one of these
We are here in one of these Tyl achis
We are here in one of these important election battlegrounds
important election battlegrounds T )
important election battlegrounds because although Labour have held it
because although Labour have held it e
because although Labour have held it for a long time, two of its pounds
for a long time, two of its pounds constituencies voted Conservative
constituencies voted Conservative e
constituencies voted Conservative TR Rl
constituencies voted Conservative TR R ARy
constituencies voted Conservative for the first time in living memory
for the first time in living memory the
for the first time in living memory AR
for the first time in living memory R
for the first time in living memory W AR
for the first time in living memory MR ]
for the first time in living memory YRR R
for the first time in living memory NN R A
for the first time in living memory RN R R AR e
the last time -- two of its four constituencies. Labour would want to
constituencies. Labour would want to win
constituencies. Labour would want to g
constituencies. Labour would want to win it back if they are to win the
win it back if they are to win the T4
win it back if they are to win the next election so
win it back if they are to win the TR e
win it back if they are to win the TR i R A
win it back if they are to win the next election so it is interesting
next election so it is interesting to
next election so it is interesting R}
next election so it is interesting to see what | have
next election so it is interesting R R W AR R 0]
next election so it is interesting to see what | have to say about the
to see what | have to say about the LA
to see what | have to say about the GG &L
to see what | have to say about the budget and so far are fairly mixed
budget and so far are fairly mixed reaction. -- what they have to say
reaction. -- what they have to say FYe L
reaction. -- what they have to say Y
reaction. -- what they have to say EL N RGN
reaction. -- what they have to say about the budget. You run a nursery.
about the budget. You run a nursery. A big announcement about nurseries,
A big announcement about nurseries, N
A big announcement about nurseries, R R
A big announcement about nurseries, R e -]
A big announcement about nurseries, of course, and the first thing is,
of course, and the first thing is, can
of course, and the first thing is, LBl
of course, and the first thing is, R TR )
of course, and the first thing Is, can you cope with this massive
can you cope with this massive influx
can you cope with this massive T Ia
can you cope with this massive NP EI
can you cope with this massive PRI R I R
can you cope with this massive influx of parents with children
can you cope with this massive IO R I R R G I R
influx of parents with children who you might have because
influx of parents with children who RGN R TR
influx of parents with children who you might have because of the new
you might have because of the new e
you might have because of the new NI
you might have because of the new HCER A kA [
you might have because of the new free provision? Not really. There
free provision? Not really. There |
free provision? Not really. There T
free provision? Not really. There ]
free provision? Not really. There will be a massive influx and there
will be a massive influx and there 3
will be a massive influx and there is no room for extension, we would
Is no room for extension, we would need extra funding which is not
need extra funding which is not there,
need extra funding which is not e
need extra funding which is not there, but the extra funded places
there, but the extra funded places Ty
there, but the extra funded places R a g
there, but the extra funded places LR e
there, but the extra funded places means it will not
there, but the extra funded places TR R T e e
there, but the extra funded places TR R TR )
there, but the extra funded places means it will not cover the costs of
means it will not cover the costs of OLLiin
means it will not cover the costs of running the nursery either.
running the nursery either. Y
running the nursery either. T I
running the nursery either. Nurseries are suffering, the funding
Nurseries are suffering, the funding e
Nurseries are suffering, the funding it does not cover the staffing
it does not cover the staffing e
it does not cover the staffing W L)
it does not cover the staffing costs, and resources we need, to
costs, and resources we need, to T )
costs, and resources we need, to T R
costs, and resources we need, to o1 R Rl -
costs, and resources we need, to educate the children, all of this
educate the children, all of this il
educate the children, all of this IR ]
educate the children, all of this will have a negative impact on how a
will have a negative impact on how a T8
will have a negative impact on how a nursery can run.
will have a negative impact on how a T A RO A
will have a negative impact on how a nursery can run. Business said it
nursery can run. Business said it il
nursery can run. Business said it will help
nursery can run. Business said it M E
nursery can run. Business said it N R
nursery can run. Business said it R Y]
nursery can run. Business said it will help if we can get more people
will help if we can get more people Ty
will help if we can get more people TR R )
will help if we can get more people RO R Bl
will help if we can get more people into the workplace because their
into the workplace because their e s’d
into the workplace because their nursery costs are going down
inte the workplace because their nursery costs are going down for
nursery costs are going down for them
nursery costs are going down for IR )
nursery costs are going down for them because it
nursery costs are going down for NI N e
nursery costs are going down for NI R R T
nursery costs are going down for them because it will be cheaper but
them because it will be cheaper but you
them because it will be cheaper but T
them because it will be cheaper but you are saying that the problem is
you are saying that the problem is e
you are saying that the problem is R RN AT aa T tle)
you are saying that the problem is R RN eI as et N ]
there’s not the infrastructure in )
there’s not the infrastructure in Rl
G VRO R a0 R the first place to there isn’t.
G VRO R a0 R the first place to there isn’t. It
the first place to there isn’t. It 3
the first place to there isn’t. It 1
the first place to there isn’t. It R AT
the first place to there isn’t. It is great that this is helping
is great that this is helping families and
is great that this is helping RG]
is great that this is helping families and people back into work
families and people back into work but
families and people back into work [
families and people back inte work but if nurseries
families and people back inte work [ R e e R Ry
families and people back inte work [ R R I e R E R
families and people back inte work but if nurseries have to close,
but if nurseries have to close, )
but if nurseries have to close, Rl
but if nurseries have to close, there will not
but if nurseries have to close, R R )
but if nurseries have to close, there will not be anybody
but if nurseries have to close, R N I L e A )
but if nurseries have to close, there will not be anybody to even
there will not be anybody to even [ Tl:)
there will not be anybody to even IR
there will not be anybody to even run these places, so
there will not be anybody to even (LR GET-N El R R e
there will not be anybody to even run these places, so it is
there will not be anybody to even (LRGN R R A
there will not be anybody to even run these places, so it is a bit
run these places, so it is a bit Tl (3
run these places, so it is a bit pointless really. At my
run these places, so it is a bit IR A A DTS |
run these places, so it is a bit pointless really. At my nursery it
pointless really. At my nursery it s
pointless really. At my nursery it RN EI Y
pointless really. At my nursery it is predeminantly a
pointless really. At my nursery it I UL IR N E LG b
pointless really. At my nursery it I L I N LG A B
s predominantly a privately paid A
s predominantly a privately paid nursery, so
s predominantly a privately paid AR
s predeminantly a privately paid nursery, so if | take on more funded
nursery, so if | take on more funded JEI
nursery, so if | take on more funded places, | lose money. The nursery
places, | lose money. The nursery A
places, | lose money. The nursery loses money. Businesses
places, | lose money. The nursery N S A R T G
places, | lose money. The nursery loses money. Businesses have already
loses money. Businesses have already Nl
loses money. Businesses have already LB
loses money. Businesses have already been shouting, especially around
been shouting, especially around N
been shouting, especially around Sandwell, they cannot
been shouting, especially around Sandwell, they cannet sustain
been shouting, especially around Sandwell, they cannot sustain the
Sandwell, they cannot sustain the costs ——
Sandwell, they cannot sustain the costs —- already been
Sandwell, they cannot sustain the costs -- already been shouting. --
costs -~ already been shouting. -- shutting.
costs -~ already been shouting. -- N AR
costs -~ already been shouting. -- shutting. Tell us
costs -- already been shouting. -- shutting. Tell us about what you
shutting. Tell us about what you R )
shutting. Tell us about what you make of the budget. You are a
make of the budget. You are a start-up
make of the budget. You are a Sl I
make of the budget. You are a start-up and you
make of the budget. You are a SISV EL R L VL
make of the budget. You are a S L R TR Il )
make of the budget. You are a start-up and you are doing quite
start-up and you are doing quite ol
start-up and you are doing quite N ITA
start-up and you are doing quite well locally, what will you take
well locally, what will you take Tee I8t
well locally, what will you take TR
well locally, what will you take from the budget? As an industry we
from the budget? As an industry we PYTY
from the budget? As an industry we T
from the budget? As an industry we are a manufacturing company, and we
are a manufacturing company, and we Py
are a manufacturing company, and we are reasonably
are @ manufacturing company, and we are reasonably small,
are @ manufacturing company, and we E IR AT ]
are @ manufacturing company, and we are reasonably small, so the
are @ manufacturing company, and we F IR VAU (M R G R G
are reasonably small, so the key IS
are reasonably small, so the key T 1)
are reasonably small, so the key I R )
are reasonably small, so the key points are the physical ones, the
points are the physical ones, the W g LA ]
points are the physical ones, the corporation tax going from 19 to
points are the physical enes, the corporation tax going from 19 to 25
corporation tax going from 19 to 25 s
corporation tax going from 19 to 25 isa
corporation tax going from 19 to 25 is a small
corporation tax going from 19 to 25 U NI EIY
corporation tax going from 19 to 25 is a small company is neither here
s @ small company is neither here N d
s @ small company is neither here R )
s @ small company is neither here RN ]
s @ small company is neither here RN LR
s @ small company is neither here nor there and the recovery of
nor there and the recovery of i
IR GTCIEN R G N capital investment is a
nor there and the recovery of capital investment is a restatement
capital investment is a restatement of what was
capital investment is a restatement SR HEIR L)
capital investment is a restatement SR THEIR LRGN ey
capital investment is a restatement R TR LR N S ]
ORI E LR GRS (R repackaged holding what
of what was there before and repackaged holding what was the
repackaged holding what was the Il
repackaged holding what was the IR e wi )
repackaged holding what was the R Ce s R ]
repackaged holding what was the AR Ce ORI RO
repackaged holding what was the super deduction from the previous
super deduction from the previous two
super deduction from the previous RYETES
super deduction from the previous two years so no change, helpful, no
two years so no change, helpful, no change. From the Excise point of
change. From the Excise point of A
change. From the Excise point of ARG A
change. From the Excise point of view, that is good
change. From the Excise point of ARG E AR (]
change. From the Excise point of view, that is good for beers in pubs
view, that is good for beers in pubs 4
view, that is good for beers in pubs e
view, that is good for beers in pubs iy
view, that is good for beers in pubs but it does not help anybody else
but it does not help anybody else and
but it does not help anybody else R )
but it does not help anybody else LRGN
but it does not help anybody else IR e )
but it does not help anybody else LR N R
but it does not help anybody else and the rest of the hospitality
CLRGLRED ARG Ml el IS4
and the rest of the hospitality industry did not get a lot of the
industry did not get a lot of the e
LTSGR RSO R G- other benefits
LTSGR RSO R G- O s
LTSGR RSO R G- O SRR L
LTSGR RSO R G- other benefits it was looking
industry did not get a lot of the other benefits it was looking for,
other benefits it was looking for, )
other benefits it was looking for, QR0 1e8
other benefits it was looking for, RN oL ladls
other benefits it was looking for, QR LRI
other benefits it was looking for, the support it was looking for like
the support it was looking for like support with engaging practices. So
support with engaging practices. So e
support with engaging practices. So not a great budget? Everything
not a great budget? Everything U
not a great budget? Everything R
not a great budget? Everything IR L
not a great budget? Everything depends on what people feel. You
depends on what people feel. You wanted a bigger boost for the
wanted a bigger boost for the L1 & NieY
wanted a bigger boost for the hospitality industry? Yes. You know
hospitality industry? Yes. You know Y
hospitality industry? Yes. You know A
hospitality industry? Yes. You know A
hospitality industry? Yes. You know a lot of businesses in the Black
a lot of businesses in the Black Country
a lot of businesses in the Black L
a lot of businesses in the Black WL R
a lot of businesses in the Black WG LRI ED
a lot of businesses in the Black Country and you had a
a lot of businesses in the Black LR O R
a lot of businesses in the Black Country and you had a few bullet
Country and you had a few bullet points
Country and you had a few bullet LR
Country and you had a few bullet points right up the DNA of the
points right up the DNA of the region is export,
points right up the DNA of the ORI g T
points right up the DNA of the region is export, but we did not
region is export, but we did not e
region is export, but we did not IR A0 e
region is export, but we did not CEIRS A LA
region is export, but we did not hear export much, where are
DI RN (g T G G hear export much, where are the
hear export much, where are the export market
hear export much, where are the SIS
hear export much, where are the export market is going to be? With
export market is going to be? With IS U
export market is going to be? With UGN
export market is going to be? With Brexit, immigration, hospitality,
Brexit, immigration, hospitality, TG
Brexit, immigration, hospitality, people say
Brexit, immigration, hospitality, I CET VAU
Brexit, immigration, hospitality, people say they cannot get the
people say they cannot get the N
people say they cannot get the people, no mention of immigration or
people, no mention of immigration or Y
people, no mention of immigration or a reduction of. ..
people, no mention of immigration or a reduction of... Potholes, that was
a reduction of... Potholes, that was interesting. |
a reduction of... Potholes, that was MGG G
a reduction of... Potholes, that was interesting. | don’t know how that
interesting. | don’t know how that il
interesting. | don’t know how that (- ad
interesting. | don’t know how that will affect anyone, but the other
will affect anyone, but the other big thing,
will affect anyone, but the other LRGP [
will affect anyone, but the other big thing, getting people into work,
big thing, getting people into work, and
big thing, getting people into work, Y
big thing, getting people into work, IR eS|
big thing, getting people into work, IR NS e R )
big thing, getting people into work, IR RS et RO R )
big thing, getting people into work, and he referred to the NHS, doctors
and he referred to the NHS, doctors and increasing their pension
and increasing their pension contributions, that was interesting,
contributions, that was interesting, but
contributions, that was interesting, i)
contributions, that was interesting, N R a8
contributions, that was interesting, but in terms of levelling up, |
but in terms of levelling up, | heard
but in terms of levelling up, | Y R
but in terms of levelling up, | Y G R GR e
but in terms of levelling up, | heard the word bidding pick -- but
heard the word bidding pick -- but that
heard the word bidding pick -- but G A
heard the word bidding pick -- but R AR
heard the word bidding pick -- but that is not a
heard the word bidding pick -- but L B R el
heard the word bidding pick -- but R AR el
heard the word bidding pick -- but LA R R R
heard the word bidding pick -- but R BRG]
that is not a word | like because that
that is not a word | like because A E T
that is not a word | like because that means competition and we lost
that means competition and we lost e
that means competition and we lost s
that means competition and we lost SR
that means competition and we lost out in that regard last time out.
out in that regard last time out. )
out in that regard last time out. There was good news for Tipton. Yes,
There was good news for Tipton. Yes, that
There was good news for Tipton. Yes, G A
There was good news for Tipton. Yes, O E AR
There was good news for Tipton. Yes, O EI AR Y]
There was good news for Tipton. Yes, that is good. And there are devolved
that is good. And there are devolved I
that is good. And there are devolved O 01
that is good. And there are devolved powers, but where
that is good. And there are devolved (T R R
that is good. And there are devolved powers, but where is the detail or
powers, but where is the detail or )
powers, but where is the detail or the devil
powers, but where is the detall or WG
powers, but where is the detall or the devil is in
powers, but where is the detall or W SRR R
powers, but where is the detall or W R ROl
powers, but where is the detall or M RO IR Y
powers, but where is the detail or M RN RS R N 10
the devil is in the detail. We heard FYe L
the devil is in the detail. We heard Y
the devil is in the detail. We heard about the promise from the
about the promise from the Wi Ea eI e
about the promise from the W E e IRl d
about the promise from the Chancellor that inflation will be
Chancellor that inflation will be below 3% by the end
Chancellor that inflation will be RS SR G R
Chancellor that inflation will be RS A R GG R R G
Chancellor that inflation will be below 3% by the end of the year but
below 3% by the end of the year but i
below 3% by the end of the year but e
below 3% by the end of the year but e
below 3% by the end of the year but BTN e
below 3% by the end of the year but | have not heard from anyone who
| have not heard from anyone who i
| have not heard frem anyone who believes he
| have not heard frem anyone who A A R
| have not heard frem anyone who believes he can do
| have not heard frem anyone who A A Y R
| have not heard frem anyone who believes he can do that. Various
believes he can do that. Various e e ey
believes he can do that. Various e e )
believes he can do that. Various NG NG R
believes he can do that. Various commentators have said, and for
commentators have said, and for R
commentators have said, and for business, we cannot
commentators have said, and for TR R L Gl
commentators have said, and for TN IR R L A e AR G
business, we cannot predict three e 4 ]
business, we cannot predict three months down
business, we cannot predict three A s [ AR )
business, we cannot predict three NG IR CR R
business, we cannot predict three months down the road, so how you can
months down the road, so how you can e
months down the road, so how you can LR
months down the road, so how you can L R G R
months down the road, so how you can R G CRU R
months down the road, so how you can NI U R R
months down the road, so how you can predict the end of the year, what it
D e @ QIR R RGBT TN S
D e @ QIR R RGBT TN AR
predict the end of the year, what it AR
predict the end of the year, what it looks like, interest rates, how can
looks like, interest rates, how can you
looks like, interest rates, how can Rl
looks like, interest rates, how can you predict that? Business wants
you predict that? Business wants 119G
you predict that? Business wants certainty but I’m not sure there was
certainty but I’m not sure there was W e E1118
certainty but I’m not sure there was N
certainty but I’m not sure there was LA
certainty but I’m not sure there was certainty and | think today was more
certainty and I think today was more FYe L
certainty and | think today was more about pragmatic rather than a
about pragmatic rather than a Vi1
about pragmatic rather than a visionary budget. Inflation, if that
visionary budget. Inflation, if that SN
visionary budget. Inflation, if that drop, that would help, wouldn’t it?
drop, that would help, wouldn’t it? s
drop, that would help, wouldn’t it? TR0 1Y
drop, that would help, wouldn’t it? It calms emotions and it gives
It calms emotions and it gives TG
It calms emotions and it gives people a bit more hope that there is
people a bit more hope that there is )
people a bit more hope that there is more stability.
people a bit more hope that there is n A
people a bit more hope that there is N A R G Y
people a bit more hope that there is NG R G A
people a bit more hope that there is AR E A R G EE L
people a bit more hope that there is more stability. If they can get it
more stability. If they can get it SR
more stability. If they can get it SR
more stability. If they can get it done, that might help? Yes, that is
done, that might help? Yes, that is )
done, that might help? Yes, that is ey
done, that might help? Yes, that is A E e N
done, that might help? Yes, that is I E e )
done, that might help? Yes, that is the nature of the beast.
done, that might help? Yes, that is I E e AN .1
done, that might help? Yes, that is the nature of the beast. But the
the nature of the beast. But the el
the nature of the beast. But the O RS
the nature of the beast. But the LY R IR
the nature of the beast. But the problem for you is that you need
problem for you is that you need )
problem for you is that you need more investment? We
problem for you is that you need moare investment? We need more
problem for you is that you need more investment? We need more money
more investment? We need more money into
more investment? We need more money TR
more investment? We need more money into the business to stay
more investment? We need more money NG TR R R A ]
more investment? We need more money into the business to stay open and
into the business to stay open and to pay for
into the business to stay open and R VARG
into the business to stay open and to pay for the lots of costs, staff
to pay for the lots of costs, staff training, getting quality staff, and
training, getting quality staff, and Y
training, getting quality staff, and 10
training, getting quality staff, and we are education, we educate the
we are education, we educate the children
we are education, we educate the IR Y
we are education, we educate the G R N
we are education, we educate the I N N RO
we are education, we educate the children we need to have
we are education, we educate the I N R RO e T e T
children we need to have resources but
children we need to have resources L
children we need to have resources A
children we need to have resources but it is not there. And it is not
but it is not there. And it is not L
but it is not there. And it is not going to come if we have to provide
going to come if we have to provide T
going to come if we have to provide R ]
going to come if we have to provide more funded places. Mixed emotions
more funded places. Mixed emotions Tee I8t
more funded places. Mixed emotions TR I L)
more funded places. Mixed emotions from everyone today. A bit of good,
from everyone today. A bit of good, [
from everyone today. A bit of good, i
from everyone today. A bit of good, SR N
from everyone today. A bit of good, A E e
from everyone today. A bit of good, iR A E i
from everyone today. A bit of good, bit of bad, bit of uncertainty.
bit of bad, bit of uncertainty. IS g
bit of bad, bit of uncertainty. )
bit of bad, bit of uncertainty. RGN
bit of bad, bit of uncertainty. R E ST
bit of bad, bit of uncertainty. After the last year with three prime
After the last year with three prime ministers and a number of
ministers and a number of chancellors, you are looking for
chancellors, you are looking for S
chancellors, you are looking for stability? He has achieved that in
stability? He has achieved that in s
stability? He has achieved that in el
stability? He has achieved that in RO R e s
stability? He has achieved that in terms of the fact it
stability? He has achieved that in IR RG R ad i A
stability? He has achieved that in terms of the fact it is a standstill
terms of the fact it is a standstill budget, not
terms of the fact it is a standstill GG AL &N
terms of the fact it is a standstill budget, not an electioneering
budget, not an electioneering TG
budget, not an electioneering budget, that is for next year, where
budget, that is for next year, where he will happily give that away if he
he will happily give that away if he has
he will happily give that away if he YL e
he will happily give that away if he has another 15
he will happily give that away if he YN S E LG
he will happily give that away if he has another 15 billion. From an
has another 15 billion. From an entrepreneurial
has another 15 billion. Frem an G S O G
has another 15 billion. From an entrepreneurial perspective, there
entrepreneurial perspective, there Ty
entrepreneurial perspective, there L]
entrepreneurial perspective, there was not much there, but maybe that
was not much there, but maybe that 3
was not much there, but maybe that TR 14
was not much there, but maybe that R
was not much there, but maybe that is for next year. Thanks
was not much there, but maybe that RIS S IR L ELL R s
was not much there, but maybe that is for next year. Thanks for joining
is for next year. Thanks for jeining TH
is for next year. Thanks for jeining us. Those doing
is for next year. Thanks for joining us. Those doing the exercises behind
us. Those doing the exercises behind us,
us. Those doing the exercises behind IR
us. Those doing the exercises behind us, we have really worn them out!
us, we have really worn them out! )
us, we have really worn them out! More coming
us, we have really worn them out! LRI LT
us, we have really worn them out! IR
us, we have really worn them out! LRI R R )
us, we have really worn them out! More coming up on the budget
us, we have really worn them out! IR RT R G R G )Y
us, we have really worn them out! More coming up on the budget by now
More coming up on the budget by now Y
More coming up on the budget by now we have the weather forecast.
We continue to see some big swings RGN ORI IR IR EN
RGPS GIERTET IRGEG I R N A E R R ]
Today Is a relatively cool day.
Sunny skies still hanging MBI RGO
but in the west, cloud thickening.
Outbreaks of rain pushing into Northern Ireland.
Temperatures for most around seven or eight degrees Celsius today.
That is below average for March.
But then overnight tonight, we’ll see that rain push
inte the cold air.
A spell of snow over the high ground in northern England and Scotland
could bring one or two localised disruption issues, the snow lasting
longest to the north SRR Ea e
But the rain will eventually spread to all of us during the night time
and will be bringing much milder weather conditions.
So temperatures overnight around 8-10C,
still a little bit cooler across the very far north of Scotland.
Now for Thursday, we’ve got some heavy outbreaks of rain
around that could bring some localised surface water flooding
issues, some brighter weather for Northern Ireland for a time.
But there will be some heavy showers LR G IR G I
A mild day tomorrow with highs up to 15 degrees.
Welcome if you’re watching here in the UK or around the globe.
I’m Martine Croxall.
Our top stories:
A high court in Pakistan orders police to halt
their operation to arrest former Prime Minister Imran
Khan until Thursday - following clashes between police
and his supporters.
Shares in the Swiss banking giant Credit Suisse fall to a record low
as investors remain worried RO ED R
Silicon Valley Bank.
The UK Chancellor sets out his Spring Budget in Parliament -
extra help for childcare and scrapping the limit on tax-free
WS RN L RN g d of the Government’s plans.
Conflicting accounts from Washington LR e F LRI LT e )
crashes into the Black Sea,
after an encounter with Russian fighter jets.
A small number of Wolves settle in Belgium for the first time
in more than 100 years - I R R R A D
UER DR L L where authorities have temporarily
stopped the operation to arrest the former Prime
Police have clashed with his supporters outside his
residence in Lahore.
Unrest has continued through the night,
after the authoroities made another attempt to arrest him -
enfoercimng a court order.
Imran Kahn accused the authorities, RIS ER G ETE
Pakistan’s Infoermation Minister said the government had nothing
to do with the move - but the court was only trying
to enforce the arrest warant in connection
with a corruption case.
Our Pakistan correspondent Carrie Davies reports.
Police have now left the stretch TSNS EPE P
The police might have P i RN et a e
of what happened here have not.
You can see the charred remains of burned chairs,
you can see rocks on the floor.
We know from eyewitnesses that there were rocks
and sticks used by the PTI, which is Imran Khan’s
WL 1a R o]ole1g (=160
We also know the police used water cannon and tear gas and it’s that
tear gas you can still sense in the air, you can feel it
in the back of your eyes and throat.
This is because the police arrived R GOE RGN
saying they intended to arrest I GER LR G A - DR U AT
that he did not turn up to multiple court appearances.
Now Imran Khan has said he didn’t appear because of security concerns.
He was worried about his own safety, turning up to those courts.
We’ve heard today from the Minister of Information for Punjab,
that the police operation has been temporarily suspended and that is
because the Pakistan Super League, Y BB alo R N E L=
Is ongoing and there’s due to be a semifinal
happening in Lahore tonight.
At the moment, this sort of disruption has meant the city...
The supporters here have not suggested that they
intend to go anywhere.
el
VRV
IRV RN EIR Tl T
Uzair Younus is the Director RGN IR Ea e
the Atlantic Council in Washingten.
He says cricket often dictates the tempo of politicial
events in Pakistan.
Cricket has become a convenient excuse over the last few days
in Lahore, first to stop Imran Khan and his political party
from having their rallies, which is their constitutional
and democratic right, and now to pull back the police.
The police has been pulled back primarily because of the court’s
interventions and also N R R G R la R
over the last 24 hours IR ARG LT
and their repression was on full public display so it became very
challenging for the Government to maintain this stance.
IR el we should not lose sight of the fact
that this ongoing repression and attempts to arrest Imran Khan
are part of a long-standing issue in Pakistani politics,
which has to do with the military’s role in politics,
it picking favourites, and then when these politicians
become too good for their own good, ORGSO A
showing their eyes to QUG El AR G S IR L
What Imran Khan right now is basically showing
is that he is resisting these attempts and has
popularity in Punjab, the heartland of Pakistan,
and Pakistan’s government in Islamabad and its military
establishment are finding it very difficult to bring and cut down
Imran Khan to size.
WEIG
Uzair Younus from the Atlantic o el
Uzair Younus from the Atlantic @0 s Bls]
Uzair Younus from the Atlantic Council in Washington.
Financial markets are down across Europe, as turmoil continues
in the banking sector.
S TR RO T E Y plunged to record lows,
after the bank’s auditors warned VAR TR eI
over its financial reporting, saying they had found
LG R - E LG e
The Saudi National Bank - Credit Suisse’s largest investor -
said it could not raise its stake in the bank any further.
Stock markets are worrying about the health of the weakest
banks, following the collapse of two RGO R U R E ISR E LS
and Signature bank.
Let’s bring in our international business correspondent,
Theo Leggett.
What Is happening, it
What is happening, It was
What Is happening, it was different
What is happening, it was different e
What is happening, it was different banks last
What is happening, it was different ERI AR e
What is happening, it was different banks last week and now it is here
banks last week and now it is here in
banks last week and now it is here R
banks last week and now it is here LRI F
banks last week and now it is here in Europe? Basically it is the week
in Europe? Basically it is the week as
in Europe? Basically it is the week Y14
in Europe? Basically it is the week as bank coming under the spotlight,
as bank coming under the spotlight, )
as bank coming under the spotlight, N d
as bank coming under the spotlight, RO R Y
as bank coming under the spotlight, one of the weakest. Trouble
as bank coming under the spotlight, MR R AT s
as bank coming under the spotlight, MR R AT R
one of the weakest. Trouble is that Credit Suisse
one of the weakest. Trouble is that R )
one of the weakest. Trouble is that WL RN G|
one of the weakest. Trouble is that Credit Suisse are nothing new. This
Credit Suisse are nothing new. This s
Credit Suisse are nothing new. This isa
Credit Suisse are nothing new. This is a financial institution, even
is a financial institution, even though
is a financial institution, even QUL
Is a financial institution, even GRS
Is a financial institution, even QI R SR YY)
Is a financial institution, even though it’s the second biggest in
QLI RIS GERETG G B IG L Al Switzerland,
QLI RIS GERETG G B IG L Al Sl e CL 0 P
QLI RIS GERETG G B IG L Al Switzerland, it’s been three
though it’s the second biggest in Switzerland, it’s been three scandal
Switzerland, it’s been three scandal after
Switzerland, it’s been three scandal L E
Switzerland, it’s been three scandal I E i s
Switzerland, it’s been three scandal L E A
Switzerland, it’s been three scandal after scandal. It lost money in the
after scandal. It lost money in the o (E]o I
after scandal. It lost money in the collapse of
after scandal. It lost money in the I [ET R RO )
after scandal. It lost money in the o [ET R R G R
after scandal. It lost money in the collapse of the US fund. It was
collapse of the US fund. It was caught up in the fallout from the
caught up in the fallout from the collapse
caught up in the fallout from the o (FI R
caught up in the fallout from the collapse of Greensill Capital, a
collapse of Greensill Capital, a ¥ AL
collapse of Greensill Capital, a British financial institution, that
British financial institution, that eI R
British financial institution, that trashed its reputation more than
trashed its reputation more than Gl
trashed its reputation more than hold already been the case. It got
hold already been the case. It got caught up in
hold already been the case. It got caughtup ina
hold already been the case. It got caught up in a bond selling scandal
caught up in a bond selling scandal in Mozambique and was fined hundreds
in Mozambique and was fined hundreds of
In Mozambique and was fined hundreds of thousands of
In Mozambique and was fined hundreds RGN IEE R s ETe
In Mozambique and was fined hundreds of thousands of dollars by
of thousands of dollars by requlators and so on. So this is no
regulators and so on. So this is no LG
regulators and so on. So this is no stranger to trouble. It lost $8
stranger to trouble. It lost $8 hillion
stranger to trouble. It lost $8 G E
stranger to trouble. It lost $8 RN FS ST
stranger to trouble. It lost $8 billion last year, so financially it
billion last year, so financially it s not
billion last year, so financially it is not the healthiest
billion last year, so financially it TR N UG ]
billion last year, so financially it TR N G R R e
is not the healthiest and that is )
is not the healthiest and that is e N s n-1ge]
is not the healthiest and that is et oo 1 e
is not the healthiest and that is e e R
is not the healthiest and that is N G R N
is not the healthiest and that is e o et Rl Te at e e o T
the concern at the moment. Because vty
the concern at the moment. Because what has happened is we have had the
what has happened is we have had the o (E]o I
what has happened is we have had the collapse of
what has happened is we have had the o [ ET TR Y (1Y)
what has happened is we have had the o [ET R L R
what has happened is we have had the [ ET R L R E R F IS
what has happened is we have had the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and
collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank in the United States,
Signature Bank in the United States, that
Signature Bank in the United States, G i)
Signature Bank in the United States, LRI 0L
Signature Bank in the United States, G IR )
Signature Bank in the United States, that came out of the blue, it was
that came out of the blue, it was AN
that came out of the blue, it was unexpected, and it focused attention
unexpected, and it focused attention ]
unexpected, and it focused attention ]
unexpected, and it focused attention on the underlying health of banks in
on the underlying health of banks in G
on the underlying health of banks in I
on the underlying health of banks in | -
on the underlying health of banks in N N e
on the underlying health of banks in general. It caused a certain lack of
general. It caused a certain lack of o 8 i e
general. It caused a certain lack of confidence among investors and
confidence among investors and B!
confidence among investors and indeed among the depositors at these
indeed among the depositors at these banks about their financial
indeed among the depositors at these NG R G S E L E
banks about their financial help. e
banks about their financial help. The problem
banks about their financial help. R SR
banks about their financial help. The problem with the banking sector
The problem with the banking sector 3
The problem with the banking sector TRl
The problem with the banking sector is when people think something is
is when people think semething is L
is when people think semething is going wrong,
is when people think something is going wrong, they
is when people think something is LR ORGSR G
Is when people think something is going wrong, they withdraw money,
going wrong, they withdraw money, they take away their investments
going wrong, they withdraw money, QAL G S AU IR CR M I
they take away their investments and 3
they take away their investments and =]
they take away their investments and it can rapidly
they take away their investments and (LR A G
they take away their investments and (X LEE G A I ]
they take away their investments and it can rapidly become a serious
it can rapidly become a serious problem. That
it can rapidly become a serious JEL GRS
it can rapidly become a serious problem. That is the concern,
problem. That is the concern, really,
problem. That is the concern, CE AN I ]
problem. That is the concern, really, concerning Credit Suisse at
really, concerning Credit Suisse at )
really, concerning Credit Suisse at the moment. It is seen as a weak
the moment. It is seen as a weak e AR
the moment. It is seen as a weak NI R T
the moment. It is seen as a weak T R T e e e g
the moment. It is seen as a weak bank. There are concerns about
the moment. It is seen as a weak R R T N e R
bank. There are concerns about the ]
bank. There are concerns about the S
bank. There are concerns about the Y S A
bank. There are concerns about the health of the banking sector in
health of the banking sector in EEE
health of the banking sector in CIECIEL
health of the banking sector in general and therefore Credit Suisse
general and therefore Credit Suisse s
general and therefore Credit Suisse is seen
general and therefore Credit Suisse TR L
general and therefore Credit Suisse I L L]
general and therefore Credit Suisse is seen as a target. How is it
is seen as a target. How is it el
is seen as a target. How is it shored up if
is seen as a target. How is it IR IR G
is seen as a target. How is it shored up if the Saudi Natienal Bank
shored up if the Saudi National Bank EWLLR
shored up if the Saudi National Bank EWL AR X1
shored up If the Saudi Natienal Bank saying, we can help you any further?
saying, we can help you any further? At the moment, there
saying, we can help you any further? RGN G
saying, we can help you any further? At the moment, there is no real
At the moment, there is no real T ]
At the moment, there is no real YL R )
At the moment, there is no real reason to say it desperately needs
reason to say it desperately needs those
reason to say it desperately needs R R Y
reason to say it desperately needs those funds. The problem with the
those funds. The problem with the I )
those funds. The problem with the Saudis are saying they will not
Saudis are saying they will not e
Saudis are saying they will not e N A i
Saudis are saying they will not intervene is if Credit Suisse
Saudis are saying they will not e R A L AR I
intervene is if Credit Suisse Is L
intervene is if Credit Suisse Is AL R]
intervene is if Credit Suisse Is seen to need
intervene is if Credit Suisse Is AR ORI
intervene is if Credit Suisse Is seen to need money in the coming
seen to need money in the coming E
seen to need money in the coming days, weeks
seen to need money in the coming IR R
seen to need money in the coming days, weeks or months, the Saudi
days, weeks or months, the Saudi National Bank is no longer there is
National Bank is no longer there is Y
National Bank is no longer there is R I
National Bank is no longer there is ER G I ET
National Bank is no longer there is R s I ETE
National Bank is no longer there is a potential pillar of support. It
a potential pillar of support. It Y- )"
a potential pillar of support. It FV R
a potential pillar of suppeort. It VR TR
a potential pillar of suppeort. It says it doesn’t want to
a potential pillar of support. It says it doesn’t want to increase
a potential pillar of support. It says it doesn’t want to increase its
says it doesn’t want to increase its shareholding
says it doesn’t want to increase its shareholding for requlatory reasons.
shareholding for regulatory reasons. That
shareholding for requlatory reasons. That undermines confidence a Little
That undermines confidence a little i
That undermines confidence a little e
That undermines confidence a little hit more. So
That undermines confidence a little A I N
That undermines confidence a little bit more. So now reportedly, Credit
bit more. So now reportedly, Credit T
bit more. So now reportedly, Credit Suisse has asked the Swiss National
Suisse has asked the Swiss National ¥
Suisse has asked the Swiss National LRV E )
Suisse has asked the Swiss National TR E )
Suisse has asked the Swiss National Bank to make an expression of
Bank to make an expression of Il e 8
Bank to make an expression of support, to try and rebuild some
support, to try and rebuild some e
support, to try and rebuild some e
support, to try and rebuild some sort of confidence, to say there are
sort of confidence, to say there are el
sort of confidence, to say there are bowl walks
sort of confidence, to say there are R R Y
sort of confidence, to say there are bowl walks there in case they are
bowl walks there in case they are sl
bowl walks there in case they are needed and that people shouldn’t
needed and that people shouldn’t I
needed and that people shouldn’t panic about
needed and that people shouldn’t NI RO
needed and that people shouldn’t N N RG]
needed and that people shouldn’t N NG CEE R
needed and that people shouldn’t panic about the health of Credit
panic about the health of Credit Ry
panic about the health of Credit N e Y
panic about the health of Credit Suisse. Because as
panic about the health of Credit MR-
panic about the health of Credit Suisse. Because as | said, the
Suisse. Because as | said, the problem with banking is that if
problem with banking is that if TG
problem with banking is that if people think there is a problem,
people think there is a problem, very
people think there is a problem, VA
people think there is a problem, very rapidly you can get a problem.
very rapidly you can get a problem. 1)
very rapidly you can get a problem. ORI
very rapidly you can get a problem. I VA
very rapidly you can get a problem. So somebody needs to steady the ship
So somebody needs to steady the ship with
So somebody needs to steady the ship T R a1 ]
So somebody needs to steady the ship with some wise words_
So somebody needs to steady the ship with some wise words. Absolutely and
with some wise words. Absolutely and 3
with some wise words. Absolutely and s
with some wise words. Absolutely and R Y
with some wise words. Absolutely and it is because this general lack of
it is because this general lack of o 8 i e
it is because this general lack of i e ]
it is because this general lack of i e ]
it is because this general lack of W (o[ TR Y TR LA |
it is because this general lack of confidence we are seeing that shares
confidence we are seeing that shares Py
confidence we are seeing that shares are down not just that Credit Suisse
are down not just that Credit Suisse 4
are down not just that Credit Suisse but HSBC, Barclays, across the beard
but HSBC, Barclays, across the board today we are seeing banking shares
today we are seeing banking shares having a really bad day. Theo, thank
having a really bad day. Theo, thank you very much.
The head of Russia’s security council says Moscow
will try to retrieve the wreckage of the American surveillance
drone that crashed into the Black Sea on Tuesday.
The US says Russian fighter jets intercepted the dreone,
causing it to crash - something Moscow denies.
Nikolai Patrushev says he isn’t sure Russia can recover
the high-tech drone, [ R e 8
A senior official in Washington says G R I |
whether it can retrieve the drone - which is in very deep waters.
Our correspondent in Kyiv - James Landale - has been speaking
the Foreign Minister of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, about this incident.
As long as Russia controls Crimea these kinds of incidents will be
inevitable and the Black Sea will not be a safe place.
So the only way to prevent such incidents is
actually to kick Russia out of Crimea.
Do you fear escalation?
Because of this specific incident?
No, I think it’s just e NLals s e s Ta e ]
is happening from time to time.
But you don’t fear it might make R R R R e e
cautious, that the Americans might think we’ve really got to avoid this
thing getting out of control?
Well, if the West wants RN R R LU
it should certainly demonstrate TR - 1e
But | don’t have a feeling this XGRS A1 ]
The mood is not to escalate, right, but nor is the mood
to lean under the pressure, physical pressure of Russia.
Let’s get more from Dr Patricia Lewis,
International Security Research Director at Chatham House.
Good to see you, thank you very much e
Good to see you, thank you very much ISLTT
Good to see you, thank you very much LIRS
Good to see you, thank you very much LR ]
Good to see you, thank you very much for joining us. To what extent was a
for joining us. To what extent was a RIEIa e
for joining us. To what extent was a matter of
for joining us. To what extent was a G e B at]
for joining us. To what extent was a G R Rl e
for joining us. To what extent was a matter of time that something like
matter of time that something like this happened in this region of the
this happened in this region of the world? Yes, obviously there is a
world? Yes, obviously there is a LY
world? Yes, obviously there is a LRI T
world? Yes, obviously there Is a huge amount of activity. It is
world? Yes, obviously there is a huge amount of activity. It is right
huge amount of activity. It is right ]
huge amount of activity. It is right ]
huge amount of activity. It is right on the edge
huge amount of activity. It is right MR
huge amount of activity. It is right on the edge of the war zone. There
on the edge of the war zone. There s
on the edge of the war zone. There isa
on the edge of the war zone. There is alot
on the edge of the war zone. There is a lot of data collection going
is @ lot of data collection going Nh
is a lot of data collection going ML)
is a lot of data collection going IR L
is a lot of data collection going on. There is a
is a lot of data collection going MR LR
is a lot of data collection going NI LR
is a lot of data collection going ML RS A s el
on. There is a lot of normal L0
on. There is a lot of normal shipping as well, once you have that
shipping as well, once you have that e
shipping as well, once you have that e
shipping as well, once you have that A ad A\
shipping as well, once you have that sort of level of
shipping as well, once you have that A S C R R oM 18
shipping as well, once you have that sort of level of activity you are
sort of level of activity you are bound to get accidents. But in this
bound to get accidents. But in this TN
bound to get accidents. But in this case, it might not have been an
case, it might not have been an FYeals
case, it might not have been an accident. It
case, it might not have been an Elealo Ny A T
case, it might not have been an accident. It might have been a
accident. It might have been a T )
accident. It might have been a T R e e e
accident. It might have been a deliberate interference with the
deliberate interference with the )
deliberate interference with the g
SRR SN R R [ o ]
SRR SN R R [ N N E e a1
deliberate interference with the R Ee e e B e a e
zone or an inadvertent interference with
zone or an inadvertent interference R )
zone or an inadvertent interference T RN )
zone or an inadvertent interference T RN T s|
zone or an inadvertent interference G RFon L h|
zone or an inadvertent interference with the zone and | distinguish
with the zone and I distinguish between
with the zone and I distinguish T TN oas e 4
with the zone and I distinguish TN oe e (e
with the zone and | distinguish between accident and inadvertent.
between accident and inadvertent. T
between accident and inadvertent. ST
between accident and inadvertent. How helpful would it
between accident and inadvertent. T TR LR T
between accident and inadvertent. T IR LR R )
between accident and inadvertent. How helpful would it be to the
How helpful would it be to the Russians if
How helpful would it be to the I EL R R (S
How helpful would it be to the Russians if they managed to retrieve
Russians if they managed to retrieve this
Russians if they managed to retrieve aTCEs e s Y4
Russians if they managed to retrieve G AR
Russians if they managed to retrieve this drone? Well, that would be very
this drone? Well, that would be very e e las ey
this drone? Well, that would be very e le T R e
this drone? Well, that would be very unfortunate for the United States.
unfortunate for the United States. )
unfortunate for the United States. s
unfortunate for the United States. There is a
unfortunate for the United States. IR
unfortunate for the United States. There is a huge amount... This is a
There is @ huge amount... This Is a AN e )
There is a huge amount... This is a surveillance drone, right? So a
surveillance drone, right? So a massive amount
surveillance drone, right? So a EL et 0 la e d
surveillance drone, right? So a massive amount of surveillance
massive amount of surveillance technology
massive amount of surveillance G ANY ey
massive amount of surveillance technology which is highly secret on
technology which is highly secret on board
technology which is highly secret on eI R )
technology which is highly secret on eI IO
technology which is highly secret on board these drones. So
technology which is highly secret on IO IO R )
technology which is highly secret on board these drones. So the race to
board these drones. So the race to g
board these drones. So the race to e AR ]
board these drones. So the race to e AR e
board these drones. So the race to A R G G L]
recover is now another potential spot,
recover is now another potential ol
recover is now another potential spot, if you
recover is now another potential A AT
recover is now another potential spot, if you like, for escalation.
spot, if you like, for escalation. I
spot, if you like, for escalation. IRl
spot, if you like, for escalation. And in terms of
spot, if you like, for escalation. RN E IS LR R
spot, if you like, for escalation. And in terms of the significance of
And in terms of the significance of this diplomatically, how proeblematic
this diplomatically, how problematic 3
this diplomatically, how problematic i
this diplomatically, how problematic R AN
this diplematically, how problematic is it, given what is going on in
LRI IL RGBS L L R Ukraine?
s it, given what is going on in Ukraine? |
s it, given what is going on in N YA
s it, given what is going on in Ukraine? | mean, it is...
s it, given what is going on in Ukraine? | mean, itis... The
s it, given what is going on in Ukraine? | mean, it is... The very
Ukraine? | mean, itis... The very senior ambassador in Washington, the
senior ambassador in Washington, the AL
senior ambassador in Washington, the Russian Ambassador, has been in
Russian Ambassador, has been in direct discussions with
Russian Ambassador, has been in e e e A R I B e
Russian Ambassador, has been in direct discussions with the US State
direct discussions with the US State Department. So | don’t think it is
Department. So | don’t think it is eIy
Department. So | don’t think it is N
Department. So | don’t think it is e R R
Department. So | don’t think it is true there is in any high-level
VR G TR | [y R T discussion going on, there
VR G TR ER TR R GS discussion going on, there really
discussion going on, there really s
discussion going on, there really is. There
discussion going on, there really TR )
discussion going on, there really is_. There are lots
discussion going on, there really is. There are lots of back
discussion going on, there really is_ There are lots of back channels
is. There are lots of back channels that
is. There are lots of back channels R R
is. There are lots of back channels BRI
is. There are lots of back channels e RO R Ed
is. There are lots of back channels that the United Nation’s in
is. There are lots of back channels R RO SR E R
that the United Nation’s in New York,
that the United Nation’s in New N R ]
that the United Nation’s in New York, Geneva and Vienna on all
that the United Nation’s in New York, Geneva and Vienna on all of
York, Geneva and Vienna on all of ey
York, Geneva and Vienna on all of R
York, Geneva and Vienna on all of RS-
York, Geneva and Vienna on all of RS R
York, Geneva and Vienna on all of these issues, all of the time. |
these issues, all of the time. | think
these issues, all of the time. | i QAL
these issues, all of the time. | R R ]
these issues, all of the time. | I GG G
these issues, all of the time. | QIO IR G
think that where this gets difficult 3
think that where this gets difficult o
think that where this gets difficult TR )
think that where this gets difficult T R
think that where this gets difficult T R R a1 1
think that where this gets difficult is it also is in terms of
is it also is in terms of consistency. When
R N ERL R Gl consistency. When Iran shot down a
consistency. When Iran shot down a I
consistency. When Iran shot down a SN CIRg
consistency. When Iran shot down a drone, for example, there were
drone, for example, there were ¥ s ladle e
drone, for example, there were o [N
drone, for example, there were e AT R
drone, for example, there were N NI R LRI
drone, for example, there were e NI R L R D G
sanctions pressed on Iran. There ey
sanctions pressed on Iran. There NS08
sanctions pressed on Iran. There were cyber attacks against the
were cyber attacks against the capabilities of Iran to be able to
capabilities of Iran to be able to launch missiles. So what does the US
launch missiles. So what does the US o[
launch missiles. So what does the US I e Y4
launch missiles. So what does the US do here? And
launch missiles. So what does the US sl XA L h |
launch missiles. So what does the US do here? And | think a great deal
do here? And | think a great deal U
do here? And | think a great deal VU]
do here? And | think a great deal R
do here? And | think a great deal depends on how they interpret what
depends on how they interpret what happened. Was this the mistake of a
happened. Was this the mistake of a e A
happened. Was this the mistake of a LRI
happened. Was this the mistake of a LR L]
happened. Was this the mistake of a rookie pilot in training? Getting
rookie pilot in training? Getting i)
rookie pilot in training? Getting el Y4
rookie pilot in training? Getting too close? Was it a deliberate back
too close? Was it a deliberate back i
too close? Was it a deliberate back off manoeuvre,
too close? Was it a deliberate back RN V-1
too close? Was it a deliberate back off manoeuvre, as they
too close? Was it a deliberate back NSRS LG
too close? Was it a deliberate back off manoeuvre, as they are doing all
off manoeuvre, as they are doing all )
off manoeuvre, as they are doing all the time, just
off manoeuvre, as they are doing all QR UG &)
off manoeuvre, as they are doing all the time, just a neck escalation a
the time, just a neck escalation a back
the time, just a neck escalation a ETaE
the time, just a neck escalation a S T o e i T r]
the time, just a neck escalation a back off move question what was it
back off move question what was it because
back off move question what was it IR Y
back off move question what was it e R Y
back off move question what was it because there was something very
because there was something very i)
because there was something very sensitive going on which meant there
sensitive going on which meant there Ty
sensitive going on which meant there was heightened tension? All of these
was heightened tension? All of these things have
was heightened tension? All of these QIR EYR
was heightened tension? All of these things have to be factored into any
things have to be factored into any highly
things have to be factored into any I AN )
things have to be factored into any L AT LR 1N
things have to be factored into any highly calibrated response. Dr
highly calibrated response. Dr Patricia
highly calibrated response. Dr Y AR
highly calibrated response. Dr Patricia Lewis from Chatham House,
Patricia Lewis from Chatham House, thank you very much for your time.
Now it’s a big day in UK politics.
The Spring budget has been unveiled in the House of Commons
by the Chancellor Jeremy Hunt - the first since the political
turmoil that proceeded Rishi Sunak becoming Prime Minister.
Mr Hunt said the UK will aveid a recession and he hailed a British
economy that he said is "proving G I SR T Lo
| spoke to the former S QR A A
Sir Steve Webb, who explained exactly what’s been announced.
There is a lifetime limit on how T BT LR VLG R N S
and still enjoy tax relief oh your pension contributions.
It had been rumoured that would be increased after a decade of cuts
and the Chancellor stood up and said, I’m not going
IR TR A Ry [T RGBS
So there is now no lifetime Limit on the pension pot you can build up
and still enjoy a tax break, only an annual limit
and that’s gone up as well.
What’s the reaction been in the industry and politically?
Over the last 24 hours that this has been trailed and particular today,
people have been quite shocked because we got so used to the idea
that tax breaks on pensions R R N ECA
Prior to every budget, there was speculation -
will he scrap tax-free lump sums?
Will he cut the limits and so on, and after successive chancellors
have done that year after year, this is a sort of screeching U-turn.
Some would say 18 menths before an election, perhaps,
but partly driven by the doctors.
So there is an argument that says senior NHS doctors had perhaps been
retiring early because of tax limits R R LR e )
dealt with that problem.
But that isn’t just going to benefit doctors, is it?
The sort of headline reason for this is that from a UK
economy point of view, the Government says they want to get
more economically inactive people FN RN gt e
How likely is it that this measure will do that, do you think?
| think with the exception of doctors, who are a specifics
case, the evidence Is people who have already retired
They’re surveyed and they say, no, thank you very much.
I’ve worked this out, it works for me.
The evidence is the people I RO R G TR E R
back are generally the long term sick and disabled and although there
were some budget measures for that group, clearly £1 billion spent
on tax breaks on pensions is €1 billion not available
for cutting mental health waiting lists and all those kind of things.
So the beneficiaries are people who are already quite well off
and might not come back to work R EI SR R E R
Treasury, on us, the taxpayer?
Well, ultimately, it’ll be £1 billion less tax revenue.
So if people shovel money back RO AN
that money that doesn’t get taxed - it certainly doesn’t get taxed now -
and therefore that’s less money for the general population
and for younger people in particular, who in a sense
are subsidising relatively well off people, shovelling more money
into their pensions.
Former pensions minister, Sir Steve NN
Well, while Jeremy Hunt handing down that budget,
protestors including thousands of members of the NEU teachers union
have been taking part in a demonstration in central London
over demands for higher pay.
It’s part of a strike today and tomorrow in England.
Our reporter Nick Johnson sent this from Trafalgar Square.
It has felt very much like a el
It has felt very much like a carnival or a
It has felt very much like a IO R iz
It has felt very much like a carnival or a festival atmosphere
carnival or a festival atmosphere QIO 1d
carnival or a festival atmosphere throughout the heart of central
throughout the heart of central London
throughout the heart of central sl s R o]
throughout the heart of central London to teachers we understand in
London to teachers we understand in e
London to teachers we understand in R
London to teachers we understand in TR R
London to teachers we understand in MR R RGN
London to teachers we understand in their tens of thousands gathering at
their tens of thousands gathering at I
their tens of thousands gathering at Hyde Park a little earlier today,
Hyde Park a little earlier today, then walking
Hyde Park a little earlier today, G RETU Y
Hyde Park a little earlier today, then walking en masse through the
then walking en masse through the ¥ 1ed
then walking en masse through the heart of central London, making a
heart of central London, making a e
heart of central London, making a s
heart of central London, making a NN
heart of central London, making a lot of noise, waving flags and
lot of noise, waving flags and placards to demonstrate their point
placards to demonstrate their point until
placards to demonstrate their point ARG
placards to demonstrate their point until they culminated here in
until they culminated here in Trafalgar Square. What has felt like
Trafalgar Square. What has felt Like IO
Trafalgar Square. What has felt Like TR
Trafalgar Square. What has felt like LRSI RS
Trafalgar Square. What has felt like ground zero for industrial action
ground zero for industrial action 7YY
ground zero for industrial action YN 1s]
ground zero for industrial action Y- BN Re-Ta e
ground zero for industrial action here in central London today. Not
here in central London today. Not Wi\
here in central London today. Not only have
here in central London today. Not VAR D]
here in central London today. Not VR R R G
here in central London today. Not R R L R G R el
here in central London today. Not only have we had members from the
only have we had members from the National educational union but the
National educational unien but the PCS
National educational union but the PCS Union and of
National educational union but the IR R )
National educational union but the PCS Union and of course junior
PCS Union and of course junior et ey
PCS Union and of course junior e R )
PCS Union and of course junior doctors have also
PCS Union and of course junior I e E N LN -]
PCS Union and of course junior IR eI R N R I
doctors have also been scattered among the crowd to lend their
among the crowd to lend their support to the cause
among the crowd to lend their I R R R VR
among the crowd to lend their support to the cause here. But it is
support to the cause here. But it is CEla e
support to the cause here. But it is teachers who have made up that most
teachers who have made up that most N
teachers who have made up that most RN sl
teachers who have made up that most RNt )
teachers who have made up that most of the crowd here today and they
of the crowd here today and they come with a very important message
come with a very important message and
come with a very important message N Rdar]
come with a very important message R
come with a very important message LR AR
come with a very important message and that is the Government needs to
and that is the Government needs to invest
and that is the Government needs to T d ]
and that is the Government needs to R AR R Tty
and that is the Government needs to R AR R e N
and that is the Government needs to invest in the future of teaching and
invest in the future of teaching and in
invest in the future of teaching and TRy
invest in the future of teaching and NEGR ey
invest in the future of teaching and REGR e N
invest in the future of teaching and RRG R N R
invest in the future of teaching and in the future of the classroom. With
in the future of the classroom. With me
in the future of the classroom. With N
in the future of the classroom. With TR Yo d
in the future of the classroom. With TR ey
in the future of the classroom. With me is teacher Eve from a primary
me is teacher Eve from a primary e
me is teacher Eve from a primary school in south-east London.
me is teacher Eve from a primary A R NG d s |
me is teacher Eve from a primary i R NG R I An e AR T
school in south-east London. Tell me why you are
school in south-east London. Tell me AT R )
school in south-east London. Tell me why you are here today. |
school in south-east London. Tell me R TIECN CICR L A T ]
why you are here today. | am Sl
why you are here today. | am striking because
why you are here today. | am SR TR
why you are here today. | am striking because we deserve to be
striking because we deserve to be paid better than
striking because we deserve to be IR R GEL RS
striking because we deserve to be RS RGN LG
striking because we deserve to be paid better than we are. The
paid better than we are. The Government
paid better than we are. The N ey
paid better than we are. The N N R )
paid better than we are. The I R L e e
paid better than we are. The I N R R e e s 0L
Government have made choices about how
Government have made choices about TR ]
Government have made choices about how to spend money.
Government have made choices about R R N RS AR
Government have made choices about how to spend money. Why should |
how to spend money. Why should | have
how to spend money. Why should | )
how to spend money. Why should | RNV
how to spend money. Why should | VRN VAL
how to spend money. Why should | have a pay cut because of that, real
have a pay cut because of that, real s
have a pay cut because of that, real terms pay cut? Also, our
have a pay cut because of that, real terms pay cut? Alse, our schools
terms pay cut? Also, our schools )
terms pay cut? Also, our schools need to
terms pay cut? Also, our schools YRR )
terms pay cut? Alse, our schools T R N Ta sl Nel
terms pay cut? Alse, our schools Y GEN R T le a
terms pay cut? Alse, our schools need to be funded better. |
need to be funded better. | S EINE
need to be funded better. | explained my year
need to be funded better. | S IR A LRI
need to be funded better. | explained my year five class that
explained my year five class that e
explained my year five class that TR
explained my year five class that IR G RV
explained my year five class that for the pay rise we just got, that
for the pay rise we just got, that Ty
for the pay rise we just got, that means they get less money which is
means they get less money which is unfair
means they get less money which is e = s |
means they get less money which is UL RG]
means they get less money which is unfair and they understood that he
unfair and they understood that he YT
unfair and they understood that he had five children. So the schools
had five children. So the schools need to
had five children. So the schools TR N
had five children. So the schools need to be funded
had five children. So the schools RN Rl kg
had five children. So the schools need to be funded better and
had five children. So the schools R N R TN SE S LR
had five children. So the schools RN R R S N
need to be funded better and we need to
need to be funded better and we need R R eI
need to be funded better and we need NI a
need to be funded better and we need to be paid better. The Government
to be paid better. The Government Y- )"
to be paid better. The Government FV R
to be paid better. The Government F VR A
to be paid better. The Government VR A Tl |
to be paid better. The Government says it is committed to funding
says it is committed to funding schools
says it is committed to funding Y XXV}
says it is committed to funding schools saying it puts in an
says it is committed to funding Y EF VLR T R S i
schools saying it puts in an extra v
schools saying it puts in an extra £2 billion into schools
schools saying it puts in an extra £72 billion into schools and
schools saying it puts in an extra £2 billion into schools and has
schools saying it puts in an extra £2 hillion into schools and has also
£2 billien into schools and has also 10
£2 billien into schools and has also YA
£2 billien into schools and has also said it has
£2 billien into schools and has also IR R E I |
£2 billien into schools and has also IR A R
£2 billien into schools and has also said it has asked the any you to
said it has asked the any you to (EIIY
said it has asked the any you to pause its strike action so it can
pause its strike action so it can start real
pause its strike action so it can e BT |
pause its strike action so it can start real and proper negotiations
start real and proper negotiations and
start real and proper negotiations R )
start real and proper negotiations and the NEU
start real and proper negotiations LRGN AR
start real and proper negotiations and the NEU is determined to
start real and proper negotiations LRGN AR S e R e R el X
and the NEU is determined to strike? R
and the NEU is determined to strike? (IR ETS
and the NEU is determined to strike? YR )
and the NEU is determined to strike? Well, that NEU had to go through a
Well, that NEU had to go through a e
Well, that NEU had to go through a i
Well, that NEU had to go through a PR e e
Well, that NEU had to go through a lot of work to
Well, that NEU had to go through a N EIR X[
Well, that NEU had to go through a RIS 8
Well, that NEU had to go through a NIRRT
Well, that NEU had to go through a lot of work to get to this point
lot of work to get to this point with
ORI QR RGN R )
ORI QR RGN with the strikes and |
ORI QR RGN T R e C hB R s 4
ORI QN R RGN RGN AR UL G
with the strikes and | think they o
with the strikes and I think they would be wrong to pause it
with the strikes and | think they would be wrong to pause it without
would be wrong to pause it without any
would be wrong to pause it without EI A= i
would be wrong to pause it without A i Rl
would be wrong to pause it without A i C R R G
would be wrong to pause it without any commitment from the Government
any commitment from the Government that
any commitment from the Government GE R
any commitment from the Government that they will actually talk about
that they will actually talk about vty
that they will actually talk about T R )
that they will actually talk about R R 2
that they will actually talk about what we want them
that they will actually talk about T R R R ]
that they will actually talk about N R R e R R R
that they will actually talk about what we want them to talk about. And
what we want them to talk about. And e
what we want them to talk about. And S 0td
what we want them to talk about. And talk about things that matter, not
talk about things that matter, not just
talk about things that matter, not P AL%N
talk about things that matter, not P 4TLE 40
talk about things that matter, not just what is going to grab the
just what is going to grab the headlines. You have talked about pay
headlines. You have talked about pay e
headlines. You have talked about pay nNnaie
headlines. You have talked about pay A
headlines. You have talked about pay N AR
headlines. You have talked about pay but it is not just about pay but
but it is not just about pay but FYe L
but it is not just about pay but R e
but it is not just about pay but L nde et
but it is not just about pay but L ae T e
but it is not just about pay but about resocurces. Tell me a
but it is not just about pay but about resources. Tell me a little
about resources. Tell me a little i
about resources. Tell me a little a1 0td
about resources. Tell me a little 1o e 1T o)
about resources. Tell me a little R e a
about resources. Tell me a little N NN R
about resources. Tell me a little R N R e
about resources. Tell me a little bit about one of the most important
bit about one of the most important things
bit about one of the most important QIR
bit about one of the most important things in your
L LD L RO R G LR [ AT & things in your school at the
] LD ERO R G LR [ AT &l things in your school at the moment
things in your school at the moment 3
things in your school at the moment interms
things in your school at the moment R a1
things in your school at the moment R iR A ]
things in your school at the moment R R A AL
things in your school at the moment R R A A
things in your school at the moment in terms of how it is struggling.
in terms of how it is struggling. R
in terms of how it is struggling. Y (LT 01
in terms of how it is struggling. Well, about pay, sorry, what you
Well, about pay, sorry, what you mentioned earlier, the reason they
mentioned earlier, the reason they Py
mentioned earlier, the reason they RN G
mentioned earlier, the reason they are investing so much as the cuts
are investing so much as the cuts they
are investing so much as the cuts S AT
are investing so much as the cuts S A TR
are investing so much as the cuts they chose to make during austerity
they chose to make during austerity 13 years ago.
they chose to make during austerity R L L ELS
they chose to make during austerity RN R e
they chose to make during austerity 13 years ago. That is why the
13 years ago. That is why the LG
13 years ago. That is why the LR
(BT ICR- DL E SR LA G funding is going
(BT ICR- DL E SR LA G LG RGO R
(BT ICR- DL E SR LA G funding is going up, because
13 years ago. That is why the funding is going up, because they
funding is going up, because they brought
funding is going up, because they GOl
funding Is going up, because they brought it down so low. At our
brought it down so low. At our N
brought it down so low. At our school, we are seeing TAs, not as
school, we are seeing TAs, not as many in classrooms. Just generally
many in classrooms. Just generally )
many in classrooms. Just generally T
many in classrooms. Just generally MR R O]
many in classrooms. Just generally T N RO
many in classrooms. Just generally there seems to be less money around.
there seems to be less money around. We have a
there seems to be less money around. N N RV
there seems to be less money around. We have a very committed senior
We have a very committed senior leadership team, teaching staff, TAs
leadership team, teaching staff, TAs and
leadership team, teaching staff, TAs L
leadership team, teaching staff, TAs and all the other people who work in
and all the other people who work in Y
and all the other people who work in PR e e g
and all the other people who work in FR e R ]
and all the other people who work in a school who just want to go in and
a school who just want to go in and )
a school who just want to go in and el lg
a school who just want to go in and LR
a school who just want to go in and do our jobs. But it is getting
do our jobs. But it is getting I
do our jobs. But it is getting TR 11
do our jobs. But it is getting harder. What do you say to the
harder. What do you say to the parents
harder. What do you say to the I
harder. What do you say to the parents and the children who
harder. What do you say to the RN RO R G R UL
parents and the children who are (=N
parents and the children who are having to face two days of
having to face two days of SOl
having to face two days of disruption this week after
having to face two days of ORI UG
having to face two days of disruption this week after a couple
disruption this week after a couple of years worth of disruption because
of years worth of disruption because of Covid? | haven’t had
of Covid? | haven’t had conversations like that
of Covid? | haven’t had conversations lLike that with
of Covid? | haven’t had conversations like that with any of
conversations like that with any of 1
conversations like that with any of I
conversations like that with any of my parents, it’s only
conversations like that with any of VR B R R VA N
conversations like that with any of A LG R R A R O
my parents, it’s only been positive of that
my parents, it’s only been positive RIS ]
my parents, it’s only been positive A UEIE NN
my parents, it’s only been positive RGN R A L
my parents, it’s only been positive RGN R A S
my parents, it’s only been positive of that one of my parents is on
my parents, it’s only been positive RGN R A R R U
of that one of my parents is on the march today. | was hoping | would
march today. | was hoping | would bump into them
march today. | was hoping | would DR CR U1
march today. | was hoping | would D RNCR G Ui
march today. | was hoping | would bump into them but | haven’t. |
bump into them but | haven’t. | haven’t
bump into them but | haven’t. | IR E]
bump into them but | haven’t. | haven’t had any negativity from any
haven’t had any negativity from any parents or
haven’t had any negativity from any IR I
haven’t had any negativity from any parents or children. OK, well, that
parents or children. OK, well, that s one
parents or children. OK, well, that is one of the messages here today,
s one of the messages here today, s one
s one of the messages here today, is one of
s one of the messages here today, XL RV
s one of the messages here today, is one of pay but also
s one of the messages here today, XNER R A N R
s one of the messages here today, is one of pay but also the future of
is one of pay but also the future of )
is one of pay but also the future of Nl
is one of pay but also the future of the classroom. And
is one of pay but also the future of N LI AR )
is one of pay but also the future of N LI TR R E )
is one of pay but also the future of the classroom. And we have heard
is one of pay but also the future of NG LR i O
the classroom. And we have heard as ol
the classroom. And we have heard as R e
the classroom. And we have heard as well that parents who are
the classroom. And we have heard as (R E I R VLR ¢
well that parents who are not e
well that parents who are not teachers have been to
well that parents who are not e N TN e R )
well that parents who are not e N R e R - N e s
teachers have been to the march today, as well as young people. |
today, as well as young people. | e
today, as well as young people. | want to
today, as well as young people. | N RN e e )
today, as well as young people. | N RN N
today, as well as young people. | N RN R )
today, as well as young people. | want to read some of the placards we
want to read some of the placards we have seen today,
want to read some of the placards we [ EV L R A
want to read some of the placards we have seen today, if few examples of
have seen today, if few examples of that you can’t put pupils first
have seen today, if few examples of that you can’t put pupils first if
that you can’t put pupils first if you put
that you can’t put pupils first if you put teachers last. Another
that you can’t put pupils first if you put teachers last. Another one,
you put teachers last. Another one, Y
you put teachers last. Another one, we have run out of glue sticks but
we have run out of glue sticks but Y
we have run out of glue sticks but 10
we have run out of glue sticks but we are sticking together. The
we are sticking together. The Y ey
we are sticking together. The T ee o]
we are sticking together. The e A )
we are sticking together. The resources in the classroom another
resources in the classroom another ]
resources in the classroom another big sticking issue
resources in the classroom another R R
resources in the classroom another big sticking issue here today. Nick
big sticking issue here today. Nick Johnson
big sticking issue here today. Nick g i)
big sticking issue here today. Nick Johnson reporting from Trafalgar
Johnson reporting from Trafalgar Square.
Since the Taliban takeover in August 2021,
playing and listening to music in public in Afghanistan
The Taliban say it is "un-Islamic” and they locked the doors of
the Afghanistan National Institute of Music in Kabul when they returned
to power in 2021, forcing the students of the music school
to flee the country.
Now, this determined group of young musicians are back
on the international stage fighting to keep Afghan music alive.
Shekiba Habib reports.
These are the students of Afghanistan’s most
prestigious music institute, after fleeing from their country.
This is the start of their 2023 tour of Europe.
TRANSLATION: | never imagined the Taliban could take over
and ban music within a day.
TANSLATION: When the Taliban came, | was sad because | wasn’t able
to continue studying.
| was a prisoner at home.
Back home, they had freedom R (R R 1 U]
and status as professionals.
But when the Taliban returned, everything regressed.
After breaking all their instruments, the Taliban locked
Years of dedication and passion were destroyed in seconds.
But the school’s former students IR IRit el
LU RIEN(O R R T R ) their actions go unnoticed.
We will play our music even louder.
These musicians flourished in Afghanistan before the Taliban
N it
They might have lost their stage, their music school and their musical
instruments but what’’s remaining is their art and their resilience.
Now living as refugees in Portugal, R R R N |
their orchestra and their mission.
How do you feel before going to the stage?
Which piece do you like the most?
The one that’s about Afghanistan?
LR
The first concert of the tour R BN A
TRANSLATION: The Taliban wanted LG RGN
to be just like them - uneducated and without progress.
T i fie e
TRANSLATION: When the Taliban are gone, | will go
to Afghanistan to teach music to girls and boys.
A number of cliff-side homes R e VARG RN i E T R A
to the sea because of coastal SRS S 1
weekend three houses were demolished after high tides -
and two more are earmarked to be pulled down in
the sea-side resort of Hemsby.
On Wednesday, around 2,000 tonnes of rock are expected to arrive
to try to shore up the coastline, as Jo Black reports.
For decades, this part RN e Ee L o
has been slipping away.
For the residents here in Hemsby, coastal
erosion Is nothing new.
But sometimes mother nature can be unpredictable and the recent bad
weather and high tides have LR an Gl &
Over the weekend, sections of these chalet style houses started to go
into the water and some were totally demolished before that could happen.
School teacher Sue saw her house pulled down at the weekend.
She knew erosion was a problem and couldn’t get insurance
for the property, but loved living in this location.
The benefits of seeing GEIES A AR ORI ]
the water, like | said, 99% of the time the erosion
was very, very slow.
It was a very unique place to be.
At that point, he had 50 metres of sand dune behind his property.
A year later, he dragged his house forward and now he’s hoping to do it
again to escape the threat of the sea.
I’ve heard this morning that I’ve been put doewn as number one
on the demolishing list,
which is a bit worrying and upsetting, obviously.
| can only work as fast as people can get the machinery to me.
el LG TR T RO A A R
We are actually, at the moment, demolishing people’s homes.
Whether it be a second home or your main home,
and the devastation that causes, the upset and everything, | do
really feel sorry for these people.
But obviously, safety comes into play.
In the last ten years, 20 properties have gone from these
dunes and now access to another 20 NI R TGRS Eaae- T
if the damage to this road gets any worse.
1,900 tonnes of rock will be brought into slow the erosion.
A temporary measure and a bigger wall of rock
s planned for the future.
The Government has allocated £36 million over six years in places
like North Norfolk to help communities adapt to
a changing climate.
But for some, the dream of living T RO AR R
Jo Black, BBC News, in Hemsby.
The Queen guitarist Brian May has received a knighthood
for services to music and charity.
He was given the honour VALY
at Buckingham Palace.
It comes less than a year IR E R - R A P E e s
appeared on screen tapping out the beat of We Will Rock You over
tea with Paddington Bear -
the song was famously written by Brian May.
And before we go, an early Spring treat for visitors
at Tokyo’s Ueno park - who have been enjoying
cherry flowers blooming early in the season.
Japan announced the official S A R X as s
blossem seasoen on Tuesday - IR NG RU LTSI
In past years, the country’s meteorologists have linked
the increasingly early blooms to climate change, and temperatures
In Tokyo have been unseasonably mild in recent days.
T e Bl Igs
Much more on ocur
Much more cnh cur main
Much more on our main stories,
Much more on ocur main stories, the
Much more on our main stories, the I ale ]
Much more on our main stories, the I e Rl
Much more on our main stories, the situation in Pakistan, where the
situation in Pakistan, where the YNl da e el
situation in Pakistan, where the YN da o R )
situation in Pakistan, where the YN R e k)
situation in Pakistan, where the A e TR e s R )
situation in Pakistan, where the authorities have halted the arrest
authorities have halted the arrest N
authorities have halted the arrest R
authorities have halted the arrest RGN
authorities have halted the arrest RN e e
authorities have halted the arrest ARG R RIS
authorities have halted the arrest R R e NI S e Te
of the former Prime Minister Imran Khan. Also, if you are interested in
Khan. Also, if you are interested in )
Khan. Also, if you are interested in i
Khan. Also, if you are interested in QI
Khan. Also, if you are interested in the UK budget, plenty more on our
the UK budget, plenty more on our ey
QR o[ eI L A R R T
QR o[ eI L A R R R C
QR o[ eI L A R R LR
QR o[ eI L A R R A N R U
the UK budget, plenty more on our A N R U i R N e e L )s
website as well after the Chancellor Jeremy Hunt announced plans to try
Jeremy Hunt announced plans to try [
Jeremy Hunt announced plans to try to boost
Jeremy Hunt announced plans to try R R
Jeremy Hunt announced plans to try to boost the UK economy. You are
to boost the UK economy. You are watching
to boost the UK economy. You are e
to boost the UK economy. You are watching BBC News.
This week we’re seeing some big swings in temperature
from one day to the next,
and we’ve got more of the same TS IO RIS
We had a very cold start to the morning with temperatures
down at minus ten.
But over the next 24 hours or so, milder air will be pushing right
the way across the UK, bringing a big jump
In our temperatures.
Today, though, quite cold, [ O T b B U R R Ll
degrees Celsius pretty widely.
But if you take a look at the highs in Londonderry,
we’re going from eight today to about 15 degrees
Celsius tomorrow.
So you will notice that change GRS
Before we get there, though, as | say, today is a relatively cold
day with temperatures below average, a sunny and frosty start.
LI R G I starting to cloud over.
And in Northern Ireland, we’re seeing rain moving in,
and there have been a few flakes of snow just on the leading edge
of this weather front across some of the hills in Northern Ireland.
But during this evening, RO R R G S S G
bumps into the cold air, we could see a spell of snow
across the hills of northern England and Scotland,
the snow lasting longest R R RGN R R s
and could bring some localised areas of disruption.
But then later in the night, N B il s e
push of much milder air as the next band of rain works in.
And so temperatures will be climbing significantly.
RGN NG RG] 8 nine or ten degrees Celsius pretty
widely and even across northern Scotland will see temperatures
climbing well above freezing.
Now for Thursday, we’ve got that mild flow of southwesterly winds,
but it will be quite a wet and quite a windy kind of day.
The rain heavy enough to cause some localised surface
water flooding issues, the weather slowly brightening up
in Northern Ireland I think as we go QI RGO N
but with the risk of some heavy and thundery
showers later in the day.
Temperatures 14, 15 degrees Celsius. R R Rl
Even northern Scotland, ten in Aberdeen, still relatively
cold though In Lerwick.
For Friday, we might see some fairly prolonged outbreaks of rain
affecting eastern areas of England.
Otherwise, | think it’s going to be a cloudy day with some heavy
oI AT R I s the heaviest probably across western
areas of the UK, maybe even a bit of thunder mixed in.
Still mild, temperatures could go as high as 16 degrees
A R R G e
And then for the weekend, still lots of cloud around
on Saturday with bursts of rain, Sunday probably showers,
a few brighter spells in between, but still overall, quite a lot
of cloud expected.
And then if we take a quick look at the weather into next week, well,
it looks like for some of us e GRSl R
Our top stories:
A high court in the Pakistani city of Lahore has ordered police
to halt their operation to arrest main opposition leader and former
Prime Minister Imran LR LT E
following clashes between police and his supporters.
Shares in the troubled Swiss banking giant Credit Suisse fall
to a record low as investors remain worried about the problems it faces
following the fallout from R E R I T R SR BT S
and Signature Bank.
The UK Chancellor Jeremy Hunt sets SR DRG]
in Parliament - extra help RIS LRI Tl T
the limit on tax-free pension savings are part of the government’s
plans to draw people FN R gt e
Conflicting accounts from Washington and Moscow as a US
drone crashes into the Black Sea R s we T la e R ik sl
Russian fighter jets - Ukraine’s foreign minister says
incidents like this are inevitable until Russia leave Crimea.
VGl SRR G R where the British finance minister
or Chancellor, has been setting out his tax and spending
plans, amidst what’s thought to be the biggest day
of strikes since a wave of industrial action
began last year.
Chancellor Jeremy Hunt handed down his spring budget -
saying the government was taking steps to help people deal
with the cost of living crisis - increasing the provision of free
childcare and continuing to subsidise household energy bills
RN IR 10Nl
Mr Hunt says high inflation Rt e RN
Hundreds of thousands of workers in Britain are holding mass walkouts
on Wednesday over pay LR G S E N
Let’s go live to our UK political correspondent Rob Watson.
He’s on College Green ARG FIu
Thank LRGN EW EI
Thank outside the parliament. you.
Thank LRGN I I T
Thank outside the parliament. you. | was about to make :
Thank you. | was about to make a small suggestion that maybe they
small suggestion that maybe they i
small suggestion that maybe they could hold budgets at a different
could hold budgets at a different S i)
could hold budgets at a different SN d
could hold budgets at a different R A
could hold budgets at a different R IR G
could hold budgets at a different AR eI G R ]
could hold budgets at a different AR I G 1 LR U LS
could hold budgets at a different time of year, maybe when it was
could hold budgets at a different AR e IR G L LR A U R L
time of year, maybe when it was a i
time of year, maybe when it was a A
time of year, maybe when it was a bit less bad with
time of year, maybe when it was a AR LR i R
time of year, maybe when it was a AR LR RN M)
time of year, maybe when it was a AR LR G RN (s s Ta ]
time of year, maybe when it was a bit less bad with the wind and rain
bit less bad with the wind and rain e
bit less bad with the wind and rain A ey
bit less bad with the wind and rain AR Te e
bit less bad with the wind and rain AR Td & s
bit less bad with the wind and rain but let’s crack on any way with the
but let’s crack on any way with the budget. I’m joined by Jonathan
budget. I’m joined by Jonathan Reynolds, the senior spekesman
budget. I’m joined by Jonathan Reynolds, the senior spokesman for
Reynolds, the senior spokesman for )
Reynolds, the senior spokesman for Nl
Reynolds, the senior spokesman for the main opposition
Reynolds, the senior spokesman for QR EI T L L L 0]
Reynolds, the senior spokesman for the main opposition Labour Party. If
the main opposition Labour Party. If you win power, you could hold
the main opposition Labour Party. If you win power, you could held it
the main opposition Labour Party. If you win power, you could hold it at
you win power, you could hold it at Y
you win power, you could hold it at N e
you win power, you could hold it at E i e e e la i)
you win power, you could hold it at E i e e e
you win power, you could hold it at I R R R
you win power, you could hold it at a different time of year? A lot of
a different time of year? A lot of things would be better under a
things would be better under a [E L 0ld
things would be better under a Labour government! | gave you at a
Labour government! | gave you at a clEV
Labour government! | gave you at a railway line with that one. What
Labour government! | gave you at a AR O R G R L R I G
railway line with that one. What is your
railway line with that one. What is I FI
railway line with that one. What is N EIL R I
railway line with that one. What is your main critique with what you
railway line with that ene. What is your main critiqgue with what you had
your main critique with what you had today? -- a throwaway line. Our
today? -- a throwaway line. Our people are better off
today? -- a throwaway line. Our L N S G RG]
today? -- a throwaway line. Our people are better off than they were
people are better off than they were 13 years ago and the answer for most
15 years ago and the answer for most people is no. -- are
13 years ago and the answer for most people is no. -- are people that
people is no. -- are people that o
people is no. -- are people that are. The
people is no. -- are people that IR TR E e e
people is no. -- are people that are. The Chancellor says we are not
are. The Chancellor says we are not going to
are. The Chancellor says we are not RO R0l
are. The Chancellor says we are not going to accept being the worst
going to accept being the worst il
going to accept being the worst performing major economy in the G7,
performing major economy in the G7, and
performing major economy in the G7, R )
performing major economy in the G7, and we recognise the fact we are the
and we recognise the fact we are the i\
and we recognise the fact we are the AL EIS
and we recognise the fact we are the only major economy
and we recognise the fact we are the T EY Y A G TN
and we recognise the fact we are the only major economy that has not
only major economy that has not i)
only major economy that has not IR
only major economy that has not O aR e
only major economy that has not grown to its pre-pandemic level we
grown to its pre-pandemic level we PIe Y
grown to its pre-pandemic level we are going to correct that and they
are going to correct that and they il
are going to correct that and they IR
are going to correct that and they will be hope and ambition but
are going to correct that and they will be hope and ambitien but it
are going to correct that and they will be hope and ambition but it is
will be hope and ambition but it is e
will be hope and ambition but it is more of
will be hope and ambition but it is e )
will be hope and ambition but it is e A
will be hope and ambition but it is e AU
will be hope and ambition but it is e AO R
will be hope and ambition but it is e A R R (e )
will be hope and ambition but it is e RN IR R T (e e - aie
more of the same. We will come onto your
more of the same. We will come onto T TR
more of the same. We will come onto your ambition in a second but when
your ambition in a second but when )
your ambition in a second but when N A
your ambition in a second but when QIR G|
your ambition in a second but when QIR G
your ambition in a second but when there was nothing about what you
there was nothing about what you R
there was nothing about what you heard which picked your interest?
heard which picked your interest? ey
heard which picked your interest? YT L
heard which picked your interest? What about the
heard which picked your interest? Y R R e
heard which picked your interest? Y I R R e A s AL
heard which picked your interest? Y I R R A - R e
What about the tax incentives for business
What about the tax incentives for N R O]
What about the tax incentives for AR R G
What about the tax incentives for AR RO ]
What about the tax incentives for AR RO RN )
What about the tax incentives for AR RO AN R
What about the tax incentives for AN RO RN RN R R
business to invest and some of the I
business to invest and some of the measures encouraging people who are
measures encouraging people who are of working age but not working? As |
of working age but not working? As | sat
of working age but not working? As | i h )
of working age but not working? As | sat there on
of working age but not working? As | I e )
of working age but not working? As | I N R R g e
of working age but not working? As | R RO i
of working age but not working? As | sat there on the front bench, there
sat there on the front bench, there ey
sat there on the front bench, there ]
sat there on the front bench, there N YR
sat there on the front bench, there were a few ideas that felt that had
were a few ideas that felt that had ]
were a few ideas that felt that had been burgled from the next Labour
been burgled from the next Labour manifesto, the points on childcare
manifesto, the points on childcare and prepayment meters, we wanted
and prepayment meters, we wanted that
and prepayment meters, we wanted G E AT o0 0e8
and prepayment meters, we wanted that support with people’s bills to
that support with people’s bills to begin
that support with people’s bills to LI EION
that support with people’s bills to LS I R 0T 4
that support with people’s bills to LR AT ]
that support with people’s bills to begin with, but on business
begin with, but on business N3t
begin with, but on business investment and
begin with, but on business R h R
begin with, but on business RN EhE G R
begin with, but on business investment and this is top of my
investment and this is top of my list
investment and this is top of my MRS
investment and this is top of my MR R )
investment and this is top of my ARG R s ]
investment and this is top of my list because the country has the
list because the country has the s
list because the country has the A
list because the country has the AN
list because the country has the A AT
list because the country has the A A TN e e
lowest rate of business investment in the G7 is the direct cause of the
in the G7 Is the direct cause of the low
in the G7 is the direct cause of the low productivity
in the G7 is the direct cause of the AL L]
in the G7 is the direct cause of the low productivity and high
in the G7 Is the direct cause of the low productivity and high taxes
in the G7 is the direct cause of the low productivity and high taxes and
low productivity and high taxes and poor
low productivity and high taxes and W @5 U9
low productivity and high taxes and poor public services that has been
poor public services that has been )
poor public services that has been the story
poor public services that has been I
poor public services that has been ORI AR UG
poor public services that has been the story of the last decade, so |
QLRI g NI R GLEER e[ RN o ol
the story of the last decade, so | watched with
the story of the last decade, so | et R R e
the story of the last decade, so | watched with interest on what
the story of the last decade, so | T i R R R R R i E
watched with interest on what has ]
watched with interest on what has YN e
watched with interest on what has T LR el Tt
watched with interest on what has TN e sl o)
watched with interest on what has been announced but of course what
been announced but of course what stands out, announced for
been announced but of course what N LR P - R i R )
stands out, announced for three years so that will
stands out, announced for three IR R R (N Ia T o]
stands out, announced for three years so that will bring forward
years so that will bring forward RN na a1
years so that will bring forward investment decisions, according to
investment decisions, according to e
investment decisions, according to modelling, but for most businesses,
modelling, but for most businesses, e
modelling, but for most businesses, e
modelling, but for most businesses, IR AR e e T e
modelling, but for most businesses, their investment outline is longer
their investment outline is longer than three years, you need the
than three years, you need the stability. 22 changes over the
stability. 22 changes over the corporation tax regime in this
corporation tax regime in this Parliament alone and that is not
Parliament alone and that is not L]
Parliament alone and that is not LB EULTRL]
Parliament alone and that is not good enough and
Parliament alone and that is not LB L L
Parliament alone and that is not good enough and it holds us back,
good enough and it holds us back, )
good enough and it holds us back, G
LG IR REL RGN Sl 8 N
LG IR REL RGN Sl 8 the lack of stability is the number
the lack of stability is the number )
the lack of stability is the number one complaint for business in the
one complaint for business in the UK. What a lot of people struggle
one complaint for business in the UK. What a Lot of people struggle to
UK. What a lot of people struggle to T % ]
UK. What a lot of people struggle to s
UK. What a lot of people struggle to understand is what exactly is it
understand is what exactly is it that Labour
understand is what exactly is it LA R 0]
understand is what exactly is it that Labour would do differently?
that Labour would do differently? IS g
that Labour would do differently? Il
that Labour would do differently? After all as far as
that Labour would do differently? IR LI
that Labour would do differently? After all as far as | know, you
that Labour would do differently? O R I ARG AR LG
After all as far as | know, you are e
After all as far as | know, you are not suggesting something radically
not suggesting something radically e e 4
not suggesting something radically different about the size of
not suggesting something radically At e R AP R R
different about the size of the I
different about the size of the RGN
different about the size of the e
different about the size of the R RN )
different about the size of the state or the role of
different about the size of the AR N A ]
different about the size of the AR N L AR )
different about the size of the state or the role of the state and
state or the role of the state and you
state or the role of the state and T T
state or the role of the state and you are not suggesting we
state or the role of the state and I N LSRR G
state or the role of the state and IR I S R R G RO
you are not suggesting we rejoin the EU
you are not suggesting we rejoin the AV
you are not suggesting we rejoin the EU single market, even though one of
EU single market, even though one of )
EU single market, even though one of QRO
EU single market, even though one of the things that the OBR constantly
the things that the OBR constantly ST
QLR GINDER G EI RGN Y E LY S il e 4
QLR GINDER G EI RGN Y E LY refers back to, as one of the
the things that the OBR constantly refers back to, as one of the causes
refers back to, as one of the causes of
refers back to, as one of the causes SRy
refers back to, as one of the causes SR 0181
refers back to, as one of the causes of the albums for
refers back to, as one of the causes RO IR
refers back to, as one of the causes RGO R ]
refers back to, as one of the causes SR LR R R ]
refers back to, as one of the causes of the albums for the UK and why we
of the albums for the UK and why we Py
of the albums for the UK and why we g
of the albums for the UK and why we IR R R
of the albums for the UK and why we are under it’s the fact
of the albums for the UK and why we IR R R R el Y
of the albums for the UK and why we AN R RO R )
of the albums for the UK and why we BN R SR Rl e s
are under it’s the fact we are out N
are under it’s the fact we are out R
are under it’s the fact we are out AL Al
are under it’s the fact we are out NEGERa TS
are under it’s the fact we are out NAG AR
are under it’s the fact we are out ARG YA N
are under it’s the fact we are out AU YA N R
are under it’s the fact we are out NAG YA N AN
are under it’s the fact we are out NAG YA N R R R
of the EU -- one of the causes of )
of the EU -- one of the causes of R e L)
of the EU -- one of the causes of the performance by the UK. Why would
the performance by the UK. Why would 3
the performance by the UK. Why would o)
the performance by the UK. Why would i e e
the performance by the UK. Why would i e a8l g
the performance by the UK. Why would it be different under Labour? We
it be different under Labour? We il
it be different under Labour? We IR
it be different under Labour? We will be focused on jobs and wages
will be focused on jobs and wages and
will be focused on jobs and wages NN
will be focused on jobs and wages and energy bills
will be focused on jobs and wages ER LG R
will be focused on jobs and wages and energy bills and crucially, a
and energy bills and crucially, much
and energy bills and crucially, a el n e Ng
and energy bills and crucially, a R el a e e s |
and energy bills and crucially, a much better and more competitive UK
much better and more competitive UK that
much better and more competitive UK eIk
much better and more competitive UK eI I aag: s
much better and more competitive UK that will attract the
much better and more competitive UK BRI Al A a3t
much better and more competitive UK that will attract the investment so
that will attract the investment so e
that will attract the investment so AR NN
that will attract the investment so IR CH -4
that will attract the investment so IR - 14
that will attract the investment so for instance, look at the big
for instance, look at the big industrial
for instance, look at the big LS G N
for instance, look at the big industrial news, job cuts at Ford
industrial news, job cuts at Ford and British
industrial news, job cuts at Ford LR R
industrial news, job cuts at Ford and British Steel and
industrial news, job cuts at Ford RO N N VA e
and British Steel and AstraZeneca T
and British Steel and AstraZeneca has gone to Ireland
and British Steel and AstraZeneca EI R GR TG ET GRS
and British Steel and AstraZeneca has gone to Ireland so our growing
has gone to Ireland so our growing O 810
has gone to Ireland so our growing NGV B
has gone to Ireland so our growing prosperity plan is a big response to
prosperity plan is a big response to )
prosperity plan is a big response to the inflation reduction act which
prosperity plan is a big response to R e e i o e R
the inflation reduction act which we have seen in
the inflation reduction act which we N R )
the inflation reduction act which we R LR Y
the inflation reduction act which we N R RN ]
the inflation reduction act which we T R R R I LR )
the inflation reduction act which we have seen in the US and the net
the inflation reduction act which we N R R RN LR e g
have seen in the US and the net zero FTas
have seen in the US and the net zero actin
have seen in the US and the net zero e d R ]
have seen in the US and the net zero act in the EU, and we are not for
act in the EU, and we are not for LT
act in the EU, and we are not for G EGE
act in the EU, and we are not for ML EGER A
act in the EU, and we are not for rejoining the EU because the
rejoining the EU because the &Y
rejoining the EU because the instability will cause further
instability will cause further instability, although we would
instability, although we would TG
instability, although we would RO
instability, although we would RO
instability, although we would improve the deal. Brexit
instability, although we would O RO U A
instability, although we would improve the deal. Brexit is a hit
improve the deal. Brexit is a hit that
improve the deal. Brexit is a hit A
improve the deal. Brexit is a hit eI
improve the deal. Brexit is a hit G E R E I
improve the deal. Brexit is a hit that UK has got to take the chin?
that UK has got to take the chin? e
that UK has got to take the chin? TN el e ]
that UK has got to take the chin? The decision has been made, but we
The decision has been made, but we ]
The decision has been made, but we can rejoin the horizon science
can rejoin the horizon science MOPIEIER
can rejoin the horizon science programme, and improved exports to
programme, and improved exports to and from
programme, and improved exports to N Ric R
programme, and improved exports to and from the single market, making
and from the single market, making )
and from the single market, making sure mutual professional
sure mutual professional qualifications are recognised, that
qualifications are recognised, that can
qualifications are recognised, that )
qualifications are recognised, that NN N )
qualifications are recognised, that NN E N a e
qualifications are recognised, that can be made better with a stronger
can be made better with a stronger employment rates during rights, and
employment rates during rights, and |
employment rates during rights, and Ko e
employment rates during rights, and BT i
employment rates during rights, and K S
employment rates during rights, and | think it is a
employment rates during rights, and RO S SR U NS
employment rates during rights, and | think it is a comprehensive and
| think it is a comprehensive and St 1ile1]
| think it is @ comprehensive and e Bl ae-1g
| think it is @ comprehensive and e R i e
| think it is @ comprehensive and el e i )
| think it is @ comprehensive and R R i R R e
| think it is @ comprehensive and R TR T RN d )]
much better offer to invest in business already here and that is
business already here and that is )
business already here and that is the change of direction we need. |
the change of direction we need. | PN
the change of direction we need. | ROl
the change of direction we need. | am overrunning whatever time we have
am overrunning whatever time we have ]
am overrunning whatever time we have TR ]
am overrunning whatever time we have TR e Tt
am overrunning whatever time we have L R A
am overrunning whatever time we have TR RS ]
am overrunning whatever time we have TR R Al a4
am overrunning whatever time we have been allocated but let me ask you
been allocated but let me ask you FYe L
been allocated but let me ask you Y]
been allocated but let me ask you about the public sector, and one of
about the public sector, and one of )
about the public sector, and one of QRO ERTGY
about the public sector, and one of QRGBT EY-TY
about the public sector, and one of the things we see in
about the public sector, and one of QRGBT RN R 1)
about the public sector, and one of the things we see in the forecasts
the things we see in the forecasts 3
the things we see in the forecasts )
the things we see in the forecasts is a five year squeeze on public
is a five year squeeze on public S CUGIR
is a five year squeeze on public LN [ VR 1fe}
is a five year squeeze on public spending, which means will be spent
spending, which means will be spent on education
spending, which means will be spent R s [Tl A s I s s
spending, which means will be spent on education and health, and that is
on education and health, and that is 1
on education and health, and that is at a time
on education and health, and that Is at a time when we note there are
at a time when we note there are large
at a time when we note there are IO e
at a time when we note there are large numbers of strikes today, so
large numbers of strikes today, so T
large numbers of strikes today, so 1R
large numbers of strikes today, so AR LG
large numbers of strikes today, so AR R )
large numbers of strikes today, so if you were to win
large numbers of strikes today, so IR R R LR
large numbers of strikes today, so if you were to win the next
if you were to win the next e IR
iIf you were to win the next election, it would be
if you were to win the next R G R {442
if you were to win the next election, it would be tricky, would
election, it would be tricky, would you
election, it would be tricky, would IR
election, it would be tricky, would LT
election, it would be tricky, would you go ahead and implement what
you go ahead and implement what it
you go ahead and implement what b
you go ahead and implement what might be called austerity light? We
might be called austerity light? We o
might be called austerity light? We would not be
might be called austerity light? We T B e Rt 1d
might be called austerity light? We would not be for austerity but
would not be for austerity but e
would not be for austerity but OISR
would not be for austerity but whilst growth is
would not be for austerity but SN G R
would not be for austerity but whilst growth is low it means the
whilst growth is low it means the burden
whilst growth is low it means the NG
whilst growth is low it means the burden of taxation is high and
burden of taxation is high and public services are not performing
public services are not performing to our
public services are not performing R T e e e
public services are not performing R e e R
public services are not performing R @S T R L]
public services are not performing to our conception of high standard
to our conception of high standard 4
to our conception of high standard N
to our conception of high standard A
to our conception of high standard [T BT LY
to our conception of high standard but if you look at the NHS, what
to our conception of high standard but if you lock at the NHS, what we
but if you look at the NHS, what we o
but if you look at the NHS, what we would have had in
but if you look at the NHS, what we R - N R R
but if you look at the NHS, what we would have had in the budget, is the
would have had in the budget, is the abolition
would have had in the budget, is the Y i e E e 2
would have had in the budget, is the R R
would have had in the budget, is the abolition of the non-Dom rule,
would have had in the budget, is the R RO R e RO R G
abolition of the nen-Dom rule, over £3 billion
abolition of the non-Dom rule, over I R
abolition of the non-Dom rule, over £3 billion of revenue, which we
£3 billion of revenue, which we o
£3 billion of revenue, which we would spend on
£3 billion of revenue, which we I GRS N R B e
£3 billion of revenue, which we would spend on more doctors and
would spend on more doctors and eI
would spend on more doctors and TSI e i o}
would spend on more doctors and TSI Gl o e LYo
would spend on more doctors and nurses, getting people the health
nurses, getting people the health 1)
nurses, getting people the health RN
nurses, getting people the health RG]
nurses, getting people the health care they need but
nurses, getting people the health CIAUE ARG
nurses, getting people the health care they need but also getting more
care they need but also getting more people back to work, that is the
people back to work, that is the real
people back to work, that is the I e
people back to work, that is the real answer to
people back to work, that is the IR AR Ee e 0le
people back to work, that is the real answer to labour market
real answer to labour market inactivity, making sure people get
inactivity, making sure people get )
inactivity, making sure people get R e
inactivity, making sure people get QRN R (T
inactivity, making sure people get RN R SR
inactivity, making sure people get QR R O e Rl
inactivity, making sure people get the treatment they need if they
inactivity, making sure people get QR N R OSSR R O EIG
the treatment they need if they are ill and getting back into work. We
Ll and getting back into work. We have
Ll and getting back into work. We (E\TE
Ll and getting back into work. We ENCE ]
Il and getting back into work. We have got to wrap up but thank you
have got to wrap up but thank you very much
have got to wrap up but thank you R e B Vg
have got to wrap up but thank you AN R (IR e
have got to wrap up but thank you very much for your time. There we
very much for your time. There we o
very much for your time. There we IR
very much for your time. There we are. That is
very much for your time. There we L ARG
very much for your time. There we are. That is the word from the main
are. That is the word from the main L]
are. That is the word from the main LN L L 0]
are. That is the word from the main opposition Labour Party. These
opposition Labour Party. These noises
opposition Labour Party. These )
opposition Labour Party. These NGRS
opposition Labour Party. These noises in your head can be very
noises in your head can be very L]
noises in your head can be very annoying at times! Rob Watson there
annoying at times! Rob Watson there 1
annoying at times! Rob Watson there R )
annoying at times! Rob Watson there RN
annoying at times! Rob Watson there RGN R
annoying at times! Rob Watson there at the Houses of Parliament.
LRI AR ) people have died in Iran -
while celebrating a fire festival.
Authorities say the deaths were caused by home-made fireworks.
Parham Ghobadi reports.
"For freedom™, they sing, burning their headscarves.
This is the Fire Festival in Iran, RNl a eI RalIEI R
But this year, to also protest.
Scenes like these can potentially lead to your arrest in Iran.
Dancing in public, especially without a hijab, is not tolerated
by the Islamic regime.
Like these girls, who were immediately arrested last week
They were released after making a public apology.
But Iran’s Generation Z, who has been at the forefront
of anti-government protest which swept the country
In September, has shown no fear.
In this video, verified by BBC Persian, protesters in the capital,
Tehran, threw handmade fireworks CI R QR
they tried to move In.
The Iranian authorities have given a muted response,
focusing on the number SR R Rl o
TRANSLATION: This year, at least 26 people were killed,
which is five more than last year.
The protests started after the death of a young Kurdish woman,
Mahsa Amini, in police custody, for allegedly not wearing
her hijab properly.
"Woman, Life, Freedom" is the chant.
Young people have not forgiven or forgotten.
Here in a northern city, QARG R IE R UG
leader, Ayatollah Khomeini, will be overthrown this year.
They say they want an end to the clerical establishment.
Parham Ghobadi, BBC News.
Let’s return to College Green with Rob Watson -
who’s got more on the UK budget.
B[V
| just wish
BV
| just wish | had a
| jJust wish | had a better coat on.
| just wish | had a better coat on. VS
| just wish | had a better coat on. AR I
| just wish | had a better coat on. Anyway, what can you do? I’m
I just wish | had a better coat on. Anyway, what can you do? I’m going
Anyway, what can you do? I’m going to get to
Anyway, what can you do? I’m going RN YA
Anyway, what can you do? I’m going to get to my next couple of quests.
to get to my next couple of guests. I X e ]
to get to my next couple of guests. Antonio Jennings from the scent of
Antonio Jennings from the scent of )
Antonio Jennings from the scent of Gt
Antonio Jennings from the scent of the local economic strategists and
the local economic strategists and Ben
the local economic strategists and )
the local economic strategists and Ben Lake from Plaid Cymru
the local economic strategists and NG IR EI RS T
the local economic strategists and Ben Lake from Plaid Cymru -- Antonia
Ben Lake from Plaid Cymru -- Antonia Jennings from
Ben Lake from Plaid Cymru -- Antonia LR RO
Ben Lake from Plaid Cymru -- Antonia Jennings from the centre. And for
Jennings from the centre. And for e
Jennings from the centre. And for T e Y
Jennings from the centre. And for our overseas viewers, Plaid Cymru
our overseas viewers, Plaid Cymru believes
our overseas viewers, Plaid Cymru AL A E
our overseas viewers, Plaid Cymru believes in Welsh independence.
believes in Welsh independence. e
believes in Welsh independence. e
believes in Welsh independence. AR
believes in Welsh independence. First of all, can
believes in Welsh independence. TG X (T Y]
believes in Welsh independence. First of all, can you explain what
First of all, can you explain what )
First of all, can you explain what e ey
First of all, can you explain what R R [
First of all, can you explain what the centre does, and | gather you
the centre does, and | gather you Py
the centre does, and | gather you are not a great fan of the
are not a great fan of the government? We advocate for
government? We advocate for progressive local development and we
progressive local development and we T
progressive local development and we AR il
progressive local development and we see what can
progressive local development and we R IR E G
progressive local development and we see what can happen on
progressive local development and we R RN )
progressive local development and we see what can happen on a local level
see what can happen on a local level and
see what can happen on a local level R i El
see what can happen on a local level and what can happen if good public
and what can happen if good public e ie
and what can happen if good public e )
and what can happen if good public e e R[]
and what can happen if good public e T LR
and what can happen if good public services are funded well and
services are funded well and o s ol 3
services are funded well and councils really work their policies
councils really work their policies to
councils really work their policies el it
councils really work their policies R R
councils really work their policies to benefit the community. Politics
to benefit the community. Politics 101 in
to benefit the community. Politics (BRI
to benefit the community. Politics 101 in this country is
to benefit the community. Politics [RGB GG A
101 in this country is an uncontroversial
101 in this country Is an T I R G LI
101 in this country Is an uncontroversial thought that what
uncontroversial thought that what )
uncontroversial thought that what i
uncontroversial thought that what R G
uncontroversial thought that what G R
uncontroversial thought that what R R )
uncontroversial thought that what the UK needs is more equal
the UK needs is more equal development than London
the UK needs is more equal U E R G E LR LB L
the UK needs is more equal development than London and the
development than London and the ORI
development than London and the NGRS PR )
development than London and the NGRS R L a FR
development than London and the south-east, which has been richer
south-east, which has been richer e
south-east, which has been richer )
south-east, which has been richer for some time,
south-east, which has been richer ISR TR
south-east, which has been richer for some time, so what do you make
for some time, so what do you make of
for some time, so what do you make SR
for some time, so what do you make of the budget? Does it address this?
of the budget? Does it address this? s
of the budget? Does it address this? It doesn’t,
of the budget? Does it address this? [ L RS
of the budget? Does it address this? It doesn’t, it does not
of the budget? Does it address this? [ R P e R A E LG
of the budget? Does it address this? It doesn’t, it does not make up
of the budget? Does it address this? It doesn’t, it does not make up for
It doesn’t, it does not make up for years
It doesn’t, it does not make up for IR
It doesn’t, it does not make up for years of underdevelopment and
years of underdevelopment and s (gl T nat a1
years of underdevelopment and underinvestment and local government
underinvestment and local government T
underinvestment and local government TRl
underinvestment and local government has had cuts
underinvestment and local government TN Rl R ]
underinvestment and local government TR R R R )
underinvestment and local government T E R RO R R )
underinvestment and local government TR RO R N
underinvestment and local government has had cuts to the tune of £15
has had cuts to the tune of £15 NN
has had cuts to the tune of £15 IR R e
has had cuts to the tune of £15 billion since 2010 if you are just
billion since 2010 if you are just that
billion since 2010 if you are just IR e
billion since 2010 if you are just that for inflation
billion since 2010 if you are just G BT d i ElA R
billion since 2010 if you are just L R EA R
billion since 2010 if you are just that for inflation that is £40
that for inflation that is £40 billion.
that for inflation that is £40 hillion. What
that for inflation that is £40 billion. What we have seen
that for inflation that is £40 hillion. What we have seen with
billien. What we have seen with levelling up
billion. What we have seen with levelling up is
billion. What we have seen with E LT >
billion. What we have seen with E LR 2T
billion. What we have seen with E LR 2R T R G
UN RV R PRI RO D e
UN RV R PRI RO D it so
levelling up is £2 billion offered TR R
levelling up is £2 billion offered it so that is
levelling up is £2 billion offered (R RGN
levelling up is £2 billion offered it so that is like me
levelling up is £2 billion offered 1SRG AR R CR i ]
levelling up is £2 billion offered it so that is like me offering you
it so that is like me offering you iR
it so that is like me offering you £20, you taking a pound back and
£20, you taking a pound back and then
£20, you taking a pound back and LRI
£20, you taking a pound back and then us trying to figure out whether
then us trying to figure out whether | can
then us trying to figure out whether R )
then us trying to figure out whether | can be in
then us trying to figure out whether IR R )
then us trying to figure out whether RN R )
then us trying to figure out whether (N CRO R ORI R ]
then us trying to figure out whether N RO R ORI G L R G LS
then us trying to figure out whether NN RO I G T R GGl
I can be in the same position that | Ty
I can be in the same position that | was ten
I can be in the same position that | R et T
I can be in the same position that | R R e S ]
I can be in the same position that | R R R S R )
(NI CROR QR CR [ R G E L was ten minutes before the exchange,
was ten minutes before the exchange, )
was ten minutes before the exchange, A
was ten minutes before the exchange, SO
was ten minutes before the exchange, G R[1
was ten minutes before the exchange, so no, nothing goes anywhere close
so no, nothing goes anywhere close to making up for those years of
to making up for those years of Tl gl
to making up for those years of Tl E
to making up for those years of underinvestment. Is there anything
underinvestment. Is there anything that
underinvestment. Is there anything R R
underinvestment. Is there anything G E R R A7 T
underinvestment. Is there anything that the government could do now
that the government could do now i da sl
that the government could do now R
that the government could do now within the financial envelope that
within the financial envelope that )
within the financial envelope that i
within the financial envelope that WG ETe
within the financial envelope that the UK faces that
within the financial envelope that R QL LR R )
within the financial envelope that the UK faces that would make a
the UK faces that would make a i e e X4
the UK faces that would make a it e e )
the UK faces that would make a difference? A lot
the UK faces that would make a i e e YA N
the UK faces that would make a difference? A lot of things, if
difference? A lot of things, if delivered,
difference? A lot of things, If delivered, could make a
difference? A lot of things, if delivered, could make a difference,
delivered, could make a difference, and
delivered, could make a difference, R )
delivered, could make a difference, and we saw Trailblazer devolution
and we saw Trailblazer devolution R
and we saw Trailblazer devolution rCEIRY
and we saw Trailblazer devolution IR e
and we saw Trailblazer devolution B e e s
and we saw Trailblazer devolution deal is announced and we
and we saw Trailblazer devolution BRI e LR T
and we saw Trailblazer devolution deal is announced and we saw the
deal is announced and we saw the ETalaeoalw-Tn1l0118
deal is announced and we saw the Nl el st e e
deal is announced and we saw the Nl R R
deal is announced and we saw the Nt a R R
deal is announced and we saw the N e R R R VAT a1 a1
anneuncement of the 12 investment T
announcement of the 12 investment e sl
announcement of the 12 investment zones and |
announcement of the 12 investment YN E R e
announcement of the 12 investment zones and | think if
announcement of the 12 investment N N R )
announcement of the 12 investment N N R R R e
zones and | think if the investment T
zones and | think if the investment zones turn cut to
zones and | think if the investment zones turn out to be along the lines
zones turn out to be along the lines N
zones turn out to be along the lines NEELTY
zones turn out to be along the lines of Canary Wharf which is what Jeremy
of Canary Wharf which is what Jeremy Hunt suggested. That is a financial
Hunt suggested. That is a financial gl
Hunt suggested. That is a financial district in London.
Hunt suggested. That is a financial I igln s R s sl M L%
Hunt suggested. That is a financial a1
Hunt suggested. That is a financial district in London. That will not do
district in Londen. That will not do anything
district in Londen. That will not do R
district in Londen. That will not do anything for the kid in Tower
anything for the kid in Tower Hamlets who is in poverty but if
Hamlets who is in poverty but if they
Hamlets who is in poverty but if QS AUELG)
Hamlets who is in poverty but if they make sure of good quality local
they make sure of good quality local jobs and make sure that the
jobs and make sure that the businesses within them procured from
businesses within them procured from )
businesses within them procured from Gt
businesses within them procured from the local community then possibly.
the local community then possibly. We have
the local community then possibly. R RN
the local community then possibly. We have got our competing umbrellas
We have got our competing umbrellas here, tangling up. You are no friend
here, tangling up. You are no friend of
here, tangling up. You are no friend SRy
here, tangling up. You are no friend of the government, what is your
of the government, what is your T lsl
of the government, what is your friend of
of the government, what is your TN R R
of the government, what is your friend of the government? | was
friend of the government? | was hoping there might have been more
hoping there might have been more ey
hoping there might have been more decisive action with
hoping there might have been more A e d e R s B e
hoping there might have been more decisive action with measures to
decisive action with measures to Ty
decisive action with measures to el
decisive action with measures to tackle the cost
decisive action with measures to AR e
decisive action with measures to tackle the cost of living crisis. Do
tackle the cost of living crisis. Do L]
tackle the cost of living crisis. Do opposition party politicians really
opposition party politicians really T
opposition party politicians really IR G 4
opposition party politicians really IS R G A
opposition party politicians really ISR G AR N
opposition party politicians really hope that? We do, actually, because
hope that? We do, actually, because Y
hope that? We do, actually, because we cannot afford this in
hope that? We do, actually, because T a1 e 1 R IR s T le s
hope that? We do, actually, because we cannot afford this in action and
we cannot afferd this in action and Y
we cannot afferd this in action and we have
we cannot afford this in action and we have heard a lot of government
we have heard a lot of government spin
we have heard a lot of government FIEEVL]
we have heard a lot of government spin saying that the retention of
spin saying that the retention of )
spin saying that the retention of QRN
spin saying that the retention of RN 0 Tl
spin saying that the retention of the energy price cap is a good
the energy price cap is a good iR
the energy price cap is a good ILAEL G
the energy price cap Is a good thing, and yes, of course, it
the energy price cap is a good thing, and yes, of course, it is
thing, and yes, of course, itis Al )
thing, and yes, of course, it s welcome but do not forget, it
welcome but do not forget, it eI e
welcome but do not forget, it maintains prices at
welcome but do not forget, it L EI E - L -]
welcome but do not forget, it maintains prices at an already
maintains prices at an already heightened level that many people
heightened level that many people PIe Y
heightened level that many people are finding unaffordable and if you
are finding unaffordable and if you represent
are finding unaffordable and if you I
are finding unaffordable and if you R Elo
are finding unaffordable and if you represent a place that has 74% of
represent a place that has 74% of households not
represent a place that has 74% of A s LR e el )
represent a place that has 74% of A LR R s R )
represent a place that has 74% of WL R R s RO R ]
households not connected to the Sy
households not connected to the EIEES
households not connected to the mains gas grid like myself, there
mains gas grid like myself, there s
mains gas grid like myself, there R4
mains gas grid like myself, there not that much
mains gas grid like myself, there ARG ET (TR Rl s 11 o
mains gas grid like myself, there not that much support for this, so
not that much support for this, so )
not that much support for this, so e
not that much suppert for this, so ORI
not that much suppert for this, so there is disappeintment on that
there is disappointment on that e d
there is disappointment on that T e e Tt
there is disappointment on that front but also
there is disappointment on that e N s
there is disappointment on that TN LR
there is disappointment on that front but also in terms of the
front but also in terms of the (Y
front but also in terms of the longer term perspective, there was
longer term perspective, there was PN
longer term perspective, there was an opportunity for the government to
an opportunity for the government to 334
an opportunity for the government to set out a vision
an opportunity for the government to AN R AR e
an opportunity for the government to set out a vision for the UK,
set out a vision for the UK, levelling up,
set out a vision for the UK, LT AR LI
set out a vision for the UK, levelling up, where was that? Where
levelling up, where was that? Where Ty
levelling up, where was that? Where TR )
levelling up, where was that? Where was the bold thinking in terms of
was the bold thinking in terms of e )
was the bold thinking in terms of renewable energy? We have great
renewable energy? We have great potential in Wales for offshore wind
potential in Wales for offshore wind and
potential in Wales for offshore wind R )
potential in Wales for offshore wind and the cross-party committee has
and the cross-party committee has RiET Y
and the cross-party committee has made a
and the cross-party committee has ELEER 4
and the cross-party committee has RE R
and the cross-party committee has IED R R A e et e s il ey
and the cross-party committee has made a lot of recommendations that
made a lot of recommendations that o
made a lot of recommendations that would unlock a lot of that
would unlock a lot of that development
would unlock a lot of that VG U
would unlock a lot of that development and preduce
would unlock a lot of that development and produce green and
development and produce green and et
development and produce green and ULV
development and produce green and secure energy sources for the UK for
secure energy sources for the UK for )
secure energy sources for the UK for Ny
secure energy sources for the UK for the next 50 years. There was no
the next 50 years. There was no T aiale ]
the next 50 years. There was no T e el el a
the next 50 years. There was no TR
the next 50 years. There was no IR E AR Y
the next 50 years. There was no TR ARG AR - N
the next 50 years. There was no R ARG AR N R
the next 50 years. There was no mention of that. One of the unifying
mention of that. One of the unifying things
mention of that. One of the unifying QIR
mention of that. One of the unifying things in British politics is that
things in British politics is that )
things in British politics is that QR4
things in British politics is that the country faces a problem with
the country faces a problem with L]
the country faces a problem with growth and people say that the UK is
growth and people say that the UK is el
growth and people say that the UK is not growing as well as some of the
not growing as well as some of the AT Y e )
not growing as well as some of the e Y e e 0l eal T
not growing as well as some of the AN Yt e s ea s |
not growing as well as some of the My N TR
not growing as well as some of the ANy N LB RIS
not growing as well as some of the Furozone countries and the US and
Eurozone countries and the US and e
Eurozone countries and the US and other G7
Eurozone countries and the US and NIRRT
Eurozone countries and the US and other G7 countries, we have not
other G7 countries, we have not el
other G7 countries, we have not bounced back from the pandemic, so
bounced back from the pandemic, so vty
bounced back from the pandemic, so T G
bounced back from the pandemic, so what holds growth back? You could
what holds growth back? You could e
what holds growth back? You could e
what holds growth back? You could break it down
what holds growth back? You could I ALl R la ]
what holds growth back? You could break it down into a couple of
break it down into a couple of issues,
break it down inte a couple of issues, productivity problem
SJEEL I TR R T R issues, productivity problem when it
Issues, productivity problem when it comes
Issues, productivity problem when it R )
Issues, productivity problem when it R R
Issues, productivity problem when it comes to the productivity of labour
comes to the productivity of labour and also
comes to the productivity of labour NG R
comes to the productivity of labour and also the productivity of
and also the productivity of capital. But why is that? Because we
capital. But why is that? Because we Ty
capital. But why is that? Because we have more
capital. But why is that? Because we e N e o
capital. But why is that? Because we B N e e R g
capital. But why is that? Because we B R e a R TR as e
have more services rather than yEL b
have more services rather than making stuff? It is the lack of a
making stuff? It is the lack of a a8
making stuff? It is the lack of a coherent plan. Look at the
coherent plan. Look at the productivity
coherent plan. Look at the IOV A
coherent plan. Look at the GO A AE
coherent plan. Look at the productivity of labour as an
productivity of labour as an example, you have the Home Secretary
example, you have the Home Secretary Ty
example, you have the Home Secretary R 21y
example, you have the Home Secretary R LR
example, you have the Home Secretary who was insistent on reducing net
who was insistent on reducing net migration and talking potentially
migration and talking potentially L0}
migration and talking potentially reducing the number of international
reducing the number of international ey
reducing the number of international IRV ]
reducing the number of international LIRSV RD]
reducing the number of international ORI IR R
reducing the number of international LRI AR LRI RG]
LRI R R4 LRV T
LRI R R4 LRV universities and on
LRI R R4 LRV TR e LR R e
students studying in the UK universities and on the other hand
universities and on the other hand you
universities and on the other hand RN
universities and on the other hand LR
universities and on the other hand you have the Treasury wishing they
you have the Treasury wishing they i
you have the Treasury wishing they G EeeT)
you have the Treasury wishing they ST G T I )
you have the Treasury wishing they could increase growth in
you have the Treasury wishing they I RN CE I N G R R
you have the Treasury wishing they could increase growth in the labour
could increase growth in the labour market, so you have different
market, so you have different departments
market, so you have different W Rl R
market, so you have different departments of state competing in
departments of state competing in e e 4
departments of state competing in G REV S
departments of state competing in NS E LR
departments of state competing in different ways on this major issue
different ways on this major issue and
different ways on this major issue L
different ways on this major issue LRI
different ways on this major issue IR LR e )
different ways on this major issue R LR N
different ways on this major issue R LR R A
and it stems because of the government does not have a coherent
government does not have a coherent plan of what it once the economy to
plan of what it once the economy to look Like.
plan of what it once the economy to look like. Levelling
plan of what it once the economy to L QU S LR
plan of what it once the economy to L QU L LRI LS
plan of what it once the economy to look like. Levelling up at least
look like. Levelling up at least )
look like. Levelling up at least SR )
look like. Levelling up at least R e
look like. Levelling up at least R el
look like. Levelling up at least R R e e e Tt e )
look like. Levelling up at least offered some sort of outline of what
offered some sort of outline of what they
offered some sort of outline of what 1 AL
offered some sort of outline of what SRR
offered some sort of outline of what QA GG RT]
offered some sort of outline of what QA GR LRI R
offered some sort of outline of what they could do in terms of addressing
they could do in terms of addressing this regional inequality
they could do in terms of addressing QNG R R LG EL G 0
they could do in terms of addressing this regional inequality but that
this regional inequality but that T
this regional inequality but that has now
this regional inequality but that YR A -]
this regional inequality but that LR A T R
this regional inequality but that YR A N s e
this regional inequality but that has now been cast asunder and thrown
has now been cast asunder and thrown g el
has now been cast asunder and thrown gl I ]
has now been cast asunder and thrown overboard and we have nothing left.
overboard and we have nothing left. Great slogan, though, levelling up,
Great slogan, though, levelling up, 10
Great slogan, though, levelling up, AL RG]
Great slogan, though, levelling up, nobody could disagree with it. We
nobody could disagree with it. We Py
nobody could disagree with it. We are probably running out of time,
are probably running out of time, 4
are probably running out of time, N
are probably running out of time, I R
are probably running out of time, N AG E
are probably running out of time, ARG L )
are probably running out of time, but if there was one thing
are probably running out of time, I R G R I G ER G R G ELS
are probably running out of time, but if there was one thing that you
but if there was one thing that you could do
but if there was one thing that you o TRl R e
but if there was one thing that you could do for growth, something that
could do for growth, something that made the UK grow like other
made the UK grow like other countries,
made the UK grow Like other S I AT LI 1 o
made the UK grow Like other countries, what would it be?
made the UK grow like other countries, what would it be? The
countries, what would it be? The R )
countries, what would it be? The debate arocund
countries, what would it be? The debate around growth has been
debate around growth has been reductive
debate around growth has been T el ]
debate around growth has been reductive and simplistic and growth
reductive and simplistic and growth Y
reductive and simplistic and growth a1
reductive and simplistic and growth Rl
reductive and simplistic and growth does not tell you anything about
does not tell you anything about poverty levels or anything about the
poverty levels or anything about the Il
poverty levels or anything about the IR
OISR IR QIR g [ spread of growth and we really
poverty levels or anything about the spread of growth and we really need
spread of growth and we really need to
spread of growth and we really need R
spread of growth and we really need to be unpacking in light of the
to be unpacking in light of the i)
to be unpacking in light of the W F RO le '
to be unpacking in light of the climate emergency what is growing in
climate emergency what is growing in )
climate emergency what is growing in ARt
climate emergency what is growing in RNl
climate emergency what is growing in RN LR i)
climate emergency what is growing in the future and who is benefiting
the future and who is benefiting Tee I8t
the future and who is benefiting from that growth and what democratic
from that growth and what democratic mechanisms are behind it what we
mechanisms are behind it what we e
mechanisms are behind it what we want to grow. Thank you both very
want to grow. Thank you both very much and | am now going to hand back
much and | am now going to hand back to
much and | am now going to hand back Ry
much and | am now going to hand back to the studio. There we
much and | am now going to hand back RN R Y I
much and | am now going to hand back RN Y I e
to the studio. There we are. Thank you very much. We are impressed that
you very much. We are impressed that you
you very much. We are impressed that RN
you very much. We are impressed that T EV R[4
you very much. We are impressed that you have got matching umbrellas. Rob
you have got matching umbrellas. Rob Watson in
you have got matching umbrellas. Rob N R
you have got matching umbrellas. Rob Y e R R GG
you have got matching umbrellas. Rob Watson in the rain, as you would
Watson in the rain, as you would expect
Watson in the rain, as you would Sl
Watson in the rain, as you would AR
Watson in the rain, as you would expect in the spring
Watson in the rain, as you would S a R G R R
Watson in the rain, as you would expect in the spring in the UK.
The creators of the viral Artifiical Intelligence platform,
ChatGPT, have unveiled its latest TR LR R
The upgrade means it can respond to images as well as words,
suggesting recipe ideas from a picture of ingredients
RV o] captions and descriptions.
Millions of people around RO G
used the original Chat GPT A N R LA el
late last year.
Popular requests have included asking it to write songs, poems,
website copy and even school essays.
It will initially be available through subscription from Microsoft
which has invested billions in the new technology.
Let’s catch up on the latest business news Now.
It will be doing all of our jobs soon! LAUGHTER
Let’s start with Credit Suisse, N R N e R LR R
fallen as much as 30% to a record low, for the second consecutive day.
This - after Credit Suisse’s largest investor -
Saudi National Bank, said it could not provide the Swiss
bank with any further financial assistance.
Credit Suisse has its R TR
but the banking sector across Europe is under pressure.
With other major banks like UBS and Societe General suffering falls.
All adding to downward pressure on markets still jittery
from the fallout from the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank.
Michelle Fleury is in New York for us.
There are still jitters even though et
There are still jitters even though e B
There are still jitters even though central banks and we have heard from
central banks and we have heard from Credit
central banks and we have heard from N
central banks and we have heard from Credit Suisse’s hoss
central banks and we have heard from Credit Suisse’s boss today
central banks and we have heard from Credit Suisse’s boss today saying
Credit Suisse’s boss today saying Al
Credit Suisse’s boss today saying everything is fine but the worries
everything is fine but the worries A
everything is fine but the worries ARl
everything is fine but the worries A ]
everything is fine but the worries persist? It is astonishing and it
persist? It is astonishing and it shows
persist? It is astonishing and it IR ]
P E R G IR L R shows you the volatility we are
shows you the volatility we are XN
shows you the volatility we are seeing in
shows you the volatility we are LML RLRG T
shows you the volatility we are seeing in the banking sector.
seeing in the banking sector. Yesterday we
seeing in the banking sector. RGO R AL G
seeing in the banking sector. Yesterday we spoke about the rebound
Yesterday we spoke about the rebound 3
Yesterday we spoke about the rebound inthe
Yesterday we spoke about the rebound in the stocks in US regional banking
in the stocks in US regional banking AR
in the stocks in US regional banking I )
in the stocks in US regional banking I ]
in the stocks in US regional banking I R R )
in the stocks in US regional banking AN NGRS R R Y
in the stocks in US regional banking shares and to date we haven’t
in the stocks in US regional banking A TN R R e T ]
shares and to date we haven’t seen those
shares and to date we haven’t seen QTR
shares and to date we haven’t seen GRS TG
shares and to date we haven’t seen those jitters returning -- and today
those |itters returning -- and today Y
those |itters returning -- and today we have
those jitters returning -- and today we have seen those jitters returning
we have seen those jitters returning oV
we have seen those jitters returning especially in
we have seen those |itters returning especially in Europe and we are
especially in Europe and we are EIU]
especially in Europe and we are talking about Credit Suisse with the
talking about Credit Suisse with the iRl
talking about Credit Suisse with the IR A
talking about Credit Suisse with the share price down around 20%. Earlier
share price down around 20%. Earlier 3
share price down around 20%. Earlier HRTE
share price down around 20%. Earlier it was down 30%. The situation is
it was down 30%. The situation is such that apparently management at
such that apparently management at i
such that apparently management at e SNy
such that apparently management at WA N Ry
such that apparently management at Credit Suisse have appealed to the
Credit Suisse have appealed to the ST
Credit Suisse have appealed to the Swiss central bank
Credit Suisse have appealed to the SR a4 N Ta &)
Credit Suisse have appealed to the SR e N R RN
Credit Suisse have appealed to the SR IR G AN )
Swiss central bank to issue some e
Swiss central bank to issue some e B e o
Swiss central bank to issue some sort of statement reassuring
sort of statement reassuring TR 3 e 0]
sort of statement reassuring R 3 e e 0L
sort of statement reassuring investors about the health of this
investors about the health of this bank.
investors about the health of this L amid
investors about the health of this LTSI
investors about the health of this bank. It gives you a
investors about the health of this FI AR TR 1Y
investors about the health of this bank. It gives you a sense of how
bank. It gives you a sense of how 10\
bank. It gives you a sense of how rapidly things can move. The stocks
rapidly things can move. The stocks T s
rapidly things can move. The stocks rebound in yesterday
rapidly things can move. The stocks LR R G B AL
rapidly things can move. The stocks rebound in yesterday and today, yet
rebound in yesterday and today, yet again, we
rebound in yesterday and today, yet e R L)
rebound in yesterday and today, yet again, we are talking about the bank
again, we are talking about the bank e
again, we are talking about the bank stocks under pressure. We have done
stocks under pressure. We have done this
stocks under pressure. We have done QR
stocks under pressure. We have done this for far too long and we
this for far too long and we remember
this for far too long and we TR )
this for far too long and we remember the 2008 financial crisis
remember the 2008 financial crisis el
remember the 2008 financial crisis s B
remember the 2008 financial crisis which was brought about by similar
which was brought about by similar reasons but this time it
which was brought about by similar I NGRS
reasons but this time it is e e 4
reasons but this time it is different because this is about
different because this is about R R
different because this is about interest rates going
different because this is about NI A RG]
different because this is about NI AR LB Rl
different because this is about NS EE I L IR T W L
interest rates going up which means )
interest rates going up which means N
interest rates going up which means MR G
interest rates going up which means the banks are finding it hard to
the banks are finding it hard to R )
the banks are finding it hard to R
the banks are finding it hard to make the numbers add
the banks are finding it hard to LR H L LR
the banks are finding it hard to make the numbers add up. Explain the
make the numbers add up. Explain the correlation. A lot of banks hold
correlation. A lot of banks hold I Y
correlation. A lot of banks hold assets which
correlation. A lot of banks hold YA R e B )
correlation. A lot of banks hold assets which have lost value
correlation. A lot of banks hold I R e B R A R 2 IR T
assets which have lost value because N
assets which have lost value because RGN e
assets which have lost value because ARG N A )
assets which have lost value because ARG A ]
assets which have lost value because NAGERt e N At R e
of the recent increase in interest Iy
of the recent increase in interest T sl
of the recent increase in interest rates and typically banks will
of the recent increase In interest rates and typically banks will hedge
rates and typically banks will hedge e
rates and typically banks will hedge e
rates and typically banks will hedge RS & |
rates and typically banks will hedge O L RG]
rates and typically banks will hedge their risk and they can buy a
their risk and they can buy a product
their risk and they can buy a O[T =1 0]
their risk and they can buy a product and protect them against
product and protect them against that
product and protect them against e e T4
product and protect them against eI N
product and protect them against L LRI ey
product and protect them against R R N LR IR R |
product and protect them against LI N LR IR e TR R )
product and protect them against that but as customers rushed to the
that but as customers rushed to the e
that but as customers rushed to the T R )
that but as customers rushed to the banks to take out their money, they
banks to take out their money, they Py
banks to take out their money, they R ee sl
banks to take out their money, they are forced to
banks to take out their money, they IR R N )
banks to take out their money, they I R R R ]
banks to take out their money, they are forced to raise more capital so
are forced to raise more capital so they
are forced to raise more capital so QS AA
are forced to raise more capital so they sell some of
are forced to raise more capital so VA B RO
are forced to raise more capital so they sell some of the assets at a
they sell some of the assets at a loss
they sell some of the assets at a Y- sl
they sell some of the assets at a loss and in
they sell some of the assets at a N Rn R
they sell some of the assets at a RN EN R e )
they sell some of the assets at a NG ERE G RN
they sell some of the assets at a loss and in the case of Silicon
loss and in the case of Silicon Valley Bank they
loss and in the case of Silicon ISR SO R EG
loss and in the case of Silicon SR F S OSSR E G
loss and in the case of Silicon Valley Bank they were not good at
Valley Bank they were not good at protecting themselves against such a
protecting themselves against such a e 1a0e]
protecting themselves against such a -1l = Tals|
protecting themselves against such a scenario and that is why they ran
scenario and that is why they ran Ty
scenario and that is why they ran into trouble. Investors have been
into trouble. Investors have been L]
into trouble. Investors have been looking around since casting their
looking around since casting their eye across the banking sector, say,
eye across the banking sector, say, Ty
eye across the banking sector, say, - )
eye across the banking sector, say, who else has
eye across the banking sector, say, T ETG [
eye across the banking sector, say, who else has got these problems with
who else has got these problems with eI
who else has got these problems with Ml LR Y
who else has got these problems with unrealised losses? Attention has
unrealised losses? Attention has focused
unrealised losses? Attention has T ot s e
unrealised losses? Attention has T R R sl18
unrealised losses? Attention has IR R R R
unrealised losses? Attention has focused on Credit Suisse. What is
focused on Credit Suisse. What Is interesting is
focused on Credit Suisse. What is interesting is that we have
focused on Credit Suisse. What Is interesting is that we have had
interesting is that we have had il e e
interesting is that we have had comments from
interesting is that we have had e Rt )
interesting is that we have had i R R R Eld
interesting is that we have had comments from the chair today
comments from the chair today EWLLR
comments from the chair today EWL AR
comments from the chair today saying, we have strong capital base,
saying, we have strong capital base, Y
saying, we have strong capital base, we have a strong regulation, we are
we have a strong regulation, we are 3
we have a strong regulation, we are ina
we have a strong regulation, we are in a good position, but the fact you
in a good position, but the fact you have
in a good position, but the fact you I R )
in a good position, but the fact you Y R N ey
in a good position, but the fact you Y R N st Ta e at]
in a good position, but the fact you have these comments from its
In a good position, but the fact you have these comments from its biggest
have these comments from its biggest Ele g
have these comments from its biggest EI T
have these comments from its biggest backer saying it will not be able to
backer saying it will not be able to lend
backer saying it will not be able to LR
backer saying it will not be able to LR
backer saying it will not be able to lend it any more money if it runs
lend it any more money If it runs T )
lend it any more money If it runs into trouble,
lend it any more money if it runs into trouble, that has spooked
into trouble, that has spooked R
into trouble, that has spooked investors right now and it will be
investors right now and it will be MGG
investors right now and it will be MG NLES
investors right now and it will be NS LR R
investors right now and it will be MG NLECET N
investors right now and it will be interesting to see how central
interesting to see how central E
interesting to see how central N LI
interesting to see how central N AT LU R
interesting to see how central bankers respond because you have got
bankers respond because you have got )
bankers respond because you have got )
bankers respond because you have got [ 0 N TS
bankers respond because you have got the ECB meeting and expected to
the ECB meeting and expected to Y
the ECB meeting and expected to R
the ECB meeting and expected to IR ALY
the ECB meeting and expected to raise rates by 50 basis points
raise rates by 50 basis points e
raise rates by 50 basis points tomorrow, which was before this
tomorrow, which was before this (ET U
tomorrow, which was before this happened, and then the Federal
happened, and then the Federal Reserve in
happened, and then the Federal PN R R
happened, and then the Federal Reserve in the US having its policy
Reserve in the US having its policy ir)
Reserve in the US having its policy rate setting meeting next week. All
rate setting meeting next week. All of
rate setting meeting next week. All A O
rate setting meeting next week. All of this is
rate setting meeting next week. All RO EN ]
rate setting meeting next week. All RO EN L LI
rate setting meeting next week. All of this is happening amid an
of this is happening amid an Sl Talat - Te 1
of this is happening amid an I R e
of this is happening amid an environment where central banks
of this is happening amid an T R e N R B e e
environment where central banks are saying they had
I R TR L =L R LG T = saying they had got to raise rates
saying they had got to raise rates to
saying they had got to raise rates GG
saying they had got to raise rates to keep a lid on prices
saying they had got to raise rates N G R R N L]
saying they had got to raise rates to keep a lid on prices and to keep
to keep a lid on prices and to keep inflation down. So there are two
inflation down. So there are two conflicting demands and it is hard
conflicting demands and it is hard to know which one they will pay most
to know which one they will pay most PY e s dleNe]
to know which one they will pay most AR
to know which one they will pay most R 1
to know which one they will pay most attention to. If you look at
to know which one they will pay most L R B L VR G L R L o
to know which one they will pay most R R TR G L ST E L
attention to. If you look at what is happening in
attention to. If you look at what Is happening in the US, the
attention to. If you look at what is happening in the US, the expectation
happening in the US, the expectation ]
happening in the US, the expectation A
happening in the US, the expectation AR E )
happening in the US, the expectation ARG R AT e
happening in the US, the expectation ARG RN T N e )
happening in the US, the expectation AR GUE R O N R
now Is that the Federal Reserve will probably
now is that the Federal Reserve will probably pause raising
now Is that the Federal Reserve will probably pause raising interest
probably pause raising interest i1
probably pause raising interest rates and
probably pause raising interest T N R )
probably pause raising interest NG
probably pause raising interest TN RO R
probably pause raising interest TN E O R E LI
rates and there is talk about GRS
rates and there is talk about Christine Lagarde at the ECB
Christine Lagarde at the ECB e
Christine Lagarde at the ECB tomorrow, she had hinted that it was
tomorrow, she had hinted that it was &N
tomorrow, she had hinted that it was VAL
tomorrow, she had hinted that it was likely you could
tomorrow, she had hinted that it was SRR G T
tomorrow, she had hinted that it was likely you could see a 50 basis
likely you could see a 50 basis I AT
likely you could see a 50 basis point increase but
likely you could see a 50 basis A AT R
likely you could see a 50 basis I A - R A O E
likely you could see a 50 basis I A - R A R v
point increase but now there’s talk of
point increase but now there’s talk o1t
point increase but now there’s talk of can she
point increase but now there’s talk BN ]
point increase but now there’s talk RN R
point increase but now there’s talk of can she do that in
point increase but now there’s talk AN R AR
point increase but now there’s talk BN R AR R e N
of can she do that in the face of vty
of can she do that in the face of e
of can she do that in the face of L EY R ET TN ]
of can she do that in the face of what is happening to banking stocks?
what is happening to banking stocks? Wwill
what is happening to banking stocks? IR
what is happening to banking stocks? Will she scale back or even hit the
Will she scale back or even hit the (EIIY
Will she scale back or even hit the pause button? But the panic
pause button? But the panic Iy
pause button? But the panic o 8 AT
pause button? But the panic continues to spread and if
pause butten? But the panic SR T LR L
pause butten? But the panic continues to spread and if you want
continues to spread and if you want to
continues to spread and if you want il
continues to spread and if you want IR L S
continues to spread and if you want to draw parallels to 2008, one of
to draw parallels to 2008, one of )
to draw parallels to 2008, one of QRO ERTGY
to draw parallels to 2008, one of QR GIDIRTR EILC
to draw parallels to 2008, one of the things we talked about then was
the things we talked about then was PN
the things we talked about then was an instrument which made
the things we talked about then was N B Re T R e B E Ty
an instrument which made sure against bank losses and in the case
against bank losses and in the case N
against bank losses and in the case RN T s )
against bank losses and in the case of the insurance policy regarding
of the insurance policy regarding Credit
of the insurance policy regarding LI
of the insurance policy regarding Credit Suisse, the prices for those
Credit Suisse, the prices for those O [e e
Credit Suisse, the prices for those L 1)
Credit Suisse, the prices for those LI IR
Credit Suisse, the prices for those products are at levels not seen
products are at levels not seen really since the last financial
really since the last financial N
really since the last financial crisis, that indicates that
really since the last financial IR G E R SR U R I
really since the last financial crisis, that indicates that there is
crisis, that indicates that there is Y
crisis, that indicates that there is a level
crisis, that indicates that there is AN
crisis, that indicates that there is a level of panic
crisis, that indicates that there is R I RN ]l
crisis, that indicates that there is a level of panic right now.
Nl (el
I’m hoping you can hear me now. TGN
I’m hoping you can hear me now. Michelle, thank you. We cut you off
Michelle, thank you. We cut you off in your
Michelle, thank you. We cut you off LR el
Michelle, thank you. We cut you off in your prime but thanks for joining
in your prime but thanks for joining TH
in your prime but thanks for joining T M)
in your prime but thanks for joining TN UL
in your prime but thanks for joining us. I’m hoping you can hear me at
us. I’m hoping you can hear me at home.
To the UK now, where the Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has been
unveiling his first budget.
Billed as the back to work budget, Mr Hunt offered up extra childcare
provision and pension tax changes - among other incentives to get
Britain growing again.
But another tool in his box was an eye catching move
towards a high tech future for the UK, with the pharmaceutical
sector getting particular attention.
We are lucky with the MHRA to have one of the most respected drugs
regulators in the world.
Indeed the very first anywhere to license
a Covid vaccine.
From 2024 they will move to a different model,
which will allow rapid, often near automatic signoff
for medicines and technologies already approved by trusted
regulators in other parts of the world, such as
the United States, Europe and Japan.
At the same time, they will set up a swift new approval process
for the most cutting edge medicines NG i R e R ¢
becomes a global centre R G G L
Joining me now is Hugo Fry - (A e N A el
developer RQ Biotechnology.
Thanks for jeining us. We heard
Thanks for joining us. We heard from )
Thanks for joining us. We heard from the Chancellor, enhanced tax relief
the Chancellor, enhanced tax relief I
the Chancellor, enhanced tax relief EL IR
the Chancellor, enhanced tax relief rate, what does this mean for you?
rate, what does this mean for you? sl
rate, what does this mean for you? i g e B
rate, what does this mean for you? I A g e e
rate, what does this mean for you? Good afternocon. For a
rate, what does this mean for you? i el
rate, what does this mean for you? I e R E B - e es
Good afternoon. For a small research FI)
Good afternoon. For a small research FI N4
Good afternoon. For a small research base but a very ambitious company
base but a very ambitious company ey
base but a very ambitious company like ourselves where we are really
like ourselves where we are really eI
like ourselves where we are really T ot s e
like ourselves where we are really T R R
like ourselves where we are really focused on the research in the
like ourselves where we are really T S RN Y e s B R i s
focused on the research in the field of
focused on the research in the field (S e
focused on the research in the field of infectious diseases for
of infectious diseases for R )
of infectious diseases for vulnerable populations, we develop
vulnerable populations, we develop A I
vulnerable populations, we develop antibodies, and companies
vulnerable populations, we develop antibedies, and companies like ours
antibodies, and companies like ours %1\
antibedies, and companies like ours (RN (1
antibedies, and companies like ours really welcome this boost. Because
really welcome this boost. Because tax
really welcome this boost. Because A
really welcome this boost. Because tax relief which is essentially a
tax relief which Is essentially a government reinvestment in what we
government reinvestment in what we S
government reinvestment in what we do, in
government reinvestment in what we SRR
government reinvestment in what we SR n
government reinvestment in what we do, in our sector, allows us to go
do, in our sector, allows us to go deeper
do, in our sector, allows us to go VSRl
do, in our sector, allows us to go deeper into the
do, in our sector, allows us to go AN R U
do, in our sector, allows us to go deeper into the science, longer into
deeper into the science, longer into )
deeper into the science, longer into the science
deeper into the science, longer into el e - ls|
deeper into the science, longer into the science and it
deeper into the science, longer into R - h R
deeper into the science, longer into MR - EhE R R
deeper into the science, longer into the science and it allows us to
the science and it allows us to 103
the science and it allows us to employ more scientists and it gives
employ more scientists and it gives Y
employ more scientists and it gives i
employ more scientists and it gives a high probability of success in
a high probability of success in reaching our
a high probability of success in XTI
a high probability of success in reaching our goal which is
reaching our goal which is developing
reaching our goal which is WA TR G 1Y
reaching our goal which is developing these very innovative
developing these very innovative el
developing these very innovative e TR 1d
developing these very innovative medicines for vulnerable
medicines for vulnerable populations.
medicines for vulnerable oI E L A 4
medicines for vulnerable populations. It is the idea of
populations. It is the idea of RGN
populations. It is the idea of incentivising risk-taking and
incentivising risk-taking and normally
incentivising risk-taking and A
incentivising risk-taking and normally we might be averse to risk
normally we might be averse to risk taking part in an industry like
taking part in an industry like e
taking part in an industry like yours that
taking part in an industry like R GE A
taking part in an industry like yours that is crucial that is how
yours that is crucial that is how you will find the big thing and it
you will find the big thing and it may be that your research does not
may be that your research does not W)Y
may be that your research does not VAN
may be that your research does not VRN
may be that your research does not VR AT
may be that your research does not pay off but when it does it can be
pay off but when it does it can be Ry
pay off but when it does it can be LR LGN
pay off but when it does it can be life changing, can’t it? It
life changing, can’t it? It E[
life changing, can’t it? It [ AN
life changing, can’t it? It A=
life changing, can’t it? It absolutely can. The infectious
absolutely can. The infectious I
absolutely can. The infectious IR
absolutely can. The infectious TR
absolutely can. The infectious R RO Y
absolutely can. The infectious TR R R R e
absolutely can. The infectious M TR R R RO
absolutely can. The infectious TR R L R R e
diseases that we are focused on are €]
diseases that we are focused on are €SI ]
diseases that we are focused on are Covid and flu and we have seen the
Covid and flu and we have seen the devastating effects of those
devastating effects of those I E I
devastating effects of those IR a0
devastating effects of those diseases especially on
devastating effects of those IR e A R TS
devastating effects of those IR e A R O SR S
diseases especially on those where vaccines
diseases especially on those where o oe e
diseases especially on those where - oe R e R |
diseases especially on those where o oa e R )
diseases especially on those where vaccines have limited value and
vaccines have limited value and e Al
vaccines have limited value and e 1At L1
vaccines have limited value and e 1A e e L
vaccines have limited value and sometimes not at all because the
sometimes not at all because the populations do not
sometimes not at all because the populations do net have the
sometimes not at all because the populations do not have the right
populations do not have the right Tt ]
populations do not have the right Il T R
populations do not have the right immune response so you have to put
immune response so you have to put PN
immune response so you have to put an antibody in
immune response so you have to put an antibedy in them. We are
an antibedy in them. We are successful, we hope that there will
successful, we hope that there will )
successful, we hope that there will be far fewer patients being
be far fewer patients being hospitalised these
be far fewer patients being N E TR G- RN
hospitalised these infectious F
hospitalised these infectious T
hospitalised these infectious diseases, 50 you
hospitalised these infectious I R IRl
hospitalised these infectious diseases, so you can imagine the
diseases, so you can imagine the impact this can have.
diseases, so you can imagine the I E e R G N R LS
diseases, so you can imagine the impact this can have. What the tax
impact this can have. What the tax S
impact this can have. What the tax IR
impact this can have. What the tax IR
impact this can have. What the tax relief does, it gives
impact this can have. What the tax G I IO
impact this can have. What the tax relief does, it gives us a longer
relief does, it gives us a longer LN
relief does, it gives us a longer OV
relief does, it gives us a longer runway and a higher probability of
runway and a higher probability of ooy
runway and a higher probability of N sl
runway and a higher probability of success and of
runway and a higher probability of AN e IR B DI
runway and a higher probability of success and of succeeding. Hugo, so
success and of succeeding. Hugo, so L)
success and of succeeding. Hugo, so good to talk to you. Thanks for
good to talk to you. Thanks for LI
good to talk to you. Thanks for NGRS
good to talk to you. Thanks for DL LT
good to talk to you. Thanks for joining us. The weather forecast and
joining us. The weather forecast and headlines
joining us. The weather forecast and WG]
joining us. The weather forecast and headlines coming up
joining us. The weather forecast and WG L R R
joining us. The weather forecast and headlines coming up for you very
headlines coming up for you very shortly. That is all from me.
shortly. That is all from me. LIS
This week we’re seeing some big swings in temperature
from one day to the next,
and we’ve got more of the same TS IO RIS
We had a very cold start to the morning with temperatures
down at minus ten.
But over the next 24 hours or so, milder air will be pushing right
the way across the UK, bringing a big jump
In our temperatures.
Today, though, quite cold, [ O T b B U R R Ll
degrees Celsius pretty widely.
But if you take a look at the highs in Londonderry,
we’re going from eight today to about 15 degrees
Celsius tomorrow.
So you will notice that change GRS
Before we get there, though, as | say, today is a relatively cold
day with temperatures below average, a sunny and frosty start.
LI R G I starting to cloud over.
And in Northern Ireland, we’re seeing rain moving in,
and there have been a few flakes of snow just on the leading edge
of this weather front across some of the hills in Northern Ireland.
But during this evening, RO R R G S S G
bumps into the cold air, we could see a spell of snow
across the hills of northern England and Scotland,
the snow lasting longest R R RGN R R s
and could bring some localised areas of disruption.
But then later in the night, N B il s e
push of much milder air as the next band of rain works in.
And so temperatures will be climbing significantly.
RGN NG RG] 8 nine or ten degrees Celsius pretty
widely and even across northern Scotland we’ll see temperatures
climbing well above freezing.
Now for Thursday, we’ve got that mild flow of southwesterly winds,
but it will be quite a wet and windy kind of day.
The rain heavy enough to cause some localised surface
water flooding issues, the weather slowly brightening up
in Northern Ireland as we go QI RGO N
but with the risk of some heavy and thundery
showers later in the day.
Temperatures 14-15C, RN Rl G
Even northern Scotland, ten in Aberdeen, still relatively
cold though In Lerwick.
For Friday, we might see some fairly prolonged outbreaks of rain
affecting eastern areas of England.
Otherwise, | think it’s going to be a cloudy day with some heavy
oI AT R I s the heaviest probably across western
areas of the UK, maybe even a bit of thunder mixed in.
Still mild, temperatures could go as high as 16 degrees
A R R G e
And then for the weekend, still lots of cloud around
on Saturday with bursts of rain, Sunday probably showers,
a few brighter spells in between, but still overall, quite a lot
of cloud expected.
And then if we take a quick look at the weather into next week, well,
it looks like for some of us e GRSl R
Welcome if you’re watching here in the UK or around the globe.
I’m Reeta Chakrabarti.
Our top stories.
The UK Chancellor sets out his Spring Budget in Parliament.
Extra help for childcare and scrapping the limit on tax-free
WS RN L RN g d of the government’s plans.
Our top stories.
Today, we build for the future.
With inflation down, debt falling and growth up,
the declinists are wrong and the optimists are right.
Like millions across our country, this budget leaves us stuck in
Like millions across our country, this budget leaves us stuck in
the waiting room with only a sticking plaster to hand.
NIRRT of managed decline, falling
behind our competitors, the sick man of Europe once again.
Shares in the Swiss banking giant Credit Suisse fall to a record low
as investors remain worried RO ED R
Silicon Valley Bank.
A high court in Pakistan orders police to halt
their operation to arrest former Prime Minister Imran Khan
until Thursday, following clashes between police and his supporters.
Conflicting accounts from Washington LR e F LRI LT e )
after an encounter with Russian fighter jets.
And a small number of wolves settle in Belgium for the first time
in more than 100 years I R R R A D
We start here in the UK - where the Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has
been setting out his Budget, pledging to "build for the future™.
L RV Ty [y PR R to shrink this year,
N SIS R U (I 4o Ta T NN AR
Mr Hunt also says the inflation AR R B R )
to just under 3% by the end of 2023.
But the Labour leader, Sir Keir Starmer, accuses
the government of "dressing up stagnation as stability”.
Let’s look at some of the key moments of the Budget.
Energy bills for a typical household RN TR 1 s Ta ala o)
to be capped at £2,500 until the end of June.
The 5p cut to fuel duty on petrol and diesel has been
frozen for another year.
The duty on draught pints has also been frozen to help -
in the words of Jeremy Hunt - S QLN T W T
But people drinking at home will see tax on other alcohol products -
like wine and spirits - soar by 10.1% in August,
in line with inflation during the peak of the
cost-of-living crisis.
The lifetime limit on tax-free pensions savings will be abolished.
In additien, the annual tax-free pension allowance
will rise to £60,000.
And free childcare of 30 hours a week for working parents
in England is being expanded to cover one and two-year-olds,
but will only be fully implemented by September 2025.
I’m joined now by David Milne, financial adviser
Hello to you. Thank
SR (R TV L EL L @'
Hello to you. Thank you for
Hello to you. Thank you fer jeining
Hello to you. Thank you for joining TH
Hello to you. Thank you for joining us. Can we talk specifically about
us. Can we talk specifically about I
us. Can we talk specifically about AT
us. Can we talk specifically about pensions? You give financial advice
pensions? You give financial advice to
pensions? You give financial advice R G
pensions? You give financial advice to people who help handle their
to people who help handle their N
to people who help handle their NN
to people who help handle their pensions and their
to people who help handle their AL R R
to people who help handle their pensions and their retirement plans.
pensions and their retirement plans. ey
pensions and their retirement plans. what do
pensions and their retirement plans. What do you make of the proposals in
What do you make of the proposals in )
What do you make of the proposals in the budget? It was quite a surprise.
the budget? It was quite a surprise. |
the budget? It was quite a surprise. G
the budget? It was quite a surprise. | did expect an
the budget? It was quite a surprise. IR - R e
the budget? It was quite a surprise. | did expect an increase in the
| did expect an increase in the Ry
| did expect an increase in the lifetime allowance,
| did expect an increase in the SR L - L 4
| did expect an increase in the B EE - A
| did expect an increase in the DR - A R
lifetime allowance, but | was very eI
lifetime allowance, but | was very surprised when it scrapped entirely.
surprised when it scrapped entirely. But
surprised when it scrapped entirely. I )
surprised when it scrapped entirely. R R T L)
surprised when it scrapped entirely. RG]
surprised when it scrapped entirely. RGNt AR )
surprised when it scrapped entirely. But the increase in the annual
But the increase in the annual allowance
But the increase in the annual I e R
But the increase in the annual allowance is good as well, and a
allowance is good as well, and a e
allowance is good as well, and a significant change. Not ones that
significant change. Not ones that ey
significant change. Not ones that ARG
significant change. Not ones that were widely anticipated. How do you
were widely anticipated. How do you think people you are advising are
think people you are advising are going to
think people you are advising are LR e
think people you are advising are going to react to this news? What
going to react to this news? What e
going to react to this news? What e
going to react to this news? What sort of extra
going to react to this news? What R I RS AR A1
going to react to this news? What R I R AR Al A
going to react to this news? What sort of extra flexibility or leeway
sort of extra flexibility or leeway Al
sort of extra flexibility or leeway N
sort of extra flexibility or leeway LIR30 K
sort of extra flexibility or leeway does give them? Well, it’s quite
does give them? Well, it’s quite broad. There
does give them? Well, it’s quite IR
does give them? Well, it’s quite broad. There are certainly
broad. There are certainly implications for tax planning. | can
implications for tax planning. I can T
implications for tax planning. I can R A
implications for tax planning. I can see why the government are doing
see why the government are doing this,
see why the government are doing QIR A
see why the government are doing this, they’re desperate to get
this, they’re desperate to get people back to work, particularly in
people back to work, particularly in el
people back to work, particularly in medical professions. | did wonder
medical professions. | did wonder why
medical professions. | did wonder ARG
medical professions. | did wonder why they didn’t
medical professions. | did wonder why they didn’t specifically
medical professions. | did wonder why they didn’t specifically target
why they didn’t specifically target this
why they didn’t specifically target this at the medical profession
why they didn’t specifically target O S QRN e S I U L,
this at the medical profession and ey
this at the medical profession and e
this at the medical profession and T W g s |
this at the medical profession and NI e
this at the medical profession and N RN e LT
this at the medical profession and were so hroad here. The amount
this at the medical profession and were so broad here. The amount you
were 50 broad here. The amount you ]
were 50 broad here. The amount you =L
were 50 broad here. The amount you LY Al
were 50 broad here. The amount you RN AL
were so broad here. The amount you can put inte a pension over a
can put into a pension over a Ry
[NV AN R L S R R
[NV AN R L S R N LT G R
[NV AN R L S R lifetime is unlimited, so
can put into a pension over a lifetime is unlimited, so there’s
lifetime is unlimited, so there’s W]
lifetime is unlimited, so there’s big implications of. But we know
big implications of. But we know vty
big implications of. But we know T -]
big implications of. But we know what the Chancellor and the
what the Chancellor and the government
COEIRGERG RN TG LR G government are
what the Chancellor and the NN R
what the Chancellor and the government are trying to do, they
government are trying to do, they e
government are trying to do, they want to get
government are trying to do, they IR R R G
government are trying to do, they want to get older people to stay in
want to get older people to stay in a4
want to get older people to stay in e & |
want to get older people to stay in work and they want
want to get older people to stay in N N R G A L]
want to get older people to stay in work and they want to attract people
work and they want to attract people e
work and they want to attract people N
work and they want to attract people Nt
work and they want to attract people out of retirement. They’re targeting
out of retirement. They’re targeting )
out of retirement. They’re targeting QAL
out of retirement. They’re targeting G EYEEIGT]
out of retirement. They’re targeting the higher earning doctors
out of retirement. They’re targeting QI EETGIR B e R 1
out of retirement. They’re targeting the higher earning doctors who said
the higher earning doctors who said they
the higher earning doctors who said QAN G
the higher earning doctors who said they have been retiring early
they have been retiring early T )
they have been retiring early T N

Citation: BBC News, 15:00 15/03/2023, BBC News 24, 120 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3C0B0203?bcast=138539186 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)