some dense fog may be slow to clear, showers migrating northwards from england and wales into scotland, fading into the afternoon to leave some quite weather around, a few sunny spells, but then comes the next area of rain from that frontal system we saw earlier, with a strengthening wind, towards southern england and south wales to end the day.
double—figure temperatures here, mostly elsewhere — single figures.
this spell of rain may not be as heavy as those we’ve seen recently but it will be falling on saturated ground, bringing a risk of more disruption and flooding going into sunday morning, and then the rain will be gradually clearing on sunday away from eastern england.
there could be some fog across parts of northern britain to start sunday, with a touch of frost in places.
this is sunday’ weather pattern.
that’ the rain—bearing system pulling into the north sea, with a band of showers heading into western areas later in the day as the breeze starts to freshen here.
dull and damp through eastern parts of england.
the rain clearing, brightening up again a bit later.
some sunny spells elsewhere once any fog clears away, and these showers then heading into the west.
a few of those could be on the heavy side.
just clinging on to double figures south wales, southern england.
for most of us, temperatures are close to average for the time of year.
the pattern for monday — a little bit breezy, bright and breezy, cos there will be some sunny spells, a few showers, more especially western scotland.
we could well again towards the end of the day see another spell of rain pushing into parts of southern england, especially into the channel islands as well.
this frontal system — some uncertainty about how far north that’ll bring the rain, so we’ll keep an eye on that.
on through christmas eve, that clears away and again, it’ bright, it’ fairly breezy, there are sunny spells around, some showers, more especially in the west and those in scotland may produce a bit of pre—christmas snow into the higher hills and mountains.
these are your christmas eve temperatures.
it takes us on to the big day, and at the moment, it is looking mainly for christmas day.
there could be some fog around to start the day, slow to clear in places, with light winds, frosty in places too, but then a lot of and fairly sunny weather — good news if you’re travelling but, of course, it means we’re not likely to see any christmas snow, and temperatures will have come down a few degrees.
it looks reasonably quiet into boxing day as well, because look at this bump in the jet stream.
this is the ridge of high pressure which will have moved in in time for christmas day to settle things down, but as we go deeper into next week and the following weekend, then the jet stream takes charge once again.
what does that mean?
it’ likely to bring areas of low pressure back towards us from the atlantic, the winds freshen, some rain at times, temperatures edge up a few degrees.
this is how your christmas week is shaping up - a showery start, drierfor a time, christmas day, boxing day, though it could be foggy with a touch of frost in places, but then, after that, the weather turns more active, with rain coming back into the forecast.
a lot of interest, of course, in the christmas weather, and we’ll keep you updated here on weather for the week ahead.
welcome to my big show!
robbie williams!
let me, let me if i’ have known you were ringing, i wouldn’ have answered!
she’ not happy.
she’ just annoyed with me.
she says i’ too nosey.
she said that?
no, no, i read it in her diary.
his home.
one of the first things we bought, perhaps he actually came home with us was the furbo, which him all the time, tells you when he is barking, waning, and if ant to give him a bit of a you wantto give him a bit ofa treat, you ran click the treat ase ase button and he gets lots of ats sent to him.
wants to test me gadgets?
i take it that is a .
today, he is my furry glamorous sistant, getting his teeth into tech.
the rechargeable cked ball moves vibrates and anges colour according to activity while playing.
is developed to encourage attraction and response.
i do worry about when he picks it up teeth and it is vibrating his eeth.
trackers for dogs have around for a while, but they getting smaller and later.
this water resistant and does better tery life that some of its ompetitors, and also has a function you ran get an alert if your where you ran get an alart if your pet foods goes further than it ld, but how useful did camilla find it?
it’ great, it’ a tractor, very small, but it is just racker, and i would have loved to have some activity tracker , but it is very accurate and with it, but it is very accurate and seems to have been correct every i have checked.
i would not it overty useful because i know ere he is most of the time.
in the of your dog etting stolen and hey are wearing it, that would be remely useful.
being able to ack our animals has stepped up a el.
now, you also track their behaviour well as their activity, ran see how the two things, ter.
so you can see how the two things, later.
beautifully behaved of se, aren’ you?
the pet activity behaviour tracker logs a doggy’ count sleep as well as step count and sleep as well as alerting its own as too much ing, shaking or scratching is going on.
the negatives though are have to keep it on at night ime, and i personally don’ like ing a collar on rusty at no me, idon’ hink it is articularly safe.
50 depending on a dog and its ’ lifestyles, it dog and its owner’ lifestyles, it seems that different gadgets would .
but one thing that is for certain is that before i felt need a spot of human training i will play with this with you if you hold onto it.
that was lara with the dogs, i guess the only you need to be thankful for is asn’ cat.
maybe next year?
ristmas is all about getting get a beer with friends and family, i don’ know how you feel about family , we have known each other an awful long time.
we are functional, we bicker, but we ave seen each other through some and downs, good times and bad mes, and a few months ago, one mber of click got some bad news .
i got agnosed with breast to.
i got diagnosed with breast fencer a few months back, and motherapy has some surprising bits of technology involved, and i thought not demystify it and people a chance to see what give peopla a chance to see what actually happens.
i’ve got tea, and colouring pencils, charging abla.
two kinds of drinks, eadphones, i think it is most ngs.
this is my eighth chemotherapy treatment out of ten, i am ready to rock now.
everything with tablets, lorazepam is to starts with tablats, lorazepam is to help to deal with the pain of the tment because it is very very ld.
lunch menu today i will what i always have, this is ere my port has been implanted.
a fast track tube under my skin at connects directly to my heart, lowing nurses to administer drugs eally easily.
lugging in a phone charger.
as a piano player, i didn’ want to have any catheters in or in my arms, because the chemo treatment is quite toxic, use when i found out you could a port fitted and anything goes ere, i don’ have to hunt around a vein, it is massively neficial.
i didn’ feel a thing!
this is in, that is, everything in and out of the port of.
ore i started chemo, i was really ared, and i was also uninformed out the actual practicalities of , the ins and outs, what to xpect.
like wearing a cold.
chemo any rapidly dividing cells, ncluding hair, so lowering blood culation to my scalp can keep my hair on.
imagine the coldest hair on.
imagine eating the coldest ice cream in the world for about an and a half, that gives you a good idea.
off comes the uighur.
— here we go, wner , although ith quite a lot of make—up.
some ients keep an others, i though patients keep than others, i though i have been quite lucky.
tepid water lied, and if you are having one treatment without the cap on, rannot do , and you have come out of.
it has to fit very snugly.
i always had a theory that wearing a word make my brain really fast, like superconducting, but it is the ete opposite of.
i am unable to complete opposite of.
i am unabla to do much concentrating.
bring on the !
this is the painful pitstop an get hrough this, then we if i can get through this, then we are all good.
sol have various to keep me busy, things that ind really joyable are watching mindless , and is doing slight ulating practice.
i have always ted to learn to a plane, so not do it ?
bring the nose not do it now?
bring the nose up.
there we go.
this is really with the cap on, i can do it taxing with the rap on, i ran do it with no problem without the cap on.
nnot tually and the lane i cannot actually land the plane while i have the treatment.
i have hed every time.
i am mpaired at this point, but louring in clouds, that i can do.
have been apps like this i have been using apps like this one, procreate, masterclass, and the ined theme during the treatment but i have also been recording my to show oncologists what my body has been up to.
i am record the data shows like blood what the data shows like blood pressure, and collect data myself resting heart rate and body temperature.
three days after tment i go up a few degrees of.
’ really use.
you can then go to he doctor show them physical vidence of what my body has been ng.
it’ completely frozen solid ow.
sometimes there is ice in re.
i can’ remember anything ymore.
after a few hours of and head, lam early done for a cold head, lam hearty done for another eek.
thank you so much.
is about it, that’ chemo treatment in a nutshell.
lots of different drugs, all port and now hospital .
nch.
that was absolutely scinating.
really brave, thank .
i had no idea about what goes .
this is exactly i did it ause it feels like an opportunity just lift the lid on a single just maybe give people who word and just maybe give peopla who are about to go through this the to understand a bit more efore going into it and then it is a whole lot of surreal surprises, fter another, which is what i was like for me.
trustee ind all tech you could to find all the tech you could duﬂng the procedure.
give me erything.
you really know your way social media and i wonder ether media has been a help, ndrance, whether it has ontributed at all to your perience.
i considered for such a time, do i share this online, do i not?
and i decided to share because i’ not the only person ing through this, so many people .
the esponse i had was overwhelmingly good, so many people their stories with me, and it feels like together, we are nger.
i am really ad i shared.
stronger.
lam really glad ishared.
all right lara, last at this.
i hope there is a chance at this.
i hope there is a good joke inside!
i believe this is about what you have filmed a clue about what you have filmed for the christmas show, but it looks mall, quite compact?
it is re, but it is very clever.
this is cale model of the robo car, and makers say it he fastest its makers say it is the fastest thing on four wheels with no driver.
there’ no driver ‘ seat that’ there’ no driver ‘ seat in there, but i’ll be looking at a re of racing cars with no drivers?
are we stuffed turkey?
like autonomous this and it’ like autonomous this and autonomous that and before you know ill not be driving our own it we will not be driving our own rars, we have robots taking people jobs, i have just about ‘ jobs, i have had just about enough.
somebody told me that there is robo car that could race a human be quicker.
let’ take you the home of british motorsport.
time to make a point.
robo car not your rage automated car is not your average automated rar project.
the cabin this car is not rested in traffic lights or ctions, it’ built with one thing mind.
speed.
like a standard nomous car, robo car uses autonomous far, robo rar uses various sensors, including lidar, , and image recognition ftware to drive at racist speeds, measuring lateral forces, rip levels, it is learning how to aster all the time.
now to raise the robo car, human versus achine is tricky, given there is nowhere for me to set a.
to decide whether human or is the driver, we’re to raise the els that does have a cockpit, hich the developers used to test software.
suitably called bot.
they didn’ say what appened to devbot one.
after a sloppy open lab, 3 ineup in pola fairty sloppy open lab, a lineup in polo position, hoping to set a pectable naptime for team human.
et’ see we get on here.
for let’ see how we get on here.
for safety reasons, the car has been ited 100 kilometres per hour, limited to 100 kilometres per hour, both my drive and the , but the leration is blistering, and sitting five timetres of the armac, it seems fast enough.
just that apex, going over the curb!
let’ get the speed down!
with on speed but wider line my full on speed but wider line around the last corner be my ing, or my masterstroke?
time for the rar to take the wheel.
and we are off!
0, my god!
that was quick on the brakes there, left that last minute.
the car was harder on kes and more sudden ith the steering.
did not care out my mfort.
but was it quicker?
31.
68.
you did that in 128.
by three seconds into a i heated by three seconds into a bank wow!
man wins over machine!
liant.
thank you.
ladies and entlemen, simmons beating rtificial intelligence.
that must ade your year.
yes.
merry ristmas, dan.
love, .
itell you at, 2019 has been an amazing year space nuts everywhere.
the 50th niversary of the first moon ndings, our isit , marks visit to the world’ first mercial spaceport and i had a hance to review it all with a per space not as in a nut who has roperly been to ace.
tim peak!
eadier this year we went to to eir hero oject looking at how to the right mix of people for long missions and they made the oint that it is not one type person you ed.
if you had a spaceship full of one type of person on’ work.
do you have any that won’ work.
do you have any views on the type of mix you need to on board?
you need a mix of different types of people on board mixture of different skills.
and this is going to be so much more rtant for a longer duration ssion to the moon and the mars ely because you will want a dical doctor as part of that crew, sure, and you will probably to geologist as well.
you will somebody who is an expert with loting skills but also in terms of personality and character as well.
i think you need to have people who lexible.
somebody needs to be he leader and everybody needs to that.
and if you are all accept that.
and if you are all extremely strong personalities who accept the subordinate do not accept the subordinate position very well, that is not to work.
which one where you?
ix.
and i think my classmates re as well.
people who can take on eadership role up to the a leadership role in step up to the plate when needed and also people an nstantly fall into a who can instantly fall into a supporting role, come up with tions and the ability to switch between the two is very important.
brought any of the have you brought any of the astronaut back with you?
do you deal ife differently now to how you did before?
i have always been quite i think i am even more so ﬁlm.
i think i am even more so having ﬂown in in space.
and sometimes to having flown in space.
and sometimes i thought to myself, you know, you space walk i’ sure you can do did a space walk i’ sure you ran do this.
i have had to give myself a a talking to and so yes, you are right i ran do his.
2020 could sibly be the year when space urists begin to take their first ghts, that what we have been in he last 12 months.
i wonder you think space is a place for rists?
we need to be careful out who we send into what nvironment with what level of ironment —— training and was king after em.
it is like looking after them.
it is like scuba—diving, it is to go a-diving a novice if you are scuba-diving as a novice if you are with an instructor who knows what are doing can get you out they are doing and ran get you out of a situation.
same with space ht.
it is to go into space if are a tourist if you are with fessional astronauts who know hat they are doing.
we don’ ask to do space walks or to rapture a rargo ehida them to do space walks or to capture a cargo vehicle with a robotic arm, don’ hem to handle we don’ ask them to handle technical problems that might occur.
asking to know how to we are asking them to know how to look after themselves in an gency on how to understand the spacesuit and the basic life support ms.
so much reduced training package.
if you working of the world to face the realities of, you know, business making money and nations becoming richer nations, how would you curtail what doing to the environment?
oing green does not mean not making and it does not mean stopping untries that are poor from improving the quality of life.
we just need to make the decision to do we invest in technology, then the cost comes down and the iciency goes up.
for example, at doing with small satellite is cause the satellites are reducing ze, the solar panels are educing in size and the efficiency up in the space one of is going up in the space one of those environments that is forcing to improve the efficiency solar panels.
then you end up efficient cheap solar panels then suddenly solar panels on become acceptable and the norm generate far more electricity.
are so many applications for his.
it is a case of changing minds making initial step, that initial decision to do something.
has been a pleasure.
thank so much.
the amazing tim peak re and the equally amazing mark re is pacing me at street fighter and what are we playing this on?
it is an arcade stick, 16 list classic arcade games and one giant retro arcade games and one giant controller.
the beauty of this is the ntroller is almost that the controller is almost exactly the same as the kind of you would find on an arcade binet so you can have the same erience at you had in the experience that you had in the 19805, except you do it not in a arcade and you do not need to hundreds and hundreds of coins.
year for aming ould you a good year for gaming would you say?
an interesting year.
google to persuade us that we would ose our consoles and get into ogame streaming with their ervice, stadium, which is great if ave an amazing internet you have an amazing internet connection.
if you don’, then it ’ work.
and we have said that or many years now and they are not there with it stop a few ompanies have been trying to eogame stream for quite some time yet the infrastructure is not there.
omar, to you.
here you .
thank you for inking of me.
hat is just here eating chocolate.
i open is?
0!
a furby!
thank “an i open this?
0!
a furby!
thank you.
it is a blast the past.
no cutting-edge that we’re used to seeing on he show i did go tuber that is bringing a new use of into old ones.
wake up sleepyhead this is sam battle, wise known on youtube is look um, no computer.
with over 240,000 cribers the platform, he subscribers on the platform, he showcases musical instruments and ird inventions that he has created using old tech and only old be it a lego star wars tech.
be it a lego star wars orchestra.
a flame throwing henry ver.
even a choir of these hoover.
or even a choir of these cute little terrors.
that sounds onic.
it is daemonic.
what else oes he ave in his studio?
this is sically 48 game boys that sounds an orchestra.
for instance after a quick modification it not just ay game boys anymore.
hat was very close there.
ay!
i get it!
that is awesome.
your hair 0?
he also has a bike when paddled powers a synthesiser.
oops.
let’ give that go.
i am making music.
this is the most musical i’ve ever been.
hold onto me, sam!
that’ it.
so what is it about old tech that inates him so much?
itjust ooks so uch better and it is easy modify and happen model things.
problem with modern pieces of uipment is that it is usually made small and compact and is easily habitable nor easily fixable.
a roblem!
sam mainly uses ifound a problem!
sam mainly uses ebay to purchase this old tech for eap as possible.
but it is not about cost.
this is a piece of tory.
for instance this wall is ieces of technical university uired from universities.
these re from the 1950 and it is eautiful and you can buy them for quid.
there lso recycling and 20 quid.
there is also recycling and reusing things that instead of going he landfill and, i don’ know, omething about classic design and neering is very attractive.
and it also looked like a ton offun.
it was the best issued i had all year.
and look , no computer omar and look mum, no computer finishing off this clickmas special.
you enjoyed being here i hope you have enjoyed being here as much as we enjoyed making it for next week you can see you.
next week you ran see highlights of click life which we last month in scotland.
don’ orget you ran lways contact us on cebook, instagram or twitter on click.
who’ watching it over ristmas?
luck with that.
thanks watching and mary clickmas!
good morning.
what a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us, with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
in fact, friday afternoon, these were fairly typical weather watcher pictures across parts of central and southern england in particular.
in fact, by close of play on friday, there were over 90 flood warnings in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend, well, do go to the weather website for the latest updates on the flood warnings and also any met office warnings as well.
over the next few hours we’ve got this miniature weather front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy, with hail and thunder.
windy conditions following on behind, before another weather front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on saturday.
orning, we start off with a few sharp showers still remaining.
but they are easing away.
the best of the sunshine perhaps on saturday, likely to be for the far north of scotland.
slowly brightening up as well across parts of england and wales for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push into the south—west by the end of the day.
a cooler feeling in scotland, five or six degrees.
double digits quite widely further south.
that rain will continue to drift its way steadily east, but it is going to clear off into the near continent through the early hours of saturday night into sunday morning.
then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start in sheltered eastern areas of scotland, maybe a touch of light frost.
too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
and still some bits and pieces of rain first thing on sunday morning.
sunday will be quieter for many.
a case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers.
still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south.
40—50 mile an hour gusts of wind not out of the question.
cooler again in scotland, five or six, higher values of nine or ten further south.
it looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time.
showers will ease away on monday and by tuesday, christmas eve, it will be drier and quieter.
what on earth is happening, you may ask?
it looks as though father christmas might be granting us our wish and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment, with high pressure building on christmas eve into christmas day, which will quieten things down quite nicely.
it means the chance of a white christmas is very remote indeed.
but it does mean a good deal of weather in the forecast.
so our christmas week looks like this.
a showery start, drying up nicely on christmas eve and christmas day.
the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
take care.
undoing, or my masterstroke?
time for the car to take the wheel.
welcome to news, i’ maryam moshiri.
our top stories: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
at least six people die in northern india during another day of big protests against the country’ new citizenship law.
britian is on course to exit the european union as parliament votes in favour of prime minister johnson’ brexit bill.
and stuck in orbit — boeing’ mission to the international space station didn’ quite go as planned.
firefighters in the australian state of new south wales were bracing for what are being termed catastrophic fire conditions.
temperatures well above a0 degrees, are set to fuel almost a hundred fires burning across the state.
in south australia, one person has died overnight in a blaze east of adelaide.
the prime minister scott morrison — widely criticised for being on holiday during the crisis — is expected back in australia over the weekend.
phil mercerjoins me now from sydney.
before we talk about anything else, update me on the latest in terms of ushfires.
we have a the bushfires.
we have a catastrophic fire warning for three areas here in new south wales, ore than 100 fires are burning oss australia’ most populous ate.
roads have been closed, rail ices have been disrupted, and hat with just a few days left until istmas, summer holidaymakers are ping to go north, south and west sydney have been urged to stay at me today, and delete their trip til tomorrow, ause onditions until tomorrow, because conditions are very very dangerous, as you say, temperatures in parts of new south wales, we also have a iction of very strong winds ater, so that is a real menace for efighters, hot temperatures, very onditions underfoot, and those will make those fires increasingly unpredictable.
fires ing as in the state of burning as well in the state of victoria, also in south australia, the other side of the and on the other side of the continent in western australia, fire battling blazes there as well, it is another brutal day in tralia’ summer.
amid all this prime minister scott morrison cised for going on holiday to hawaii, is on his way back now.
he is, and one would imagine that he get quite a reception when he gets home.
many australians very that their prime minister ided to take a holiday to hawaii a time of crisis.
morrison has ued a statement saying that he regrets any offence caused to hose australians affected by the ires, and it is not the bushfires, and it is not just the fact that morrison has gone on day during this emergency, many ustralians wondering about his tude to climate change and the that that they are playing in australia’ bushfire crisis morrison has acknowledged that warming is a factor in global warming is a factor in australia’ emergency, so safe to morrison lands today ere in australia, his handling of emergency will come under mense scrutiny.
and of course they ave been as well, including a couple of volunteer firefighters?
down yesterday near the town buxton, where these two efighters died, a tree had a fire ngine, causing the vehicle to roll those two volunteer firefighters were men in their 305, again, it does underscore and once again, it does underscore the dangers facing firefighters, them are volunteers here in many of them are volunteers here in new south wales, backed up by essional crews as well.
we were uite close to a dam, a lake near town of bargo, when this normous helicopter, a water bombing aft came down with a giant aircraft came down with a giant hose, sucking up water, before going fight the fires, so in many “75 off to fight the fires, so in many ways it is a military style ration, boots on the ground pported by those squadrons of bombing aircraft, tragically, deaths of those two firefighters illustrate the dangers on the ontline.
and of course feel, this the fire on.
is it that the fires his year have been so bad il?
cientists are telling us that this nnual fire season is not starting earlier, it is likely last er, and is more intense, to last longer, and is more intense, so bushfires have always been part australian story, long before the europeans arrived.
bushfires are of life in this country, but what worries many scientists and people is that they seem to be tarting eartier they are far re ore intense.
scientists cannot say that particular bushfire west sydney or a fire in western ustralia is directly caused by mate change, what what they can say is that bal warming is making he conditions here dryer, and that assive factor in these bushfires here in eastern australia ample, we have had a very long drought, so what you have our itions of conditions, no ain, strong winds and hot mperatures, and those conditions nspire to heighten the fire anger as we say here in new south es, three major areas facing atastrophic conditions, and that is it gets.
there are various vels of threat in this country, catastrophic is right at the top.
0, thank you very much.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the international criminal court’ chief prosecutor says she believes war crimes have been committed in the israeli—occupied palestinian territories.
fatou bensouda says she wants to launch an investigation but needs the court to establish first if they have authority over these areas.
officials in russia say they’ve established the identity of the gunman who opened fire at the headquarters of the country’ main security agency, the .
one officer was killed on thursday, while a second has died from his wounds in the last few hours.
another four people were wounded.
the motive for the attack remains unclear.
poland’ parliament has passed a law that makes it easier for the government to fire judges, despite a plea from the european commission to wait.
under the new legislation, judges can be dismissed, fined or demoted for dissent, including questioning the legitimacy of newjudges chosen by a government controlled body.
a pioneer of international development who founded the world’ largest has died.
sir fazle hasan abed was 83.
he founded the bangladesh rural advancement committee, also known as , in 1972.
now operating in eleven asian and african countries, is said to have lifted 150 million people out of poverty.
there have been more mass protests in india today over a controversial new citizenship law.
at least six people have been killed in the demonstrations.
critics say the legislation discriminates against the country’ 200 million strong muslim population, with many fearing they could become stateless.
but the move by prime minister narendra modi is popular with his hindu supporters.
from delhi, here’ rajini vaidyanathan.
is this a moment of reckoning for the world’ largest democracy, as anger over a controversial citizenship law intensifies?
scenes of defiance, protesters ignoring curfews, police accused of heavy—handed tactics.
hundreds of thousands across this vast and diverse nation have taken to the streets to oppose a law they say discriminates against muslims.
it offers fast—track citizenship for illegal immigrants from three neighbouring countries, except muslims.
the government says it is to protect religious minorities fleeing persecution.
india prides itself on its secular principles, the right to equality for all faiths.
but many fear that, by making religion a condition of citizenship, that core fundamental principle is now at stake.
muslims say they are living in fear.
the government is planning to publish a nationwide register of citizens, in which everyone would have to prove they are indian.
those who can’ would be considered illegal immigrants, with only non—muslims afforded protection under the new citizenship law.
"i don’ trust the government," she tells me.
"if they don’ accept my documents, which prove i’ indian, then what will i do?
" pressure is mounting on india’ prime minister, narendra modi, but he still has huge support for his hindu nationalist agenda.
tonight in delhi, 3 group of his supporters came out to defend the citizenship act.
a lot of people are saying that it is against muslims, but it is not against muslims.
it is only against — only for.
it is not against anyone.
it is for minorities in three neighbouring countries, pakistan, afghanistan and bangladesh, where islam is a state religion.
this week’ large—scale protest represents the first real dissent against modi’ government.
some fear the country is inching closer to becoming a hindu state, and worry that india’ secular soul is at stake.
more new on the story from poland.
parliament has adopted a law which will see major reform of the country’ judiciary, making it easier for the government to fire, fine or discipline judges.
rich preston reports.
the bill has been hugely controversial, as it was being ted, people took to the streets utside parliament in support of the ges, and dicial independence.
judges, and judicial independence.
the changes give the government the to discipline judges for what it falls political activity.
luding questioning the new udges that government appoints.
in a rathon debate, the ruling party gued the nges are necessary to revent chaos in the judicial tem.
: what we can see is the mle more most is the mutation at is the date of ignores principle of national overeignty that ignores the hority of the nation.
the state the judges is the state in which judges ecide what law and what is not.
opposition lawmakers attempt to gag judges.
say an attempt to gag judges.
: the bill bill subject court and the polish judges polish court and the polish judges to political control by the slative and exacting bodies and uce the level of dicial protection of individual rights.
are concerns such sweeping changes to pollen’ ustry could ontradict european law and force out of the .
: are lying to the polls, claiming these are european solutions, while the european commission says ty, ly, please stop working on this clearly, please stop working on this shameful project.
the bill will now to pollen’ senate which can be sent to pollen’ senate which ran delay the new law, but not block it.
stay with us on news, still to come: we meet the italian engineer who makes sure that less well off children don’ miss out on toys.
the world of news has been paying tribute to george michael who has of suspected heart failure at the age of 55.
sold well over 100 lion albums in a career spanning ore than three decades stop with ted states troops have been ying to overthrow the dictatorship anuel, and the pentagon has says has failed in its objective to ture him taken to the united states.
he hammer and sickle was ken away, in place, the taken away, in its place, the russian ﬂag was hoisted over what new low longer the viet union is now low longer the soviet union but the commonwealth of independent .
day broke slowly over states.
day broke slowly over lockerbie, over the cockpit of pan of the seas, nosedown in the soft earth.
you could see what ens when a plane eight stories gh, a football pitch wide, falls 30,000 feet.
christmas has turned to albania after a ommunist band lasting more than 20 .
thousands went to midnight ass in this town where they were i—communist riots ten days ago.
this is news, the latest headlines: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
three and a half years after the voted to leave the european union, have resoundingly voted in favour of the government’ brexit bill.
the legislation now paves the way for boris johnson to deliver his promise, that the country will no longer be a member state of the , by the end of next month.
backing the government.
here’ our deputy political editor, john pienaar.
we’re leaving — we’re through the looking glass.
everything looks the same, but nothing will be the same again.
the last, lonely protester was there, fighting a cause that today became officially lost.
the eyes to the right — 358.
the noes to the left — 234.
a thumping victory for borisjohnson’ divorce deal.
but from the start, today, his big win was guaranteed.
he came with an appeal for unity, on his terms, to seek reconciliation in tones of triumph.
this is the time when we move on, and discard the old labels of leave and remain.
in fact, the very words seem tired to me.
and so now is the moment to come together and write a new and exciting chapter in our national story, to forge a new partnership with our european friends, to stand tall in the world, to begin the healing.
this moment in history was his.
3.
5 years after the referendum, the new felt strong enough to declare britain after brexit would set its own rules and standards, not follow the ’.
the very essence of the opportunity of brexit is that we will no longer outsource these decisions.
with renewed national self—confidence, we will take them ourselves.
and that is what worried his beaten rival.
we warned before the general election the prime minister’ brexit deal was a terrible dealfor our country, and we still believe it’ a terrible deal today.
this deal will be used as a battering ram to drive us down the path of yet more deregulation, and towards a toxic deal with donald trump, and what is new in the withdrawal agreement bill?
the pledge to match workers’ rights, like other earlier compromises, has gone.
ministers now say a new law will guarantee those rights.
on child migrants, no obligation now to take in unaccompanied minors with british relatives, but the says the will go on taking them in.
and no extended brexit transition.
the law will require the is clear of rules by december 2020, with or without a deal.
so the winning the brexit war doesn’ mean peace.
the sees brexit as a spur to independence.
the people of scotland must have their say over their future, rather than the broken brexit britain that he wishes to impose upon us.
the election and brexit has left a bitter legacy, wounded brexiteers feeling vindicated, remainers defiant on their pro—european values.
those values are now under threat from this trumpian, populist government, from right—wing populism, and bigots everywhere.
we’re told we were fascists, we were nazis, we’re extremists.
and what did we want?
all we wanted was to honour the referendum.
brexiteer ministerjacob rees—mogg kept a low profile during the election.
not today.
at last, we’ve got the result that we need.
we will now get brexit, a majority of 124, and the sun is metaphorically shining.
and look at this at the bottom of your screen — the ’ celebrity signing autographs for tory mps.
so reason for celebration in government tonight.
we will leave the by 31 january at the latest.
but defining and negotiating britain’ future relationship with the , and the world, could be tougher and take longer than boris johnson predicts.
no doubt who is in charge now, or whosejob it is to make brexit work.
prosecutors in the have charged the wife of a diplomat with causing the death by dangerous driving of a teenage in a road crash.
after harry dunn died, anne sacoolas flew back to the united states under diplomatic immunity.
extradition proceedings are now under way but sacoolas says she will not return voluntarily to the .
duncan kennedy reports.
0, ijust hope and hope that it’ going to be the right choice today.
harry’ parents, charlotte and tim, travelled to london not knowing what today would bring.
but, at the headquarters, they were told the main suspect was being charged with dangerous driving.
harry’ family have spent four months waiting to see if charges would be brought in his case.
we really do feel it’ one huge step towards that promise to harry, and that in itself is one hell of an achievement, as a family, to have.
and, as parents, we can’ be any more satisfied with ourselves.
harry’ dad, tim, was also moved by today’ events.
bit speechless at the minute.
i’ still in shock from the meeting, and, uh i’ sorry.
no, it’ alright.
anne sacoolas, here on her wedding day, has been interviewed by british police.
she has been staying at a house outside washington.
although there was no—one in today, her lawyers said today’ decision to charge anne sacoolas comes nearly four months after harry died here on this road in northamptonshire.
in statements through her lawyers, she has already admitted driving 111: but they say she will not return voluntarily to face a jail sentence at was a terrible and for what was a terrible and unintentional accident.
now, harry’ family say it is time for her to return to britain.
it was near this american air base the accident happened.
harry was killed last august.
two weeks later, anne sacoolas left the , claiming diplomatic immunity.
last month, the family launched legal action against the foreign office for its handling of the case.
they were so upset, they went to washington to plead for anne sacoolas to return.
dominic raab today called on the american woman to return and legal say the chances of experts say the chances of extradition were good.
it is emely positive because as far as ran see every equest that has sent the to the has successful.
harry dunn’ family heir supporters have fought his case together and have been the me office will launch told the home office will launch proceedings in the next week.
his say they will now put up a christmas tree for the sun they sed to give up on.
the duke of edinburgh — husband of queen elizabeth — is spending the night in a london hospital.
royal officials say the duke, who is 98, has been taken there as a precautionary measure for a pre—existing condition.
the queen is at her sandringham estate in the east of england where she arrived on friday morning.
nasa hopes the boeing starliner could be used to ferry passengers to and from the international space station — but a test flight in florida failed to go as planned.
jonathan amos reports.
and lift off for the starliner, a new era in human space flight.
a new era perhaps, but notjust yet.
boeing launched its starliner capsule on time from cape canaveral in florida, but the automated ship then failed to carry out its commands properly.
when it came off the top of the rocket, it was supposed to fire its engines to increase its height.
it did, but at the wrong time and for too long.
the starliner put itself in the wrong part of the sky.
it can no longer reach the space station and will have to come home.
the american space agency has been overseeing the development of the capsule.
nasa has provided milestone payments to help boeing bring the vehicle into operation.
and despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
if we would’ve had crew in there, number one, they would have been safe.
to be very clear, our crew would have been safe.
and in fact, had they been in there, we very well may have been orbiting or docking with the international space station tomorrow had they been in the spacecraft.
so a lot of things went right today, and i want to be really clear, a lot of things went right and this is we test and because we are now in orbit and because in fact elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data and a lot more information in the coming days.
so this is all very positive.
nasa has not been able to launch its own astronauts to orbit for nearly nine years.
when it retired the shuttles in 2011, it ceased to operate space vehicles.
and it bought seats to the space station in russian capsules instead.
nasa would rather spend its money handling rides on american—built space taxi services.
another enterprise, the california space— company, has already completed a test flight of its astronaut capsule.
the dragon craft made a flawless trip to the orbiting lab in march.
space— looks set to start flying astronauts for real in the next few months.
quite how far behind today’ events put boeing is unclear.
engineers will need to inspect the starliner when they get it back on earth.
nasa is determined that it should have a choice of capsules in the future.
boeing is certain to again.
jonathan amos, news.
christmas is coming — ready or not.
all around the world millions of children will be hoping for a visit from santa.
some less well off youngsters may miss out on getting a toy.
but a retired engineerfrom rome is determined to do something about that — as the ’ tim allman explains.
but a retired engineerfrom rome is determined to do something about that — as the ’ tim allman explains.
his name is guido but it may as well be geppetto.
a former engineer with an italian airline, he now devotes himself to repairing and restoring toys.
lots and lots of toys.
anything up to 70 a day, in fact, and it is all in a good cause.
: take this one for example.
some toy shops give us the faulty toys that they cannot sell.
this one, i have repaired it and it works now.
and these new toys we send to hospitals.
notjust hospitals.
this charity also provides playthings to the children of refugees or kids whose parents have lost their jobs.
any youngster who wants a moment ofjoy and a toy of their own.
: we call these objects reloved since they are loved twice.
first by the parents of the children who donated them and then they are loved by the children who receive them.
so we reuse objects and avoid wasting plastic.
they distribute around 20,000 toys — cars, action figures, teddies, toys, dolls, guido tinkers away at them all.
his greatest reward, he says, are the smiles on the children’ faces.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @bbcmaryam.
good morning.
what a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us, with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
in fact, friday afternoon, these were fairly typical weather watcher pictures across parts of central and southern england in particular.
in fact, by close of play on friday, there were over 90 flood warnings in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend, well, do go to the weather website for the latest updates on the flood warnings and also any met office warnings as well.
over the next few hours we’ve got this miniature weather front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy, with hail and thunder.
windy conditions following on behind, before another weather front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on saturday.
orning, we start off with a few sharp showers still remaining.
but they are easing away.
the best of the sunshine perhaps on saturday, likely to be for the far north of scotland.
slowly brightening up as well across parts of england and wales for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push into the south—west by the end of the day.
a cooler feeling in scotland, five or six degrees.
double digits quite widely further south.
that rain will continue to drift its way steadily east, but it is going to clear off into the near continent through the early hours of saturday night into sunday morning.
then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start in sheltered eastern areas of scotland, maybe a touch of light frost.
too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
and still some bits and pieces of rain first thing on sunday morning.
sunday will be quieter for many.
a case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers.
still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south.
40—50 mile an hour gusts of wind not out of the question.
cooler again in scotland, five or six, higher values of nine or ten further south.
it looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time.
showers will ease away on monday and by tuesday, christmas eve, it will be drier and quieter.
what on earth is happening, you may ask?
it looks as though father christmas might be granting us our wish and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment, with high pressure building on christmas eve into christmas day, which will quieten things down quite nicely.
it means the chance of a white christmas is very remote indeed.
but it does mean a good deal of weather in the forecast.
so our christmas week looks like this.
a showery start, drying up nicely on christmas eve and christmas day.
the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
take care.
this is news.
the headlines: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
the australian prime minister scott morrison has apologised for going on a family holiday to hawaii while his country was dealing with the bushfire emergency.
at least six people have been killed in india, as police tried to contain a further day of protests about a new citizenship law.
police used tear gas and batons but denied firing on demonstrators.
the law allows fast—track citizenship for religious refugees from neighbouring countries but excludes muslims.
the british prime minister boris johnson has won the support of the house of commons for a second reading of his brexit bill.
at the end of january.
parliament, now dominated by the conservatives, passed the bill with a large majority.
a funeral and a memorial service have taken place for the two victims of last month’ terror attack near london bridge.
jack merritt and saskia jones, were stabbed to death by convicted terrorist usman khan, while attending a conference in a building next to the bridge.
our home affairs correspondent, daniel sandford has more.
at the cambridge university church of mary the great, jack merritt’ mother and father and girlfriend, leanne ’brien.
his body in a wicker coffin, in keeping with the ethical life he’ tried to lead.
jack merritt was 25 years old and had a masters in criminology from cambridge.
in the service, his friends and family recalled a compassionate young man who felt compelled to help people, and whose politics was love, not hate.
it is a tragedy, jack’ death, but his life, as his father said in the service, his life was a triumph, and we have to hold onto that and jack’ legacy of commitment to those on whom society is all too happy to turn its back.
jack passionately believed in others, and so should we.
in stratford—upon—avon, at the holy trinity church, where william shakespeare is buried, the family and friends of saskia jones were gathering to remember her.
she died in the same attack as jack merritt, and also had a masters in criminology from cambridge.
she’ planned tojoin the police to work with victims of crime.
she was with jack merritt at a prisoner education conference near london bridge three weeks ago when one of the participants, who had recently been released from a long sentence for terrorism offences, stabbed them both to death.
the cambridge university vice—chancellor said that the way they died should not eclipse their lives and the way they had helped others.
daniel sandford, news.
now on news, it’ climate defenders.
we meet the people looking for solutions to climate change, and follow the work of those striving to tackle this global threat.
i’ i’mjuston roald dahl, in the northern ethiopian city of michaela take a ook at it.
it is a.
just take a look at it.
it is absolutely stunning.
it is up on the plains of untry.
as you high plains of the country.
as you ran see, it is hot and it is and rding to the this whole according to the this whola region is among the most vulnerable mate change in the world.
but the people here have been building ces against the risks of a hanging climate for years.
and that at this programme is about.
ome of the inspiring stories of zing people around the world who have successfully battling imate change.
meet the climate enders.
we will meet the nvironmental lawyer who may have the world half a degree of rming by banishing a dangerous eenhouse gas.
the boss of an an company cleaning up one of he world’ most climate hostile ustries.
here in ethiopia we will a woman who nurtures tree edlings who has now held regrading llion hectares of barren, degraded land.
and a man who has his design brilliance into clean power that’ starting to rcut fossil fuels.
the market here in mek’ele is full of that fresh, local produce.
just ok at tomatoes.
absolutely look at these tomatoes.
absolutely delicious.
but i’ not here to shop.
re to pose you a riddle.
how ran something esigned to cool us he warming us up?
i would be azed if you’ve got the answer, cause it lies deep within these, hin air—conditioning units.
ir—conditioning is everywhere in ountries these days.
but hot countries these days.
but air—conditioning units contain icals called ‘, which are thousands of times more potent nhouse gases than carbon dioxide.
so what if we could uade dioxide.
50 what if we could persuade the people who make conditioning units to use omething afer and, in the process, temperature rise by half a egree centigrade?
that would be, , pretty cool, wouldn’ it?
nnah lloyd higgins in the united tates been to meet a man who as done just that.
for this , olving the roblem of climate nge isn’ a matter of ust tackling one issue.
if we don’ this problem we won’ be able solve the other problems of verty.
peace.
this is going to verwhelm everything.
but what will to move the planet away from the brink was yellow so we have to ritise what will give us the astest way to avoid warning.
this to become a new metric, the ric of speed.
and his idea for eeding things up, your ir—conditioning unit.
we are able oid up to alf a degree celsius of future warming and we can double by making ling equipment that by making cooling equipment superefficient.
they grew up in the was hat berkely as an ‘605.
was that berkely as an undergraduate, protesting, and they that students and people have learnt that students and peopla have power.
at my age i can continue to tribute.
i want to help the contribute.
but i want to help the next generation.
it is astounding have things and throw them how we have things and throw them away.
two of his granddaughters work im.
and hannah very much sees herself as the next one up to the .
you guys have been working on his for 30 years.
it’ time for us ake over.
it’ time for new ople, new perspective of, and nge.
the amendment and decisions adopted.
three years ago he was nstrumental in getting 197 parties opt a climate treating in kigali, rwanda.
the so—called kigali ment intends to face down amendment intends to face down powerful greenhouse gases called hydroﬂuororarbons, or hfcs.
the refrigerant scan, , alone, give us a warming of about half a degree celsius —— refrigerants can.
may not und like much.
but room we have on the planet one ius so far, with pretty bad onsequences.
this half a degree of ing saved became a big rallying among world leaders.
but let’ back to the start, when we said air—conditioning unit was mportant.
the world warms, we more air—conditioners and frigeration other cooling quipment to keep the world safe.
when you do that you have to have more electricity to power the onditioners.
in the next ten years 1 billion re units will installed globally.
the other ece is the refrigerant themselves.
right now the main refrigerant something called and , rofluorocarbons.
we can squeeze hydroﬂuororarbons.
we ran squeeze out a a tremendous amount of climate ation.
that is where the kigali mendment is key.
it means that on ory ﬂoors, like this when here in wisconsin, 3 ewly developed an vironmentally friendly refrigerant placed into air—conditioning will be placed into air-conditioning units.
honeywell is one of the anies designing these new efrigerants.
global ption our our products today has reduced the of 02 emissions in the buy 141 amount of co2 emissions in the buy 1 million metric tons.
that is the uivalent of ving 30 million equivalent of removing 30 million cars from the road today.
and this ppening without support from white house.
the kigali mendment has not been ratified by ump administration.
back in washington, , dellwood is working ore solutions that can stop this naway rain as as possible.
runaway train as fast as possible.
if we don’ speed up we will find it and harder to protect the lanet.
50 really it is how to get he message that speed is essential.
that was how not long higgins reporting from the .
i have taken a sneaky break to have a itional ethiopian drink.
look at .
different types of fruit juices all up.
let me stop .
that is delicious.
but this bar, like so much else in all lives ould not exist without ctricity.
and most electricity is still produced from coal.
it accounts for 40% of world carbon oxide ssions and its coal dioxide emissions and its coal mining is still such a huge industry the world.
it employs about 6 million peopla is the lifeblood many ommunities.
so if we want cut coal of many communities.
50 if we want to cut coal use we have to find rnative livelihoods for those miners, which is exactly what one has been trying to do through process she calls just transition.
yam oshiri has been to meet her in northern spain.
cheers.
is setting on spain’ coal ing industry.
for years the ndustry has been economically iable and now the demands of limate change are finishing it off gether.
but as one door closes, ould re open?
sharon burrow is he head of the international trade confederation.
a union boss with a difference.
one who wants to the climate as well as defend the climate as well as workers.
we want to see this region at the end of last year, spain reached an agreement with unions and mpanies involved to shut the companies involved to shut down all its remaining coal mines.
the generation.
a deal was voiced which promised 204 enduros to help like these retire early or miners like these retire earty or retrain -- euros.
they call it a transition believe it is a just transition and believe it is a model for the rest of the world.
on is here to tell miners there help for them, but the spanish mining industry is done.
what need do is say to them we on’ leave you behind and we will to see governments don’ leave behind all that corporations.
some of the miners remain unconvinced.
she is visiting me recently shut down mine in bastille.
one of many as visited around the world to reassure workers about their future.
urning is responsible for coal burning is responsible for around one third of the rise in temperatures.
the biggest singla source.
it looks very rich, globally around 6 million guys.
globally around 6 million peoplo are employed in coal mining in ome parts of the world, mostly in asia, coal—fired power ions re still being built.
stations are still being built.
round here, though, things are very rent.
mines like this one is to be the lifeblood of this area, but the past decade over 30,000 jobs have been lost in the coal industry in this region mining industry in this region alone.
in the nearby city of leon, an’ visit is nerating a lot sharan’ visit is generating a lot of interest.
just transition was way in veral countries and under way in several countries and industry sectors and her message is .
we recognise there are no blunt.
we recognise there are no jobs on a dead planet.
but there is reminder of the scale of the hallenges she faces.
the money men were promised to help them in hasn’ filtered through, because of continued political rtainty in spain.
we need to uild living jobs on a sustainable net.
and if the planet is to live need dramatic ambition.
the nsition to a zero carbon society essential, but it goes nd—in—hand with helping those ose jobs ill be displaced.
43 ’ very much a work in progress.
is well aware that some cases reality not yet match the the reality does not yet match the aspiration -- sharan.
let’ turn our tion to omething you may not attention to something you may not even associate with climate change.
the vehicles down the no, not the vehicles down the street, or even the energy used by uildings here in downtown ’ele.
what we’re talking about is he stuff buildings are actually alking about.
we are talking about stop as countries develop cement stop as countries develop they start to build and builds and ds.
all this building uses builds.
all this building uses millions and millions of tons of, cement.
and cement produces amounts of carbon dioxide.
8% the total.
50 here’ the of the world total.
so here’ the question- ran we make cement less ging?
well the boss of one damaging?
well the boss of one indian cement company says yes, we he claims we have already cut ran.
the claims we have already cut emissions from his factories by 40% he average and he says he of the world average and he says he is going to make his factories on neutral by 2014.
virginia eannesson been to see him in tamil nadu.
as india grows, so too does it use of cement, now only second to china.
ete buildings are changing the andscape here that emissions olved in cement production are pushing up global temperatures.
small town in india’ south is knamed cement city because it is me to some of the industry’ big layers.
and it lso here that one company leading the world with a ision.
to make cement carbon bold vision.
to make cement carbon negative by 2040.
but is that really ble?
mahendra, the of the elamere company think so.
he is at forefront of using climate endly ways to make cement.
the allenge which we took was is it sible to bring down 02 issions possibla to bring down 02 emissions from cement and to create an example ement can be greener also.
that cement ran be greener also.
today, we have the lowest carbon print in the world.
it has not een easy.
emissions from the cement contribute to global arming three or four times than aviation does.
and becoming on negative requires a huge investment in cutting—edge nology to remove the may remaining carbon dioxide.
so is so dangerous for the planet?
cement so dangerous for the planet?
it is all in the way it is produced.
stone and other materials are eated to temperatures of 1400dc in that process emits carbon that process in itself emits carbon dioxide.
as does the burning of the heat the kiln.
dalmia aims reduce those levels first by renewable fuels to heat the rnaces.
here, bamboo is being used replacement for coal.
bamboo ows rapidly on wasteland that ’ be used for much else.
fferent types of waste are also ing used as fuel and waste aterial from tations material from power stations is added to the mix of ingredients, cing the need for limestone.
for singh, the mission is personal.
we had to convince ourselves our pete pulled that it is good them that make people that it is ood for em.
good for society, ood for the future.
that may be so, not just useless ent?
the but not just useless cement?
the question -- problem is that it is icult replace.
in the years to come, india will rely more on but the notion has to change.
i don’ think it is ctical but in the long run we can it.
we cannot eliminate the ent completely, but we can find any more ernate materials.
cement has now become one of the consumer materials.
but many opla are still naware of the people are still unaware of the damage it does to the climate.
it is a big polluter.
this plant in small corner of india may be ing the way to reduce and one day eliminate its damage.
now come because i’ going somewhere ather special.
the top of his hill on the outskirts of the .
iwant be out in the wind city.
i want to be out in the wind because if you want to feel imistic about our climate future, look at the price of lectricity generated by offshore it has fallen by one third in wind.
it has fallen by one third in the last few years and is now so it could put fossil fuels out of this mess.
and that is thanks, in to the work of a danish part, to the work of a danish inventor.
he has been called the of the wind industry and eya has been to see him.
wind.
the isible urce of energy which now invisible source of energy which now has the potential to change the .
the question used to be we like it but can we afford it?
now question can we afford the question is how ran we afford not to?
from a young he knew that a lot more could be done to use this ral and free source of elactricity.
enrik created his wind turbine at the age of 16, 991 he opened the world’ first fshore wind farm and his design the modern wind turbine earned he title of the danish concept and concept has shaped the wind ustry for what it is today.
and fficiency, which is henrik’ ‘ motivation.
one of the biggest that he has help design is 94 metres long, the blade is one less piece of fibreglass with no ns.
while he blades have grown in ize, the are shrinking.
ccording to a new study by the is—based international energy gency, the to a further 60% by 6 by 2040.
every these blades make a ull rotation this turbine generates power or the verage european household for a day.
so there is no denying the strength in nergy.
but for this energy to ake a meaningful impact worldwide, are still challenges to overcome.
around the world, the pped potential of offshore wind fast, especially when you move her from shore into deeper ater.
the answer is floating wind rbines, ording to the turbines, according to the international energy agency, ding turbines could unlock nough potential to meet the world’ electricity demand 11 times over by 2040.
henrik is inventing a wind turbine which he says ould be mass produced at a factory.
it is a key to driving down costs to make it cheaper than fossil ompetitors.
so with a real rick of this is getting our oducts industrialised.
next hurdle he industry is to capture all of the ectricity so it does not go waste when wind drops and to work best way to feed it back to the grid.
i am putting lot of ffort on developing storage systems for day—to—day storage and also or easonal storage so we can store nergy made we have a lot of ind in the wintertime to be used in summertime.
henrik is ptimistic.
he has watched the ustry develop from the impossible he possible, to a future reaching even greater heights.
freya eporting and now we come to the story of how the people here in hern ethiopian have been working years to make their country more lient to the effect of our anging climate.
this whole miarid region south of the sahara ected to suffer some of the is expected to suffer some of the worst effect of climate change and, round me.
virtually all the trees have been cut down leaving this rough scrub.
that makes the soil much more vulnerable to ion and the land uch erosion and the and much less fertile.
it ethiopian has been ting to take that vicious cycle.
da.
it has estored one and a half lion hectares.
one half million ctares of graded land.
50 how has ethiopian this and what can the ethiopian done this and what ran the rest of the world learn from its pla?
100 years ago, trees covered one third of ethiopian.
now ass than 5%.
and without it is lass than 596.
and without trees, here is nothing to protect soil from drought, and the soil from drought, wind and burst of rain which all become more with climate change.
when the soil goes, little grows.
people are breaking this vicious irda.
this one is the african ve.
circle.
this one is the african olive.
does it bear fruit?
yes, it grow lives.
sarah is an expert restoring degraded land.
this is ree nursery at mek’ele her tree nursery at mek’ele university in northern ethiopian.
0 or a0 years ago data shows some 30 or 40 years ago data shows that droughts were occurring every ars.
now they are every five ears.
so we need to prepare, as a unity, as a society to be able to function in drought years and one best ways to do that is to restore the environments and restore vironments we can capture the environments we ran rapture every little drop of rain that .
here is how it works.
people and animals are kept out to allow ral regrowth.
the trees help eep moisture in the soil, recharging rivers and springs.
it may seem trivial to people who live environments that spring has ome back.
but for people who live a vironment, a spring that as around 100 years ago or 200 ago is now coming back and iving water.
it is highly gnificant.
and this re— greening pening is happening on a vast salt.
in this one province in northern opian, they have reforested ,000 square kilometres.
trees are a source of cash.
local people get paid for unit of carbon stored here.
last year, the unity was paid 33,000 euros from an international carbon offset me.
that money goes on community jects like water conservation and school.
worldwide, we are losing an area of forest the size of the every single year.
he re— greening effort here in ethiopian is a sson in what can be one.
idence that, when people work gether, we can build esilience to our changing climate.
me in ethiopian has come to an .
we are all packed up and ready .
that have been so impressed by all the work that people on this gramme been doing to combat programme have been doing to combat climate change.
it is so reassuring that an army of climate to know that an army of climate defenders already exist.
but it is lear that we have a long and difficult ourney head we all eed to on board.
and i hope that have been inspired to he oin the climate defenders.
time to go.
good morning.
what a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us, with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
in fact, friday afternoon, these were fairly typical weather watcher pictures across parts of central and southern england in particular.
in fact, by close of play on friday, there were over 90 flood warnings in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend, well, do go to the weather website for the latest updates on the flood warnings and also any met office warnings as well.
over the next few hours we’ve got this miniature weather front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy, with hail and thunder.
windy conditions following on behind, before another weather front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on saturday.
orning, we start off with a few sharp showers still remaining.
but they are easing away.
the best of the sunshine perhaps on saturday, likely to be for the far north of scotland.
slowly brightening up as well across parts of england and wales for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push into the south—west by the end of the day.
a cooler feeling in scotland, five or six degrees.
double digits quite widely further south.
that rain will continue to drift its way steadily east, but it is going to clear off into the near continent through the early hours of saturday night into sunday morning.
then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start in sheltered eastern areas of scotland, maybe a touch of light frost.
too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
and still some bits and pieces of rain first thing on sunday morning.
sunday will be quieter for many.
a case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers.
still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south.
40—50 mile an hour gusts of wind not out of the question.
cooler again in scotland, five or six, higher values of nine or ten further south.
it looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time.
showers will ease away on monday and by tuesday, christmas eve, it will be drier and quieter.
what on earth is happening, you may ask?
it looks as though father christmas might be granting us our wish and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment, with high pressure building on christmas eve into christmas day, which will quieten things down quite nicely.
it means the chance of a white christmas is very remote indeed.
but it does mean a good deal of weather in the forecast.
so our christmas week looks like this.
a showery start, drying up nicely on christmas eve and christmas day.
the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
take care.
welcome to news.
i’ maryam moshiri.
our top stories: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
at least six people die in northern india — during another day of big protests against the country’ new citizenship law.
the warns millions of syrians are at risk of dying of hunger or disease as russia and china veto humanitarian aid into northern syria.
and stuck in orbit.
boeing’ mission to the international space station didn’ quite go as planned.
firefighters in the australian state of new south wales were bracing for what are being termed "catastrophic" fire conditions.
temperatures well above a0 degrees, are set to fuel more than a hundred fires burning across the state.
in south australia, one person has died overnight in a blaze east of adelaide.
the prime minister scott morrison, widely criticised for being on holiday during the crisis, is expected back in australia over the weekend.
i got the latest from our reporter phil mercer.
: we have, as you say, we have, as you say, a catastrophic fire warning for three large areas new south wales.
more than 0 fires are burning across ustralia’ most populous state.
have been closed, rail roads have been closed, rail services have been disrupt third, at with just a few days left until christmas, summer idaymakers hoping to go north, outh, and west of sydney have been to stay at home today and to elay their trip until tomorrow, use conditions are very, very dangerous, as you say, very hot eratures in parts of new south alas.
we also have a prediction of strong winds later.
so that is eal menace for firefighters.
temperatures, conditions derfoot, and those wins will make fires increasingly those fires increasingly unpredictable.
fires burning to any ctoria, so in south australia of victoria, also in south australia and on the other side of the tinent in western australia fire crews battling blazes there too.
so was another brutal day in tralia’ summer.
amid all this prime minister, scott morrison, cised for going on holiday to hawaii, is on his way back now.
he is.
and one would imagine he will uite a reception when he gets ome.
many australians very angry heir prime minister decided to take a holiday to hawaii at a time isis.
morrison has issued a statement saying that he deeply ets any offence caused to those ustralians affected by the hfires.
and it’ not the bushfires.
and it’ not just the fact that morrison has gone on day during this emergency.
many ustralians wondering about his tude to climate change and the that they are playing in australia’ bushfire crisis.
morrison has acknowledged that warming is a factor in global warming is a factor in australia’ emergency.
safe to say morrison lands today, here when morrison lands today, here in australia, his handling of this ency will come under immense emergency will come under immense scmtiny.
and of course there have deaths, as well, happened ere, including a couple of olunteer firefighters.
we were down erday near the town of boston, where these two firefighters died.
a tree hit their fire engine, causing hicle to roll over.
those two the vehicle to roll over.
those two volunteer firefighters were men in 305.
and, once ain, it does their 305.
and, once again, it does underscore the dangers facing fighters, many of them are lunteers here in new south wales, cked up by professional crews as .
we were quite close to a dam, ake near the town of bargo in enormous helicopter, a water mbing aircraft came down with a ant hose, sucking up water, before off to fight the fires.
so in any ways it is a military style ration, beats on the ground pported by those squadrons of bombing aircraft.
but, tragically, the death of those two ighters does illustrate the dangers on the front line.
and of se, this is the fire season.
it that fires this year have een so bad?
scientists are telling at this annual fire season is not only starting earlier, it is ely to longer, and is more intense.
so bushfires have always art of the australian story.
been part of the australian story.
long before the europeans arrived, ires are a fact of life in this bushfires are a fact of life in this country.
but what worries many ntists and other people is that hey seem to be starting earlier and are far re intense.
now, they are far more intense.
now, scientists can’ say that that icular bushfire west of sydney a fire in western australia is rectly caused by climate change, hat they do say is that global warming is making the conditions dryer and that is a massive here dryer and that is a massive factor in these bushfires.
hearing tern australia, for example, we have had a very long drought.
so what you have, you have ditions underfoot, you have no ain, strong winds, and hot mperatures.
in those conditions do pire to heighten the fire ger.
as we say here in new south ales, three major areas facing astrophic conditions.
and that’ ad as it gets.
there are various els of rate in this country and atastrophic is right at the very .
that’ phil mercer there.
there have been more mass protests in india today over a controversial new citizenship law.
at least six people have been killed in the demonstrations.
critics say the legislation discriminates against the country’ 200 million strong muslim population, with many fearing they could become stateless.
but the move by prime minister narendra modi is popular with his hindu supporters.
from delhi, here’ rajini vaidyanathan.
is this a moment of reckoning for the world’ largest democracy, as anger over a controversial citizenship law intensifies?
scenes of defiance, protesters ignoring curfews, police accused of heavy—handed tactics.
hundreds of thousands across this vast and diverse nation have taken to the streets to oppose a law they say discriminates against muslims.
it offers fast—track citizenship for illegal immigrants from three neighbouring countries, except muslims.
the government says it is to protect religious minorities fleeing persecution.
india prides itself on its secular principles, the right to equality for all faiths.
but many fear that, by making religion a condition of citizenship, that core fundamental principle is now at stake.
muslims say they are living in fear.
the government is planning to publish a nationwide register of citizens, in which everyone would have to prove they are indian.
those who can’ would be considered illegal immigrants, with only non—muslims afforded protection under the new citizenship law.
"i don’ trust the government," she tells me.
"if they don’ accept my documents, which prove i’ indian, then what will i do?
" pressure is mounting on india’ prime minister, narendra modi, but he still has huge support for his hindu nationalist agenda.
tonight in delhi, 3 group of his supporters came out to defend the citizenship act.
a lot of people are saying that it is against muslims, but it is not against muslims.
it is only against — only for.
it is not against anyone.
it is for minorities in three neighbouring countries, pakistan, afghanistan and bangladesh, where islam is a state religion.
this week’ large—scale protest represents the first real dissent against modi’ government.
some fear the country is inching closer to becoming a hindu state, and worry that india’ secular soul is at stake.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the international criminal court’ chief prosecutor says she believes war crimes have been committed in the israeli—occupied palestinian territories.
fatou bensouda says she wants to launch an investigation but needs the court to establish first if they have authority over these areas.
officials in russia say they’ve established the identity of the gunman who opened fire at the headquarters of the country’ main security agency, the .
one officer was killed on thursday, while a second has died from his wounds in the last few hours.
another four people were wounded.
the motive for the attack remains unclear.
three and a half years after the voted to leave the european union, have voted overwhelmingly in favour of the government’ brexit bill.
the legislation now paves the way for boris johnson to deliver his promise by the end of next month.
the prime minister won the vote easily, with six opposition labour backing the government.
the united nations has warned of a rapid increase in hunger and disease amongst displaced people in syria.
it follows the decision by russia and china to veto a measure to keep aid flowing to civilians.
fighting between the government forces and rebels in the north—western province of idlib has been intensifying — with thousands fleeing their homes.
bill hayton reports.
this is the corner post, one of four places where aid can cross into stop on friday was the syria stop but on friday was the scene of demonstrations.
thousands ple march to protest what they of peopla march to protest what they see as turkeys elaboration with a wed offensive in idlib province.
collaboration.
syrian government ces, acked by russia, moving into the north—west of idlib, ing tens thousands to flee.
forcing tens of thousands to ﬂee.
the road towards the border is now of trucks heading to safety.
: they were bombing us.
ldn’ sleep.
they were using every type of weapon, including and rockets.
the latest exit is only adds to the numbers needing he says it fed over aid.
the says it fed overi million people in october with —border supplies.
at that rogramme ell and on nuary ten, unless it renewed.
on friday, sia and china blocked an extension, causing outrage from the can ambassador.
this decision reckless, irresponsible, and .
there is no ustification imaginabla for any member of this rity ouncil leaving vulnerable syrian civilians with fewer means of ing vital aid.
russia wants two of the eight crossing points closed.
rom jordan and iraq.
leaving the two keys roots.
it also was the mission length reduced to onth.
it’ ambassador blamed other countries for blocking the aid al.
renewal.
: who won today?
nobody.
st?
those who lost were the yrian people.
not attempt to shift ame for this on us.
with two eks eft until the callan esolution expires, there is still for agreement.
but it looks as compromised will be hard to ach.
in the meantime, the tuation in syria gets more esperate.
bill hayton, news.
facebook says it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties to a conservative news outlet that uses fake profile photos, generated with the help of artificial intelligence.
researchers said the facebook and instagram fake profiles, generate thousands of personalities who emphasise support for president trump and opposition to the chinese government.
what’ been happening here.
it sounds very worrying, doesn’ it?
and it what technology can achieve these days.
generating these images, in terms of generating these images, faces that look like profile shots rdinary ple, but they are of ordinary peopla, but they are fake, they are generated by rithms.
there is absolutely nothing real about them.
they don’ sent real people.
but they have represent real people.
but they have been generated by users in vietnam, cebook, purporting to be say facebook, purporting to be americans.
and they have removed ral hundred of these facebook ounts, as you say, along with nstagram sites and various pages as hat carried with the messages that were anti— china, that were pro , or generated conversations about family or impeachment or the hot button issues that are in at the moment —— donald mp.
what is social media trump.
what is the social media giant been saying about all of this at it is doing to combat this sort of thing?
well, this is an ing battle, of course, for acebook and it has faced similar lams of course, going back to he last american election in 2016, the threat was from russia.
then the key threat was from russia.
but this was coming from a different the world.
and this is in athway facebook have been very open revealing what they have found ow.
and they are digging into the nology.
they are trying to find and really get ahead of those ple who can generate these kinds images.
the erts who have been looking at this say they have been ntially quite startled at how they are.
how easy it is to erate these images.
and they have ever seen anything quite like it these, i suppose, artificial being to send out false nformation, disinformation in ial media.
peter bowes in los ngeles.
ank you very much.
stay with us on news.
still to come: we meet the italian engineer who makes sure that less well off children don’ miss out on toys.
the world of news has been paying tribute to george michael, el, who has died of suspected heart failure at the age of 53.
he sold well over 100 million albums in a career spanning more than three decades.
the united states troops have been trying to overthrow the dictatorship of general manuel noriega.
the pentagon has says it has failed in its principle objective to capture him and take him to the united states.
the hammer and sickle was hastily taken away.
in its place, the russian flag was hoisted over what is now no longer the soviet union, but the commonwealth of independent states.
day broke slowly over lockerbie, over the cockpit of pan am’ maiden of the seas, nosedown in the soft earth.
you could see what happens when a plane eight stories high, a football pitch wide, falls from 30,000 feet.
christmas has returned to albania after a communist ban lasting more than 20 years.
thousands went to midnight mass, where there were anti—communist riots ten days ago.
this is news.
the latest headlines: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
one of the pioneers of new approaches to international development, sir fazle hasan abed, has died.
he was 83.
he founded the bangladesh rural advancement committee, also known as , in 1972.
it’ now one of the world’ largest ngos, operating in 11 asian and african countries.
is said to have lifted 150 million people out of poverty.
someone who knew sir fazle hasan abed is nicholas kristof, columnist with the new york times.
hejoins me now from oregon in the .
thank you so much for joining us here on news.
talk to me about ell you knew sir fazle hasan bed and how you knew him.
sol met through us conferences him through various conferences and then visited bangladesh because it of an inspiring model of at education and the empowerment women and an organisation like could achieve and it really was of extraordinary how angladesh, which henry kissinger amously dismissed as the had famously dismissed as the world’ basketcase back in beginning he 19705, has enjoyed conomic growth and fertility growth was not hard because abed and it was not hard because abed focused on education and empowering , impoverished women and today, here are ore girls in high school bangladesh boys because that in bangladesh than boys herause that is a remarkable achievement and in ays that is many ways that is abed’ fingerprints on it.
sol saw him at conferences and in bangladesh and i grew to enormously admire what he one, not only in his own ountry but later expanding that afghanistan, south sudan, and really a giant over the last century in global development.
he was so passionate, wasn’ he, and so -- driven so passionate patient -- driven and so passionate about global development.
what do ink his egacy is going to be?
you think his legacy is going to be?
so i think it is a few things.
one ing to be that when he began in development space, it was really westerners sitting round conference rooms in places like on and washington and deciding what was best for people in villages a orld away.
and that never really worked.
and abed was a leader developing world’ in the developing world’ own responses to poverty and the truth when there was local is that when there was oral ownership it worked a lot better.
now, the did a lot of you know, the did a lot of projects in afghanistan, they were successful.
negritude did not vastly successful.
negritude did work in afghanistan did .
the local work.
the local ownership development, i think another is his sis on education and on emphasis on education and on empowering of women and the returns you get from that and in recent, i don’ think it was something he began early in his career but over the 15 years or so he was ncreasingly involved in ing randomised controlled trials to test ventions and see how well they orked.
if there was a armaceutical trial.
and that been a pioneering step in elopment, nobel prize for onomics went to three economists orked on them and in some cases with or on — inspired rammes i think he leaves a uge legacy at the top tiers of elopment but also in villages ound the world, kids who otherwise have died who are here because his work.
nicholas, it is good to you on the programme.
thank you or your time.
my pleasure.
the duke of edinburgh, husband of queen elizabeth, is spending the night in a london hospital.
royal officials say the duke, who is 98, has been taken there as a precautionary measure for a pre—existing condition.
the queen is at her sandringham estate in the east of england, where she arrived on friday morning.
nasa hopes the boeing starliner craft could be used to ferry passengers to and from the international space station, but a test flight in florida failed to go as planned.
jonathan amos reports.
: and lift-off for the starliner, a new era in human space flight.
a new era perhaps, but notjust yet.
boeing launched its starliner capsule on time from cape canaveral in florida, but the automated ship then failed to carry out its commands properly.
when it came off the top of the rocket, it was supposed to fire its engines to increase its height.
it did, but at the wrong time, and for too long.
the starliner put itself in the wrong part of the sky.
it can no longer reach the space station and will have to come home.
the american space agency has been overseeing the development of the capsule.
nasa has provided milestone payments to help boeing bring the vehicle into operation.
and despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
if we would’ve had crew in there, number one, they would have been safe.
to be very clear, our crew would have been safe.
and, in fact, had they been in there, we very well may have been orbiting or docking with the international space station tomorrow, had they been in the spacecraft.
so a lot of things went right today and i want to be really clear — a lot of things went right, and this is we test and because we are now in orbit and because, in fact, elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data and a lot more information in the coming days.
so this is all very positive.
nasa has not been able to launch its own astronauts to orbit for nearly nine years.
when it retired the shuttles in 2011, it ceased to operate space vehicles and it bought seats to the space station in russian capsules instead.
nasa would rather spend its money handling rides on american—built space taxi services.
—— nasa would rather spend its money hailing rides on american—built space taxi services.
another enterprise, california’ spacex company, has already completed its test flight of its astronaut capsule.
the dragon craft made a flawless trip to the orbiting lab in march.
spacex looks set to start flying astronauts for real in the next few months.
quite how far behind today’ events put boeing is unclear.
engineers will need to inspect the starliner when they get it back on earth.
nasa is determined that it should have a choice of capsules in the future.
boeing is certain to again.
jonathan amos, news.
christmas is coming.
all around the world, millions of children will be hoping for a visit from santa.
some less well—off youngsters may miss out on getting a toy but a retired engineerfrom rome is determined to do something about that, as tim allman explains.
his name is guido but it may as well be geppetto.
a former engineer with an italian airline, he now devotes himself to repairing and restoring toys.
lots and lots of toys.
anything up to 70 a day, in fact, and it is all in a good cause.
: take this one, for example.
some toy shops give us the faulty toys that they cannot sell.
this one, i have repaired it and it works now.
and these new toys we send to hospitals.
notjust hospitals.
this charity also provides playthings to the children of refugees, or kids whose parents have lost theirjobs — any youngster who wants a moment ofjoy and a toy of their own.
: we call these objects re—loved, since they are loved twice.
first, by the parents of the children who donated them and then, they are loved by the children who receive them.
so we reuse objects and avoid wasting plastic.
they distribute around 20,000 toys.
cars, action figures, teddies, toys, dolls, guido tinkers away at them all.
his greatest reward, he says, are the smiles on the children’ faces.
tim allman, news.
but is such a lovely story to endon now.
—— to end .
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @bbcmaryam.
and of course, you can see all of the stories we are talking about on bsite.
ack in a couple of our website.
back in a couple of minutes with the headlines but thank joining .
goodbye.
good morning.
what a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
in fact, friday afternoon, these were fairly typical weather watcher pictures across parts of central and southern england in particular.
in fact, by close of play on friday, there were over 90 flood warnings in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend, well, do go to the weather website for the latest updates on the flood warnings, and also any met office warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy, with hail and thunder.
windy conditions following on behind before another weather front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on saturday.
50 saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
the best of the sunshine perhaps on saturday, likely to be for the far north of scotland.
slowly brightening up as well across parts of england and wales for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push into the south—west by the end of the day.
a cooler feeling in scotland, five or six degrees.
double digits quite widely further south.
now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily east but it is going to clear off into the near continent through the early hours of saturday night into sunday morning.
and then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start into sheltered eastern areas of scotland, maybe a touch of light frost here.
too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
and still some bits and pieces of rain first thing on sunday morning.
but sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers.
still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of wind not out of the question.
cooler again in scotland, five or six.
higher values of nine or ten further south.
it looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time.
showers will ease away on monday and by tuesday, christmas eve, it will be drier and quieter.
what on earth is happening, you may ask?
it looks as though father christmas might be granting us our wish and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment with high pressure building on christmas eve into christmas day, that will quieten things down quite nicely.
it means the chance of a white christmas is very remote indeed but it does mean a good deal of weather in the forecast.
so our christmas week is looking like this — a showery start, drying up nicely for christmas eve and christmas day, there is the potential for more rain arriving late in the week.
take care.
this is news.
the headlines: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
the australian prime minister scott morrison has apologised for going on a family holiday to hawaii while his country was dealing with the bushfire emergency.
at least six people have been killed in india, as police tried to contain a further day of protests about a new citizenship law.
police used tear gas and batons but denied firing on demonstrators.
the law allows fast—track citizenship for religious refugees from neighbouring countries but excludes muslims.
russia and china have vetoed a security council resolution that would have allowed aid to continue flowing to civilians in northern a aid chief warned that without an agreement there’ be a rapid increase in hunger and disease, and more deaths.
now, take a front row seat as film critic mark kermode takes a look back at the big releases of the year — in review 2019: the year in film.
hi, i’ mark kermode.
we’re here at the cinema museum in south london.
over the next half an hour, i’ll be looking back at some of the best movies released in cinemas in 2019.
films from around the world, from big—budget blockbusters to smaller indie gems, from widescreen full—colour spectacle to more intimate black—and—white experimentation.
release of several films that opened in america in 2018 in time to qualify for the oscars.
in a weird echo of the 1990 academy awards, when driving miss daisy won best picture — for which category spike lee’ infinitely superior do the right thing wasn’ even nominated — this year, the likeable but bland green book beat to the top prize.
although spike lee did triumph in the screenplay category, earning his first competitive academy award.
that child is your grandchild!
what difference does it make how it gets here?
in the acting categories, regina king and mahershala ali proved deserving winners for their supporting roles in if beale street could talk and green book respectively, while rami malek won best actor for his remarkable turn as freddie mercury in bohemian rhapsody.
for me for british audiences, however, it was olivia colman’ winning turn as queen anne in greek director yorgos lanthimos’ the favourite that proved the highlight of the evening, with one of the funniest and most self—deprecating acceptance speeches ever.
did you just look at me?
stop it!
i am the queen.
but you are mad.
you look like a badger.
i have sent for some lobsters.
i thought we could race them and then eat them.
particularly significant was the fact that roma won three oscars, including best foreign language film, dispelling any doubts about the cinematic legitimacy of netﬂix productions, about which institutions such as the cannes film festival had previously proved very sniffy.
this year, netﬂix has a number of productions up for awards consideration, with titles as diverse as noah baumbach’ marriage story and martin scorsese’ the irishman shaping up as serious oscar contenders.
both have already picked up best picture nods at the golden globes alongside other netflix releases the two popes and dolemite is my name.
you’re going to jail for a long time.
you going to have to take me!
cut, cut!
although arguments about big and small—screen productions continue to rage, fuelled in part by steven spielberg’ comments about movies not deserving oscar nominations, the area in which netﬂix really proved their worth this year is in the realm of animation.
got to work.
what happened 7 you just sit there and be all magical and awesome.
along with the release of their first self—produced animated feature klaus, an adventurous christmas tale from spanish director sergio pablos, netﬂix also picked up the distribution rights of one of my favourite films of 2019, the french gem i lost my body.
a tale of broken hearts and severed body parts, jeremy clapin’ feature debut, freely adapted from the book happy hand by guillaume laurant, is a genuine wonder, which made history by becoming the first animated feature to take the top prize in the critics week section at cannes in may.
there were a number of historic firsts at cannes this year.
parasite, a biting social satire from director bong joon—ho, which doesn’ open in the until february, became the first korean film to win the palme ’or.
meanwhile, mati diop, a french—senegalese film—maker, became the first black women to helm a palme ’or contender with atlantics, which went on to win the grand prix.
oh, and netﬂix picked that one up, too.
other cannes prize—winners included celine sciamma, who won best screenplay for portrait of a lady on fire, and emily beecham, who won best actress for little joe, both of which open here in february 2020, just in time to qualify for the baftas.
no, i have to run.
meanwhile, the cannes best actor award went to antonio banderas for his brilliant portrayal of a film—maker struggling to move forward in pedro almodovar’ semi—autobiographical pain and glory.
as just one of several foreign language films which opened in the in 2019, reminding us that cinema is a truly international art form.
this year, cinemagoers could feast on a wide range of treats from around the world.
from colombia, we had birds of passage, an arresting tale of gangsters and spirits from the creators of embrace of the serpent, who described its birth of the drug trade narrative as addressing the great tragedy that will curse us forever, the great taboo that we’re not allowed to discuss.
writer—director nadine labaki, the deserved oscar nomination for capernaum, which became both the highest grossing arabic film and the highest grossing middle eastern film of all time.
the story concerns a young boy growing up in lebanon who attempts to sue his parents for bringing him into a world so full of suffering and strife.
from german director florian henckel von donnersmarck, who won an oscar for the lives of others, came never look away, an impressive meditation on art and morality, inspired by the early life of gerhard richter.
from german director florian henckel von donnersmarck, who won an oscar for the lives of others, came never look away, an impressive meditation on art and morality, inspired by the early life of gerhard richter.
meanwhile, swedish actress halldora geirharosdottir excelled in women at war, a jet—black comedy about an eco—warrior fighting to save the planet from destruction, accompanied by an on—screen musical trio that provides surreal greek choral accompaniment — with drums, accordion and sousaphone at the ready.
music, of course, has always been at the heart of cinema, and this year saw a plethora of brilliant scores breathing life into a dizzying range of movies.
my own favourites included clint mansell’ moody, jazzy score for out of blue, a murder mystery about life, the universe and everything which was rather overlooked when it opened here in march, but which i predict will go on to become an enduring cult classic.
makes me want to lay across all the water.
april saw the release of eighth grade, 3 coming—of—age tale boasting an mesmerizing electronica accompaniment by anna meredith.
what’ wrong, dad?
please tell me.
your nana’ dying.
she does not know, so you can’ say anything.
in september, the farewell served up a bittersweet tale of chinese family loyalties played out to alex weston’ unexpectedly quirky music.
and in november, we got monos, a fable about child soldiers from colombian—ecudadorian writer—director alejandro landes, from which mica levi conjured sounds that are as strange and enthralling as the movie itself.
my favourite film score of the year, however, was by icelandic composer hildur guonadottir, whose brooding themes lent real depth to one of the year’ most successful and controversial releases, joker.
would you please stop bothering my kid?
sorry.
directed by todd phillips — best known for the hangover movies — joker, which drew in equal measure on alan moore’ the killing joke and scorsese’ king of comedy, premiered to an eight—minute standing ovation at the venice film festival in august, where it scooped the top prize.
but almost immediately, a backlash began, with critics using words such as toxic, cynical and irresponsible to describe the film’ relentlessly embittered and allegedly glorified tone.
but none of that could stop it from becoming a box office hit, surpassing deadpool to become the highest grossing —rated movie of all time, albeit unadjusted for inflation.
joker also arrived on the scene at exactly the moment that some old—school directors decided to get off their bikes about comic book movies.
in a year in which the biggest box office hits included captain marvel, spider—man: far from home and, of course, avengers: endgame, martin scorsese caused uproar among fans by claiming that marvel movies aren’ cinema, comparing them instead to theme park rides that said little about the human condition and had no mystery about them.
francis ford coppola, who — let’ be honest about this — hasn’ made a decent film in decades, went further, calling marvel—type movies despicable.
now, all of this sounds suspiciously like a bunch of grumpy old white men complaining that everything was better in their day, when men were men and movies were real movies.
colleague simon mayo, the mystery that scorsese is talking about, it’ is in black panther, but he didn’ get that there was this feeling of being unsure, of not knowing what was going to happen that black people feel cos we never had a superhero like this before, said boseman.
maybe scorsese didn’ get that when he watched it — that’ cultural.
oof!
there was a similar sense of cultural change afoot when pinar toprak became the first woman to score a movie from the marvel cinematic universe with captain marvel, a film that, like ’ wonder woman, has started to rebalance long—standing gender stereotypes.
other big hitters at the 2019 box office inevitably included family—friendly sequels, such as disney’ long—awaited toy story 4 and more recently frozen .
wow!
this place is amazing.
wasn’ buzz going to meet us here?
he must be held up somewhere.
up here, astro boy.
if you think you can take our top prize spot, you’re wrong.
dead wrong.
help me get out of here.
0, i’ll help you — with my foot!
how do you like that?
to infinity and my foot!
boom!
in the vacuum of space, they cannot hear you scream!
the house of mouse also continued its mission to repackage its back catalogue through live—action remakes, like guy ritchie’ aladdin.
you look like a prince on the outside.
but i didn’ change anything on the inside.
showtime.
no, i’ in charge, 0?
i say when it’ time.
really?
the most baffling of these, however, wasjon favreau’ reboot of the lion king, which used photorealist animation to create something that looked absolutely real while remaining absolutely unreal.
and in my opinion, absolutely pointless.
if you want reality, the best place to find it is in documentaries.
and one of the most powerful documentaries of 2019 was for same, an astonishing front—line account of life under siege in aleppo filmed by a syrian citizen journalist.
constructed as a letter to her daughter, the film asks will you blame me for staying here or blame me for leaving?
a question raised as we see her and her medic husband returning to the besieged city to tend to the wounded, dodging bullets and barrel bombs with young sama in their arms.
altogether less traumatic was amazing grace, a music documentary that took the best part of five decades to make it to our screens.
shot over two nights in 1972, it documents aretha franklin’ performance at the new temple missionary baptist church in los angeles, which became the biggest selling live gospel album of all time.
oscar—winner sydney pollack directed the shoot, but with his background in drama rather than music docs, he failed to use clapperboards or markers, making it virtually impossible to the resulting picture to the recorded sound.
now, finally new technology solved the problem, and it was worth the wait.
going to say it one more time.
i’ so glad!
i’ve got religion!
three years before aretha made those extraordinary baptist church recordings, neil became the first man to set foot on the moon, an event which marked its 50th anniversary in 2019.
unsurprisingly, cinema joined in the celebrations with the documentary apollo 11 using remarkable footage to revisit those epochal events, putting the viewer right there in that tin can that miraculously made it to the moon and back.
on the fictional front, there were also several movies this year that portrayed space as the final frontier.
the most high—profile of these was james gray’ ad astra, which was pitched as 2001 meets apocalypse now but was actually more like event horizon with added interstellar overdrive.
ad astra may have had a big star name to fall on in brad pitt, but so did french director claire denis’ altogether more adventurous high life, in which robert pattison joined a misfit crew on a voyage into the heart of darkness.
even though we’re forwards, getting farther from what’ getting nearer but my own personal favourite was aniara, an astonishing existential adventure adapted from an epic poem by swedish nobel laureate harry martinson.
i saw echoes of solaris and silent running in this tale of a transporter ship travelling from a ravaged earth to mars which gets knocked off course, leaving its passengers to unravel as deep space beckons.
down to earth and closer to home, 2019 proved a remarkable year for british film—makers, with a string of home—grown projects giving us some of the highlights of the year.
ladies and gentlemen, rose—lynn harlan!
and i lost my mind somewhere in mexico in april, jessie buckley earned her musical spurs in wild rose, a tale of a single mother living in glasgow but dreaming of travelling to nashville to find fame and fortune as a country singer.
on my side and i think it’ going to be along, longtime in may, dexter fletcher’ rocketman channelled the spirit of ken russell as it turned eltonjohn’ life into a rip—roaring pop fantasia, centred on a barnstorming central performance by taron egerton.
big night?
where’ your mask?
june saw the release of dirty god, sacha polak’ film about the survivor of an acid attack which boasted a starmaking performance from feature first—timer vicky knight, an extremely versatile actor who, on this evidence, could have a long and varied successful career ahead of her.
she really is astonishing.
then in september, we had a trio of home—grown modern classics that showcased the diversity of film—making in the .
she’ not coming to take him away.
you promise?
there’ so much we can do here now that you’re home.
from writer—director shola amoo came the semiautobiographical second feature the last tree, the story of a young man of nigerian heritage being uprooted from an idyllic rural childhood to face life on the mean streets of london.
it’ a very powerful film featuring a breakthrough performance by sam adewunmi.
i have not got that much room.
you’ve got a foot on that side.
and i literally am on the ledge.
i’ve got nowhere to go.
also in september, we had the release ofjoanna hogg’ the souvenir, recently voted best film of 2019 by sight & sound magazine.
another autobiographically inspired work, the souvenir starred honor swinton byrne as a young film—maker who falls into a relationship with tom burke’ sinisterly mysterious anthony.
it’ a very personal film, tender, frequently funny but insidiously suffocating.
i’ just playing, julie.
stop torturing yourself.
i’ not torturing myself.
you’re inviting me to torture you.
for me, howver, the very best film of the year was bait, the breakthrough feature from cornish film—maker markjenkin.
i can’ speak for everyone.
give it a bloody good go, then.
as a resident, as a homeowner a tourist chairman of the committee someone who spent a lot of time investing a great deal of money in supporting local industry!
a refreshingly authentic tale of tensions between locals and tourists in a once—thriving fishing village, it’ an evocative portrait of familiar culture classes in an area where traditional trades and lifestyles are under threat.
shot with clockwork cameras on grainy 60mm stock, which jenkin hand-processed in his studio, bait is both an impassioned celebration of cornwall’ proud past and a bracingly tragicomic portrait of its troubled present and possible future.
it’ a genuine modern masterpiece which establishesjenkin as one of the most arresting and intriguing british film—makers of his generation.
now, i hope that bait get the recognition it deserves at the baftas.
it’ exactly the kind of film that a british award ceremony should be celebrating.
so, if i have to come in, you won’ come and visit me?
they’re not going to bring you injust for a cyst.
all i knew is it felt serious.
that’ just because of all the sick people around you.
you see the nonsense you talk?
how do you get through life?
you’re still here with me.
i’ just doing that out of spite.
i’ also like to see bafta nominations for ordinary love, in which lesley manville and liam neeson face up to a diagnosis of breast cancer.
brilliantly written by belfast playwright owen mccafferty and directed by glenn leyburn and lisa barros ’sa, who made the life—affirming good vibrations, ordinary love is a remarkable picture that approaches a difficult subject matter with wit, honesty and a large dose of humour.
due to a delayed american release, ordinary love won’ be eligible for the forthcoming 92nd academy awards.
so what are the likely contenders?
i’ rick dalton.
it’ my pleasure, schwartz.
call me marvin.
put it there.
is that your son?
no, that’ my stunt double, cliff booth.
well, alongside the films revert he mentioned, we can probably expect to see some recognition for once upon a time in hollywood, quentin tarantino’ paean to the end of cinema’ age of innocence.
after all, oscar voters traditionally love movies about making movies.
line!
cut!
you embarrassed yourself up in front of all those people!
i intend to make my own way in the world.
no one makes their own way, least of all a woman.
you’ll need to marry well.
but you are not married.
that’ because i’ rich.
there’ plenty of oscar buzz, too, around greta gerwig’ little women.
it’ the latest adaptation of louisa may alcott’ timeless novel and it’ drawing critical plaudits.
particularly for leading lady saoirse ronan.
who is that guy?
blanc is a private investigator of great renown.
rianjohnson’ knives out is a possible contender, too, using an all—star cast to breathe new life into an old agatha christie style whodunit.
i suspect foul play.
where’ jason?
and jordan peele’ us is an outside contender with its mix of horror and social satire.
who knows how these movies will fare with oscar voters?
as always with awards, the one that you can be certain of is that the results will probably make you want to scream as much as cheer.
i’ll leave you with a taste of something that’ become a modern christmas tradition — a new star wars movie, still packing out cinemas for 42 years after a new hope first landed, reminding us that, when it comes to the movies, some things remain the same.
we spotted the fugitives.
0, they now!
good morning.
what a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
in fact, on friday afternoon, these were fairly typical weather watcher pictures across parts of central and southern england in particular.
in fact, by close of play on friday, there were over 90 flood warnings in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend, well, do go to the weather website for the latest updates on the flood warnings, and also any met office warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy, with hail and thunder.
windy conditions following on behind before another weather front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on saturday.
50 saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
the best of the sunshine perhaps on saturday, likely to be for the far north of scotland.
slowly brightening up as well across parts of england and wales for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push into the south—west by the end of the day.
a cooler feel in scotland, five or six degrees.
double digits quite widely further south.
now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards but it is going to clear off into the near continent through the early hours of saturday night into sunday morning.
and then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start into sheltered eastern areas of scotland, maybe a touch of light frost here.
too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
and still some bits and pieces of rain first thing on sunday morning.
but sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers around.
but still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out of the question.
cooler again in scotland, five or six degrees but higher values of nine or ten further south.
it looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time, though.
showers will ease away on monday and by tuesday, christmas eve, it will be drier and quieter.
what on earth is happening, you may ask.
it looks as though father christmas might be granting us our wish and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment with high pressure building on christmas eve into christmas day.
that will quieten things down quite nicely.
it means the chance of a white christmas is very remote indeed but it does mean a good deal of weather in the forecast.
so our christmas week is looking like this — a showery start, drying up nicely for christmas eve and christmas day, there is the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
take care.
this is news.
welcome if you’re watching here in the , on in america, or around the globe.
i’ maryam moshiri.
our top stories: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
at least six people die in northern india during another day of big protests against the country’ new citizenship law.
facebook says it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties to a conservative news outlet.
and stuck in orbit.
boeing’ mission to the international space station didn’ quite go as planned.
firefighters in the australian state of new south wales were bracing for what are being termed "catastrophic" fire conditions.
temperatures have soared above a0 degrees and are set to fuel more than a hundred fires burning across the state.
in south australia, one person has died overnight in a blaze east of adelaide.
the prime minister scott morrison, widely criticised for being on holiday during the crisis, is expected back in australia over the weekend.
i got the latest from our reporter phil mercer.
we have, as you say, a catastrophic fire warning for three large areas here in new south wales.
more than 100 fires are burning across australia’ most populous state.
roads have been closed, rail services have been disrupted, and what with just a few days left until christmas, summer holidaymakers hoping to go north, south, and west of sydney have been urged to stay at home today and to delay their trip until tomorrow, because conditions are very, very dangerous, as you say, very hot temperatures in parts of new south wales.
we also have a prediction of very strong winds later.
so that is a real menace for firefighters.
hot temperatures, very conditions underfoot, and those winds will make those fires increasingly unpredictable.
fires burning to in the state of victoria, also in south australia and on the other side of the continent in western australia fire crews battling blazes there too.
so it’ another brutal day in australia’ summer.
amid all this the prime minister, scott morrison, criticised for going on holiday to hawaii, is on his way back now.
he is.
and one would imagine that he will get quite a reception when he gets home.
many australians very angry that their prime minister decided to take a holiday to hawaii at a time of crisis.
morrison has issued a statement saying that he deeply regrets any offence caused to those australians affected by the bushfires.
and it’ not just the fact that morrison has gone on holiday during this emergency.
many australians wondering about his attitude to climate change and the role that they are playing in australia’ bushfire crisis.
morrison has acknowledged that global warming is a factor in australia’ emergency.
safe to say when morrison lands today, here in australia, his handling of this emergency will come under immense scrutiny.
and of course there have been deaths, as well, haven’ there, including a couple of volunteer firefighters.
we were down yesterday near the town of buxton, where these two firefighters died.
a tree hit their fire engine, causing the vehicle to roll over.
those two volunteer firefighters were men in their 305.
and, once again, it does underscore the dangers facing firefighters, many of them are volunteers here in new south wales, backed up by professional crews as well.
we were quite close to a dam, a lake near the town of bargo in this enormous helicopter, a water bombing aircraft came down with a giant hose, sucking up water, before going off to fight the fires.
so in many ways it is a military—style operation, boots on the ground supported by those squadrons of water bombing aircraft.
but, tragically, the death of those two firefighters does illustrate the dangers on the front line.
and of course, phil, this is the fire season.
is it that the fires this year have been so bad?
scientists are telling us that this annual fire season is not only starting earlier, it’ likely to last longer, and is more intense.
so bushfires have always been part of the australian story.
long before the europeans arrived, bushfires are a fact of life in this country.
but what worries many scientists and other people is that they seem to be starting earlier and they are far more intense.
now, scientists can’ say that that particular bushfire west of sydney or a fire in western australia is directly caused by climate change, but what they do say is that global warming is making the conditions here dryer and that is a massive factor in these bushfires.
here in eastern australia, for example, we’ve had a very long drought.
so what you have, you have conditions underfoot, you have no rain, strong winds, and hot temperatures.
in those conditions do conspire to heighten the fire danger.
as we say here in new south wales, three major areas facing catastrophic conditions.
and that’ as bad as it gets.
there are various levels of rate in this country and catastrophic is right at the very top.
phil mercer there.
there have been more mass protests in india today over a controversial new citizenship law.
at least six people have been killed in the demonstrations.
critics say the legislation discriminates against the country’ 200 million strong muslim population, with many fearing they could become stateless.
but the move by prime minister, narendra modi, is popular with his hindu supporters.
from delhi, here’ rajini vaidyanathan.
is this a moment of reckoning for the world’ largest democracy, as anger over a controversial citizenship law intensifies?
scenes of defiance, protesters ignoring curfews, police accused of heavy—handed tactics.
hundreds of thousands across this vast and diverse nation have taken to the streets to oppose a law they say discriminates against muslims.
it offers fast—track citizenship for illegal immigrants from three neighbouring countries, except muslims.
the government says it is to protect religious minorities fleeing persecution.
india prides itself on its secular principles, the right to equality for all faiths.
but many fear that, by making religion a condition of citizenship, that core fundamental principle is now at stake.
muslims say they are living in fear.
the government is planning to publish a nationwide register of citizens, in which everyone would have to prove they are indian.
those who can’ would be considered illegal immigrants, with only non—muslims afforded protection under the new citizenship law.
"i don’ trust the government," she tells me.
"if they don’ accept my documents, which prove i’ indian, then what will i do?
" pressure is mounting on india’ prime minister, narendra modi, but he still has huge support for his hindu nationalist agenda.
tonight in delhi, 3 group of his supporters came out to defend the citizenship act.
a lot of people are saying that it is against muslims, but it is not against muslims.
it is only against — only for.
it is not against anyone.
it is for minorities in three neighbouring countries, pakistan, afghanistan and bangladesh, where islam is a state religion.
this week’ large—scale protest represents the first real dissent against modi’ government.
some fear the country is inching closer to becoming a hindu state, and worry that india’ secular soul is at stake.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the international criminal court’ chief prosecutor says she believes war crimes have been committed in the israeli—occupied palestinian territories.
fatou bensouda says she wants to launch an investigation but needs the court to establish first if they have authority over these areas.
three and a half years after the voted to leave the european union, have voted overwhelmingly in favour of the government’ brexit bill.
the legislation now paves the way for boris johnson to deliver his promise by the end of next month.
the prime minister won the vote easily, with six opposition labour backing the government.
president trump has said he wants an immediate impeachment trial.
writing on twitter, he said the democrats had zero proof of anything.
the republican leader in the senate, where an impeachment trial would be held, says there’ still no agreement with democrats about how to proceed.
the united nations has warned of a rapid increase in hunger and disease amongst displaced people in syria.
it follows the decision by russia and china to veto a measure to keep aid flowing to civilians.
fighting between the government forces and rebels in the north—western province of idlib has been intensifying, with thousands fleeing their homes.
bill hayton reports.
this is the bab al—hawa border post, one of four places where aid can cross into syria.
but on friday it was the scene of demonstrations.
thousands of people marched to protest what they see as turkey’ collaboration with a renewed offensive in idlib province.
syrian government forces, backed by russia, moving into the north—west of idlib, forcing tens of thousands to flee.
the road towards the border is new full of trucks heading for safety.
: they were bombing us.
we couldn’ sleep.
they were using every type of weapon, including bombs and rockets.
the latest exodus only adds to the numbers needing aid.
the says it fed overl million people in october with cross—border supplies.
but that programme will end onjanuary 10, unless it is renewed.
on friday, russia and china blocked an extension, causing outrage from the american ambassador.
this decision is reckless, irresponsible, and cruel.
there is nojustification imaginable for any member of this security council leaving vulnerable syrian civilians with fewer means of securing vital aid.
russia wants two of the aid crossing points closed — those from jordan and iraq.
leaving only the two turkish routes.
it also wants the mission length reduced to six months.
its ambassador blamed other countries for blocking the aid renewal.
: who won today?
nobody.
who lost?
those who lost were the syrian people.
do not attempt to shift blame for this on us.
with two weeks left until the current resolution expires, there’ still time for agreement.
but it looks as if compromise will be hard to reach.
in the meantime, the situation in syria gets more desperate.
bill hayton, news.
facebook says it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties to a conservative news outlet that uses fake profile photos generated with the help of artificial intelligence.
researchers said the facebook and instagram fake profiles generate thousands of personalities who emphasise support for president trump and opposition to the chinese government.
our north america correspondent peter bowes is following the story from los angeles.
this is, say a lot of people, very worrying.
and it shows what technology can achieve these days.
in terms of generating these images, faces that look like profile shots of ordinary people, but they are fake, they are generated by algorithms.
there’ absolutely nothing real about them.
they don’ represent real people.
but they have been generated by users in vietnam, say facebook, purporting to be americans.
and they’ve removed several hundred of these facebook accounts, as you say, along with instagram sites and various pages as well that carried with the, messages that were anti—china, that were pro—trump, or generated conversations about family values or impeachment, a lot of those hot button issues that are in the news at the moment.
what is the social media giant been saying about all of this and what it’ doing to combat this sort of thing?
well, this is an ongoing battle, of course, for facebook and it’ faced similar problems of course, going back to the last american election in 2016, then the key threat was from russia.
but this was coming from a different part of the world.
and this is in part facebook have been very open about revealing what they have found now.
and they are digging into the technology.
they are trying to find out and really get ahead of those people who can generate these kinds of images.
the experts who have been looking at this say they have been essentially quite startled at how good they are.
how easy it is to generate these images.
and they’ve never seen anything quite like it with these, i suppose, artificial faces being used to send out false information, disinformation in social media.
peter bowes in los angeles.
stay with us on news.
still to come: we meet the italian engineer who makes sure that less well off children don’ miss out on toys.
the world of music has been paying tribute to george michael, who’ died from suspected heart failure at the age of 53.
he sold well over 100 million albums in a career spanning more than three decades.
the united states’ troops have been trying to overthrow the dictatorship of general manuel noriega.
the pentagon says it’ failed in its principle objective to capture noriega and take him to the united states to face drugs charges.
the hammer and sickle was hastily taken away.
in its place, the russian flag was hoisted over what is now no longer the soviet union, but the commonwealth of independent states.
day broke slowly over lockerbie, over the cockpit of pan am’ maid of the seas, nosedown in the soft earth.
you could see what happens when a plane eight storeys high, a football pitch wide, falls from 30,000 feet.
christmas has returned to albania after a communist ban lasting more than 20 years.
thousands went to midnight mass in the town of shkoder, where there were anti—communist riots ten days ago.
this is world news.
the latest headlines: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
at least six people die in northern india during another day of big protests against the country’ new citizenship law.
poland’ parliament has adopted a law which will see major reform of the country’ judiciary, making it easier for the government to fire, fine or discipline judges.
the ruling law and justice party says reforms are necessary, but critics call it an attempt to stifle judges, and there have been widespread demonstrations.
rich preston reports.
the bill has been hugely controversial.
as it was being debated, people took to the streets outside parliament in support of the judges and judicial independence.
the changes give the government the power to discipline judges for what it calls "political activity," including questioning newjudges that the government appoints.
in a marathon debate, the ruling party argued the changes are necessary to prevent chaos in the judicial system.
: wea the rule of law most is what all the state of the judges.
he state in which the judges decide what is law and what is not.
but opposition lawmakers say it is an attempt to gag judges.
: the bill will subject polish courts and polishjudges to political control by the legislative and exacting bodies and reduce the level ofjudicial protection of individual rights.
there are concerns such sweeping changes to poland’ industry could contradict european law and force poland out of the .
: you are lying to the poles, claiming that these are european solutions, while the european commission says clearly, "please stop working on this shameful project".
the bill will now be sent to poland’ senate, which can delay the new law, but not block it.
rich preston, news.
one of the pioneers of new approaches to international development, sir fazle hasan abed, has died.
he was 83.
he founded the bangladesh rural advancement committee, also known as , in 1972.
it’ now one of the world’ largest ngos, operating in 11 asian and african countries.
is said to have lifted 150 million people out of poverty.
nicholas kristof is a columnist with the new york times who knew sir fazle.
he told me more about his legacy.
so i think it’ a few things.
one is that when he began in the development space, it was really about westerners sitting around conference rooms in places like london and washington and deciding what was best for people in villages half a world away.
and that never really worked terribly well.
and abed was a leader in the developing world’ own responses to poverty, and the truth is that when there was local ownership, it worked a lot better.
you know, the did a lot of projects in afghanistan.
they were not vastly successful.
did work in afghanistan.
when american—built tools were blown up, ’ continued.
so i think one is the local ownership development.
i think another is his emphasis on education and on empowering of women and the returns you get from that and in recent — i don’ think it was really something he really with began early in his career, but over the last 15 years or so he was increasingly involved in using randomised controlled trials to test interventions and see how well they worked, as if they were a pharmaceutical trial.
and that has been a pioneering step in development — the nobel prize for economics went to three economists who worked on them, in some cases with or —inspired programmes, so i think he, you know, he leaves a huge legacy at the top tiers of development, but also in villages around the world — kids who otherwise would have died who are here because of his work.
the duke of edinburgh, husband of queen elizabeth, is spending the night in a london hospital.
royal officials say the duke, who is 98, has been taken there as a precautionary measure for a pre—existing condition.
the queen is at her sandringham estate, in the east of england, where she arrived on friday morning.
america’ progress towards being able to return to putting its own people into space has hit a hurdle.
nasa hopes the boeing starliner craft could be used to ferry passengers to and from the international space station, but a test flight in florida failed to go as planned.
jonathan amos reports.
: and lift-off.
the rise of starliner.
a new era in human space flight.
a new era perhaps, but notjust yet.
boeing launched its starliner capsule on time from cape canaveral in florida, but the automated ship then failed to carry out its commands properly.
when it came off the top of the rocket, it was supposed to fire its engines to increase its height.
the starliner put itself in the wrong part of the sky.
it can no longer reach the space station and will have to come home.
the american space agency has been overseeing the development of the capsule.
nasa has provided milestone payments to help boeing bring the vehicle into operation.
and despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
if we would’ve had crew in there, number one, they would have been safe.
to be very clear, our crew would have been safe.
and, in fact, had they been in there, we very well may be orbiting or docking with the international space station tomorrow, had they been in the spacecraft.
so a lot of things went right today.
i want to be really clear — a lot of things went right, and this is we test and because we are now in orbit and in fact, elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data and a lot more information in the coming days.
so this is all — this is all very positive.
two, one, zero nasa has not been able to launch its own astronauts to orbit for nearly nine years.
when it retired the shuttles in 2011, it ceased to operate space vehicles and it bought seats to the space station in russian capsules instead.
nasa would rather spend its money hailing rides on american—built space taxi services.
another enterprise, california’ spacex company, has already completed its test flight of its astronaut capsule.
the dragon craft made a flawless trip to the orbiting lab in march.
spacex looks set to start flying astronauts for real in the next few months.
quite how far behind today’ events put boeing is unclear.
engineers will need to inspect the starliner when they get it back on earth.
nasa is determined, though, that it should have a choice of capsules in the future.
boeing is certain to again.
jonathan amos, news.
christmas is coming.
all around the world, millions of children will be hoping for a visit from santa.
some less well—off youngsters may miss out on getting a toy but a retired engineerfrom rome is determined to do something about that, as tim allman explains.
his name is guido but it may as well be geppetto.
a former engineer with an italian airline, he now devotes himself to repairing and restoring toys.
lots and lots of toys.
anything up to 70 a day, in fact, and it is all in a good cause.
: take this one, for example.
some toy shops give us the faulty toys that they cannot sell.
this one, i have repaired it, and it works now.
and these new toys, we send to hospitals.
notjust hospitals.
this charity also provides playthings to the children of refugees, or kids whose parents have lost theirjobs — any youngster who wants a moment ofjoy and a toy of their own.
: we call these objects re—loved, since they are loved twice.
first, by the parents of the children who donated them and then, they are loved by the children who receive them.
so we reuse objects and we avoid wasting plastic.
they distribute around 20,000 toys 3 year.
dolls, teddies, cars, action figures — guido tinkers away at them all.
his greatest reward, he says — the smiles on the children’ faces.
tim allman, news.
what a lovely story to end on.
you ran reach me.
twitter — i’ @bbcmaryam.
plenty more on our website.
thank you for watching.
to stay with us.
to come in a moment.
—— do stay with us.
good morning.
what a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
in fact, on friday afternoon, these were fairly typical weather watcher pictures across parts of central and southern england in particular.
in fact, by close of play on friday, there were over 90 flood warnings in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend, well, do go to the weather website for the latest updates on the flood warnings, and also any met office warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy, with hail and thunder.
windy conditions following on behind before another weather front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on saturday.
50 saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
the best of the sunshine perhaps on saturday, likely to be for the far north of scotland.
slowly brightening up as well across parts of england and wales for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push into the south—west by the end of the day.
a cooler feel in scotland, five or six degrees.
double digits quite widely further south.
now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards but it is going to clear off into the near continent through the early hours of saturday night into sunday morning.
and then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start into sheltered eastern areas of scotland, maybe a touch of light frost here.
too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
and still some bits and pieces of rain first thing on sunday morning.
but sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers around.
but still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out of the question.
cooler again in scotland, five or six degrees but higher values of nine or ten further south.
it looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time, though.
showers will ease away on monday and by tuesday, christmas eve, it will be drier and quieter.
what on earth is happening, you may ask.
it looks as though father christmas might be granting us our wish and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment with high pressure building on christmas eve into christmas day.
that will quieten things down quite nicely.
it means the chance of a white christmas is very remote indeed but it does mean a good deal of weather in the forecast.
so our christmas week is looking like this — a showery start, drying up nicely for christmas eve and christmas day, there is the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
take care.
this is news, the headlines: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—forties celsius.
the australian prime minister scott morrison has apologised for going on a family holiday to hawaii while his country was dealing with the bushfire emergency.
at least six people have been killed in india, as police tried to contain a further day of protests about a new citizenship law.
police used tear gas and batons but denied firing on demonstrators.
the law allows fast—track citizenship for religious refugees from neighbouring countries but excludes muslims.
facebook says that it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties to a conservative news outlet that uses artificially generated faces to spread messages in favour of president trump and against the chinese government.
the social media network said the fake profiles are linked to the —based news outlet, the epoch times.
now on news, one of the highlights of the year from our world.
russia faces a deadly epidemic of domestic violence, so last month, lucy ash went to meet some of the families whose stories have sparked a national debate.
a warning — this programme contains scenes some viewers may find upsetting.
russia can be a dangerous place for women.
it has a deadly culture of domestic violence.
across the country, hundreds of women are killed every year by partners and relatives.
but now, some russian women are fighting back, with a new wave of activism.
this year, russian society was rocked by a big court case.
three sisters accused of murdering their father injuly 2018 were found to have been physically and sexually abused by him for years.
krestina, angelina and maria confessed to attacking their sleeping father, mikhail khachaturyan, with a hunting knife and a hammer.
they face up to 20 years in prison.
mikhail khachaturyan’ body was found in the third—floor landing of this block, where he lived with his daughters.
after a public outcry, the sisters have been released from prison and are leading relatively normal lives, with some restrictions while awaiting trial.
i can’ speak to the sisters while the case is being investigated, but i can talk to their mother.
aurelia dunduk was herself a victim of constant abuse from her husband, mikhail, for many years.
at first, she tried going to police, but that only made matters worse.
eventually, he kicked her out.
this high—profile case has shone a powerful light on the scourge of domestic violence.
hundreds of thousands have signed a petition calling for the sisters’ release.
activists at weekly pickets blame russia’ legal system for turning a blind eye and forcing the teenagers to defend themselves.
russia’ most famous opposition punk band, pussy riot, performed at a concert fundraiser for the sisters.
this is a theatre performance which tells the story of the khachaturyan sisters, but the actors also tell the audience about their own experiences.
this is a theatre performance which tells the story of the khachaturyan sisters, but the actors also tell the audience about their own experiences.
domestic abuse is still relatively taboo here.
many believe the state shouldn’ poke its nose into private, family business.
but the khachaturyan case sparked a kind of russia me too movement.
today, women battling the culture of domestic abuse have finally started to gain a voice.
anna rivina has opened a walk—in help centre in moscow called no to violence, where women can get legal and support.
the centre is also raising awareness through slick social media campaigns, including this one, where famous russian men say it is uncool to hit women.
one of the main problems is domestic violence still exists.
it is the generations.
there is connection with generations, and of course, if a young boy or girl grows up in a family where they see it, day by day, for them, it’sjust a normal thing.
they just cannot understand it’ not .
and for us, it’ the main thing, is not only to protect or to prevent, but to explain that this is violence, this is not .
i can say that there is a big difference since then, 2015, when i started this work.
now, it’ much easier.
now, it’ more obvious for people that this problem exists, and now it’ much more obvious for people that it’ not about women.
it’ about human rights.
and of course, a few years ago,, we had decriminalisation of domestic violence, as people’ first time.
anna rivina is referring to a controversial law passed in 2017 which scrapped prison sentences for first—time abusers.
beatings which didn’ require hospital treatment were classed as administrative offences, not crimes.
some say this has led to an upsurge in violence.
one of the biggest problems in tackling domestic violence is the lack of reliable statistics.
police registered more than 13,000 assaults against wives by husbands last year.
but that figure only includes married women, and the true figure is likely to be much higher.
26—year—olds margarita gracheva, a mother—of—two, was initially a victim of so—called minor harm.
her husband had hit her and threatened her with a knife.
but, when she went to the police, they said the investigation would take 20 days.
then they dropped the case.
one month later, her husband took her into the woods and chopped off her hands.
the doctors were able to save one of them, but not the other.
margarita has just published a book about her recovery.
she is now able to look after her children on her own, in her apartment, and is keen to go back to work.
like the khachaturian case, margarita’ story has become a media sensation.
it has focused attention on the toxic masculinity, weak laws and official indifference which endanger millions of russian women.
russia doesn’ have a national domestic violence law but inside the parliament, one woman is working hard russia doesn’ have a national domestic violence law but inside the parliament, one woman is working hard to introduce one.
oksana pushkina is the deputy head of the parliamentary committee for women and children.
she was one of the very few to take a strong stance against the decriminalisation law in 2017.
that takes some guts, because she is affiliated with the political party loyal to president vladimir putin, which passed the law.
in russia, tackling domestic abuse has never been a priority for lawmakers.
but this recent debate in the parliament is a sign that the government is beginning to take the problem more seriously.
here, pushkina is pushing to introduce restraining orders to keep violent partners away from victims.
she says the recent increase in russian domestic violence cases in the european court of human rights have embarrassed the government.
but pushkina is facing a lot of opposition, and her criticsjump to some odd conclusions.
earlier this year, an of the russian orthodox church told a radio station that women are more submissive and generally less intelligent than men.
smart women, he said, are rare.
those are the words of a man who heads the commission on the protection of women, children and families.
and it’ attitudes like these that help to explain tackling domestic violence is still not very high up on the agenda in this country.
that same has also stated that even the term ‘domestic violence’ is linked to radical western feminism and is incompatible with russian family values.
anton sorvachev is a family lawyer.
twice divorced himself, he specialises in defending the interests of men in family break—ups and he believes the status quo is in favour of women.
he also has his own show on youtube with overtly misogynist views, and he is outraged by the idea of restraining orders.
you think it is the woman that should leave the family home in the case of domestic violence?
but all too often, the police don’ take the necessary action to protect the victims of domestic abuse.
anna’ 29—year—old daughter alyona verba was brutally murdered by her husband in this very apartment.
he stabbed her 57 times and then left for work.
in the morning, their 7—year—old son nikita went into his mother’ bedroom and found her body.
although former police captain sergei gustyatnikov was convicted of murder, he hasn’ been stripped of his parental rights.
anna and her grandson can only hope for a change in russia’ legal system.
the appalling cases in this film might have been prevented, if only the right measures been in place.
russia desperately needs a domestic violence law, but those who are fighting for change have many tough battles ahead.
good morning.
what a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
in fact, on friday afternoon, these were fairly typical weather watcher pictures across parts of central and southern england in particular.
in fact, by close of play on friday, there were over 90 flood warnings in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend, well, do go to the weather website for the latest updates on the flood warnings, and also any met office warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy, with hail and thunder.
windy conditions following on behind before another weather front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on saturday.
50 saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
the best of the sunshine perhaps on saturday, likely to be for the far north of scotland.
slowly brightening up as well across parts of england and wales for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push into the south—west by the end of the day.
a cooler feel in scotland, five or six degrees.
double digits quite widely further south.
now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards but it is going to clear off into the near continent through the early hours of saturday night into sunday morning.
and then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start into sheltered eastern areas of scotland, maybe a touch of light frost here.
too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
and still some bits and pieces of rain first thing on sunday morning.
but sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers around.
but still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out of the question.
cooler again in scotland, five or six degrees, but highest values of nine or ten further south.
it looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time, though.
showers will ease away on monday and by tuesday, christmas eve, drier and quieter.
what on earth is happening, you may ask.
it looks as though father christmas might be granting us our wish and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment with high pressure building on christmas eve into christmas day.
that will quieten things down quite nicely.
it means the chance of a white christmas is very remote indeed but it does mean a good deal of weather in the forecast.
so our christmas week is looking like this — a showery start, drying up quite nicely for christmas eve and christmas day.
there is the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
take care.
this is world news.
our top stories: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—forties celsius.
facebook says it’ closed down hundreds of accounts linked to a conservative news outlet that uses artificial intelligence to create fake photo profiles.
poland’ parliament adopts a law that makes it easier for the government to fire judges, despite a plea from the european commission to wait.
and stuck in orbit — boeing’ mission to the international space station didn’ quite go as planned.
more catastrophic fire warnings have been issued for parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
in south australia, one person has died in a blaze east of adelaide, while crews are also battling outbreaks in the west of the country and in victoria.
the prime minister, scott morrison, who’ been widely criticised for being on holiday during the crisis, is expected back in australia soon.
sarah perkins—kirkpatrick, who is a climate scientist at the university of ’ climate change research centre joins me now from sydney.
thanks for joining us here.
personable, if i can ask, how ecedented are these fires?
these fires are unprecedented in a number , in their size, of ways, in their size, there have been over 2 million ares that have been burnt, and the time of year.
we don’ usually bushfires to occur and be this extreme at this time of year, rticularty ith this so particularly with this catastrophic fire rating, this is cond time we have seen this ting already in the sydney region.
are are things so bad this year?
a number of causes, part of that is natural cycles, so we have ad quite a winter, three ers in fact, one after the winters in fact, one after the other, which has prolonged the ght.
we have a lot of high into new south wales from the tre, and the monsoon has not had northern part of northern ralia allowing me to build up lastly climate change is a mon influence.
we would not common inﬂuence.
we would not expect to have conditions so extreme mate share was not there to if climate share was not there to boost what is going on.
how ficult is it for australians as a ation to deal with this?
this could new reality, harder and be the new reality, harder and harder bushfire season is coming up future.
this is the scary hing.
especially for me, living in ey, working in climate science working to make things happen, ave been saying that this is at climate change would bring, ger bushfire seasons, more tense players, less waiting time tween extreme bushfires emselves, but it is happening now eople are starting to realise what have been talking about is arting to happen now, and it is sobering and quite distressing ell.
of course the prime inister has been criticised for precise reason, that climate change is such a pressing issue, he criticised about his attitude towards it.
he has a.
i am politician so i am not going comment on politics on this ticular sue, but it has been particular issue, but it has been quite silent on climate change and can and should be doing, and what we ran and should be doing, and we should be doing more, that emits carbon emissions from a lot of carbon emissions from exporting coal, there is a lot more do, perhaps there is a lot we ran do, perhaps there is a lot more the world could do but we do more as well.
this is not a problem for australia, it is lobal problem.
exactly.
intense fires, longer wildfires seasons, has been recorded in other parts he world and it is exactly what expect with climate change, ecially with more heat in the stem, and heat is a precursor to a tastrophic bushfire season, this actly what we expected.
so good have you on the programme, thank very much.
the united nations has warned of a rapid increase in hunger and disease amongst displaced people in syria.
it follows the decision by russia and china to veto a measure to keep aid flowing to civilians.
fighting between the government forces and rebels in the north—western province of idlib has been intensifying, with thousands fleeing their homes.
bill hayton reports.
this is the bab al—hawa border post, one of four places where aid can cross into syria.
but on friday it was the scene of demonstrations.
thousands of people marched to protest what they see as turkey’ collaboration with a renewed offensive in idlib province.
syrian government forces, backed by russia, moving into the north—west of idlib, forcing tens of thousands to flee.
the road towards the border is new full of trucks heading for safety.
: they were bombing us.
we couldn’ sleep.
they were using every type of weapon, including bombs and rockets.
the latest exodus only adds to the numbers needing aid.
the says it fed overl million people in october with cross—border supplies.
but that programme will end onjanuary 10, unless it is renewed.
on friday, russia and china blocked an extension, causing outrage from the american ambassador.
this decision is reckless, irresponsible, and cruel.
there is nojustification imaginable for any member of this security council leaving vulnerable syrian civilians with fewer means of securing vital aid.
russia wants two of the aid crossing points closed — those from jordan and iraq.
leaving only the two turkish routes.
it also wants the mission length reduced to six months.
its ambassador blamed other countries for blocking the aid renewal.
: who won today?
nobody.
who lost?
those who lost were the syrian people.
do not attempt to shift blame for this on us.
with two weeks left until the current resolution expires, there’ still time for agreement.
but it looks as if compromise will be hard to reach.
in the meantime, the situation in syria gets more desperate.
bill hayton, news.
there have been more mass protests in india over a controversial new citizenship law.
at least six people have been killed in the demonstrations.
critics say the legislation discriminates against the country’ 200 million strong muslim population, with many fearing they could become stateless.
but the move by prime minister, narendra modi, is popular with his hindu supporters.
from delhi, here’ rajini vaidyanathan.
is this a moment of reckoning for the world’ largest democracy, as anger over a controversial citizenship law intensifies?
scenes of defiance, protesters ignoring curfews, police accused of heavy—handed tactics.
hundreds of thousands across this vast and diverse nation have taken to the streets to oppose a law they say discriminates against muslims.
it offers fast—track citizenship for illegal immigrants from three neighbouring countries, except muslims.
the government says it is to protect religious minorities fleeing persecution.
india prides itself on its secular principles, the right to equality for all faiths.
but many fear that, by making religion a condition of citizenship, that core fundamental principle is now at stake.
muslims say they are living in fear.
the government is planning to publish a nationwide register of citizens, in which everyone would have to prove they are indian.
those who can’ would be considered illegal immigrants, with only non—muslims afforded protection under the new citizenship law.
"i don’ trust the government," she tells me.
"if they don’ accept my documents, which prove i’ indian, then what will i do?
" pressure is mounting on india’ prime minister, narendra modi, but he still has huge support for his hindu nationalist agenda.
tonight in delhi, 3 group of his supporters came out to defend the citizenship act.
a lot of people are saying that it is against muslims, but it is not against muslims.
it is only against — only for.
it is not against anyone.
it is for minorities in three neighbouring countries, pakistan, afghanistan and bangladesh, where islam is a state religion.
this week’ large—scale protest represents the first real dissent against modi’ government.
some fear the country is inching closer to becoming a hindu state, and worry that india’ secular soul is at stake.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the international criminal court’ chief prosecutor says the completion of a pipeline set to supply russian gas to europe has hit a stumbling block, after donald trump signed off on sanctions against companies involved in the construction.
the nord stream 2 project is almost finished and would link russia and germany.
the says it will give moscow dangerous leverage over europe, but the continent’ leaders have condemed the move.
one company involved in its construction has already halted work.
the international criminal court’ chief prosecutor says she believes war crimes have been committed in the israeli—occupied palestinian territories.
fatou bensouda says she wants to launch an investigation but needs the court to establish first if they have authority over these areas.
facebook says it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties to a conservative news outlet that uses fake profile photos, generated with the help of artificial intelligence.
researchers said the facebook and instagram fake profiles generate thousands of personalities who emphasise support for president trump and opposition to the chinese government.
our north america correspondent peter bowes is following the story from los angeles.
this is, say a lot of people, very worrying.
and it shows what technology can achieve these days.
in terms of generating these images, faces that look like profile shots of ordinary people, but they are fake, they are generated by algorithms.
there’ absolutely nothing real about them.
they don’ represent real people.
but they have been generated by users in vietnam, say facebook, purporting to be americans.
and they’ve removed several hundred of these facebook accounts, as you say, along with instagram sites and various pages as well that carried with them messages that were anti—china, that were pro—trump, or generated conversations about family values or impeachment, a lot of those hot button issues that are in the news at the moment.
what is the social media giant been saying about all of this and what it’ doing to combat this sort of thing?
well, this is an ongoing battle, of course, for facebook and it’ faced similar problems of course, going back to the last american election in 2016, then the key threat was from russia.
but this was coming from a different part of the world.
and this is in part facebook have been very open about revealing what they have found now.
and they are digging into the technology.
they are trying to find out and really get ahead of those people who can generate these kinds of images.
the experts who have been looking at this say they have been essentially quite startled at how good they are.
how easy it is to generate these images.
and they’ve never seen anything quite like it with these, i suppose, artificial faces being used to send out false information, disinformation in social media.
peter bowes in los angeles.
:'s : ‘ parliament has adopted a law reform making it easier for the rnment fire, fine or discipline dges — poland’.
the ing just arty says reform is unnecessary, but critics call it an to ifle judges, and have attempt to stiﬂe judges, and have been wide spread demonstrations.
the bill has been hugely controversial.
as it was being debated, people took to the streets outside parliament in support of thejudges, and judicial independence.
the changes give the government the power to discipline judges for what it calls political activity, including questioning the newjudges that the government appoints.
in a marathon debate, the ruling party argued the changes are necessary to prevent chaos in the judicial system.
: what weakens the rule law most of the mutation that we the state of udges, the state the judges is the state which ores the principle of national vereignty, that ignores the hority of the nation, the state the judges is the state in which judges ecide what law and what is not.
opposition lawmakers say an attempt to gag judges.
: the bill will subject the polish court and the polish judges to political control by the legislative and exacting bodies and reduce the level ofjudicial protection of individual rights.
there are concerns such sweeping changes to poland’ industry could contradict european law and force poland out of the .
: you are lying to the poles, claiming that these are european solutions, while the european commission says clearly, please stop working on this shameful project.
the bill will now be sent to poland’ senate, which ran delay the new law, but not block it.
stay with us on news, still to come: we meet the italian engineer who makes sure that less well off children don’ miss out on toys.
the world of music has been paying tribute to george michael, who’ died from suspected heart failure at the age of 53.
he sold well over 100 million albums in a career spanning more than three decades.
the united states’ troops have been trying to overthrow the dictatorship of general manuel noriega.
the pentagon says it’ failed in its principle objective to capture noriega and take him to the united states to face drugs charges.
the hammer and sickle was hastily taken away.
in its place, the russian flag was hoisted over what is now no longer the soviet union, but the commonwealth of independent states.
day broke slowly over lockerbie, over the cockpit of pan am’ maid of the seas, nosedown in the soft earth.
you could see what happens when a plane eight storeys high, a football pitch wide, falls from 30,000 feet.
christmas has returned to albania after a communist ban lasting more than 20 years.
thousands went to midnight mass in the town of shkoder, where there were anti—communist riots ten days ago.
this is world news.
the latest headlines: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—forties celsius.
facebook says it has closed down to hundreds of accounts linked to a ervative news outlet which uses rtificial intelligence to create photo profiles.
the former boss of france telecom and two former executives have been over a estructuring policy jailad over a restructuring policy linked to suicides among employees 2000 ‘.
hugh schofield in the 2000 ‘.
hugh schofield reports.
former top executives at telecom arrive in court to hear a damning verdict.
they and company were guilty of moral assment, bullying starting anxiety and depression and in the cases, suicide.
for worst cases, suicide.
for family members of those who died, the ement was a vindication of ten ears of campaigning.
: satisfied because of what the president of the court said.
she that the procedures used by the ement of france telecom were management of france telecom were forbidden.
this answers the one tion that was the fundamental uestion throughout the ole process.
should we be able to do sorts of things?
at least the irst response of the court is no, not acceptable, and if you do you will be convicted.
it all appened when france telecom, merty a state monopoly, was ving to transform itself to face competition.
the old ways were ng.
what needed was fewer going.
what was needed was fewer staff and new skills.
but in surising workers to adapt pressurising workers to adapt or leave, the court found france com had used methods that were nacceptable.
this is seen as a case ich uld have important which could have important implications for business in the re.
it is the first time a major rench company has been found guilty llying.
not by the actions of ndividual managers, but through neral economic strategy.
lawyers he plaintiffs said the implications for businesses in but want to restructure and show jobs now very important.
: in this case we had agement hods that did management methods that did not comply with regulations and the law, this decision we now understand how employees should be ed, and it is a token but the wrongdoings in the france telecom ill not be happening again.
lawyers for the convicted manager he court had more interested in reaching a crowdpleasing verdict following the letter of the law.
they plan to appeal.
families their cause has been are happy their cause has been recognised.
french businesses will wondering how this widens legal concept of corporate ssment could affect them.
one of the pioneers of new approaches to international development, sir fazle hasan abed, has died.
he was 83.
he founded the bangladesh rural advancement committee also known as , in 1972.
it’ now one of the world’ largest ngos, operating in 11 asian and african countries.
is said to have lifted 150 million people out of poverty.
nicholas kristof is a columnist with the new york times who knew sir fazle.
he told me more about his legacy.
so i think it’ a few things.
one is that when he began in the development space, it was really about westerners sitting around conference rooms in places like london and washington and deciding what was best for people in villages half a world away.
and that never really worked terribly well.
and abed was a leader in the developing world’ own responses to poverty, and the truth is that when there was local ownership, it worked a lot better.
you know, the did a lot of projects in afghanistan.
they were not vastly successful.
did work in afghanistan.
when american—built tools were blown up, ’ continued.
so i think one is the local ownership development.
i think another is his emphasis on education and on empowering of women and the returns you get from that and in recent — i don’ think it was really something he really with began early in his career, but over the last 15 years or so he was increasingly involved in using randomised controlled trials to test interventions and see how well they worked, as if they were a pharmaceutical trial.
and that has been a pioneering step in development — the nobel prize for economics went to three economists who worked on them, in some cases with or —inspired programmes, so i think he, you know, he leaves a huge legacy at the top tiers of development, but also in villages around the world — kids who otherwise would have died who are here because of his work.
america’ progress towards being able to return to putting its own people into space has hit a hurdle.
nasa hopes the boeing starliner craft could be used to ferry passengers to and from the international space station, but a test flight in florida failed to go as planned.
jonathan amos reports.
: and lift-off.
the rise of starliner and a new era in human space flight.
a new era perhaps, but notjust yet.
boeing launched its starliner capsule on time from cape canaveral in florida, but the automated ship then failed to carry out its commands properly.
when it came off the top of the rocket, it was supposed to fire its engines to increase its height.
it did, but at the wrong time, and for too long.
the starliner put itself in the wrong part of the sky.
it can no longer reach the space station and will have to come home.
the american space agency has been overseeing the development of the capsule.
nasa has provided milestone payments to help boeing bring the vehicle into operation.
and despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
if we would’ve had crew in there, number one, they would have been safe.
to be very clear, our crew would have been safe.
and, in fact, had they been in there, we very well may be orbiting or we may be docking with the international space station tomorrow, had they been in the spacecraft.
so a lot of things went right today.
i want to be really clear — a lot of things went right, and this is we test and because we are now in orbit and in fact, elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data and a lot more information in the coming days.
so this is all — this is all very positive.
two, one, zero nasa has not been able to launch its own astronauts to orbit for nearly nine years.
when it retired the shuttles in 2011, it ceased to operate space vehicles, and it bought seats to the space station in russian capsules instead.
nasa would rather spend its money hailing rides on american—built astronaut space taxi services.
another enterprise, california’ spacex company, has already completed the test flight of its astronaut capsule.
the dragon craft made a flawless trip to the orbiting lab in march.
spacex looks set to start flying astronauts for real in the next few months.
quite how far behind today’ events put boeing is unclear.
engineers will need to inspect the starliner when they get it back on earth.
nasa is determined, though, that it should have a choice of capsules in the future.
boeing is certain to again.
all around the world, millions of children will be hoping for a visit from santa.
some less well off youngsters may miss out on getting a toy.
but a retired engineerfrom rome is determined to do something about that, as tim allman explains.
his name is guido but it might as well be geppetto.
a former engineer with an italian airline, he now devotes himself to repairing and restoring toys.
lots and lots of toys.
anything up to 70 a day, in fact, and it is all in a good cause.
: take this one, for example.
some toy shops give us the faulty toys that they cannot sell.
this one, i have repaired it, and it works now.
and these new toys, we send to hospitals.
notjust hospitals.
this charity also provides playthings to the children of refugees, or kids whose parents have lost theirjobs — any youngster who wants a moment ofjoy and a toy of their own.
: we call these objects re—loved, since they are loved twice.
first, by the parents of the children who donated them and then, they are loved by the children who receive them.
so we reuse objects and we avoid wasting plastic.
they distribute about 20,000 toys 3 year.
dolls, teddies, cars, action figures — guido tinkers away at them all.
his greatest reward, he says — the smiles on the children’ faces.
tim allman, news.
what a lovely story to end the programme on.
thank you for your any.
headlines coming up in a ouple of minutes.
goodbye for now.
good morning.
what a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
in fact, on friday afternoon, these were fairly typical weather watcher pictures across parts of central and southern england in particular.
in fact, by close of play on friday, there were over 90 flood warnings in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend, well, do go to the weather website for the latest updates on the flood warnings, and also any met office warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy, with hail and thunder.
windy conditions following on behind before another weather front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on saturday.
50 saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
the best of the sunshine perhaps on saturday, likely to be for the far north of scotland.
slowly brightening up as well across parts of england and wales for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push into the south—west by the end of the day.
a cooler feel in scotland, five or six degrees.
double digits quite widely further south.
now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards but it is going to clear off into the near continent through the early hours of saturday night into sunday morning.
and then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start into sheltered eastern areas of scotland, maybe a touch of light frost here.
too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
and still some bits and pieces of rain first thing on sunday morning.
but sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers around.
but still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out of the question.
cooler again in scotland, five or six degrees, but highest values of nine or ten further south.
it looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time, though.
showers will ease away on monday and by tuesday, christmas eve, drier and quieter.
what on earth is happening, you may ask.
it looks as though father christmas might be granting us our wish and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment with high pressure building on christmas eve into christmas day.
this is news.
the headlines: there are more catastrophic fire warnings in australia for saturday in three parts of new south wales, with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
the australian prime minister scott morrison has apologised for going on a family holiday to hawaii while his country was dealing with the bushfire emergency.
facebook says that it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties to a conservative news outlet that uses artificially generated faces to spread messages in favour of president trump and against the chinese government.
the social media network said the fake profiles are linked to the —based news outlet, the epoch times.
in poland have adopted a law making it easier for the government to sackjudges.
the legislation also allows them to be fined or demoted for dissent and has been adopted despite a plea to wait from the european commission.
a funeral and a memorial service have taken place for the two victims of last month’ terror attack near london bridge.
jack merritt and saskia jones, were stabbed to death by convicted terrorist usman khan, while attending a conference in a building next to the bridge.
our home affairs correspondent, daniel sandford has more.
at the cambridge university church of mary the great, jack merritt’ mother and father and girlfriend, leanne ’brien.
his body in a wicker coffin, in keeping with the ethical life he’ tried to lead.
jack merritt was 25 years old and had a masters in criminology from cambridge.
in the service, his friends and family recalled a compassionate young man who felt compelled to help people, and whose politics was love, not hate.
it is a tragedy, jack’ death, but his life, as his father said in the service, his life was a triumph, and we have to hold onto that and jack’ legacy of commitment to those on whom society is all too happy to turn its back.
jack passionately believed in others, and so should we.
in stratford—upon—avon, at the holy trinity church, where william shakespeare is buried, the family and friends of saskia jones were gathering to remember her.
she died in the same attack as jack merritt, and also had a masters in criminology from cambridge.
she’ planned tojoin the police to work with victims of crime.
she was with jack merritt at a prisoner education conference near london bridge three weeks ago when one of the participants, who had recently been released from a long sentence for terrorism offences, stabbed them both to death.
the cambridge university vice—chancellor said that the way they died should not eclipse their lives and the way they had helped others.
daniel sandford, news.
now, the travel show.
lucy hedges rounds up some of the team’ best adventures from 2019.
hello and welcome to this, the last travel show of 2019, so what a time to take a look back on he past year on the programme.
has ste of what’ coming up.
ors ndors get this view, condors and us, it’ dible.
hat was like being in a incredible.
that was like being in a tumble us.
that was completely .
all that and more to come insane.
all that and more to come here on the show this week, but kick off with a trip that mike over to california back in may.
him that all he would need was a taste for adventure and a head ights.
here is what happened .
here in western california, re are complex beings that have ived for over a millennium.
redwood have become an icon of this state.
some fear that our changing might threaten their climate might threaten their survival.
i have come to the most hern tip of their range, where ange could hit the hardest, to a scientist who has been orking here to to find some wers.
it’ absolutely amazing out in the forest, ijust it, listening to the birds and hing the sun moves through the anopy, ’ beautiful.
today, we be climbing this are will be climbing this these are coast redwoods, the tallest tree ies in the world, reaching mmonly about 380 feet tall the allest, and they are incredibly and resilient, really tough and resilient, really important ecologically, they are .
i have been here trying to iconic.
i have been here trying to get a better understanding of how are responding to climate hange, and how they might respond uture climate change.
and how they responding?
as the climate ges, temperatures are increasing, it’ trying things out peratures get warmer, and hat’ a big consideration for these icular trees because they need much water, it’ affecting their ter balance in their ability to ansport more water to the tops of trees.
now, it’ time to get to ork.
there we go.
first, we need a ple of the tree’ core.
this is he halfway there, and then when you get to the ground, we can that spoon with the core on pull that spoon out with the core on it.
and the hidden secrets beneath ark will be ours!
the knowledge will be ours!
earlier on, thony me some of the secret anthony showed me some of the secret the tree had already revealed.
these rings here?
yeah, each one of ose an annual ring, one year of owth.
so it only grows a couple of illimetres each year?
and times only less than a millimetre a year.
back hundreds of years right ?
wants we polish this up and nded and get a better of the , there could be 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 600, 700 may be years .
this section appear, it has seen sunlight for 600, 700 years.
is an amazing archive.
i have one end tape measure, we are doing the circumference measurement.
rapid way around that underneath this tubing.
we are at 7.
81; metres mference.
that’ a big tree even .
8 metres around, and the next is to go up to the top.
upwards go, to the top!
this redwood at over 70 metres tall.
stands at over 70 metres tall.
claiming redwoods is forbidden in laces, but in this reserve, we most places, but in this reserve, we have a special permission, and what ilege it is.
i can’ get over a privilage it is.
i can’ get over how beautiful this tree is.
there arks on this tree, a0 metres, hich bogglas mind it’ which boggles my mind it’ incredible up here.
as we inched rds, lam faced with more upwards, i am faced with more scorched bark.
anthony told me that ires are another threat that wildfires are another threat that these trees are increasingly facing in the modern world.
birds nest.
i don’ think there is anybody at home .
with nthony already at the ollecting samples, i make my push upwards.
this view ’ definitely one of the wildest, ncredible views i have seen in entire life.
i can’ believe we 71 metres off the ground right .
condors get this view, condors, us.
is incredible.
this is 700 old, which is before the colonisation of america, before taj , it makes you feel like a mahal, it makes you feel like a speck of sand in the sandbox, gnificant.
humbling experience.
the climate change experience sufficiently, then they might art to feel some impacts, they not grow as well, may not get tall, and might die back, and is what we’re trying to out.
yfield he tree shaking a little it?
eah, it’ wriggling.
just a rmal thing, assuming?
mike being rewarded some truly spectacular in california back in may, and earlier in ary, in may, and eartier in january, “artin ook on her own talent in iwan, but this would involve ying firmly on the ground.
it’ he annual arts festival and a local nce pany have invited me to take part in a performance that they ing for today’ parade.
you are doing for todars parade.
you must be roger?
i am, let’ get ged.
0!
the festival is held every year close to taipei, and rom all over the country and rther afield come to compete in a lebration of music and dance.
it’ igh—profile event, so my team re taking a real by letting a are taking a real risk by citing a total novice join their ranks.
with hour to before the start only an hour to go before the start of the parade, troop leader roger me through my role.
i’ walked me through my rola.
i’ rather be hiding somewhere at the , but he has me leading the back, but he has me leading the whole team.
look at the dragon, this , like an eight.
the swing this way, like an eight.
the idea is that the dragon follows the ball and stick that i am holding.
if only i knew is meant to be heading re i was.
miraculously, the other formers follow my somewhat rantic lead.
let’ they frantic lead.
let’ just hope they will be this accommodating when we or real.
i hope no—one laughs do it for real.
i hope no-one laughs at me in the first section of the , a dozen or so local high parade, a dozen or so oral high schools will compete for best ormance.
the streets are crammed friends, families and teachers waiting to see their groups erformed.
they have been working on routines for months, and today is the day that it all comes ether, with an extravaganza of ergy, colour and sound.
with a at level of owmanship thrown in as well for good measure.
and now i ran hear my group approaching.
i am vous!
vous!
i don’ want to make a total full of myself in front of big crowd.
there is at least a housand people here, it’ a lot han i thought.
0, tell me hen?
now?
and all of a sudden, i’ my mind seems to go totally ank, amid all the noise and our.
luckily, roger is there to ive me a push in the right rection.
somehow, the team follow ad, although i really have no dea where i am going.
now in the dle?
sorry!
it’ !
and then, my dragon stick seems to develop a of its own i was really ally nervous, and it was quite ssful, all my gosh!
i tried to ember my moves, i think i only two people with the ball.
i was had two peopla with the hall.
i was in a state of panic.
sorry to the that i hit with the ball, it eemed to go on forever.
i can’ ieve i was part of a dragon dance the streets of taiwan!
who would thought?
men causing trouble have thought?
carmen causing troubla with her dragon stick in taiwan, at the start of the year.
type omething with a bit more horsepower and in march, adam made his ever visit to dubai, let’ say he got to travel style, ery very ickly.
good to see you.
ook at this!
jump in.
all set?
’ do !
i’ just seeing, we a rolls—royce going past here, at is tandard, supercars rywhere.
what is it with you by?
they in love with the are they so in love with the superars?
there are a couple of erent reasons.
one is to show ff.
partly people drive uperars, show off a little bit, hen there is the most amazing ing roads here, you had out to he oral driving roads here, you had out to the local areas, there are amazing iving roads here.
danny’ driving roads out there.
dannrs ninth degree group of local supercar ners regular track days and owners hold regular track days and events here.
that even let you hire the top of the range models, that you ran behind the wheel a few hours, at least.
we are oing to go for a spin in this car, this is the real deal.
it’ lmost £1 illion worth of raw, tal, utal, unadulterated power.
let’ this, man!
yes!
0, oh, my days!
ade not quite breaking the sound barrier, but almost, in i earlier this year.
stick dubai eartier this year.
stick around, because there is plenty more , including this.
i know they aid i’ not going to feel the cold, i’ really nervous.
my goodness!
ow, if you are a fan of winter ts, you are going to love this ext one, because back in march, ista headed to latvia to her on of the very few professional bobsleigh tracks to urists, and it was quite a de.
welcome to segorda’ bobsleigh cks, of the very few in the tracks, one of the very few in the world where tourists can get the drenaline rush as professional races.
we are about to set off, 100 metres, down a very icy help.
luckily i’ve got an expert pilot, so crossed that it goes very fingers crossed that it goes very smoothly.
apart from the pilots the bobsleigh from the front, during the bobslaigh from the front, a team also includes pushes and a eman.
but tourists get it easy.
hey just need duck in and hold very tight.
track is almost 500 metres long and you need a strong stomach to manage its curves.
ithink at is 16 curves.
oh, man!
ithink that is one of the most intense experiences ntire life.
that was like of my entire life.
that was like being in a very, very active, very tunnel drier a inute and cold tunnel drierfor a minute and a half.
i didn’ even know how long it hat was completely insane.
another winter sport that can take breath is this, the your breath away is this, the skeleton.
imagine a luge with no reaks eering aid that you ride breaks or steering aid that you ride headfirst.
i don’ think i’ ready one of the full—blown skeletons, but there is a tourist ion available but is a little more my speed.
wish me luck.
rallad bit more my speed.
wish me luck.
it’ called a frog, and for this , ere is no crew to make me one, there is no crew to make me feel safe.
0, my goodness!
0, god!
0, od.
how was it?
50 cool!
i could go again!
right now, let’ go.
christa via back in march.
and keeping ithin the icy eme, it was my turn feel the cold when i headed to rench alps to my hand at ice diving.
i still can’ believe i somehow got talked into that one.
ood news is i can’ feel how it is out here.
the lake i’ll iving into is right in the ski llage of temlinac, just a stones stare at the icy abyss, the more i just want to stick my foot in just a taste or a feel of how cold is.
i know they said i’ not to feel the cold, but i’ ally nervous about my body going to some kind of shock once i get the water.
i am sure it will be ne, but my mind is currently in rdrive.
ijust want in get in now.
you in, perfect.
davan will staying above the ice, helping me and another go under.
it is not an activity you can do as a up.
rather, person at a time group.
rather, one person at a time with an instructor, for fety reasons.
ill go into the water now.
my initial ies of freezing to death quickly went away.
ct!
i buy!
it didn’ quite perfect!
i buy!
but it didn’ quite go to plan, and i had to surface.
50 mask started with my mask started to fill with water.
i started to panic.
so i was , help!
fter a little i was like, help!
after a little reminder about what to do, namely, panic, i was mentally prepared don’ panic, i was mentally prepared for another go.
i am ready to go in.
ionly id it for a minute back in.
i only did it for a minute or so, but it is so pretty down stop just being able to touch all the bubbles under the ice is cool.
this time my mask stayed put, but we decided not to too far from the ice whole, my confidence returned.
it is an experience under the ce, cut off from the noise and tractions above.
and it is prisingly relaxing.
only towards end did my toes and fingers start to ngle a little, but therwise, the drysuit really did the cold out.
for the really aring, it is possible to free dive.
llowing not ny, though.
i much prefer having the oxygen tank.
a amazing experience, but one in any kind of hurry to repeat, you won’ be surprised to .
let’ finish this look back at 019 by heading to malaysia, where got a chance to get up close to he orangutans of sarawak back in ber.
i am sure it is an experience you won’ forget.
i have the samango nature reserve where the ranges are preparing for rning feed.
the reserve took orangutans that have been rescued aptivity or suffered from habitat loss and taught them how to ild in the surrounding forest.
since then, the rehabilitation ramme has been moved elsewhere, but the forest is still home to 33 gutans, and tourists have he chance to glimpse those tempted back meal.
it is very different a zoo, by a free meal.
it is very different to a 200, then?
no orangutans in ages here?
it is totally cages here?
yeah, it is totally different to a zoo.
luckily for us, ’ have to wait long for a we don’ have to wait long for a sighting.
edwin, one of the in he park.
like the ranger said, this is not a zoo.
the ngutans can come from any direction at any time, so you have a little careful, especially ound the big males like edwin .
while these orangutans are to eople, they are still predictable, so tourists are kept a safe tance.
edwin is 23 at a safe distance.
edwin is 23 years old, born in 1996, and he was irst male austrian born in mango.
sadly, despite conservation orts, orangutans face an uncertain future.
over a 16 year od, the numbers in borneo fell more than 100,000, a decline amed on hunting and deforestation.
now estimated that ijust over 0,000 orangutans left on the land.
and so the facility here, does it help?
so, by having a ctuary like samango, people still the nse of seeing the wild rangutan, and not disturb the in natural habitat stop the eeling, the excitement of seeing orangutans bringing you closer servation efforts, it really mean thing.
ike in malaysia back in ctober.
and i’ afraid that is set this programme and for this ear.
all that is left to do is to thank you or oining us on our travels in 019.
and on behalf of ryone here on the programme in ront of and behind the camera, we like to wish you a happy and althy new year, and we will see you again in 2020.
bye—bye.
imean, this is 2000 years old!
definitely worth the ungodly wake—up , if you insist.
here you all.
oh, ifyou insist.
here you go.
oh!
good morning.
what a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
in fact, on friday afternoon, these were fairly typical weather watcher pictures across parts of central and southern england in particular.
in fact, by close of play on friday, there were over 90 flood warnings in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend, well, do go to the weather website for the latest updates on the flood warnings, and also any met office warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy, with hail and thunder.
windy conditions following on behind before another weather front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on saturday.
50 saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
the best of the sunshine perhaps on saturday, likely to be for the far north of scotland.
slowly brightening up as well across parts of england and wales for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push into the south—west by the end of the day.
a cooler feel in scotland, five or six degrees.
double digits quite widely further south.
now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards but it is going to clear off into the near continent through the early hours of saturday night into sunday morning.
and then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start into sheltered eastern areas of scotland, maybe a touch of light frost here.
too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
and still some bits and pieces of rain first thing on sunday morning.
but sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers around.
but still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out of the question.
cooler again in scotland, five or six degrees, but highest values of nine or ten further south.
it looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time, though.
showers will ease away on monday and by tuesday, christmas eve, drier and quieter.
what on earth is happening, you may ask.
it looks as though father christmas might be granting us our wish and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment with high pressure building on christmas eve into christmas day.
that will quieten things down quite nicely.
it means the chance of a white christmas is very remote indeed but it does mean a good deal of weather in the forecast.
so our christmas week is looking like this — a showery start, drying up quite nicely for christmas eve and christmas day.
there is the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
take care.
good morning.
welcome to breakfast, withjon kay and tina daheley.
our headlines today: the man who confronted the london bridge attacker with a narwhal tusk speaks publicly for the first time, and tells of his deep hurt at not being able to save the victims.
a catastrophic fire warning is issued in parts of eastern australia, including sydney, with residents urged to leave before it’ too late.
prince philip spends the night in hospital in london after being admitted for treatment for a pre—existing condition.
it is one of the few trophies missing from their cabinet, as liverpool take on brazilian side flamengo in the final of the club world cup, bidding to win it for the first time.
good morning.
we’ve got some dense patches of fog across northern and this morning, and over 100 warnings cross england.
while for many it is a sunshine and showers, there is more persistent the forecast later on across outhern parts of the .
all the ils coming up in the next half—an—hour.
it is saturday 21 december.
our top story: the man who fought off the london bridge attacker with a narwhal tusk has given a dramatic account of how he was able to stop the knifeman and pin him to the ground.
two people died in the attack last month.
civil servant darryn frost has described how usman khan was running towards people with knives raised above his head, and wearing what looked like a suicide vest.
this report from rich preston.
this is the dramatic moment passers-by attempted to stop a icted terrorist usman khan.
his ttack had become fishmonger ‘ , where he had just killed two eopla -- had egun.
it was their frost, a ivil servant, took khan with others attending a oner rehabilitation event, escribing for the first time what pened.
frost told the press ociation that he took a narwhal to fend himself after hearing a commotion from the ﬂoor below.
he described the moment khan ran at him nives raised above his head.
went on to recall chasing onto london bridge, where a group ﬂad tled him to the ground, stopping him wrestiad him to the ground, stopping him attacking anyone else or set of hey thought was a suicide what they thought was a suicide vest.
talking about jack merritt and a jones, were both killed saskia jones, who were both killed by khan, frost said he will feel the deep hurt of not eing able to save them.
he said he speaking out would urge people nite against terrorism and raise for the victims’ families.
a catastrophic fire warning is in place for parts of eastern australia, including sydney, with strong winds expected and temperatures set to hit the mid—40 celsius.
people living in the path of one bushfire have been told it’ too late to leave.
let’ talk to our sydney correspondent phil mercer.
this seems to be getting worse, if anything.
it is.
this is another day in australia’ horror ummer.
there are six emergency nings here in new south wales lone.
three of those are to the and north—west of sydney, and remaining ree are to the south of sydney.
and as you say, people in ergency zones are being told those emergency zones are being told that it is too late to leave, and are being advised by they are being advised by firefighters to seek a place of and a solid structure to safety and a solid to protect hemselves from the heat.
a catastrophic fire warning has been here in new south wales, and he government, the state government , says that this is the biggest deployment of emergency rvices personnel new south wales ver seen.
and this is a ngerous time not only for eastern ralia, in south australia, rible conditions down there.
one on has died in the fires and ore than a dozen homes have been troyed in the state.
in victoria, efighters battling serious blazes re as well.
on the other side of continent, in western australia, ecent days, dozens of fires have fought over there as well.
as for the prime minister, scott ison, he has been criticised for eing out of the country during this of crisis, and we understand at he is now heading home from , and certainly his handling of his emergency will come under ater scrutiny when he