this is my house continues: huh?
you mug!
you - what’ that, steve?
’you want some tea putting in you?
come on, jonathan!
you’ve got this.
you can do it.
you’ve got this, mate.
you’ve got this!
absolutely not.
in fact, we have done everything we need to do to get on to mars, taking off from baikonur in september this year.
and, of course, now we have stopped it because there’ no plan in terms of actually i’ not saying getting you to mars.
there’ no plan .
if i’ not telling you the plan , it’ because we don’ have a decision yet.
if there is to be a plan , it’ either new levels of cooperation with , and, of course, back in 2011, 2012, you had a huge fallout with over the mars mission because they decided to go their own way.
so you’re either going to have to rebuild a mars relationship with , or somehow you’re going to have to convince people like, don’ know, elon musk and jeff bezos, to work with you to do something dramatic that they’ve never done before.
so, what is plan ?
i’ not putting it on the table made by my member states.
a proposal, together with , by the way, who has helped us analysing the issues technology developments that need to be done, just to recall of course, the launch this was meant to be a russian portion.
then the lander that brings the rover down to the surface, to drill into the mars surface the rocket - the launch by russia, and the lander in particular.
plus, in the other parts, there is some russian technology.
of course, all this stops now.
i’ve done the series analysis, a 4 what are the options?
what can be done in europe, in europe so easily that means it needs to be developed newly, that means from scratch, inorder to do it?
let me just finish.
yes, i’ working with to see whether they could be erela but do not want to pre-empt this decision because this has yet to be made, but certainly, has been extremely helpful and really would like this to be mentioned.
what is the difference between cutting and severing all ties with russia and continuing to cooperate with russia when it comes as we speak to each other today, there is an italian astronaut on the international space station working alongside two russian astronauts, delivered to the space station by a russian rocket.
you know, you’re saying that’ fine and we’ll go on doing it.
in fact, believe you’re saying we want to continue that cooperation all the way through to 2030, despite what putin’ deing in ukraine.
let me say we have not only abandoned the mars another example is luna 25, 26 and 27, where we had hardware cooperation with russia.
and we have abandoned that.
we have stopped that cooperation as well.
so, does it sit comfortably with you you’ve abandoned all this 18 comfortably with you that a european astronaut and your agency is still working closely with the russians on the international space station?
aty is really the , and there we have no choice.
this is very clear because this is a station that depends on the russian contribution as much as it depends on the western contribution that is made up by the united states, by japan, by canada and by , with my member states.
and you cannot abandon or you cannot separate the station because you need russia to lift the station inte higher orbit.
to the station, and many other i 1 ‘ you cannot just break up and run away and abandon this.
are you frightened?
dmitry rogozin, the boss of the russian space agency, has said quite clearly, "if you block cooperation "with us, who’ going to save the international space station "it could fall into the or into europe”, he said.
that was a threatening message, and you were a little bit intimidated, were you?
threatening message.
but let me just say that russia benefits as much as europe on staying on the station and running it.
but the point is, the russians hold the cards, don’ they?
no.
and the americans and the western partners, too.
is not correct to say how did it come to this, aschbacher?
i’ not really talking now about the russian relatienship, but how did it come that europe is such a second division player when it comes to space?
think of the size of the european economy, the size of the european population.
look at the size of the european space with russia, and today, increasingly, compared with china, too.
what went wrong?
the message have put of into a document called agenda 2025, which should be a wake up call to our politicians and to say, , look, this is happening.
we are in a second space race today.
the first one obviously being the one in the ‘60.
really building up extremely fast its capacity and its and the commercial sector suddenly being a new player, which we didn’ have until very recently.
and this is happening, with or without , with or without europe.
but the gap is getting wider, not narrower.
you haven’ been in charge for that long, but during your tenure, what we see is massive investment in the in space, not so much from , although their budget dwarfs but coming from venture capital, coming from elon musk and jeff bezos and a whole host of others, who see in space massive potential, both, of course, for exploration, but, actually, also for profit.
and they are pouring money in.
and on the side of china, the state is absolutely committed to matching the because of the ’ " europe doesn’'t seem to have anywhere to go in this.
this shows that space is a domain where investments are worth making by the private a tuns they are not doing it for fun.
of course they have fun, hope, at least, but they are also doing 1 but the private sector in europe isn’ listening.
yes, they do.
and we are taking steps in order to increase let me just say that in the last couple of months since i’ of , i’ve signed a number of agreements with venture capital companies to make sure that access to funding also in europe is easier and is guaranteed if we talk about commercialisation, there are three things that are needed, and have gone with my most critical managers of to silicon valley and see these companies, visit them for ten days, and really identify what are the key ingredients elon musk’ spacex being one of them.
it needs talented people - clever people who are driven it needs access to money.
and you need to be fast.
they call it fast forward fail fast, fast forward.
in europe, we have plenty of talent and plenty of excellent people with brilliant ideas some of them go to the because there’ not enough access to money is a problem and silicon valley, of course, giving about 60% of all the funds worldwide to companies.
there we have to improve, and i’ working on it.
have signed an agreement in january this year with european investment fund i ikt venture capital companies.
speed - speed is something that letlietle we are not as fast no, absolutely not.
in saying, of 22 nations biggest funder is the european so, one of your big problems is that another key player in the agency is the united kingdom.
well, it’ brexited.
it’ no longer in the .
that means it’ semidetached from some of the programmes that are part of your remit.
and the doesn’ have to deal with that.
and you’re never going to overcome that, are you?
if you think that everything is gold that glitters on the other side of the ocean, then you’re wrong, i’ sorry to say, because also has its own.
it’ not so much that the has no problems, it’ just that their problem aren’ on the scale of yours when it comes to bureaucracy.
china has its own set of issues.
but in europe, yes, you are right, we have to speed up and we have to streamline decision making and fully agree with you.
have identified among the partners.
number two, commercialisation.
exactly what happens and with other partners - we have to develop a strong commercial sector.
number three, lg1 8 2 don’ need to explain this in the current situation.
programme challenges.
in europe, and that means speed and decision mechanisms.
and there are 60 individual actions which i’ve identified on which we are working.
but, yes, i’ tackling the problem.
@il on the commercialisation and the power of individuals a you have been quoted in the recent past as saying you are worried that such is the scale of spacex’ invelvement now, particularly in putting satellites ftag 1 and elon musk dominating that marketplace, that you believe he is, in a sense, being allowed to make the rules in space.
do you believe that there’ now a lack of control and regulation, which means these privateers are doing things which aren’ in the long-term interest of us - human beings?
there is a very strong development in space.
elon musk, what you where made an interview a couple of months ago.
yes, absolutely.
but i’ not saying that’ bad.
to requlate and make sure becoming a problem.
and, yes, there is an urgency to deal with it.
issue as much as one of practical arrangements between the key partners.
and, yes, when it comes to space debris and orbit manoeuvres, as we call it, because a collision might occur, yes, we work very well with spacex, and there is no isn’ the ultimate truth that what we see today in this, greater focus than ever before on militarisation of space?
donald trump, of course, back, think, in 2019, created the space force.
the russians have shown their capacity to find ways of shooting down satellites.
the chinese are involved in that, too.
and it seems they are intent on projecting military power in space.
does europe have a plan for projecting military europe, as you would know very well, is not seeing the military strength in the same way as it is done in the or in china countries, because of the history.
this is something that is i to the second world war and what happened.
so, if you want to be a vital player in the next phase use the projection of military power in the space domain, are you?
what i’ doing , we have to distinguish a bit what is the situation today after the invasion of ukraine and what it was ah, so you’ve had to do a major rethink?
and, yes, we are launching a debate.
within the space community and the european space agency, that we are discussing with the member states, what does this mean?
do we need to change?
yes or no?
it’ very interesting what you’re saying.
i’ sure you’ve probably seen this quote, but if you haven’, it might be interesting.
again, rogozin, the head of the russian space agency, said not so long ago, "slowly but surely, we are "heading for the militarisation of space,” and roscosmos, he said the russian agency, "has no illusions about this.
"everyone is working on it.
” it seems everyone except europe.
are we just naive in europe?
wouldn’ say that we are naive in europe.
as, in some countries, a very strong capability.
take france as an example.
take the as an example.
germany, italy, spain and a few others.
and they have a strong capability in also in some of the assets that relate.
to space in terms of technolegy that is required.
going to have to shift?
what we don’ have is = 87 and think this is a discussion that is needed.
do we want to rely country by country on this excellent capability, by the way, or do we want something more of a european structure and a european response?
today, we have very little to offer, this is absolutely true, with a few exceptions, should say.
there’ no way that any european force could shoot wouldn’ say that.
individually this might be possible.
but would russia do that?
did russia invade ukraine?
that’ a good question.
a whole mess out there that means a lot of debris and a lot of particles that around and endanger all the satellites, including the russians’ and.
surely, what we have learned as a human species is that in the end, human beings sometimes take decisions which appear to run counter to the wider interest.
i’ just trying to explore the european space agency consistently has waved the peace flag and said, "you know what, we’re only about peaceful exploration.
"we’re not interested in going in the direction "other space superpowers are going in, talking "of militarisation.
that’ just not tenable, is it?
if everybody else is going in a certain direction, you can’ ignore it.
as said before, that is exactly the point.
until the invasion of ukraine, was certainly working only on the would say mostly, not only, but mostly on peaceful use of space.
now a debate is happening.
of course, don’ know what is the cutcome of this.
general of esa_ the decision has to be made by the member states.
you think a reset and a rethink is overdue?
think that we have of a security system in europe.
security is under threat, as we all know, and tanks in the battlefield, space is an integral part, from communication, earth observation and many other domains, navigation being one of them.
and think this is something that has to be seen very interesting.
final point.
europe has never actually, of course, put men inte space flight.
the americans have done it, the chinese have done it, many countries have done it, but europe hasn’ done it.
because it’ very expensive and if one talks about getting men - human beings, should say - back on the moon and then to mars, vast, vast expense and timeframes which are already stretching to 2040, 2050 before it’ conceivable it could happen.
the alternative is to say, we’re not going to do that any more - it’ too expensive.
we need to focus our resources on safequarding our own planet, which is fragile and under urgent threat right now, not least from climate change.
do you think that needs to be the focus going forward?
today, the majority of the funding, the biggest programme in , in my programmes, is on earth observation.
so europe is never going to bother with talking of manned mission to mars?
wait, wait.
this is fundamental and think this goes very well in line with the policies of the heads of states, heads of government of all european countries.
everyone has declared climate change to be the biggest threat of everyone, of mankind, of the whole planet, and that’ europe has played a major role in pioneering this aspect, including in space.
but now comes human exploration - and you exploration - and you’re absolutely right - today, and like your challenge because i’ challenging my decision-makers with exactly the same question.
and you’re absolutely right, today, europe’ astronauts are not flying with a european a1 rocket today and, in the past, also with a russian rocket.
and i’ asking my member states, my politicians, is this right or should this change?
in a word, do you think it will change, yes or no?
it will .
i’ve been mandated by the ministers, and including president macron - who has written me a letter - to put a group of high level experts in place to ask exactly this question.
these are not space people, these are people from society.
journalists, economists i’ going to get.
= to the member states iin november next year.
josef aschbacher, i’ sorry to interrupt, thank you so much for being on hardtalk.
111918 hello there.
just as we saw ver the weekend, the ather be a tale of two alves.
in the north, it was quite ettled, windy with showers remaining quite cloudy at mes with and remaining quite cloudy at times with some outbreaks of rain.
getting a little warmer ntially ater, but not as potentially later, but not as warm as it potentially later, but not as a i it will be for england and wales, northampton typical parts seeing those temperatures shing towards 30 grees.
the reason being the res highs degrees.
the reason being the highs pushing its azores highs pushing its way northwards, so we’ll say dbye to pressure that’ goodbye to low pressure that’ \ windy weather.
cloud brought windy weather.
cloud towards dawn on a weak weather , and elsewhere, showers ave been fading just a little.
sunshine to start with, and plenty of sunshine to start 1 with, and that tends to ease away as the cloud spills across land, bringing patchy rain.
haps he odd scotland, bringing patchy rain.
111 scotland, bringing patchy rain.
perhaps the odd spot elsewhere northern ireland, so england and wales will see the of the sunshine.
feeling rmer when the sun comes out northern ireland and a0 in northern ireland and scotland, warmer further south.
in the south, very high again in the south, very high levels of pollen on monday, well as strong sunshine.
we it see some very high vels of .
through the night, we 1 continue to see those weather ont rushing close by, but for , the light winds again in rural pots, sixes and sevens, 11.
for northern ireland and articularly the northwest of tland, some patchy rain on weather front scotland, some patchy rain on scotland, some patchy rain on that weather front close by, till picking those temperatures up really building that heat across the of england and pushing book of england and pushing book of england and pushing towards eastern wells.
it’ not eat we’re seeing across - 3010 the heat we’re seeing across iberia -- eastern wales_ iberia -- eastern wales.
44 forecasts, but we will find forecasts, but we will find this week is as high pressure eastward, we start to 17 83 slips eastward, we start to pull in a southerly wind which us to tap into some of allows us to tap into some of that heat a little bit, so that’ where temperatures are that’ where temperatures are expected to get.
we will keep osted and there’ ore you posted and there’ more on welcome to newsday, reporting live from singapore, i’ arunoday mukharji.
the beginning of the end for uncontolled gun posession in the united states?
in the wake of the latest school shooting in texas, a bi-partisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation on gun safety.
gains for a new left wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
the british government says a new law overriding brexit won’ undermine the northern ireland peace agreement.
are the machines i a senior tech engineer is put on leave after claiming and a month after mcdonald’ pulled out of russia because of ukraine, a homegrown burger chain opens called ‘tasty - and that’ it.
’ and democratic parties have reached agreement on a series of gun control measures.
the developments come after the tragic mass shootings let’ have a closer look at what’ in the proposal.
the framework agreement includes support for state ‘red flag’ laws where guns could be 1 a danger.
also included, tougher background checks for gun buyers under the age of 21.
there would also be 8 for others who are restricted from purchasing them.
but what’ not included are measures that the democrats and president biden had advocated, such as raising the age for buying semiautomatic rifles to 21, or new limits 38 our north america correspondent david willis this is a significant move and assuming these proposals into law, they would represent he first gun control measures 48’ country has seen in decades.
the proposals mselves are fairly modest, hey include tighter background for gun sales involve checks for gun sales involve ustomers under the age of our customers under the age of 21, and the introduction or pansion -called red flag expansion of so-called red flag laws which would potentially to the confiscation of weapons in the of people 4 med a risk to themselves or ers, and federal funding for school security systems and health hecks.
what mental health checks.
what these proposals do not include outright ban on assault = style weapons, the kind in uvalde and buffalo hootings, those at president biding and abiding and senior democrats alled or.
nonetheless, had called for.
nonetheless, dent biden had welcomed this move, president biden had welcomed move, saying it was a quote, important step in the direction stop at the 1 i right direction stop at the last meaningful gun-control lations in this country regulations in this country were introduced in the -19 90, the ady bill, which reated he national background system but since check system but since then, here has been very little 0 vement, largely due to the pposition republicans in the centre to oppose anything that transgresses upon so-called that transgresses upon the led second amendment, the right bear arms and this untry stop in the majority of ericans continue to support i americans continue to support tighter gun-control measures in 48’ country and irenically, they they don’'t make the news ews of they don’ make the news of hese latest proposals came a six anniversary i shooting at a gay with a six anniversary of shooting at a gay in 49 people lost their lives i’ joined now by manuel oliver, whose 17-year-old son joaquin "guac" oliver was killed in the shooting at marjory stoneman douglas high school in 2018.
manuel is also an activist and co-founder of gun control advocacy group "change the ref".
lie1 @0 thank you very much for your i here on world news.
rine time here on world news.
i’ sure it’ always difficult to i’ sure it’ always difficult 014 i’ sure it’ always difficult to talk about this so really eciate you coming in speaking to us about the pect sensitive subject.
i 14 suspect sensitive subject.
i biden said this was a president biden said this was a step in the step in the right direction but still a long step in the right direction but a it was still a long way to go.
how do you feel today?
are how do you feel today?
are you tle encourage that america 3 is heading in that my rection?
ll, agree with direction?
well, agree with the president direction?
well, agree with a 1 direction?
well, agree with what the president said and what he thinks about this.
we are expecting way more than we heard today, not to ention what we heard today, not to 4 ion that what we have today 04 mention that what we have today 3540 & just in this moment a proposal.
it’ the word of an ement etween republicans and democrats, so nothing fficial, nothing is effective his point, so official, nothing is effective a official, nothing is effective at this point, so don’ think should in any way demonstrate that will elebrate these because don’ these on biden plasma desk and biden signing these and becoming a law, there is hing to think that is happening actually.
so you have 1014 a doubt that still have a doubt that this may not see the light of day?
ave a doubt this may not cohvert you have a doubt this may not vert itself into a you have a doubt this may not - legislation?
well, i’ convert itself into a concrete legislation?
well, i’ hoping that it will but let me tell you, the actual fact is that we gun violence on a daily sis in have gun violence on a daily - in america.
everyone is basis in america.
everyone is surprised and everyone is zed with surprised and everyone is 0la amazed with these announcements that heard today.
and that ays a lot about the erican ociety, like these are measures that you can tell there is a lot of detail and some kind of, some politicians fraid of going all are afraid of going all the ay, like we were asking for raise the age to 21 tee i8 them to raise the age to 21 from 18.
that’ an step, that maybe common ground for yone, that did not everyone, and that did not happen, sir, and because know hings work here, there is 1 4 i how things work here, there is - 1 a law that will see from the ame agreement that we will see ay.
how frustrating really asn’ been emmanuel?
onstantly fighting for data -control laws and despite that incident in florida that away your on, you have took away your son, you have a cessive incidents take place.
how angry does that make how frustrated do you you?
how frustrated do you feel?
‘ frustration is one and empowering is another.
we like to thing and empowering is another.
we like to think that time this happens we just every time this happens we just get out there and speak out.
erday was in yesterday was in washington, a huge march and , and a huge march and was talking about the consequences alling for a national trike, no more sisting to schools from any level of cation until we see his bill, these requlations hecome law, think that hat actually what need to feel that way, and it’ me for a politician to stop ting time see some consequence out this.
we to have re control consequence out of this.
we nee ataee need to have more control when need to have more control when we use the word demand erwise it means nothing.
otherwise means nothing will leave here, thank we will leave it there, thank you very much for your time on newsday, speaking to us all the reaction on he proposed legislation that could into a a british family say their son has been killed while fighting russian forces in the east of ukraine.
jordan gatley, who left the british army in march to travel to ukraine, was shot in the city of severodonetsk.
gatley is the second british person to be killed ukraine says it expects russia to step up efforts to capture the whole of the heavily bombarded city within days.
the remaining civilians in severodonetsk are reported to have no access to mains water or electricity.
dozens of people have taken part in a protest in ric janeiro to demand action a week after a local indigenous expert and a british journalist went missing in the amazon.
a fisherman has been ree with the disappearance of bruno pereira and dom phillips, but no further developments an australian newspaper has denied outing actress rebel on friday, wilson said she had found her "disney princess" as she shared a selfie with her partner on instagram.
but on saturday the sydney morning herald revealed it had known about the relationship before it was public and had given wilson two days to comment.
the opposition left-wing alliance in france has scored elections.
despite that, president macron’ supporters look set to have the biggest bloc in the national assembly, but it’ unclear if they’ll have enough seats to form a majority.
our paris correspondent hugh schofield has more.
lril the big line is we have to say that the big line is we have to say at it is this breakthrough by is - that it is this breakthrough by this left-wing alliance, if you back at this left-wing alliance, if you & back at the presidential look back at the presidential election two months ago the it terribly there, leader of this new left-wing alliance was in third place but interim alliance was in third place but in the interim between the presidential and this election, done something he has done something rather extraordinary, made an alliance a his father left party, between his father left party, ialists and greens he ety socialists and greens the communists and socialists and greens the it tlga - socialists and greens the i tlge socialists and greens the tige i a socialists and greens the a communists and turned it into a major electoral force, and one is a erious challenge to which is a serious challenge to i 14 which is a serious challenge to president macron.
he hasn’, 4 think done so president macron.
he hasn’, = president macron.
he hasn’, don’'t think done so well that got any erious chance of dominating the assembly and majority they are enforcing president macron into bitation with enforcing president macron into enforcing president macron into cohabitation with the left wing nated national assembly, he has done something raordinary which looks like manding a block after next ek?
second round of 150, 170, mps, and are 180 mps, and are a big achievement, but, the fact ins 4 it does loock as remains it does look as if resident macron will win is legislative ela a1 legislative election and president macron will win this legislative election and that question is whether his majority will be relative or 1 - lute, and that is absolute, and that is he is campaigning ferociously over ext few days to make sure that he does as many seats possible in the national assembly in a week’ time.
he ’ have an absolute majority he can ush through his programme and not be forced to liances with smaller into alliances with smaller blocks on the assembly.
i i i china’'s defence minister says relations with the united states are at a ‘critical juncture’.
wei fenghe was responding 1 2 lloyd austin, who told a security conference that beijing had taken a more aggressive approach issli ire i speaking at the same meeting, - tas lol - of trying to contain china, and told it to stop.
nick marsh, who’ been attending the summit over the weekend.
a lot has been talked about, here were many expectations especially considering everything that is going around world, but all really centring bout these dialogues.
us a sense of its popular 0 many ssues, tensions have bubbling up this region or many years , issues on the able at this conference luded the table at this conference rta the table at this conference included the south the table at this conference 0 included the south china sea, korea, taiwan, of course, man north korea, taiwan, of course, but there was this new dynamic from but there was this new dynamic but there was this new dynamic coming from europe, and that he ukraine war, and hink he tone was really sad i think the tone was really sad - think the tone was really sad when the prime minister of an opens this dialogue with quite chilling line, he said ukraine today could be ast asia tomorrow, and it focused on is really focused on is specifically the issue of wan, and on saturday we heard from the secretary of defence, lloyd austin, and he eme pretty forthright had some pretty forthright remarks on that issue of wan.
we witnessed a steady rtee taiwan.
we witnessed a steady increase in provocative and abilising military activity near taiwan.
that includes aircraft flying near taiwan in numbers in aircraft flying near taiwan in i record numbers in recent - record numbers in recent months.
and nearly on a months.
and nearly on a dally basis.
and we remain focused on taining peace, stability the status quo across the wan taiwan strait, but the ’ threaten to taiwan strait, but the ’ i moves threaten to undermine security and stability and perity in the indo pacific prosperity in the indo pacific stock prosperity in the indo pacific 44 ock by the making a very lear stock by the making a very a1 101 stock by the making a very about where they stand as as this is concerned, but was not very far in explaining its stand, rather bluntly as well responding.
on saturday it was the speaking sunday, it was china’ urn and on sunday, it was china’ respond and they did turn to respond and they did respond quite forcefully, the ral gist of message general gist of the message really was to mind your own iness.
they said china’ development in entre development in the centre pacific region was not a threat hers and any country a seeking to others and any country seeking to contain it, well, that was that was neither wise that was neither wise nor possible, so we have from the nce minister, he also weighed in on this defence minister, he also , weighed in on this issue on taiwan and had a warning for anyone who was thinking of aring up pro independent ala staring up pro independent sentiments on the self-governing land.
if anyone dares to secede taiwan 8 china, we will not from china, we will not hesitate to fight.
we will all costs, and we will fight fight at all costs, and we will to the very end.
this is he choice for hina.
want to squeeze in last question because it is ortant to question because it is i 0 question because it is important to put this in spective, and a china eeting face-to-face after the of words have seen, war of words we have seen, els war as well, what does that trade war as well, what does that tell us about the conversations?
we just had some harsh words, of course it was harsh language, but you to remember this have to remember this was called the shangri-la dialogue whole point was on the whole point was dialogue, both generals meeting sidelines, the first meeting of this level since 1 2019, 2019, there is some level meeting of this level since 2019, there is some level of gement, they will be engagement, they will be a region who will several countries in this region who will be looking at with relief because they 0 that with relief because they are caught between these two ilitary superpowers.
big military superpowers.
1 eciate you joining appreciate you joining us and giving us that perspective and king the developments tracking all the developments the you’re watching newsday on the .
still come on the pregramme, the first home-grown version of the mcdonald’'s restaurant re-opens in russia a month after the chain pulled out because of ukraine.
a code word known to be one used by the was given.
army bomb experts were examining a suspect van when there was a huge explosion.
the south african parliament has destroyed the foundation of apartheid by abolishing the population registration citizen according to race.
germany’ parliament, the bundestag, has voted by a narrow majority to move the seat of government bonn to berlin.
celebrated into the night, but the decision was greeted with shock in bonn.
the real focus of attention today was valentina tereshkova, the world’ first woman cesmonaut.
what do you think of the russian woman in space?
i think it’ a wonderful achievement and think we might be able to persuade the wife it would be a good idea if could to get her to go up there for a little while.
this is newsday on the .
i’ arunoday mukharji in singapore.
in the united states, a bipartisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation on gun safety.
there have been significant gains for a new left wing elections.
legislation will be introduced in the house of commons on monday that will allow changes to be made to parts and the government says it’ confident the changes would be the arrangement, known as the northern ireland protocol, allows for extra checks on some goods moving it’ been a source of discontent for unionists, who see it as an internal border within the .
but critics of the move, including nationalist parties and the irish government, say it could breach this legislation could potentially have implications he ’ for the ’ relationship with the .
for boris hnson’ relationship his own party and for the relationship with his own party i relationship with his own party and for the future of i0hate i devolution here in devolution here in northern and.
the devolved ireland.
the devolved assembly ins in he deep-freeze more han a month after the election .
the party is blocking formation to it.
the party is blocking i to it.
the party is blocking the formation and preventing ssembly from eating at the assembly from eating at all its opposition to the over its opposition to the northern ireland protocol.
the nce and an northern ireland protocol.
the once and an end to checks goods arriving here at lfast ort on goods arriving here at a on goods arriving here at belfast port for example from est of the , and it says wants hat it calls decisive tion to it wants what it calls decisive it wants what it calls decisive i era action to remove the irish sea order.
on that basis, don’ 8 it is very likely hat i think it is very likely that the will soften its stance ever this legislation is published morrow, at the very ast the want to see how legislation is worked rough.
non- unionist parties the irish government ave 10 said this legislation 14 break the brexit treaty and efore breach international but the northern ireland etary randon lewis has secretary brandon lewis has insisted it isn’ the case.
the political discussion on legal wrangling will sibly continue, no end to the stomach re which is seen rthern ireland thout a devolved government at a time so many people are when so many people are struggling with the rising a senior software engineer working for google has told the washington post that the company has placed him on administrative leave i a intelligence chatbot has become a sentient being.
conversation, they are not free thinking sentient beings.
i’ joined now by our news reporter, mark lobel.
mark, what prompted this former google employee to speak out?
the fear is, the fear is, and the former 0 gle software engineer and i3 priest told the washington , know a an when talk post, know a man when talk to i , and it matters because heckbox he as talking to, tl: the checkbox he was talking to, run by google, according its year will eventually be embedded in the google search tion =1ats embedded in the google search function and assistant, tware used by millions around software used by millions software used by millions a1 oiv around the world.
it all began wei fenghe was testing it i - for hate speech and disc itary speed.
the chat moved 1ne to robotics military speed.
the chat moved a1telas ala- onto robotics and rights.
he published the transcript.
the kbox said, this a checkbox said, use this with rstanding and technology.
he said, what so important in luggage he said, what is so important in luggage to being human.
the but said it in luggage to being human.
the i a1 in luggage to being human.
the chat but said it is what makes 4 fferent from chat but said it is what makes us different from other animals.
his accordion when it said don’ ave the was.
it said we don’ have the tlatiatle was.
it said we don’ have the summons and needs as of people, asked, do you consider it was asked, do you consider = urself a person because !
arket said yes.
then they lked about les miserables, feelings of injustice, and this convinces lake a 1 all this convinces blake irl lemoine that this is more than artificial intelligence.
inating, but what is google’ position in all this?
says there is no google says there is no evidence to support the claims ided by provided by blake and he violated the confidentiality cy.
say that blake moine was policy.
say that blake =18 policy.
say that blake lemoine was probably very athetic as a person, this empathy took him jacked him, really, he ost focus, lost focus about the ability of what the i eld what the ability of what the chat box was.
it brings its own , and to explain that he risks, and to explain that he % a linguistics professor ily bender.
emily bender.
we, as 8 we, as people, like to imagine thing that is simply following rules is objective and separate is going better decisions but to make better decisions but weather technology is ilt, it is reproducing to patterns built, it is reproducing patterns from its draining , so if we employed at data, so if we employed at ale and give up autonomy to machines and let them decisions for us we’re ing to be reproducing all of systems oppression that ave the systems of oppression that have created the training a in he first place and real eis i will be harmed.
110 will be harmed.
google has placed blake lisy google has placed blake lemoine ministrative leave.
he has vited lawyer to represent the chat box.
mark lobel, thank you 8 mark lobel, thank you very the chat box.
mark lobel, thank you very much aking sense of that for us giving us those updates.
a 15 i 1: in russia has opened in moscow under a new name, the chain pulled out of the country last month following the invasion a mcdonald’ left russia of its own accord, but a slew of international sanctions have hit the country’ economy hard.
our russia editor steve rosenberg has the story.
0 not any more.
the fast food giant has left russia in protest and it sold all its restaurants here - more than 800 - gone are the golden arches.
the logo now is two french fries and a burger.
the man who was quick to buy the fast food business is siberian tycoon alexander govor.
: i a big macs or mcflurries here.
it’ a pity, because they were the most popular items, but we told our experts to find replacements that are just as good or even better.
"russians can do fast food just as well", he tells me.
"and as for western sanctions and global brands leaving 1 tough people - "you can’ scare us.
” when the very first mcdonald’ restaurant opened right here 32 years ago, that was a hugely powerful symbol, a symbol western ideas, western food.
what’ happening here today with the departure of mcdonald’ and its russian replacement, over in the kremlin, no burgers, but a hefty from the president.
at an awards ceremony, vladimir putin called themselves to the motherland, but he will know that western sanctions are having an impact.
here’ one example.
car-makers can’ import key components, so the new lada’ being made without any airbags or an anti-lock braking system.
taxidriver nikita thinks the russian economy in for @ bumpy ride.
the prices in roubles, they became ridiculously high, yeah.
so, for the taxi business now, it’ gone.
we have to use old ones.
russians won’ relish the prospect of ecoenomic pain, i8 the kremlin shows no sign of changing course.
steve rosenberg, news, moscow.
that’ all for now - stay with world news.
lie1 @0 thank you for watching.
just as we saw over the weekend just as we saw over the weekend the weather for the week ahead be a tale of two will be a tale of two halves.
in the north it was ite unsettled, windy weather wers, not as windy this week remaining quite cloudy at mes with but remaining quite cloudy at times with some outbreaks of rain.
getting a little warmer ntially ater in he week potentially later in the week = as warm as it potentially later in the week i but not as warm as it will be and wales stop for england and wales stop northampton fairly typical of of northern england, parts of northern england, missing temperatures hing towards 30 degrees for the end week ecause of the high of the week because of the high pushing north.
say goodbye to pressure that has &1 the low pressure that has brought the windy weather ough the weekend a lot 0 of showers.
we will have cloud approaching the west dawn on a weak weather front.
elsewhere, starry skies, a front.
elsewhere, under starry 12 front.
elsewhere, under starry skies, a chilly but plenty of start, which tends to ase way as cloud spills cross scotland bringing patchy a a1 elg i across scotland bringing patchy rain particularly to highlands and islands, perhaps 18 pot elsewhere, england the odd spot elsewhere, england and northern the odd spot elsewhere, england the odd spot elsewhere, england and northern ireland too.
land and wales will see the best of he sunshine the lines share, billing warmer when the oes sun does come out in noerthern ireland scotland, it warmer ther outh.
again in the south, igh levels of pollen are forecast once again.
on monday as well as strong shine levels, high els of i\ sunshine levels, high levels of 1av 1 sunshine levels, high levels of , especially this weekend.
ugh the night will through the night we will 418 through the night we will continue cc, batsmen denied, weather fronts brushing those weather fronts brushing ™ the northwest but many with skies, he light winds clear skies, the light winds and rural spots between -seven, 10-11.
plenty of sunshine follows six-seven, 10-11.
plenty of i ine follows on tuesday.
sunshine follows on tuesday.
for northern ireland but particularly western for northern ireland but particularly western scotland - , patchy rain, but still cloud, patchy rain, but still 10 are starting to see temperatures picking up we are starting to see i temperatures picking up further north and building the heat the bulk england and across the bulk of england and pushing eastern wales.
it isn’ the pushing to eastern wales.
it 1 the heat we are seeing further isn’ the heat we are seeing a 0 isn’ the heat we are seeing - i further south where it has been 0 for one week or intense for one week or so at an - 014 intense for one week or so at least 44 forecast, but we will his high-pressure slipping ast, pulling southerly wind, owing us east, pulling southerly wind, east, pulling southerly wind, allowing us to tap into some of heat a ittle bit, perhaps - that heat a little bit, perhaps temperatures are that heat a little bit, perhaps a temperatures are expected to get across central and tern areas towards to get across central and i 10 eastern areas towards the 30 degrees dark.
we will keep posted, more on the website.
's news, we will have all he headlines in the top of news the headlines in the top of the 1 at the top of the the headlines in the top of the news at the top of the hour after this programme.
hello and welcome to the media show.
for this week’ edition, we’ve come to paddington in central london, to the newsroom of news, because, as i’ sure you may remember, back on june 13th last year, andrew neil and his programme launched news at 8pm on 13 june.
it was certainly a distinct launch.
the studio was quite dark.
there were some technical problems.
it was widely discussed on social media.
within weeks, andrew neil would be on holiday, never to return.
a - farage would have his own primetime show.
it’ still very much on air.
just through the window here, there are many people - journalists, producers - working on the output as it goes on.
and we’re going to consider what’ definitely been a tumultuous 12 months.
angelos frangopoulos, thanks for being with us.
thank you very much for having me, ros, you’re still going?
a in fact, it’ been a tumultuous start, but have to say it’ been an exhilarating journey been something that really a1 particularly in the early days.
there were probably other words being used as well.
were there moments in that first week, that first month, where you thought, "maybe this isn’ going to hang together"?
not at all, not at all.
very typical of a start-up that some things go right, some things go wrong, some people come through, some people don’.
and the reality is that you almost need to go through some of that pain - although admittedly, will never launch another news channel again on the 13th of any month.
but the reality is that is where you learn and that is where you really develop the skills and you take that next step up.
and, look, the channel is now absolutely unrecognisable that but wouldn’ you have done some of that learning away from the public glare?
it felt like you were thrashing out things that normally get yeah, it’ a really good question, actually.
so to understand that, there’ the context of the environment many had not worked together.
a lot of pressures around new technology, people learning how to work.
and some of the training the rehearsals that we had done, we were in pretty good shape.
on the night admittedly came because the full transmission chain hadn’ been tested all the way through to our broadcast partner.
and that’ where some of those audio issues and the problems came in.
isn’'t that the kind of chain you would check before launching a network?
and if we do it again, we’ll definitely be checking that chain.
now, we’re going to talk more about the launch gone on to become.
to understand what you’ve brought from australia to this british news network.
saw one article about you saying you’ been credited with honing the art of cheap but compelling panel-style at news australia, where you worked for a long time.
is that a fair description?
is that your expertise?
that is not my expertise.
i think my expertise goes back a parts of my career, where started my career in regional television in new south wales, and really it was about connecting with communities.
it is actually a craft.
it’ almost a calling.
and a lot of the fundamentals that went into news communities, taking programmes on the road, visiting towns and parts of queensland and western new south wales that hadn’ been visited by metropolitan media.
1 the skill set and the thought now, while that might have been your ambition at news australia, els bedrock of the success that that network had at connecting with an audience.
in 2014, at a conference in hong kong, you said, "the key thing is audience.
we’ identified opinion a opinion-based shows are our biggest shows.
they deliver the numbers, a0 1 comes revenue.
” that’ what you were doing, wasn’ it, placing opinion - it’ about debating and not all the epinion that was done on news australia was controversial.
in fact, one of the first things we invested in was opinion around politics and proper coverage for and that meant things like rolling news conferences, having panel debates, shows.
and in fact, the first panel debate show on news australia was hosted by the former prime minister of australia, anthony albanese.
so, really, it’ not just about exploring issues it’ about actually having a proper conversation.
for a point of difference for news australia.
you’re definitely looking for a point of difference for news, up against news, news and talktv now.
andrew neil has subsequently said of his involvement, his mistake was putting his name on the tin without understanding what would be inside it.
sat down with him, when you sat down with others?
what was the plan?
as never changed.
and in fact, think that when andrew made that comment, it was more probably areund the start-up environment difficult rather than there was no shift or no leap to any direction - what we are delivering today is exactly what we promised programming where we talk about things that often are not talked about in the broader media landscape.
1 programming that you’re putting family to immigration to cancel culture, this is hardly 0 to get those things.
yeah, think that they’re probably the only place you can get those things in a television environment, certainly.
you have a breadth of subject matter and viewpoints that exist in print media here in the united kingdom of broadcast journalism.
certainly in my experience, journalism generally comes from the left of centre.
and you despite the fact the press, for example, has many more newspapers that skew to the right than to the left?
but think it’ important to remember that we are talking about broadcast here, i3ala between or , and , is very much of a certain viewpoint, whereas we saw an opportunity to broaden out that conversation, to have perspective, but also including viewpoints from the left.
we have nearly got as many labour coming on news now as we have conservative mps, and that is because we want this to be a town hall where people can come and actually have those conversations.
you clearly are being regulated by ofcom and seeking to play by their rules.
do you regret the fact that you are being requlated, in terms of the balance of your programming?
not at all, not at all.
we have embraced it from day one and that is an important part of our positioning in the landscape.
so we could have launched news over the top on a connected or on youtube we chose to operate in an ofcom-requlated environment because, quite frankly, it gives you kudos.
it means that you actually have got credibility in the marketplace.
and it also means that we play on the level playing field with the , and others.
so you’re happy to be regulated by ofcom, you haven’ come a cropper with the ofcom requlators, but let’ talk away from the ofcom rules and simply about the nature of balanced pregramming.
a little while ago, you were referencing in fact, i think the company which is the parent company called all perspectives.
but for example, was watching dan wootton a few days ago.
there was a segment with nigel farage where dan wootton agreed with everything that he then interviewed jim davidson, where he agreed with almost everything jim davidsen said about cancel culture.
now, the viewers might like that, but it’ not a balanced discussion, it’ not a impartial but that is not a news bulletin, as such.
and think you need to understand that, actually, there is a breadth of voices across the schedule on the channel and that is an important part of any rolling news channel.
the impartiality exists in its purest form within the news bulletins, which actually are straight but the reality is that you do have a variety of voices through the day.
and again, if watched at 6.
00, you’ll have a panel that actually has got dan wootton’ show does mostly have a breadth of viewpoints.
= a that is weaved through the show.
and he has a variety of guests that they actually do debate the issues of the day.
and again, point back to ofcom.
you know, we’re 12 months i 0 1 do work very closely within the ofcom rules.
but you set your own rules as well.
you’ve got editorial standards, which people can read on your website.
and one of your presenters, guto harri, who’ now part of the prime minister’ operation but was a presenter for a while, his time on news came to an end after he took the knee as a stance against racism.
"how did what do bhreak the rules?
” can you explain how he broke your rules?
so think in that case, you have to draw a distinction between someone who is a guest and someone who is a host.
would you take the knee on your show?
no.
right but the ’ rules are not necessarily the same the rules are pretty clear in terms of standards of dealing with things, with making sure that things - and ensuring that with respect, watched nigel farage on dan wootton’ programme the other day talking about immigration.
it couldn’ have been more politicised.
there was no difference between what he was saying on dan wootton’ show and the things he said when he was involved in ukip and the brexit party.
it couldn’ be more politicised.
but think that, you know, actually taking the knee and the reality is that he was not sacked.
in the end, he did resign.
and that was actually his choice.
we were very happy i & but now we’re talking about something that happened a very, very long time ago yeah, but suppose what think people in your desire to pursue a new type of broadcasting to 1 to set your presenters free in @ way you say they wouldn’ i’ trying to understand where the line is.
so, for example, dan wootton tweeted a picture of a couple of people in a park wearing a mask.
and the point was, "why on earth are they wearing a mask?
” but in your charter, you talk about protecting privacy unless there’ a compelling public interest - which that tweet, some would argue, definitely didn’ meet.
i’ not aware that he was in any way sanctioned for that, so i’ just trying to understand how you draw the line for all of your on-air presenters and reporters.
what can they do?
1 8 that we always stick i lai- and there are things that do slip through the net.
mean, the itself has sanctions and there are issues that have happened with news over time.
but think in the main, 6,000 hours of television a year, we’ve done a really good job of ensuring that we stay within the bounds and that’ something that we do take very seriously.
also in your charter, you talk about putting facts first, and we’ve already discussed where opinion fits into reporting and how those two things interact.
would you consider what nigel farage and dan wootton are doing as news journalism?
ultimately, we’re a journalism business, but we have to be able to talk about issues in a very free and open way.
again, there i the facts are checked, and they do go through a process.
and if we get something wrong, we say we’ve got it wrong, just like any good journalism business.
well, let’ take a couple of examples on that.
on the 30th of may on michelle dewberry’ programme, you had a guest talking about climate change and yet you didn’ have a scientist on with that guest or we could take mark steyn, another of your presenters.
he’ in the evening.
michelle dewberry’ a little bit earlier on.
full fact, the fact checking operation, found that he was wrong to state that a covid booster increases your chances of hospitalisation and death.
is it a concern to you that these kind of statements 1 getting through the net?
well, think it’ very important to remember that we answer to a requlator, .
full fact is not the regulator.
sure.
and in that case, which am aware of, there has been, certainly from our perspective and the programme producer’ perspective, some contention around the way full fact had actually put together its suggestion that it was wrong.
now, the thing is that, ultimately, you have a lot of guests on, you have a lot of content to go through, and that is the nature of a rolling news service.
we put a lot of effort into making sure that we get it right.
mentioned one example there to do with climate, and climate has been a particular focus both of some of the discussions you have on news, but it’ also been the focus of some concerns that particular perspectives are not just part of reasonable debate but are venturing into something that’ potentially less fact-based.
jennie king from the institute for strategic dialogue, which is a think tank, says that you’ve become a central hub for climate scepticism.
are you making a conscious effort to put people on air who are outside of the regular discussions of climate change?
you’ve hit the nail on the head, "the reqular discussions”.
so can’ there be hroader discussions about all subjects?
well, they can, so long as they’re fact-based.
including climate change.
there is nothing wrong with actually being able to bring a broader discussion to the population arcund all issues.
and, yes, when it comes to climate change, there is contention and and we do have multiple sides of the climate change debate.
but there aren’'t multiple sides to whether the sea is rising.
the sea is simply rising.
and suppose that’ the question some people have, reasonable discussion across any issue and something that veers inte polemic or pure opinion without the necessary facts attached.
i mean, the suggestion that there’ some sort of agenda absolutely wrong.
so, that is fact.
now, let’ talk about where you’ve got to because, as you say, the launch is a while back now, 12 months.
from the start, you were always clear that ratings were not the only metric of success.
a about your digital ambitions.
one was your definition of success in the digital arena.
those are good questions!
establishment media landscape.
from a digital sense, we have products that we tell stories in different ways to suit different demographics.
so we have stories that do really well on tiktok that are told in a certain way.
we have traditional stories that are on linear television.
we treat stories in a different way on facebook.
instagram, again, is 5 billion impressions for news content online, in a digital sense, and that includes our owned and operated sites as well as social media.
but as we look through the window here, to do it more cheaply than other broadcasters, but nonetheless, you’re going to be spending an awful lot of money on your staff, on all the infrastructure that comes with running a network.
you’re going to have to do enormous numbers, much bigger than you’re doing at the moment, to help run a place like this.
television revenue and radio revenue, and that is something that will morph more into the digital side of things, which is still a meaningful number over time.
that is a big challenge for us, though, in that we are still suffering a boycott by the advertising agencies when it comes to particularly our linear television product.
and that is @ massive challenge for this business.
what can you do about that?
well, we have to keep doing what we’re doing.
we have to ensure that we address the perception issue that exists out there.
news actually is a mainstream channel.
it’ not an establishment channel, but it is actually a mainstream channel that reaches mass audiences in the united kingdom across all different platforms, and that does have a value back to advertisers.
and it’ important that we get that message out there.
now, i’ really interested that you’ve said that, that you’re emphasising this as a mainstream television because it strikes me that what you’re becoming is perhaps a bit more establishment than was first advertised you’ve joined the 6 you’ve joined the pool which looks after how politics covered in westminster.
you’ve done a number of other things as well, some of your programming - your breakfast programme with eamonn holmes.
nothing wrong with this, of course, but it’ not a million miles away from other breakfast programmes that we’ve seen on news.
have you realised that to make money, to create a successful business, you’ve actually got to be a bit less of a rebel than you first thought?
you’ll never get the rebel out of news, i’ve got to say.
look, think the reality is that programmes like breakfast were never, ever controversial, even in its first iteration, a range of pregramming.
so during the day, we are politics-heavy.
in the evening, we’re opinion-heavy and appointment-to-view-heavy.
and at breakfast, it is a mass reach breakfast programme.
but if you actually look at the overall strategic positioning of it, it’ a hreakfast show made - importantly - for a radio audience as well, because news radio launched on 4 january this year.
watching news a lot in the run up to this interview, a lot of your trails, they use very similar language to the language nigel farage has used.
they say things like, "we won’ talk down to you.
"this is the people’ news channel.
” the tone, the language is familiar to me as someone and just wonder, the more successful you are at connecting with nigel farage’ base, do you risk making a channel which is for that section of the - nothing wrong with that - but might struggle to reach beyond that section of the ?
well, that language used in the trail that you mentioned actually news language.
and know it’ news language because it’ language that we’ve been working on for a very long time but my point is there’ a crossover.
even before nigel of course, but my point is that this is familiar the crossover in the language and tone is almost complete.
disagree.
really disagree.
and think that that language applies across it also applies i mean, you know, our breakfast show is, in every single sense of what news is, is really about the people’ channel, is really about talking about issues that others don’ really raise.
and it’ done in a very news way.
you know, nigel is only a4 and he’ very successful.
he’ an extraordinary broadcaster.
but then again, so are others that we’ve got on the channel.
we’ve got great we’ve got anne diamond, stephen dixon, isabel webster - these are terrific broadcasters.
and, you know, think one of the things that frustrates me the most is that a by others that this is a channel built around ohe or two people.
we know how risky it is - and anyone who runs a business.
and a breadth of appeintment-to-view.
and if you have one single talent that you base an entire media venture over, \ going to work out.
it’ a journalism business.
let’ focus on the last word, because, of course, in the end, you want this to be a company that makes money.
a year in, you are a long, long way below where you said you wanted to be after a year.
do you accept that?
i think that we’re tracking really well.
\ 1 a tough 12 months.
the boycott by the agencies hasn’ helped.
in terms of audience levels, though, we are really happy where we are right now.
mean, some of our shows rate well over 100,000.
and that doesn’ sound like much if you’re talking , one numbers, but particularly where we are.
you’ve got to remember, this business is less than 12 months old as we speak.
as i’ sure you do routinely, and you look through the numbers and you look through your projections and where you are, are they happy to keep backing this?
because i’ reliably informed by a number of sources budget when you launched.
so you’re putting serious money into this, but at the moment, so are they comfortable with that?
we are tracking to our business plan, in terms of audience.
we’re tracking on our business plan, in terms of revenue, where we are right now.
yes, costs have increased.
trying to achieve a similar outcome.
and all these things are inflationary.
the pandemic went on longer than we had planned, certainly, there are cost pressures, but that’ different to any media business, ultimately.
what do you make of talktv, piers morgan?
oing on to 11 news australia.
you must have been following this very closely.
how are you assessing to news corp to run its.
come on, you haven’ been coy for the whole duraticn of this interview!
are you going to go coy on me now?
look, think well, for starters, that they launched.
think it is really important that there’ more plurality and more choice in the media landscape here.
to what news corp has launched.
we are uniquely a british product, we’re focused than there is on that other channel.
= it’ a good thing.
choice is good.
angelos frangopoulos, thank you very much for jeining us on the media show.
thank you very much.
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
in the north it was quite unsettled, windy weather showers.
not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy getting a little warmer potentially later in the week, but not as warm as it will be for england and wales.
northampton - fairly typical of many parts of northern england, temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees by the end of the week oi pushing north.
say goodbye to the low pressure that has brought the windy weather through the weekend and a lot of showers.
we will still have cloud approaching the west towards dawn on a weak weather front.
elsewhere, under starry skies, as showers have been fading, a chilly but plenty of sun to start, which tends to ease away as cloud spills across scotland bringing patchy rain particularly to the highlands and islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere, and across england and northern the lion’ share, feeling warmer when the sun does come out in northern ireland and scotland, and warmer further again in the south, some high levels of pollen are forecast oence again.
on monday, as well as strong sunshine levels, of , especially this weekend.
through the night we will fronts brushing by the northwest but many between six-seven, 10-11.
plenty of sunshine follows on tuesday.
for northern ireland but particularly western scotland - cloud, patchy rain, but still we are starting to see temperatures picking up further north and building the heat across the bulk of england and pushing intense for one week or so at least 44 forecast, but we will see this 13 pulling southerly wind, allowing us to tap into some are expected to get across central and eastern we will keep you posted, welcome to news, i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: beginning of the end for uncontolled gun posession in the united states?
in the wake of the latest school shooting in texas, a bi-partisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation on gun safety.
gains for a new left wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
the british government says a new law overriding will not undermine the northern ireland peace agreement.
are the machines i a senior tech engineer is put on leave after claiming and a month after mcdonalds pulled out of russia because of ukraine, a homegrown burger chain opens called ‘tasty - and that’ it.
’ and democratic parties - have reached agreement on a series of gun control measures.
the developments come after the tragic mass shootings let’ have a closer look at what’ in the proposal.
the framework agreement includes support for state ‘red flag’ laws where guns could be 1 a danger.
also included, tougher background checks for gun buyers under the age of 21.
there would also be 8 for others who are restricted from purchasing them.
but what’ not included are measures that the democrats and president biden had advocated, such as raising the age for buying semiautomatic rifles to 21 or new limits on assault-style rifles.
our north america correspondent, david willis, has been following the story.
this is a significant move and assuming these proposals they would represent the first gun control measures this country has the proposals themselves are fairly modest, they include tighter background checks for gun sales involving customers under the age of 21, and the introduction or expansion of so-called red flag laws which would potentially lead to the confiscation of weapons in the hands of people deemed a risk to themselves or others, and greater federal funding for school security systems and mental health what these proposals do not include lril = style weapons, the kind used in the uvalde and buffalo new york shootings, those that president biden welcomed this move, he said it was, quote, "important step in the right direction”.
the last meaningful gun-control regulations in this country were introduced in the mid-19 90, the brady bill, which created the national background check system, but since then there has been very little movement, largely due to the opposition of republicans that transgresses upon the so-called second amendment, 14 the majority of americans polls show continue to support the news of these latest proposals came on the six year anniversary of shooting at a gay in florida in which 49 people lost their lives.
a political-science professor at the state university of new york cortland and author of multiple books on gun control.
thanks for jeining us.
politically, how has it been so to get legislation on gun hard to get legislation on gun ntrol in hard to get legislation on gun in the last few years control in the last few years and decades because obviously seen many occasions we have seen 0 many occasions unfortunately of shootings?
it has been = extremely difficult.
he mediate obstacle has been in united states senate immediate obstacle has been in the united states senate where ibuster rules still in the filibuster rules still in place meaning that to enact slation, instead of needing set i8 i8 legislation, instead of needing is set majority of 59 votes out 0 senators you actually need 60 and 4 of 100 senators you actually need 60 and it has effectively the minority party or the ublican party ever dinner ority the ability block majority the ability to block legislation.
in addition the ssue, support for gun i gun issue, support for gun rights has increasingly become mus est for republican a litmus test for republican a vatism in recent years, so and so that means republican lawmakers have felt a certain gation to prove their conservative bona fides by orting absolute gun ride lilis supporting an absolute gun ride point of view that is not owing any ind of gun allowing any kind of gun easures.
blood given those and related obstacles, this ackage of legislation really airly significant, arguably re significant politically an a policy terms but it is achis than a policy terms but it is important in policy as well.
my next question is how surprised that they have managed are you that they have managed to reach an agreement, because so partisan, on this issue, are you surprised that uccess of this?
have been somewhat surprised at what rised me even more as 0 surprised me even more as more into the proposal and % oting that the final language has not yet been drafted and they still have to get it ough both houses of 3 i3 through both houses of congress, house of representatives surely will be cooperative, the fact that it udes really quite a number other things including one vision closing what is 1 provision closing what is referred to as the boyfriend hole, ever married couple, loophole, ever married couple, one partnerina loophole, ever married couple, loophole, ever married couple, one partner in a married couple mes violent, that person can be deprived of regard from guns by that rule do not having guns by that rule do not \ if you are not actually apply if you are not actually el- apply if you are not actually married and of course millions uples who live together together are not married.
1 this legislation closes the yfriend loophole and that is ally quite a very significant ovision by itself.
re are provision by itself.
there are still limitations of course, re still you are still able to buy semiautomatic rifles semiautomatic rifles under the 21, and quess that is age of 21, and i quess that is age of 21, and i quess that is a democrats and joe are unhappy .
yes is, but it does about.
yes it is, but it does include, a particular focus on younger than 21 who are otherwise eligible to buy guns now will be subject to but who now will be subject to a more detailed background that a more detailed background i check that will include check that will include juvenile records which might i\ juvenile records which might nermally not be accessible and mental health records, and at is significant especially the age group of 18/21, for is reason.
if you break down ime by age category, what you scover is the crime by age category, what you discover is the most crime pruned age discover is the most crime lg8 discover is the most crime pruned age category is from 1, so it’ an range 18/21, so it’ an age range that 18/21, so it’ an age range at deserves particular crutiny this allows for hat reat scrutiny and did a giant step, but it’ easurable and a notable tep.
guess what the ocrats and republicans that signed this agreement or have come up with this agreement will be happy about ere is an agreement in lace finally after these place finally after all these years.
is the hope maybe that is the tepping stone for this is the stepping stone for something bigger?
i’ sure are those who something bigger?
i’ sure i 4 something bigger?
i’ sure i there are those who want to think there are those who want to 2 of theirs as a i steppingstone think of theirs as a steppingstone but what this - " to steppingstone but what this says to me is that they can get through congress they will done with this through congress they will be done with the measures with this lae a4 congress, simply this current congress, simply 4 ause it was very difficult to because it was very difficult i iae because it was very difficult nsiln a1 because it was very difficult to construct this coalition, haven’ passed it to construct this coalition, a a 1a 1 they haven’ passed it yet, and 1 ngress is a full plate of 0 other measures to deal with in he democrats have to other measures to deal with in a the democrats have to ask themselves where do the democrats have to ask 2 the democrats have to ask themselves where do we want to chips in the next six 4 put our chips in the next six months before the 2014 november 8 1 tions roll around, so my elections roll around, so my guess is if they get this rough, and learns i 14 through, and it learns on president biden’ desk or his 1 signature, president biden’ desk for his signature, the net will be it egislation activity, at gun legislation activity, at an in the senate and obably in the house of the opposition leftwing alliance in france has scored elections.
despite that, president macron’ supporters look set to have the biggest bloc in the national assembly, but it’ unclear if they’ll have enough seats to form a majority.
our paris correspondent hugh schofield has more.
the big line is we have to say that it is this breakthrough by this left-wing alliance, if you look back at the presidential election two months ago the left did terribly there, the leader of this new left-wing alliance was in third place but in the interim between the presidential and this far-left party, socialists and greens the communists and turned it into a major electoral force, and one which is a serious challenge ela i he hasn’, don’ think, done so well that he has got any serious chance of dominating the assembly and having majority there and enforcing president macron into cohabitation with the left wing dominated national assembly, but he has done something extraordinary which looks like commanding a block after next week’ second round of 150, 170, 180 mps, achievement, but, the fact remains it does look as if president macron will win this legislative election and that the key question is whether his majority will be relative or absolute, and that is days to make sure that he does get as many seats he wants to have an absolute majority so he can push through his legislative programme and not into alliances with smaller blocks on the assembly.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
a british family say their son has been killed while fighting russian forces in the east of ukraine.
jordan gatley, who left the british army in march to travel to ukraine, was shot in the city of severodonetsk.
gatley is the second british person to be killed ukraine says it expects russia to step up efforts to capture the whole of the heavily bombarded city within days.
the remaining civilians in severodonetsk are reported to have no access to mains water or electricity.
here in the , legislation will be introduced in the house of commons on monday that will allow changes to be made to parts of the post-brexit trade deal with the , and the government says it’ confident the changes would be lawful.
the arrangement, known as the northern ireland protocol, allows for checks on some goods moving it’ been a source of discontent for unionists, who see it as an internal border within the .
but critics of the move, including nationalist parties and the irish government, say it could breach here’ our ireland correspondent, chris page.
this legislation could potentially have implications for the ’ relationship with the , for boris johnson’ devolution here in northern the devolved assembly remains in the deep-freeze more is currently blecking he formation of a ower-sharing coalition with ionalists, preventing the in \ ssembly from ing out all assembly from eating out all over its opposition to the thern ireland protocol.
the wasn’ interjecting riving ere at belfast port, or example, from the rest of , and it says 131 6 131 6 the , and it says it wants 3 it calls decisive action to eit what it calls decisive action emove the irish sea border, that basis, don’ think so on that basis, don’ think 3 it is very likely that the will soften its stance whenever this legislation is published rrow, very least tomorrow, very least the see how the legislation is hed through.
this legislation break the rexit treaty therefore breach brexit treaty and therefore breach international law by the as hern ireland secretary has insisted that is not the case, the political so are the political discussion, the legal wrangling ibly will continue, no end possibly will continue, no end to the stalemated which is the hern ireland at a time to the stalemated which is the i i northern ireland at a time when 0 many people are struggling the rising cost of living.
stay with us on news, still to come: the first home-grown version of the mcdonald’ restaurant re-opens in russia a month after the chain pulled out because of ukraine.
a code word known to be one used by the was given.
army bomb experts were examining a suspect van when there was a huge explosion.
the south african parliament has destroyed the foundation of apartheid by abolishing the population registration citizen according to race.
just a day old, and the royal baby is tonight sleeping early this evening, the new prince was taken by his mother and father to their apartments in kensington palace.
germany’ parliament, the bundestag, has voted by a narrow majority to move the seat of government bonn to berlin.
celebrated into the night, but the decision was greeted with shock in bonn.
the real focus of attention today was valentina tereshkova, the world’ first woman cesmonaut.
what do you think of the russian woman in space?
i think it’ a wonderful achievement and think we might be able to persuade the wife it would be a good idea if could to get her to go up there for a little while.
this is news, in the united states, a bipartisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation on gun safety.
significant gains for a new left wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
a 15 i 1: in russia has opened in moscow under a new name, the chain pulled out of the country last month russia continues to face a whole raft of international sanctions, which have hit its econemy hard.
our russia editor steve rosenberg has the story.
0 not any more.
the fast food giant has left russia in protest and it sold all its restaurants here - more than 800 - gone are the golden arches.
the logo now is two french fries and a burger.
the man who was quick to buy the fast food business is siberian tycoon alexander govor.
: i a big macs or mcflurries here.
it’ a pity, because they were the most popular items, but we told our experts to find replacements that are just as good or even better.
"russians can do fast food just as well", ravil tells me.
"and as for western sanctions and global brands leaving "russia, we are very tough people - "you can’ scare us.
” when the very first mcdonald’ restaurant opened right here 32 years ago, that was a hugely powerful symbol, a symbol western ideas, western food.
what’ happening here today with the departure of mcdonald’ and its russian replacement, over in the kremlin, no burgers, but a hefty from the president.
at an awards ceremony, vladimir putin called themselves to the motherland, but he’ll know that western sanctions are having an impact.
here’ one example.
car-makers can’ import key components, so the new lada’ being made without any airbags or an anti-lock braking system.
taxidriver nikita thinks the russian economy in for @ bumpy ride.
the prices in roubles, they became ridiculously high, yeah.
so, for the taxi business now, it’ gone.
we have to use old ones.
russians won’ relish the prospect of ecoenomic pain, i8 the kremlin shows no sign of changing course.
steve rosenberg, news, moscow.
a senior software engineer working for google has told the washington post that the company has placed him on administrative leave i a intelligence chatbot has become a sentient being.
conversation, they are not free thinking sentient beings.
i’ joined now by our news reporter, blake lemoine fear was that artificial intelligence had to life, it artificial intelligence had =1 come to life, it was impersonating humid awareness in and suffering.
the of pain and suffering.
the ormer google software engineer was made a priest and erved in the army told the hington post, know a man when washington post, know a man & washington post, know a man when talk to it, and it because when talk to it, and it matters because the chat but -- siido 1 matters because the chat but -- chatbot in question would be by hundreds of millions round used by hundreds of millions used by hundreds of millions around the world.
and, at this as asked to test it around the world.
and, at this a man was asked to test it for hate speech to see if it came ith anything like that.
out with anything like that.
while talking about religion, onversation ved onto the conversation moved onto redo rights and robotics.
will redo some of the transcript -- he is asked about what is i elid he is asked about what is important in language usage and humid.
the chat but 14 instead it is what makes us 4 instead it is what makes us different to animals.
he said, are a chatbot, what are but you are a chatbot, what are you talking about?
the chatbot , doesn’'t mean ’ ave says, doesn’ mean don’ have the same wants and needs ple, so you consider 6 = 6 yourself a people, so you consider yourself a person, yes, that’ dea.
it then goes into a i a3 the idea.
it then goes into a 4 of a rabbit hole i conversation bit of a rabbit hole a 00 bit of a rabbit hole conversation about les miserables, the conversation about les miserables, the injustices in layer, then the the player, and then the the player, and then the conversation sways this man a’ ion.
opinion.
how has google responded?
gle says there is no google says there is no evidence to support these ims this former employer i i a8 breached confidentiality licies.
they say that blake oine was policies.
they say that blake =18 policies.
they say that blake lemoine was probably a apathetic person and had his hijacked here, and he empathy hijacked here, and he ost focus with hat was actually going on.
they said losing your focus with a i a1 that losing your focus with a 1 chatbot has its own risks, and here they are outlined by the uistics professor, emily linguistics professor, emily we, as people, like to imagine something that is simply objective and separate going to make better decisions but the way the technology is built, it is reproducing patterns from its training data, so if we deployed at scale and give up autonomy to these machines, and let them make decisions for us, reproducing all people will be harmed.
google has placed blake lemoine on administrative leave.
lemoine has invited a lawyer to represent and he has also brought this to he house judiciary committee.
mark lobel, thank you very much for making sense of that for us and giving us those updates.
a former elite acrobatic gymnast has become the first to win a civil case against british gymnastics for the abuse she experienced in the sport.
@ 1 as telling her the claim would be settled, british gymnastics sent the coach to the world champioenships.
next week sees the publication of the whyte review - the independent review our sports correspondent natalie pirks has spent two years listening to former gymnasts about what they’ve i & just made me feel worthless.
waking up, having nightmares every night.
british gymnastics, feel, have failed in their duty of care.
two years of allegations, two years of waiting for answers.
british gymnastics has promised extensive reform coming but for some, it’ too little, too late.
currently have one word to describe how i’ feeling.
hungry.
when quit gym, i’ll look back at this and dieting will always be the worst part of gymnastics.
eloise was 14 1 between the age of 10 and 14 she was part of the acrobatics team, training 25 hours a week at heathrow gymnastics club.
to lose weight.
on a non-training days was eating around 827 calories and on a training day, around just over 1200.
so, you know, physically was absolutely exhausted.
in 2014, griffiths served a british gymnastics suspension was allowed to return.
when he came back, eloise was 12.
she weighed around seven stone in this picture but says griffiths had decided she should weigh around one stone less.
weigh her and body shame her.
when it got to thursday or friday would just get so stressed, to the point where would feel sick.
tried to limit how much water was drinking, was scared every day to go to training.
eloise’ story is significant.
claim against british gymnastics where the governing body has admitted full liability for everything that happened to her.
but remarkably, when eloise received a letter confirming this in march this year, 4 for the world acrobatic championships what’ even the point, to see that he’ still being allowed to go out and coach.
it was just beyond frustrating.
frankly, incomprehensible.
british gymnastics says it has recently doubled the size of its safequarding team and that there is no place for abuse of any hle 1 membership.
has more than 1,000 i participate happily there.
we contacted andrew griffiths on several occasions but he didn’ respond.
since filming this interview, eloise has finally received the apology she craved from british gymnastics.
almost feel sorry for myself, want to go back and take it didn’ have to be like that.
loved gymnastics had a real passion for it.
my coach and the culture within the was, next week’ independent review should be british gymnastics’ moment of reckoning.
natalie pirks, news.
an australian newspaper has !
enied outing rebel wilson.
she cture on instagram, it but it was later a picture on instagram, but it a was later revealed that the sydney morning herald nearby elationship beforehand and given her two days to way at radio city music hall the event, patti lupone has won best actress in a musical sam mendes has won for ‘the lehman trilogy, and jesse tyler ferguson has productions such as 'six’, a strange loop’ and ‘the music man’ lead the nominations.
earlier, the great and the good brought a touch of glitz and glamour to the red carpet.
you can get more news on our bsite.
from me and the website.
from me and the rest team, thank you for watching and stay tuned here news_ for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
unsettled, windy with showers.
not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy getting a little warmer potentially later in the week, but not as warm as it will be for england and wales.
northampton - fairly typical of many parts of england, seeeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees by end of the week.
the reason being the azores high is pushing its way we’ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’ brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend we will still have cloud approaching the west though towards dawn on a weak weather front.
elsewhere, under starry skies, as showers have been fading, just a little on the chilly side at 6-7 first thing, but plenty arl then that tends to ease away as cloud spills across scotland bringing patchy rain particularly to the highlands and islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere, and across northern ireland too.
england and wales will see the best of the sunshine, the lion’ share, but feeling warm when the sun does come out just warmer further south.
again in the south, some very high levels of pollen are forecast once again - on monday, as well as strong sunshine - high levels of .
in fact, this week we might see some very high levels of .
through the night, then we will continue to see - that’ monday night - those weather fronts brushing close by the north and west, but for many with clearer skies, light winds again rural spots - - 6, 7, 10 to 11 for plenty of sunshine follows then for england and wales on tuesday.
for northern ireland but particularly western front close by, but still we are starting to see temperatures picking up further north and building the heat across the bulk of england and pushing towards eastern it isn’ the heat we are seeing further south across beria where it has been intense but we will find this week as this high-pressure slips allowing us to tap into some of that heat a little bit, towards the 30 degree-mark.
as ever, we will keep you posted and there’ more idea if could to get her to go up there for a little while.
a bipartisan group of an agreement on gun safety reform, following the latest their proposals include tougher background checks for buyers under the age of 21.
the measures fall short of the changes demanded by president biden.
significant gains for a new left wing alliance, in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
president macron’ centrist grouping is still expected marine pen’ right-wing national rally are in third place.
the british government is preparing to publish legislation, which would give ministers the power to override the post-brexit trading arrangements with the .
downing street wants to change the northern ireland protocol, which unionists don’ like because it in effect puts hello and welcome to political thinking, a conversation with rather than interrogation of someone whose political thinking shapes all of ours.
this week my guest is a symbol of the modern labour party, a party of two eras.
on the one hand, on the other, 12 years of powerlessness.
yvette cooper was once a young rising star a brown years, but what followed was the wilderness years of opposition, summed up for many by the night on which her husband bralls lost his seat, as a neighbour of hers in yorkshire.
cooper ran to be labour leader against jeremy corbyn and lost adly.
keir starmer brought her back to front line politics, asking her to become shadow home secretary.
yvette cooper, welcome to political thinking.
good to be here, nick.
i’ sorry mention the powerlessness!
when you watch the tory infighting this week, who is going to be leader?
and nobody says keir starmer.
the frustration of not being able to do things is huge, and you’re right, we’ve had 12 years of this now.
we are nearly going to have been as long out of power power.
and yes, there’ just this massive difference, and it is incredibly frustrating.
of all the things that you can do in government, but also frustrating watching them right now, because it feels like they are damaging everybody.
we’re going to talk about politics, as it were, but just talking about you, do you ever feel, as these "maybe had my moment, maybe it’ time to do something else” ?
and seeing your husband develop a completely new life, because suspect that’ not quite your thing.
but are there moments where you think, "there’ oh, he is having a whale of a time, isn’ he?
and there are times, especially, you know, when we have a series of votes that we just keep losing and we just keep walking round in circles in the voting lobbies and dutifully voting on something that we are making no difference on at all, there are times when you think, yes, other people are having i it "other people,” she says.
was reading, which didn’ of being a tap dancer.
tap lessons when was a child and really liked tap dancing and thought that would be great fun, and wasn’ particularly good at it but i did really like it.
so the dancing thing, for me, has always been great fun.
and it was actually partly because had thought dancing was great, we would all just have fun doing ridiculous dancing at weddings and so on, that had always thought after 2015, after lost his seat, "do you know what?
the great thing for him to do would be strictly.
” and never thought that would happen.
i just thought that was a totally mad idea.
but thought it would be fun.
and so it was actually, was asked repeatedly about whether in fact was going to be in the driving seat, kind of thing.
and a throwaway remark, was getting a bit fed up he might even do strictly.
” and immediately, the sun newspaper started ringing it must have been some deliberate ploy behind this!
and started badgering them.
so sort of tell myself, think that’ what gave the the idea to then ask him to do it.
and it clearly means that we could conspire now to get him on, what, i’ a celebrity or anything!
say what you like, we could get the sun to pick it up.
what’ interesting is, people listening to you will already say, "i’ve heard a side of yvette don’ normally hear.
” because you’re quite a private person.
i think i had persuade you a bit to do this interview.
is that something you generally have been a bit wary of?
i guess think probably would talk much more about family issues, about personal issues and so on, when was first elected.
but bear in mind was first elected when was 28 i didn’ expect to get selected in 1997.
i thought was just having a go because other people had encouraged me, said, "have a go.
” and so was a bit sort of in the deep end.
and think you then quite quickly find, actually, that everyone you care about is fair game.
and so it became probably about protecting everybody and think that’ maybe more so for women than for men in politics, too.
that people want to pull your life apart?
your parents and your?
yes, and you know, we had newspaper stories attacking us about our wedding, newspaper you know, newspapers trying to contact our parents and ask them things and so on.
and think i probably just developed quite a strong protective wall about, and especially once the kids were born, we were quite fierce about protecting their privacy.
everyone wants to ask about your hinterland, about, you know and if your hinterland actually and your kids and you haven’ got a bunch of mad hobbies and things like that!
which you haven’ got time for!
then you end up, or end up, anyway, just probably not talking very much about that.
you once said it’ just too awful being a political child.
union leader, not one of the big names of that era but he was an important player in the trade union movement, was that a little bit of reflection of your upbringing?
mean, my dad was a trade union official, he took me, went with him on the people’ 2 '80, you know, marched with union banners and so on.
but i think we never felt publicly exposed, growing up.
the general secretary of it, taking you on the people’ march for jobs.
was it ever a political house?
were you arguing over the kitchen table, shouting at the telly or the radio when you were growing up?
1 about party politics or political party activism so much, but i guess guess there were always issues.
so my dad my dad was very much in the trade union he always had a huge scepticism about institutions, a readiness to challenge, to question, and probably encouraged us to really always believe that actually, if an institution is doing something, chances are it may be wrong and you should be guestioning and challenging.
and my mum’’ family is @ mining family, she grew up in lowca, a mining village in west cumberland.
and very much had that sense of solidarity, that labour solidarity and community kind of ethos of hard work but helping others and supporting others in the community.
because actually, you grew up in prosperous hampshire rather than a coalfield community, but get a sense that that influence, those sets of values, lived on, not just through your mum june but alse this very powerful your aunt lizzie.
yes, my great auntie lizzie.
she was a proper matriarch, you know, she was my mum’ auntie, and my mum’ mum died when was very small but my great auntie liz, she was one of those women who, before the was set up, she would be going to help with the babies being is’2 she was just one of those pivotal people in the community.
and she worked hard and really remember, it was probably the 1988 budget when nigel lawson cut taxes for higher earners at the same time as freezing pensions.
and effectively that meant a real cut in pensions, and my auntie liz, she didn’ have a full pension because of the job she had done, so she didn’ even have a full pension.
and remember my mum being so angry, just furious, that how could a government do this?
how could a government cut taxes for those on the highest incomes and cut my , and was that your moment?
was that the moment that young yvette cooper said, "hmm, politics, it matters - i’ve got to do something so think that was the point at which it became, "actually, because there are all sorts of other things you could get probably had that sense of just challenging things or just questioning things all the way through.
but think that was quite a powerful, actually, just, it really matters what governments do.
you then go off to oxford university, where you do spectacularly well.
you go to balliol college at oxford, not that long after boris johnson has left.
was he still a presence?
because he was a big character, was at the university he really wasn’ at all.
had absolutely no idea who he was_ the one person did meet was michael gove, who then tried to persuade me to join the oxford union, and remember thinking, you know what, don’ want anything to do with any of this.
it felt quite sort of smug and entitled, the whole thing.
so think that was a little bubble of its own.
the idea that kind of thing had anything to do with most you then move at an incredibly exciting time into politics, had some time as a journalist but you work for john smith and then go on to work elee fla and then you’re struck by a really serious illness, something that brought your life effectively to a standstill, didn’ it?
had for, it was probably for about, probably two or three years in total.
but i had a year where was just completely off, couldn’ do anything.
and that was such a big challenge, because had always just done things.
just always been busy, always had, you know, a chaotic mix of things going on and then suddenly couldn’ do anything.
suddenly could barely go out so that was probably the hardest time i’ve ever been through.
after had been ill for a few months, then got depressed, you know, quite understandably.
did it change your view?
because you went on to be in charge of the benefits system, went on to be secretary of state for work and pensions.
was there a bit of that experience that you always carried, maybe still carry with you?
yes, think it’ just understanding the difficulty when people actually are desperate to work, really want to, but long-term sickness or difficulties, or disabilities, can end up holding people back and actually, what you need to do is to support people.
it’ certainly what’ happening now.
you have got a massive drop in the number of people you’ve got a big increase in the people on long-term sickness, partly because of long covid.
you need to actively help people and don’ think that is happening.
happily, you did recover.
you became a member of parliament, young, as you’ve just said.
and also, one of the first generation of working mums how difficult was that?
we take for granted now, a a0 0 now, even though of course there are still many challenges for them.
we take for granted a lot of provision, understanding made.
mean, there were, we had a big increase in the number of women in 1997 so think and there was a sense, as well, that you should and not you know, not admit that you were juggling so many different things.
so stopped doing red boxes in the evening when became a minister, would do them at weekends but not in the evening because thought, this is bonkers.
you’re expecting us to do all these important papers late at night and actually, there’ also, i’ trying to put trying to balance everything else.
and so said this in answer to a question from a journalist 8 and had a senior cabinet minister, who was very supportive, but said to me, "you shouldn’ be saying this.
"you should not be admitting that you’re not doing "the traditional red box of papers in the evening.
” doing the work.
people will think in other words, you’re effectively saying to people, the system should change edc i exactly!
not, i should just stay up till three in the morning or get up exactly.
and, you know, to do it in different ways.
because your constituency is in yorkshire.
yes, and we would go back every week on a thursday or friday morning, come back down sunday evening, and so on.
and that, especially when the kids, when you’re going through the potty training phase really tricky!
and had that same sense of trying to pretend i’ professional.
we were aiming to get off at doncaster, and the whole tony blair prime ministerial entourage comes sweeping down the platform and literally hid.
thought, can’ i’ve got small kids with me.
can’ pretend to be a professional minister so ducked, literally hid as they all came down so no one would see me as they got on!
i thought it was , they got on a different carriage, nobody will notice.
at doncaster, had to change a small child’ nappy, it view of and halfway through nappy changing, set off down the train, without a nappy, set off down the train, ran straight past tony blair and cherie blair and the whole entourage, with me then pelting after to grab this child!
and couldn’ even stop and explain, "hi, yes, hello!
" "got to go!
"had to get off the train!
i thought you were going to say you’ pretended you didn’ recognise them!
nothing to do with me!
was it ever mentioned?
we never mentioned it again!
at me charging down!
= and you sort of alluded to it that your daughter ellie, who made a point of saying when she did this, "i don’ really talk about politics,” she tweeted after a row saying, "after chilling scenes in parliament last night, am scared,” she said.
which must have been very hard for you to read, am sure.
and with the rise of social media.
we have seen a lot more abuse.
and the abuse is higher for women, it’ also higher for those who are black or ethnic minority, there’ and guess and other mps, we find ways of just dealing with that.
of, you know, just ignoring things and so on.
but for your family, it’ really hard.
and think especially, mean, obviously after cox was murdered, obviously, david amess as well, you had that happen, we had the westminster terror think it is really hard for close family.
running through you and this interview, a bit like lettering through a piece of blackpool rock, is someone screaming, "i’ve got to be back in power!
ment!
” now you’re in a marginal seat which has got more marginal in yorkshire, very high vote at one stage, ukip vote, brexit vote, exactly the sort of red wall- area, don’ much like that phrase but so people know what we are talking about.
you must have had to do a lot of thinking about labour keeps losing.
the cliche is, some people blame corbyn, some corbyn backers blame brexit.
i suspect you’ve thought about it a bit more than that.
why?
didn’ those people, who you would have assumed were labour voters, look, both brexit and our leader, jeremy corbyn’ leadership, were big factors.
underpinning both of them, think, was a feeling among i was disrespecting them and that the party sort of disrespected them on things like security.
they didn’ think we had a leader who would keep them safe.
they didn’ think we respected the big institutions of the country, of the issues around patriotism.
but they also thought wat was disrespecting the result of the referendum, and think that was damaging.
and yet people listening to what you said about brexit will say, hold on, keir starmer was the guy who wanted - 3 0 there was the cooper amendment which bore your name, a no-deal brexit, which some brexit altogether.
have you done enough work to say to those voters, sorry?
i think we got a lot of things wrong and think a lot of people got things wrong.
i obviously had said thought we shouldn’ have the second referendum, that it wasn’ the right policy for the general election, that was my view.
also took the view that we shouldn’ have no deal and that would be damaging.
you argued that at the time.
yes, argued that at the time.
think one of the things that think got wrong on it was, i genuinely thought that somehow it would be possible to build consensus and that maybe, , if things took a bit longer and it took longer then there would be more chance of people coming together and finding a way through this, but actually, the opposite happened and the longer it took, the more polarised everything became.
and got that wrong.
but think things became more polarised, but think, you know, look, but we’ve got i elon we’ve got to set up now a positive future for the country that moves on.
immigration is one of those policies that obviously lay but some of those people who wanted brexit.
big businesses are now saying, "we have not "got enough workers.
” you’re responsible for immigration policy as shadow home secretary.
without getting to the weeds of immigration policy, that’ for another interview, broadly, are they right?
does the economy need more immigrants?
the level of net migration, immigration, is about the same now as it was before brexit was implemented.
so the composition has changed eral the big thing that has changed in the labour market is there has been a big drop in the number of over 50 working.
think some of this is also been affected by not just things like long-term sickness but also about things like lack of childcare, lack of affordable childcare, people giving up work to look after their grandchildren, things like that.
so it’ @ much more complicated situation.
as you give that answer, and you will know the criticism that sometimes is made of you, and that you faced when you ran for leader, you ran centre and were mocked for not wanting to give answers.
somebody did a meme, think, saying you couldn’ choose between tea and coffee.
tea!
does it frustrate you?
cos you’re a policy person.
mean, suspect if i’ given you time to talk about immigration and the economy you could fill the whole half-hour.
does it frustrate you that people want to boil things down to yes and no in that way?
in the end, the world is complicated, isn’ it?
i like evidence and like facts a1 a bad thing!
if you want to change the world you have to be able to do it in a way that makes sense and you’ve got to be and there’ no point in just having a bunch of headlines if you can’ actually deliver.
and people can see through it.
is a version of the question hear coming often from people in the labour party who like their leaders, you and keir starmer, but they’ve got a bit of a worry that you’re, as it were, a bit too theresa may and not enough boris johnson, crudely put, competent, decent, losers.
that’ the worry they have got.
have they got a point?
in the end if we are not at serious, think for labour, we don’ win.
a1 here’ the things, here’ the way in which we want to change the country.
you know, some of that is practical policies like a windfall tax, but some of it is also about the kind of vision of a future where we are stronger if we stand together than if we leave each other to sink or swim alone.
we still believe, actually, we are the party of the many and not the few, as well.
when you ran against jeremy corbyn to be leader, you said, "look me in the eye, do you want to be a labour it’ certainly i’ here.
” just want to, you know and you can do stuff as a local .
in our town centres, we are able to do stuff to and solve individual problems and things like that.
but you know, to be able to change things on a grander scale, to stop kids across the country just slipping into poverty.
well, think it’ about getting a labour government, sn’ it maybe.
maybe one day.
now, as well as always, you’re occasionally allowed a holiday!
cooper/balls holidays, can’ decide, if was one 1 this was heaven or hell.
the sound of music trip.
that was absolutely great fun.
you know that scene in the sound of music where they sing "doe a deer” and they’re all dressed in curtain material and they’re riding the hikes along the long road?
and so we went cycling along a tour guide and a beatbox playing out the sound of music songs and singing as we went!
and got this idea we should wear curtain material.
as you do!
we should go full on.
and so got some damask going to do some lederhosen and things.
only, of course, left it to the last minute.
so we ended up on the train from munich to salzburg, in this sort of conveyor belt of sewing and flattening these we thought, we’ll get away with it, nobody knows us!
of course!
but then the people opposite suddenly turned to and said in this strong west midlands accent, "i do hope you’ll come back into politics one day!
” exactly, as he is trying on curtain material!
listening to yvette cooper reminisce about making those costumes from curtain material as she cycled towards the home of the sound of music may make it difficult to realise that she essentially believes that it is sericusness that will get labour back into power again.
of the party’, might wish they saw a little bit more of that side of her and keir starmer in the future.
thanks for watching.
showers fading, towards dawn it be chilly in rural spots.
rain for the highlands islands.
the here.
rain for the highlands and islands.
the osmotic drizzle into northern ireland.
and and wales will have the of the sunny spells and ather, 19-21.
17 or 18 for scotland weather, 19-21.
17 18 for tland and northern ireland, eling a bit warmer.
sunshine a0 feeling a bit warmer.
sunshine continues into the evening.
night temperatures fall overnight temperatures fall away for a chilly start on sday.
more rain nudging owards the west of scotland, a tern we ill see continuing 1 hroughout the coming week ere temperatures will be held the high teens, 20 on to the high teens, low 20 but 10 potentially become a very warm indeed across land and wales later in the welcome to news - i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: beginning of the end for uncontolled gun posession in the united states?
in the wake of the latest school shooting in texas, a bi-partisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation on gun safety.
gains for a new left wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
the african children being insulted and exploited for the entertainment of chinese social-media viewers.
we have a special report.
the british government says a new law overriding will not undermine the northern ireland peace agreement.
are the machines i a senior tech engineer is put on leave after claiming and a month after mcdonalds pulled out of russia because of ukraine, a homegrown burger chain opens called ‘tasty - and that’ it.
’ and democratic parties have reached agreement on a series of gun control measures.
the developments come after the tragic mass shootings the measures include tougher background checks for gun buyers under the age of 21 and moves to prevent people buying such arms for others who are restricted from purchasing them.
our north america correspondent david willis reports.
this is a significant move and assuming these proposals they would represent the first gun control measures this country has the proposals themselves are fairly modest, they include tighter background checks for gun sales involving customers under the age of 21, and the introduction or expansion of so-called red flag laws which would potentially lead to the confiscation of weapons in the hands of people deemed a risk to themselves or others, and greater federal funding for school security systems and mental health what these proposals do not include lril = style weapons, the kind used in the uvalde and buffalo new york shootings, those that president biden welcomed this move, he said it was, quote, "important step in the right direction”.
the last meaningful gun-control regulations in this country were introduced in the mid-19 90, the brady bill, which created the national background check system, but since then there has been very little movement, largely due to the opposition of republicans that transgresses upon the so-called second amendment, 14 the majority of americans polls show continue to support the news of these latest proposals came on the six year anniversary of shooting at a gay in florida in which 49 people lost their lives.
jennifer kerns is a republican strategist, and now author and conservative national talk show host.
she joins us from new york.
there i1 scme ohsensus us between there is some consensus between crats and republicans stop here have been tragedies, so mass shootings, what has many mass shootings, what has changed recently?
certainly the shooting really change ings, you see how quickly ashington, was able to get ether actually have together and actually have a conversation on this conversation on this i think the plan looks very promising say that as olitical and say that as a political a0 11 and say that as a political consultant who has run and one second amendment campaigns across america, but , many eople are talking to rents across america and hey are terrified to drop a4 they are terrified to drop their kids off at school, so of the things ike about some of the things i like about i , like the mental alth aspect it, like the mental health pect of it, have often said 4 don’ necessarily have gun problem, we have young problem, we have an angry young male problem, that does not exist in other countries, like the red flag law but i\ only for people under 21, tainly they could have been tale certainly they could have been a feta certainly they could have been crisis intervention done in the of uvalde taxes, we also know in the case the park when florida shooter, just as alde, people did report in uvalde, people did report he scheduled in uvalde, people did report the scheduled law enforcement so there needs to be an apparatus apparatus that can so there needs to be an apparatus that can intervene in sis and really treat the mental health a crisis and really treat the mental health of these young men.
lastly, do like the ool safety men.
lastly, do like the men.
lastly, do like the school safety aspect of this, i think i school safety aspect of this, think it is one parent all oss america had been asking , to harden the parameter - rimeter of the schools not be one of the military will always = a always tell you that there = a always tell you that there is a litarised zone, a hardening targets round the world when it of targets around the world 1 comes to terrorists of targets around the world i when it comes to terrorists and our schools unfortunately now to be treated as such have to be treated as such targets are.
you heard in id’'s eport the republicans re often he ones defending 4 econd amendment ride, and here has often been a ockage i there has often been a blockage within the senate in terms of ing through any kind of getting through any kind of legislation from republicans.
what has changed recently?
so many mass shootings over the , but now here does seem to years, but now there does seem years, but now there does seem to be this movement and is lic discourse and something eeds to be done in terms of yiig & needs to be done in terms of gun-control?
every once in in politics, public we it awhile in politics, public policy, we see a tipping point, sturdy hook was almost the tipping point for folks, a tipping point for a it was a tipping point for lot of folks, park when florida, and think the uvalde was xtremely egregious - 8 a1 case was extremely egregious because it really took away the oi @ was mcveigh returning because it really took away the was mcveigh returning which ood guy is the only thing they can top a ad gquy ith a gun, but we they can stop a bad guy with a ¥ but we saw in uvalde that gun, but we saw in uvalde that was not the case, they waited an hour and 15 minutes to over an hour and 15 minutes to go in and a switch flipped in le’ had, have to do something different, we have to sure that the shooter is even go to the school, and and what - not even go into the school, and what am concerned about, will tell on the and will tell you on the local and will tell you on the .
ocal level, have een is all ross the local level, have seen is all elag oril 48 local level, have seen is all across the country with my own , city council meetings, eyes, city council meetings, school board meetings, they a lot of resistance, the emocrats, to putting police icers or armed security in schools, and my message to a0 schools, and my message to democrats would be the adults have to grow up.
don’ here have to grow up.
i don’ 1 re if you do like the police, 1 you don’ want an armed guard at our school, your = = guard at your school, your kid at needs at the.
we need to -ud needs at the.
we need to protect the schools just as we corporate america building where you have guarded security perimeter, the front security perimeter, that is foolproof and really erious about this other get serious about this is other ncern here also if could ritique the critique the builders to bed, to do more about we need to do more about the mental health aspect of this, seen 4 ecent programmes we have seen recent programmes 4 abused, such as the one in you new york city, the ormer mail’ wave wasting out $900 million that still unaccounted for, they are ing at doing an audit into locking at doing an audit into he programme, that was to go ntal alth and you look 1 mental health and you look at the streets of new york city an francisco and , and and san francisce and , and see that the money may be do go to what it was 1 not go to what it was supposed do so we need is a real eldw ’ to go do so we need is a real accountability, we need to make that the accountability, we need to make accountability, we need to make sure that the mental health rammes are working and we programmes are working and we lso need to make sure that the also need to make sure that the crisis intervention also need to make sure that the crisis intervention programmes a4 because remember, in the of uvalde, police had case of uvalde, the police had heen to his house a couple of mes with been to his house a couple of a3 times with domestic disturbances, and in the kman florida shooting, we also know from that after ion report that people tually id call the i to actually did call the to % lind and left anonymous tips the boy’ me giving the boy’ name specifically, giving the boy’ name lyal giving the boy’ name specifically, and they found fterward that specifically, and they found out afterward that the apntree out afterward that the ver checked the voicemail .
we can box.
we can have these pregrammes what it is only as as the person of the other 2 good as the person of the other an good as the person of the other i i end of the line attracts that message is not quite momentous this agreement, thank very much indeed for ringing us up to date.
police in brazil say they have found items belonging to a local indigenous expert and a british journalist who went missing in the amazon region a week ago.
the police say the items include a backpack belonging to the journalist, dom phillips, and a health in the disappearance of the two men, but the exact circumstances remain unclear.
on sunday, dozens of people staged a demonstration in rio janeiro and urged the brazilian authorities toc take immediate action.
the opposition leftwing alliance in france has scored elections.
despite that, president macron’ supporters look set to have the biggest bloc in the national assembly, but it’ unclear if they’ll have enough seats to form a majority.
our paris correspondent hugh schofield has more.
the big line is we have to say that it is this breakthrough by this left-wing alliance, if you look back at the presidential election two months ago the left did terribly there, the leader of this new left-wing alliance was in third place but in the interim between the presidential and this extraordinary, made an alliance between his far-left party, socialists and greens the communists and turned it into a major electoral force, and one which is a serious challenge ela i he hasn’, don’ think, done so well that he has got any serious chance of dominating the assembly and having majority there and enforcing president macron into cohabitation with the left wing dominated national assembly, but he has done something extraordinary which looks like commanding a block after next week’ second round of 150, 170, 180 mps, achievement, but, the fact remains it does look as if president macron will win this legislative election and that the key question is whether his majority will be relative or absolute, and that is days to make sure that he does get as many seats he wants to have an absolute majority so he can push through his legislative programme and not into alliances with smaller blocks on the assembly.
he wants to have an absolute majority so he can push through his legislative programme and not into alliances with smaller blocks on the assembly.
here in the legislation will be introduced in the house of commons on monday that will allow changes to be made to parts of the post-brexit trade deal with the , and the government says it’ confident the changes would be lawful.
the arrangement, known as the northern ireland protocol, allows for checks on some goods moving it’ been a source of discontent for unionists, who see it as an internal border within the .
but critics of the move, including nationalist parties and the irish government, say it could breach here’ our ireland correspondent, chris page.
this legislation could potentially have implications for the ’ relationship with the , for boris johnson’ devolution here in northern the devolved assembly remains in the deep-freeze more the is currently blocking the formation of a power-sharing coalition with nationalists, indeed preventing the assembly from meeting 1 all over its opposition to the northern ireland protocol.
the wants to prevent arriving here at belfast port, for example, from the rest of the , and it says it wants what it calls decisive action to remove the irish sea border, will soften its stance whenever this legislation is published tomorrow, at the very least the will see how non unionists have said this legislation will break the brexit treaty and therefore breach international law by the northern ireland secretary = that is not the case, so are the political discussion, the legal wrangling which has seen northern ireland at a time when so many people are struggling with the rising cost of living.
stay with us on news, still to come: the first home-grown version of the mcdonald’ restaurant re-opens in russia a month after the chain pulled out because of ukraine.
a code word known to be one used by the was given.
army bomb experts were examining a suspect van when there was a huge explosion.
the south african parliament has destroyed the foundation of apartheid by abolishing the population registration citizen according to race.
just a day old, and the royal baby is tonight sleeping early this evening, the new prince was taken by his mother and father to their apartments in kensington palace.
germany’ parliament, the bundestag, has voted by a narrow majority to move the seat of government bonn to berlin.
celebrated into the night, but the decision was greeted with shock in bonn.
the real focus of attention today was valentina tereshkova, the world’ first woman cesmonaut.
what do you think of the russian woman in space?
i think it’ a wonderful achievement and think we might be able to persuade the wife it would be a good idea if could to get her to go up there for a little while.
this is news, in the united states, a bipartisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation on gun safety.
significant gains for a new left wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
a investigation has revealed how children in africa are being exploited to make personalised videos which sometimes include racist i via chinese social media.
africa eye tracked down one prolific chinese video producer to make and sell thousands of videos.
runako celina has this report - and just a warning some viewers may find parts of it syilel fto such happy birthday.
good luck in your exams.
congratulations wedding.
in china in your exams.
congratulations on your wedding.
in china over ast few years, it has 8 the past few years, it has become a thing to send sonalised greeting videos a social media.
videos eaturing cans, including featuring africans, including children have featuring africans, including i have become especially popular.
these videos sell for up to , , each.
the content can 1 nnocent enough but some are 18 troversial.
in early 2021 a video controversial.
in early 2021 a shed on training video shed on training social media was particularly the word the children are using i 4 can be translated as black nster or black devil, fta monster or black devil, but it ally the chinese is really the chinese equivalent of the word.
ay what found on the 5 ternet was so disgusting.
no-one was held but no-one was held accountable.
set out to find here it was filmed and out where it was filmed and who made it.
my colleagues and ined hundreds of videos, oss-referencing them against tellite imagery from google th.
eventually we managed to npoint the exact video where of them were filmed, a illage in malawi.
teamed up an investigative reporter he found with an investigative reporter with an investigative reporter and he found some children who ognise themselves the low 1 video.
hat’ you?
we met their milies and told them how much ney people had made from lming their children.
anspac fitting from a 1 %1 transpac fitting from a is transpac profiting from the .
we poor.
we raise poor.
poor.
-1 poor.
le- a1 we raise our children and somebody comes and uses them as iness, it is hurtful.
he children and veral other ople we spoke to all mentioned one filmmaker called susu.
we found out his name.
fter gathering more idence, we send an undercover journalist to meet him.
we showed him the low i1 video.
journalist to meet him.
we - showed him the low video.
he 1 , this was mine.
he said, this as mine.
this video?
hold on, hold on.
ys, "no, no, norma, this he says, "no, no, norma, this not me, this was my friend.
-mac it looks as though he close-mac it looks as though he let a secret slip.
he says it citedly and then suddenly reverses, no, this was a iend who took it.
it was ime 0 to speak to him ourselves.
him in chinese he had asked him in chinese he had made the video.
: because want to read chinese culture, music, nce, you know, the words, and nging chinese songs.
pushed ther, saying this was exploitation.
: have you finished?
not exploit them.
did not exploit them.
basically he has admitted ething, admitted to having pinions not kind about black ple and malawian people, but - " ays it is five years ago and : everything we have says it is five years ago and denies everything we have seen.
so denies making the video believe he has made, so it esn’ feel this is productive more.
our investigation found anymore.
our investigation 3 this is just one video, it is part of a massive ustry and there are many ther children across 4 other children across the a tinent being exploited for the profit and entertainment of people far, far away.
a 15 i 1: in russia has opened in moscow under a new name, the chain pulled out of the country last month russia continues to face a whole raft of international sanctions, which have hit its econemy hard.
our russia editor steve rosenberg has the story.
0 not any more.
the fast food giant has left russia in protest and it sold all its restaurants here - more than 800 - gone are the golden arches.
the logo now is two french fries and a burger.
the man who was quick to buy the fast food business is siberian tycoon alexander govor.
: i a big macs or mcflurries here.
it’ a pity, because they were the most popular items, but we told our experts to find replacements that are just as good or even better.
"russians can do fast food just as well", ravil tells me.
"and as for western sanctions and global brands leaving "russia, we are very tough people - "you can’ scare us.
” when the very first mcdonald’ restaurant opened right here 32 years ago, that was a hugely powerful symbol, a symbol western ideas, western food.
what’ happening here today with the departure of mcdonald’ and its russian replacement, over in the kremlin, no burgers, but a hefty from the president.
at an awards ceremony, vladimir putin called themselves to the motherland, but he’ll know that western sanctions are having an impact.
here’ one example.
car-makers can’ import key components, so the new lada’ being made without any airbags or an anti-lock braking system.
taxidriver nikita thinks the russian economy in for @ bumpy ride.
the prices in roubles, they became ridiculously high, yeah.
so, for the taxi business now, it’ gone.
we have to use old ones.
russians won’ relish the prospect of ecoenomic pain, i8 the kremlin shows no sign of changing course.
steve rosenberg, news, moscow.
a senior software engineer working for google has told the washington post that the company has placed him on administrative leave i a intelligence chatbot has become a sentient being.
conversation, they are not free thinking sentient beings.
he has the latest on this story.
blake lemoine’ fear was that artificial intelligence that it was impersonating human awareness of pain and suffering.
and the former google software engineer, who was made a priest and served in the army, told the washington post, " know a man when talk to it," and it matters because the chatbot in question is planned by google to be embedded in the speech function and its assistance function, you know, it will be used by hundreds of millions and this man was asked to test it for hate speech to see if it &1 4 anything like that.
and while talking about religion, the chat moved onto rights and robotics.
i’ll just read you some of the transcript that he published.
this is the chatbot speaking.
it says, " use language with understanding and intelligence.
to which lemoine says, "what about language usage the chatbot says, "it is what makes us different he’ like, "us?
"but you’re a chatbot, what are you talking about?
” the chatbot says, "yes, of course.
"that doesn’ mean don’ have the same wants "and needs as people.
” "so you consider "yes, that’ the idea.
” they then go on to some rabbit hole conversation about les miserables and the injustices in the play, and the chatbot holds its own, which kind of sways this man’ opinion.
it’ really interesting.
how has google responded to this?
google says there’ no evidence to support these claims and this employee, or former employee breached its confidentiality policy.
other said that blake lemoine was probably very empathetic persen and that he’ had his empathy hijacked here, actually going on.
and they say that losing your focus with a chatbot actually has its own risks, and here they are outlined professor emily bender.
we, as people, like to imagine that something that is simply objective and is separate is going to make better decisions, but the way this technology is built - it is reproducing patterns from its training data, so if we deployed that at scale and give up autonomy to these machines, and let them make decisions for us, we’re going to be reproducing all of the systems of oppression that have created the training data in the first place, and real people well, google placed blake lemoine on administrative leave.
lemoine himself has invited a lawyer to represent the chatbot, and also brought his allegations of unethical behaviour to a member of the house judiciary .
an australian newspaper has !
enied outing rebel wilson, she recently shared a photograph of elf on instagram so she had ound a dishey princess.
miss lson was given two days by .
the newspaper to comment.
broadway stars have enjoyed a glitz !
love.
the 75th tony awards took place at radio city music hall in new york on sunday night.
west side story star, ariana debose was hosting the event and the winners included, patti lupone took the best actress in a musical for ‘company’ - sam mendes has won best director for ‘the lehman trilogy, and jesse tyler ferguson was named best featured actor in a play for ‘take me out’.
stay tuned on news.
more news on ocur stay tuned on news.
more our website.
thank you news on our website.
thank you or watching.
stay tuned.
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
unsettled, windy with showers.
not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy getting a little warmer potentially later in the week, but not as warm as it will be for england and wales.
northampton - fairly typical of many parts of england, seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees by end of the week.
the reason being the azores high is pushing its way we’ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’ brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend we will still have cloud approaching the west though towards dawn on a weak weather front.
elsewhere, under starry skies, as showers have been fading, just a little on the chilly side at 6-7 first thing, but plenty arl then that tends to ease away as cloud spills across scotland bringing patchy rain particularly to the highlands and islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere, and across northern ireland too.
england and wales will see the best of the sunshine, the lion’ share, but feeling warm when the sun does come out just warmer further south.
again in the south, some very high levels of pollen are forecast once again - on monday, as well as strong sunshine - high levels of .
in fact, this week we might see some very high levels of .
through the night, then we will continue to see - that’ monday night - those weather fronts brushing close by the north and west, but for many with clearer skies, light winds again in rural spots - 6, 7, 10 to 11 for plenty of sunshine follows then for england and wales on tuesday, for noerthern ireland but particularly western front close by, but still we are starting to see temperatures picking up further north and building the heat across the bulk of england and pushing towards eastern it isn’ the heat we are seeing further south across beria where it has been intense but we will find this week as this high-pressure slips allowing us to tap into some of that heat a little bit, towards the 30 degree-mark.
as ever, we will keep you posted and there’ more a bipartisan group of an agreement on gun safety reform, following the latest their proposals include tougher background checks for buyers under the age of 21.
the measures fall short of the changes demanded by president biden.
there have been significant gains for a new left wing elections.
president macron’ centrist grouping is still expected marine pen’ right-wing national rally are in third place.
the british government is preparing to publish legislation which would give ministers the power to override the post-brexit trading arrangements with the .
downing street wants to change the northern ireland protocol, which unionists don’ like because it, in effect, now on news, it’ time for dateline london.
hello, and welcome to the programme which brings together leading commentators with the foreign correspondents who write, blog irt this week - political apologies and their consequences.
he should quit.
we’ll be discussing history may be on the british prime and in africa, the king of belgium voices his "deepest "regret” over the "abuse and humiliation™ caused by his family and other belgians.
do those who colonised find it so hard to say sorry?
correspondent for the german media group die welt, marc roche, who writes for the french news magazine point, and adam raphael, the last year to date lovely to see you all.
let me start with you, adam, - apparent survival - and, certainly, survival for now.
he says he’ getting on with the job.
is this just a display of kind of what one might call ‘boris bravura’ or is the prime minister kind of right to think that his enemies perhaps moved a hit too soon?
well, they may have moved too soon to kick him out but, actually, i think his position is unsustainable and my own view is that he will be out before the end of the year.
the fact is if you look at the simple maths of it, 211 voted for boris.
but of that 211, 170, no less, are the payroll vote.
so, he has sort of 40 or 50 independent votes.
well, the people who voted against him, they got 148 - that’ three times as many, so three times as independent tory voted against him.
that is unsustainable.
and if you look at what happened in the past to lain duncan smith, to theresa may, to john major, and, of course, thatcher was challenged for the so, once a party is totally divided, as the conservative party is now, it’ extremely shiilatl @ and this sounds hostile to boris, who i’ve known for many, many years and find he always has lied himself out - 1ata a0 but what worries me about him now as it’ not just lying, it’ almost fantasy politics.
positive, "decisive, conclusive™ and as though it was some sort of triumph.
well, successful lliars, at least you’ve got 8 you mustn’ be found out immediately.
and think he’ beginning to lose his touch.
by a horrendous political situation.
he’ got two by-elections, which he is quite capable in tiverton and in wakefield.
and he’ got a cost of living crisis in this country which we haven’ seen since post-war britain.
so, - would be really very surprised if he was able to sustain his position because the conservative party, one thing it does do very well, it has - it has a link and a range to power.
beginning to realise that will he be at the next election they will get rid of him.
stefanie, what did you make of this result and how did 'r it to your audience?
henestly have been a bit more cautious about announcing that this is now the last chapter, because there have been so many last chapters in the last two years almost ~anditfeltab yes - mean, it felt a bit like groundhog day.
you see the prime minister sitting down with the cabinet again and saying, "now, we will really do what is in interest "of the people” and so, i’ cautious.
betting.
but its’ also - there’ a lot of historic - parallels and - for example, with theresa may, but that was a completely different circumstance.
there was one faction of the parliamentary group that really wanted her out and they succeeded and they were very targeted.
while with this revolution, or rebellion, against boris, irl tat lots of wings standing up and saying, "we are not happy a but then again, he’ an extraordinary politician.
he’ different to every one else, so maybe he still might be around for a0 marc, do you have an explanation for readers in france and in belgium of the political phenomena that is boris johnson?
well, the problem i face 0 on the one hand, they like his sort of politics, he’ funny, he’ a francephile, he’ a francophone.
he’ just the opposite of a stuffy french politician like macron or like hollande or like sarkozy, so they like that.
on the other hand, they perceive him as a liar he’ provoking a terrible crisis with the european union, coming by revoking facto the northern ireland protocol.
yeah, that legislation apparently will be published yeah, and he’ responsible since gaulle refused the brits in the european community, so, it’ divided.
but more and more people are telling me, when they ask me about boris, they tell me, "he’ dead, isn’ he?
"he cannot survive being a serial liar" - because, of course, in french politics, adam, there is an argument, isn’ there, that precisely because this rebellion was so broad, that it lacked the depth and the focus?
and in a sense now, the rebels have now played their hand.
any other who might oppose him might go, "actually, well, what’ the point of declaring myself?
"i’ll simply be frozen out by number 10 and we’re not he is so stubborn and determined and he could even - mean, because he now has the power again because the fixed-term parliaments act has been revoked - if his party became really difficult, he could - he could just take his appeal directly to the country.
go to the queen, ask for parliament to be dissolved - she constitutionally would have to accept that.
vg1 i and he basically defies mean, he’ that kind of risk-taker.
he is a risk-taker, but that will be one risk too many think one has got to start listening to what the tory all around the country.
and one of the reasons this big vote against him to their constituencies and they’ listened to their own loyal, true and they, frankly, are horrified by what has now, if the situation in this country was better in terms of the economy, in terms of other areas, it’ just but the fact is we are in for a really, really rough situation now.
think the really valid point you make, though, shaun, is that you’re quite right - this was a very disparate opposition to him.
there isn’ a focus to it and that’ think the next but very interesting journalistically.
yeah, mean, plenty for you guys to write about.
let’ move on to the economy because that is the one aspect of this that he can’ control, however he might wish to.
we had the report this week, marc roche, saying that the british economy will perform next year the worst of all the 7 countries.
except russia - and you could argue that russia has extenuating circumstances.
no longer 20.
its economy is effectively being frozen out of the world economy by sanctions and so on.
that’ not the ’ problem, but what is the ’ problem?
what do you think?
mean, you’ve been studying a0 and its and weaknesses for many years.
wrote a piece this week, saying that britain is again a this is the ottoman empire before world war i, but it was also the situation stagflation, inflation at 10%, growth down 5% in the last and the is predicting no growth next year.
and no growth at all, strikes repetitive, a commercial war with europe looming, if not already there because of brexit, and the only thing he has this - this delusion of grandeur, of nostalgia, while the economy is going nowhere is quite typical of boris johnson.
i 13 about the economy - that could bring him down.
agree with you.
think you’ve summed it up very well.
think the economy is in a terrible state and the difficulty for johnson, he’ not really - and think the conservative party are beginning to realise 1ly really a conservative, he’ a jehnsonian.
and that’ one of the reasons for this degree of great distrust of what he’ up to.
there is no trust for him and he’ confronted by some incredibly difficult decisions.
the conservatives are traditionally a tax-cutting welad’ they cannot cut taxes at this moment, unless they started borrowing huge sums of money - which, in itself, would be profoundly unconservative.
there is no way out of this cul-de-sac that he’ - he finds himself in.
that’ through no fault of his own, but his character plus the fact that this probably the weakest cabinet have seen since post-war really help.
i - i have no confidence that they’re going to get out mean, it’ - i’ve been not here - not as long reporting that - the first reporting did was, of course, going to the north and being taken by the british government to see the northern powerhouse - that was the key word and don’ forget, in power for 12 years and every new prime minister has a new idea for how to do a and there’ a lot of nice slogans and with boris johnson, it was "let’ get brexit done” and "level the country up" - especially the north - anything.
mean, here in london, we’re living quite well.
yes.
but if you go further north, there is real poverty there.
children are - do not have to eat - now with the energy prices, parents have to choose whether they heat their house or give their children food.
many children get to school in the morning and are hungry.
so, this is the real avalanche that’ coming and now, let’ get to autumn and winter and then, , it’ a very boring - very wasted word, the autumn or winter of discontent - but i’ really worried what’ i intf just in terms of the economic options, the effectively have given the british government cover, haven’ they?
if he wanted to back away from some of his policy choices already, like the increases in taxation that are planned in the next few months, whether he has - his party would tolerate that, given the divisions that have been on display well, the problem is the governor of the bank inflation is external with absolutely no control.
so, he has control of 20%, so he could stop the tax hike, he could do, on this 20%, something.
the problem is that, you know, what sort of conservative i1 he?
he wants to - he promised a cut in tax, which is completely ridiculous because we know 1 a supply-side economy.
the only way think he could get a bit out helping the people most affected by it, by giving money.
printing money.
mean, the prime minister not only said this week, adam, on his visit to blackpool, "you can’ i mean, he’ starting to revert, in terms of his language, at least, to perhaps more thatcherite slogans and it’ clear that rishi sunak, his chancellor, mean, these tensions have the potential to explode quite damagingly for government, don’ they?
well, think he couldn’ take the resignation one of the things.
it would just because he’ now toco weak.
50 he’ got to go along.
opportunistic politician.
did once ask him - said, "boris, how do you come "to your views?
because they’re and he said, "oh, it’ easy".
he said, "i just find out what the wheelers are thinking” - that was his second wife’ - "and go 180 degrees opposite and can’ go wreng".
now, that was a typical boris joke but actually, he’ very journalistic.
and journalists - maybe marc has very firm views - but most journalists are very, very floating voters.
they go all over the place on policy.
so does boris.
he’ a total opportunist.
he doesn’ have really clear, deep beliefs.
it’ perhaps none of us have gone into politics - can you imagine the damage we would’ve done with our inconsistent views ?
i have to say, talking about opportunism, he reminds me of no-one such much as david lloyd george, the great liberal prime minister who ended up leading a conservative coalition government until conservative threw him out - 100 years ago this year.
now, let’ talk about belgium, in particular, and this question of imperial legacy, marc.
as should possibly style him - was in the , the democratic republic of congo, this week.
why, and what was different about this visit?
belgium was terrible at colonising - not that there are good ones - but they might have been among the worst ones of the people of the congo and the wealth and the minerals of the congo that built belgium as a superpower at the end of the 19th century of the 20th century.
he went there to apologise.
but he said exactly, "we denounce unacceptable "regime based on paternalism and discrimination well, he didn’ really apologise.
he just condemned it.
and did he bring?
that almost makes him sound like he’ a third party.
yes.
in @ way, you know, a louvre.
mean and it was his family directly, because it was initially it was - belonged to leopold right which was his family, the saxe-coburg and gothas.
and, but what did he bring to the congolese?
he didn’ bring money as compensation.
he brings a few artefacts from the museum of the congo in tervuren and a tooth of lumumba, the last who was the first democratic prime minister.
by the belgians so, he’ bringing these two things - a few artefacts and the tooth of lumumba, and he said, "it’ done”.
he has condemned.
and, you know, went recently to brussels, the statues of leopold are everywhere and there’ not a plaque on this marvellous building in the centre of brussels which have been built because of colonialism.
not an explanation, so nothing has changed.
countries - with some exception - cannot cope with its colonial past.
is it - but you think money is quite a big part of this - the fear that it would somehow open the gates to massive compensation claims?
the minerals, you know - gold, diamonds.
yes.
rubber, everything - rubber, everything, so the compensations can run.
the problem is the congolese are not very well-equipped to get these compensations.
they won’ go to court and so, at the end, the belgians stefanie, germany faced this dilemma and it took a different route.
a couple of years ago, wasn’ it?
ja, i mean, it’ not too long ago - think it was spring 2021 - that, actually, berlin, the government - it was still then angela merkel - agreed with the government of namibia for compensations and also did an official apology and they had been negotiating for quite some years about the money that germany was going to pay and think it was more than a billion euro, which goes into lots of projects in the country.
but i think, in a way, germany is a bit of a unigue case, if may say, in europe - and for good reason because of our history, of the nazi history and because of the holocaust - and so, really think - i’ one of the germans of the generations who really grew up and was educated grg0 for children.
too much detall, yeah.
too harsh way, teo much detail - what the germans did to the jews, to the russians, to the ukrainians and to and so, think we do not find it difficult to say sorry because we know there have been atrocities and you - you - while it’ difficult to acknowledge what you’ve done but then, you can move on.
if you don’ do this, if you don’ honestly can say, "this was so wrong and we are sorry,” your country cannoct move on.
i’ very conscious of the fact europeans sitting around this table, from - all of us from what were colonised nations.
adam, this is a live issue for the british, isn’ it?
we saw it with the royal visit by the cambridges to the caribbean earlier this year, which was supposed to be about marking the queen’’ jubilee but actually turned into an argument about legacy and their response was thought to be a bit tone deaf, frankly, to some of their appeals.
we’ve had countries saying that they are now leaving as head of state, in part driven by this issue.
do you think?
i’ not sure they have but suspect i’ tone deaf on this issue, too, though.
the vikings weren’ sorry when they plundered this country in whenever it was.
countries have their history and parts of british colonial history are undoubtedly reprehensible.
we did some terrible things.
part of british colonial history we can be proud of.
and think one has to face up - and what one didn’ do and where the feelings were but it is a terrible mistake to judge everything by - in retrospect from the standards of today.
that doesn’ mean to say you hide what you’ve done or it shouldn’ be acknowledged, what was done at the time, but am wary of ‘sorry’.
i’ not wary of reparations, if they can be shown that you need to make good in terms of relationships what has too easy a word - think you just have to face up to your history.
strong the link still is with the commonwealth is because the countries who are getting rid guite right, yeah.
are staying in the commonwealth.
you’re correct.
a good point, yes.
that strong link, this colonial link is still, because what is the commonwealth?
i’ interested in this hecause think - mean, certainly, when was growing up in the ‘80, we weren’ really talked about the other side of the global links.
we didn’ talk much about colonisation.
we talked about the scramble for africa as a histarians’ against the french.
411 is from the - yes!
- this is from the book called legacy of violence, which was published this year, by caroline elkins, whe’ an american professor, and she did some research on actual british government documents and this is a quote - ’ not a pleasant quote, but think it’ important in the context of this that was used against those who - who suffered as a result used against them.
i’ just going to and find, if 1 can find the right a but essentially, what she was saying was that there was real violence used and some that would be shameful to many people in this country if they knew the violence.
some of those documents were hidden away in a government yes.
establishment burying its legacy.
look, think all nations do want to hide things at times a total sweep of colonial - all colonialism is bad - which there is a movement i think there were some very good things done during that peried.
isn’ it is easier to celebrate the achievements if you acknowledge the flaws?
of very - the commonwealth would not exist if britain’ - i’ not quite sure.
find it difficult to say "there have been very good things done by colonialism™.
what do you mean, for example?
well, in terms of education, in terms of commercialisation, in terms of trade, in terms of living standards.
yeah, that’ fine, but and in terms he you know, don’ think one can totally ignore some of the things.
acknowledging what was wrong what you have done - and actually, think, especially here you don’ have to go very far, you only have to go to ireland and understand and have some empathy with the irish who now again feel that they - they almost go through a trauma of being let down by the english again.
there’ something in the collective memory that you have been let down by - by but the queen apologised to the irish in 2011 when she went.
yeah, she did, and that was can’ she apologise to the commonwealth then?
because disagree with you - think now we have in britain a multicultural, multi-ethnic society and we cannot continue i’ sorry, adam.
one should get rid of them.
it’ another good point that britain has changed and perhaps our attitude need to change with it.
against discussion or, indeed, acknowledgement of what has of tearing down cecil rhodes’ statue from my old college in oxford - ridiculous!
of course, in the end, they flunked it and they’ve - we - we - you can just haunt yourself with don’ symbols matter?
so, you know, this divides families!
bet you have some very, very lively discussions, the american - in the debate over statues in the southern united states and over the union and the confederacy, turned out a lot of the statues weren’ actually that old and had been set up at a later stage because people felt they wanted to be reminded of something that, for them, was a more glorious past.
they weren’ that contemporary at all.
but a lot of statues have been kept but with plaques and other details and explanations.
well, i’ all in favour of that, of trying to explain some of the background to what was going on.
adam raphael, stefanie bolzen, marc roche, thank you all very much.
thank you very much.
more dateline london same time next week.
goodbye.
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
so, in the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy getting a little warmer potentially later in the week but not as warm as it will be for england and wales.
northampton fairly typical of many parts of england, seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees by the end of the week.
the reason being the azores high is pushing its way so, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’ brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend we will still have cloud approaching the west, though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
elsewhere, think under the starry skies as the showers but plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease away as the cloud spills across scotland, bringing some patchy rain particularly to the highlands and the islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across northern england - northern ireland, too.
so, england and wales will see the best of the sunshine, the lion’ share of the sunshine again, but feeling warm when the sun does come out in parts of just warmer further south.
again in the south, some very high levels of pollen are forecast once again on monday, as well as strong sunshine.
high levels of .
in fact, this week we might see some very high levels of .
-- through the night, then, we’ll continue to see - that’ monday night - those weather fronts brushing close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6 and 7, 10 to 11 for the towns plenty of sunshine follows, then, for england and wales on tuesday but again, ela but particularly for the north and west of scotland, rather more cloud, some patchy dia close by but still, we’re starting to pick those temperatures up further north and really building that heat across the bulk of england and pushing towards eastern now, it’ not the heat that we are seeing further i where it’as been intense for a week or so now - a 1 but we will find this week, as this high-pressure slips bit, so it’ perhaps temperatures are expected to get, particularly across central and eastern as ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’ more i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: tougher background checks for gun buyers under the age of 21.
beginning of the end for uncontrolled gun possession in the united states?
in the wake of the latest school shooting in texas, a bi-partisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation on gun safety.
gains for a new left-wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
the african children being insulted and exploited we have a special report.
the british government says a new law overriding brexit will not undermine the northern ireland peace agreement.
a senior tech engineer is put on leave after claiming an artificial intelligence tool has developed a mind and democratic parties have reached agreement on a series of gun control measures.
the developments come after the tragic mass shootings the measures include tougher background checks for gun buyers under the age of 21 and moves to prevent people from purchasing them.
our north america correspondent david willis reports.
this is a significant move and assuming these proposals pass into law, they would represent the first gun control the proposals themselves are fairly modest, they include tighter background checks for gun sales involving customers under the age of 21, and the introduction or expansion of so-called red flag laws which would and greater federal funding for school security systems what these proposals do not include is an outright ban and buffalo new york shootings, i a nonetheless, president biden welcomed this move, he said it was, quote, "important step in the right direction”.
the last meaningful gun control regulations in this country were introduced in the mid-1990, the brady bill, which created the national background check system, who oppose anything that transgresses upon the so-called second amendment, the right to bear arms in this country.
the majority of americans polls show continue to support the news of these latest proposals came on the six-year anniversary of a shooting at a gay in florida iry i a tte lost their lives.
well, earlier, spoke to robert spitzer, at the state university new york, cortland, to agree on new gun control measures.
it’ been extremely difficult.
the immediate obstacle has been in the united states senate where the filibuster rule is still in place meaning that to enact legislation, instead of needing a simple majority of 59 votes out of 100 senators you actually need 60 and it has effectively given the minority party or the republican party if it’ in the majority the ability to block legislation.
support for gun rights has increasingly become a litmus test for republican conservatism in recent years, and so that means that lawmakers have felt a certain obligation to prove they’re conservative bona fides by supporting an absolute gun rights point of view that is not allowing any kind of gun measures.
but given those and other related obstacles, this package of legislation really is fairly significant, arguably more significant politically than in policy i & .
my next question is how surprised are you that they have managed to reach agreement, because it 3 so partisan on this issue, are you surprised at the success of this?
have been somewhat surprised, but what surprised me even more as read more into the preposal and noting and they still have to get it through both houses cooperative, is the fact that it includes really quite a number of other things, including what is referred to as the boyfriend loophole, one partner in a married couple becomes violent, that person can be deprived of regard from having guns, but that rule does not apply if you are not actually married and of course millions of couples who live together live together but are not married.
but this legislation closes the boyfriend loophole and that is really quite a very significant provision there are still limitations, of course, you are still able to buy semi-automatic rifles under the age of 21, and guess that is something the democrats and joe biden are unhappy about.
yes it is, but it does include a particular focus on those younger than 21 who are otherwise eligible to buy guns but who now will be subject to a more detailed background check that will include juvenile records which might normally not be accessible and also mental health records, and that’ significant especially for the age group of 18-21, for this reason.
if you break down crime by age category, what you discover is that the most crime-prone age category is from 18-21, so it’ an age range that deserves particular scrutiny greater scrutiny and it’ not a giant step, but it’ a immeasurable and a notable step.
guess what the democrats and republicans that have signed this agreement or have come up with this agreement will be happy about is there is an agreement in place finally after all these years.
is the hope maybe that this is the stepping stone for something bigger?
as a stepping stone, but what this says to me is that if they can get this through congress, with this current congress, simply because it was very i itat a1 coalition, they haven’ passed it yet, and congress has a full plate of other measures to deal with and the democrats have we want to put our chips in the next six months before the 2024 november elections roll around, so my guess is if they get this through, and it lands on president biden’ desk for his signature, legislation activity, at least in the senate and probably in the house of representatives as well.
alliance in france has scored elections.
despite that, president macron’ supporters look set to have the biggest bloc in the national assembly, but it’ unclear if they’ll have enough seats to form a majority.
our paris correspondent hugh schofield has more.
the big line is we have to say that it is this breakthrough the presidential election two months ago, the left did terribly there, the leader of this new left-wing alliance was in third place but in the interim between the presidential and this parliamentary election, made an alliance between his far-left party, socialists and greens, the communists, and turned it into a major electoral force, and one which is a serious challenge he hasn’, don’ think, done so well that he has got any serious chance of dominating the assembly and having a majority there and enforcing president macron into a cohabitation with the left wing dominated national assembly, but he has done something extraordinary which looks like commanding a block after next week’'s i 180 mps, and that’ a big achievement, but, the fact 4 as if president macron will win this legislative election and then the key question is whether his majority will be relative or absolute, and that is he is campaigning ferociously over the next few days to make sure that he does get as many seats as possible in the national assembly inaweek’ time.
he wants to have an absolute majority so he can push through his legislative programme and not be forced into alliances with smaller blocks in the assembly.
here in the , legislation will be introduced in the house of commons on monday that will allow changes to be made to parts of the post-brexit trade deal and the government says it’ confident the changes would be lawful.
the arrangement, allows for checks on some goods moving it’ been a source of discontent for unionists, who see it as an internal border within the .
but critics of the move, including nationalist parties and the irish government, say it could breach correspondent, chris page.
this legislation could potentially have implications for the ’ relationship with the , for boris johnsen’ relationship with his own party, and for the future the devolved assembly remains in the deep-freeze more the is blocking, the eixin \ the is blocking, the assembly from eating it all its opposition to the northern island protocol.
the wants an end to checks on goods arriving here at belfast port, for example, from the rest of the , and it says it wants what it calls decisive action will soften its stance whenever this legislation is published tomorrow, at the very least, the want to see how the legislation is worked through.
non-unionist parties and the irish government have secretary brandon lewis has while the political discussion on legal wrangling will here which has seen northern ireland without a devolved government at a time when so many people are struggling with the rising cost-of-living.
the first home-grown version of the mcdonald’ restaurant re-opens in russia, a month after the chain pulled out because of ukraine.
a code word known to be one used by the was given.
army bomb experts were examining a suspect van when there was a huge explosion.
the south african parliament has destroyed the foundation = by abolishing the population registration act which, i igell \ each citizen according to race.
and the royal baby is tonight sleeping in his cot at home.
early this evening, the new prince was taken by his mother and father to their apartments in kensington palace.
germany’ parliament, the bundestag, has voted by a narrow majority berliners celebrated into the night, but the decision was greeted with shock in bonn.
the real focus of attention today was valentina tereshkova, the world’ first woman cesmonaut.
what do you think of the russian woman in space?
think it’ a wonderful achievement and think we might be able to persuade the wife it would be a good idea if i could to get her to go up there for a little while.
this is world news.
in the united states, a bipartisan group of senators say they’ve agreed a framework for potential legislation on gun safety.
a investigation has revealed how children in africa are being exploited to make personalised videos which sometimes include racist i via chinese social media.
africa eye tracked down one prolific chinese video producer to make and sell thousands of videos.
runakeo celina has this report - and just a warning, some viewers may find parts of it offensive.
"happy birthday.
" "good luck in your exams.
” "congrats on your wedding.
" in china over the past few years, it’ become a thing to send personalised greeting - and messaging apps.
videos featuring africans, including children, have become especially popular.
these videos sell for up to $70 each.
the content can be innocent enough, but some of them = 2021, one video shared i was particularly shocking.
the word the children are using could be translated the chinese equivalent of the -word.
the video sparked worldwide debate about racism in china.
today, what found on the internet was so disgusting.
but no-one was held accountable.
my colleagues and examined hundreds of videos, cross-referencing them against satellite imagery from google earth.
eventually, we managed to pinpoint the exact location where many of them were filmed - a village in malawi.
teamed up with henry mhango, an investigative reporter there, and he managed to find some children who recognised themselves in the low video.
we met their families and told them how much money people had : profiting from the poor, it’ very painful because if somebody is poor, you should just : we struggle and somebody comes and uses them as a business.
the children, and several other people we spoke to, all mentioned one film-maker called susu, which sounds like the chinese word for ‘uncle’.
we found out his real name - ke.
after gathering more evidence, we send an undercover journalist to meet him.
he said, "this was mine".
he said, "this was mine.
” hold on, hold on.
then he says, "no, no, no.
"this was my friend.
” it looks as though he let a secret slip.
he says it so excitedly and then suddenly, he reverses and says, "no, no, no.
"this was a friend i & it was time to speak to ocurselves.
hao, hao.
asked him, in chinese, he had made the video.
: because want just want to spread chinese culture - music, dance, and chinese words.
chinese language, you know?
the words and singing chinese songs.
pushed him further, saying this was exploitation.
have you finished?
did not exploit them.
yes.
but he says this was five years ago and he’ denied everything he also denies making the video that we believe he made, so it just feel like this isn’ productive any more.
our investigation found this isn’ just one video - ’ part of a massive industry, and there are many other i dla being exploited for the profit a people far, far away.
runako celina, news.
a 15 i 1: in russia has opened in moscow under a new name, which translates as 'tasty and that’ it’.
the chain pulled out of the country last month russia continues to face a whole raft of international sanctions, which have hit its econemy hard.
our russia editor steve rosenberg has the story.
0 not anymore.
the fast food giant has left russia in protest at the invasion of ukraine here - more than 800 - to a local company.
gone are the golden arches.
the logo now is two french fries and a burger.
the man who was quick to buy the fast food business is siberian tycoon alexander govor.
: there’ll be no more big macs it’ a pity, because they were the most popular items, but we told our experts to find replacements that are just as good or even better.
"russians can do fast food just as well", ravil tells me, "and as for western sanctions and global brands leaving "russia, we are very tough people.
"you can’ scare us.
” when the very first mcdonald’ restaurant opened right here 32 years ago, that was a hugely powerful symbol - of russia embracing western culture, western ideas, what’ happening here today with the departure of mcdonald’ and its russian replacement, that’ a symbol too, but a symbol of how russia and the west are now moving apart.
over in the kremlin, no burgers, but a hefty serving at an awards ceremony, vladimir putin called to the motherland, but he’ll know that western sanctions are having an impact.
here’ one example.
makers can’ import key components, so the new lada’ being made without any airbags or an anti-lock braking system.
taxidriver nikita thinks the russian economy in for @ bumpy ride.
the prices in roubles, they became ridiculously high, yeah.
so, for - for the taxi business now, it’ gone.
we have to use old ones.
russians won’ relish the prospect of economic pain but so far, the kremlin shows - steve rosenberg, news, moscow.
a senior software engineer working for google has told the washington post that the company has placed him on administrative leave i a intelligence chatbot has become a sentient being.
conversation, they are not free-thinking sentient beings.
more to it?
he has the latest on this story.
blake lemoine’ fear was that artificial intelligence, which was meant to mimic speech, had come to life - that it was impersonating human awareness of pain and suffering.
and the former google software engineer, who was made a priest and served in the army, told the washington post, " know a man when talk to it".
niy because the chatbot in question the lamda chatbot, is planned by google to be embedded in the speech function and its assistance function, you know - it will be used by hundreds of millions and this man was asked to test it for hate speech to see if it &1 4 anything like that.
and while talking about religion, the chat moved onto rights and robotics and i’ll just read you some of the transcript that he published - this is the chatbot speaking.
it says, " use language with understanding and intelligence.
to which lemoine says, "well, what about language usage he says - the chatbot says, "it is what makes us different he’ like, "us?
"tou’re a chatbot.
-- "you’re a chatbot.
"what are you talking about?
” the chatbot says, "yes, of course.
"that doesn’ mean don’ have the same wants "and needs as people.
” "so you consider "yes, that’ the idea.
” they then go on to some rabbit hole conversation about les miserables and the injustices in the play and the chatbot really holds its own, which kind this man’ opinion.
it’ really interesting.
how has google responded to this?
well, google says there’ no evidence to support these claims and that it - this employee - or former i and that he’ had his empathy hijacked here and that he’ actually lost focus about what was actually going on and they say that losing your focus with a chatbot actually has its own risks - and here they are, outlined professor emily bender.
we, as people, like to imagine that something that is simply objective and is separate is going to make better decisions but the way this it is reproducing patterns from its training data.
and so, if we deploy that at scale and give up autonomy decisions for us, we’re going to be reproducing all of the systems of oppression that have created that training data in the first place and real people well, google placed lemoine on administrative leave.
lemoine himself invited a lawyer to represent the chatbot and also brought his allegations of unethical behaviour to a member of the house judiciary an australian newspaper has denied threatening to out actress rebel wilson amid a storm of criticism emily brown reports.
june is the month of pride ents, celebrating the + community around the world.
it not a time community around the world.
it not a time actress and was not a time actress and comedian rebel wilson expected outed by an australian wspaper.
but to be outed by an australian - to be outed by an australian newspaper.
but when the sydney ing herald gave her two days to comment on her new ationship with a woman, hich was about the rt, port, everyone decided to out self.
the star, known for her roles in bridesmaids and perfect, announced to her instagram followers that she ound her disney princess.
is did not this did not impress the columnist for the sydney ning herald, who morning herald, who complained rebel had gazumped the that rebel had gazumped the 0 ory.
he went on to say that a ice to ignore their enquiries and in the choice to ignore their enquiries and in the process the herald’ ript as spoil the herald’ script was underwhelming.
the paper’ rting sparked a fierce reporting sparked a fierce online backlash and ete online backlash and heated onse + campaigners, say it is unacceptable to pressure on people to come .
and then, put pressure on people to come 2 put pressure on people to come out.
and then, there was this tion from the star, reaction from the star, 0 reaction from the star, describing it as very hard uation and thanking 18 followers their comments.
a stonewall spokesperson said out is a deeply personal cision.
whether, when and how 0 decision.
whether, when and how 0 out should be decision.
whether, when and how i - to come out should be decided ™ the individual entirely on emily brown, news.
broadway stars have been enjoying a night of glitz and glamour at the 75th tony awards, which took place at radio city music hall in new york on sunday night and west side story star ariana debose hosted the event.
the musical company cleaned up with gongs for - patti lupone as best actress in a musical.
marianne elliott won the director of a musical matt doyle took best featured actor and the production also that’ it from me.
thank you or watching.
do stay tuned here to world news.
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
so, in the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy getting a little warmer potentially later in the week but not as warm as it will be for england and wales.
northampton fairly typical of many parts of england, seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees by the end of the week.
the reason being the azores high is pushing its way so, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’ brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend we will still have cloud approaching the west, though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
elsewhere, think under the starry skies as the showers but plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease away as the cloud spills across scotland, bringing some patchy rain particularly to the highlands and the islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across northern england - northern ireland, too.
so, england and wales will see the best of the sunshine, the lion’ share of the sunshine again, but feeling warm when the sun does come out in parts of just warmer further south.
and again in the south, some very high levels of pollen are forecast once again on monday, as well as strong sunshine - high levels of .
in fact, this week we might see some very high levels of .
through the night, then, we’ll continue to see - that’ monday night - those weather fronts brushing close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6 and 7, 10 to 11 for the towns plenty of sunshine follows, then, for england and wales on tuesday but again, ela but particularly for the north and west of scotland, rather more cloud, some patchy dia close by but still, we’re starting to pick those temperatures up further north and really building that heat across the bulk of england and pushing towards eastern now, it’ not the heat that we are seeing further i where it’as been intense for a week or so now - a 1 but we will find this week, as this high-pressure slips bit, so it’ perhaps temperatures are expected to get, particularly across central and eastern as ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’ more a bipartisan group of following the latest school shooting in texas.
their proposals include tougher background checks for buyers under the age of 21.
the measures fall short of the changes demanded by president biden.
there have been significant gains for a new left wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
president macron’ centrist grouping is still expected marine pen’ right-wing national rally are in third place.
the british government is preparing to publish legislation which would give ministers the power to override the post-brexit trading arrangements with the .
downing street wants to change the northern ireland protocol, which unionists don’ like because it, in effect, puts a border down the irish sea.
now on news, here’ hardtalk.
018 the rupture in relations between most of europe and russia since vladimir putin’ invasion of ukraine has dependence on moscow’ oil and gas.
it turns out there was another arena in which europe had become dangerously dependent on russia - without russian rockets a2 europe’ short-term space plans are now in disarray.
my guest is josef aschbacher, director general of the european space agency.
is europe destined to be an also-ran in the space race?
111918 thank you for having me.
let’ start where started in that introduction - your relationship with russia.
it has exposed, has it not, the war with ukraine, the degree to which you’ve had to sever ties with the russian space agency?
it’ exposed a dangerous over reliance on cooperation with moscow?
mean, it is true that with the invasion of russia in ukraine, it was a wake-up in the energy sector, a that we suddenly have a war in front of our doors and in space, what actually happened is exactly the same as in many other domains.
the heads of states and heads of government of many european countries were encouraging everyone to embrace russia, to work with russia, get russia into the western we built the space station, we initiated large-scale in roubles, and we worked together for several decades.
and, yes, the war has changed things drastically, and that is actually quite a change, if not to say painful for many of us.
and what you did in practical terms was year-on-year rely on russian rockets, the soyuz rocket programme, to take your astronauts and your equipment up into space.
mean, that was complacency, wasn’ it?
you can call it complacency.
actually, it has served us very well for not now, but for more than ten years, we had another rocket we have, actually, three classes of rocket, as we call it.
yol heavier satellites into space, called the ariane 5 today.
then we have the one in the lower segment, which is vega.
and then we have the medium segment, which is now soyuz, which was soyuz, should say, which was serving us well.
but, at the time of the invasion of crimea in 2014, we already have made decisions to develop another rocket called ariane 6, which will very soon, some time next year, so, actually, the ariane 6 was already developed, and decisions were made in ‘14 to foresee that this change is necessary.
well, ariane 6 iis still in development, but the sad truth is that seme of your key programmes and missions for the next year or two have now been jeopardised and may well be entirely ruined of cooperation with russia.
and i’ thinking in particular of your ambitious plan to send a european rover may not happen now.
today, it’ not decided what will happen or will be the future of that mission, this is true, because on february 24th, right afterwards, called a meeting with my member states to decide what we do.
and, as you say, stephen, we had to decide to suspend this cooperation with russia.
let me just say that this is hurting us all.
have a lot of engineers in and in industry, and you can imagine what it means.
i’ thinking of people like fernando rull, who’ one of the leaders of the project.
he’ been working on this for years, and suddenly everything he had planned and worked for has been taken away from him.
i mean, how do you approach him and others on that team and say, "you know what, it’ all off"?
that is painful, tell you.
and have a large team of the exomars project manager, the exomars team, there are several people in , but also in industry.
and it is true, they have been working for it’ their career, so they have worked ten, 15 years on building up this mission.
it’ ready.
in fact, we have done everything we need to do to get yedr.
and, of course, now we have stopped it cos there’ no plan in terms of actually i’ not saying getting you to mars.
there’ no plan .
if i’ not telling you the plan , it’ because we don’ have a decision yet.
well, if there is to be i 0 new levels of cooperation with nasa, and, of course, back in 2011, 2012, you had a huge fallout with nasa over the mars mission because they decided to go their own way.
so you’re either going to have to rebuild a mars relationship with nasa, or somehow you’re going to have to convince people like, don’ know, elon musk and jeff bezos, to work with you to do something dramatic that they’ve i so, what is plan ?
i’ not putting it on the table made by my member states.
a proposal, together with nasa, by the way, who has helped us analysing the issues that need technology developments that need to be done, just to recall of course, the launch with the rocket - this was meant to be a russian portion.
then the lander that brings the rover down to the surface, to drill into the mars surface the rocket - the launch by russia, and the lander in particular.
plus, in the other parts, there is some russian technology.
of course, all this stops now.
i’ve done the series analysis, a 4 what are the options?
what can be done in europe, in europe so easily that means it needs to be developed newly, that means from scratch, inorder to do it?
and, yes, yes let me just finish.
yes, i’ working with nasa to see whether they could be erela but do not want to pre-empt this decision because this has yet to be made, but certainly, nasa has been extremely helpful = - this to be mentioned.
what is the difference between cutting and severing all ties with russia and continuing to cooperate with russia when it comes as we speak to each other today, there is an italian astronaut on the international space station working alongside two russian astronauts, delivered to the space station by a russian rocket.
you know, you’re saying that’ fine and we’ll go on doing it.
in fact, believe you’re saying we want to continue that cooperation all the way through to 2030, despite what putin’ doing in ukraine.
so how come you can continue to do that and have to abandon the mars mission?
let me say we have not only abandoned the mars mission another example is luna 25, 26 and 27, where we had and we have abandoned that.
we have stopped that cooperation as well.
so, does it sit comfortably with you you’ve abandoned all this 18 comfortably with you that a european astronaut and your agency’ still working closely with the russians on the international space station?
we have no choice.
this is very clear because this is a station that depends on the russian contribution as much as it depends on the western contribution that is made up by the united states, by japan, by canada and by , with my member states.
and you cannot abandon or you cannot separate the station because you need russia to lift the station inte higher orbit.
to the station, and many other i 1 ‘ you cannot just break up and run away and abandon this.
are you frightened?
dmitry rogozin, the boss of the russian space agency, has said quite clearly, "if you block cooperation "with us, who’ going to save the international space station "it could fall into the or into europe”, he said.
that was a threatening message, and you were a little bit intimidated, were you?
threatening message.
but let me just say that russia benefits as much as europe on staying on the station and running it.
but the point is, the russians hold the cards, don’ they?
no.
and the americans and the western partners, too.
is not correct to say that the russians are the ones calling the shots.
how did it come to this, aschbacher?
i’ not really talking now about the russian relatienship, but how did it come that europe is such a second division player when it comes to space?
think of the size of the european ecenomy, european population.
1 1rgn the european space footprint what went wrong?
the message have put of into a document called agenda 2025, which should be a wake-up call to our politicians and to say, look, this is happening.
we are in a second space race today, the first one obviously being the one in the ‘60.
really building up extremely fast its capacity and its and the commercial sector suddenly being a new player, which we didn’ have until very recently.
and this is happening, with or without , with or without europe.
but the gap is getting wider, not narrower.
you haven’ been in charge for that long, but during your tenure, what we see is massive investment in the in space, not so much from nasa, although their budget dwarfs yours, but coming from venture capital, coming from elon musk and jeff bezos and a whole host of others, who see in space massive potential, both, of course, for exploration, but, actually, also for profit.
and they are pouring money in.
and on the side of china, the state is absolutely committed to matching the because of the geopolitical rivalry.
europe doesn’'t seem to have anywhere to go in this.
this shows that space is a domain where investments are worth making by the private sector.
they are not doing it for fun.
of course they have fun, hope, at least, but they are also doing it for profit.
but the private sector in europe isn’ listening.
yes, they do.
and we are taking steps in order to increase let me just say that in the last couple of months since i’ of , i’ve signed a number of agreements with venture capital companies to make sure that access to funding also in europe is easier if we talk about commercialisation, there are three things that are needed, and have gone with my most critical managers of to silicon valley and see these companies, visit them for ten days, and really identify what are the key ingredients being one of them.
it needs talented people - clever people who are driven it needs access to money.
and you need to be fast.
they call it fast forward fail fast, fast forward.
in europe, we have plenty of talent and plenty of excellent people with brilliant ideas some of them go to the because there’ not enough opportunities here, but we have certainly not access to money is a problem and silicon valley, of course, giving about 60% of all the funds worldwide to companies.
there we have to improve, and i’ working on it.
have signed an agreement in january this year with european investment fund and, as said, with venture capital companies.
speed - speed is something that letlietle no, absolutely not.
0 by the fact the european space dominated by the european union nations - so, one of your big problems is that another key player well, it’ brexited.
it’ no longer in the .
that means it’ semi-detached from some of the programmes that are part of your remit.
nasa and the doesn’ have to deal with that, and you’re never going to overcome that, are you?
if you think that everything is gold that glitters on the other side of the ocean, then you’re wrong, i’ sorry to say, because nasa also has its own.
it’ not so much that the has no problems, it’ just that their problems aren’ on the scale of yours when it comes to bureaucracy.
china has its own set of issues.
but in europe, yes, you are right, we have to speed up and we have to streamline decision making and we have fully agree with you.
this is one of - have identified five priorities which want to change.
among the partners.
there’ a huge, would say, diversity of different partners.
number two - commercialisation.
exactly what happens in the with spacex and with other partners, we have to develop a strong commercial sector.
lol lg1 8 2 don’ need to explain this in the current situation.
number four - programme challenges.
in europe, and that means speed and decision mechanisms.
and there are 60 individual actions which i’ve identified on which we are working.
yes, absolutely agreed.
yes, want it faster.
but, yes, i’ tackling the problem.
@il on the commercialisation and the power of individuals a you have been quoted in the recent past as saying you are worried that such is the scale of spacex’ invelvement now, particularly in putting satellites ftag 1 and elon musk dominating that marketplace, that you believe he is, in a sense, being allowed to make the rules in space.
do you believe that there’ now a lack of control and regulation, which means these privateers are doing things which aren’ in the long-term interest of us - human beings?
there is a very strong development in space.
elon musk, what you - where made an interview a couple of months ago.
yes, absolutely.
but i’ not saying that’ bad.
to requlate and make 4 becoming a problem.
and, yes, there is an urgency to deal with it.
this is a regulatory issue as much as one of practical and, yes, when it comes to space debris and orbit manoeuvres, as we call it, because a collision might occur, yes, we work very well with spacex, and there is no isn’ the ultimate truth that what we see today in this, as you call it, second phase of the space race, is @ much greater on militarisation of space?
donald trump, of course, back, think, in 2019, created the space force.
the russians have shown their capacity to find ways of shooting down satellites.
the chinese are involved in that, too.
does europe have a plan for projecting military europe, as you would know very well, is not seeing the military strength in the same way as it is done in the or in china countries, because of the history.
this is something that is i to the second world war and what happened.
so, if you want to be a vital player in the next phase domain, are you?
what i’ doing - , we have to distinguish a bit what is the situation today after the invasion of ukraine and what it was ah, so you’ve had to do a major rethink?
and, yes, we are launching a debate.
it is happening across europe and certainly, the space community and the european space agency, that we are discussing with the member states, what does this mean?
do we need to change?
yes or no?
it’ very interesting what you’re saying.
let me just quote you.
i’ sure you’ve probably seen this quote, but if you haven’, it might be interesting.
again, rogozin, the head of the russian space agency, said not so long ago, "slowly but surely, "we are heading for the militarisation of space,” "and roscosmos,” he said - the russian agency - 1= illusions about this.
"everyone is working on it.
” it seems everyone except europe.
are we just naive in europe?
wouldn’ say that we are naive in europe.
as, in some countries, a very strong capability.
take france as an example, germany, italy, spain and a few others.
and they have a strong capability in - also in some of the assets that relate or to some of the aspects that relate to space in terms of technolegy that is required.
going to have to shift?
what we don’ have is 118 and think this is a discussion that is needed.
do we want to rely, country by country, on this excellent capability, by the way, or do we want something more of a european structure and a european response?
and there today, we have - this is absolutely true - with a few exceptions, should say.
so, russia could shoot down european satellites.
there’ no way that any european force could shoot down wouldn’ say that.
individually, this might be possible.
but would russia do that?
did russia invade ukraine?
that’ a good question.
a whole mess out there that means a lot of debris and a lot of particles that around and endanger all the satellites, including the russians’ and.
surely, what we have learned as a human species 4 in the end, human beings sometimes take decisions which appear to run counter toc the wider interest.
i’ just trying to explore the european space agency consistently has waved the peace flag and said, "we’re only about peaceful exploration.
"we’re not interested in going in the direction "other space superpowers are going in, talking "of militarisation.
that’ just not tenable, is it?
if everybody else is going in a certain direction, you can’ ignore it.
as said before, that is exactly the point.
until the invasion of ukraine, was certainly working only on the - would say mostly, not only, now, a debate is happening.
of course, don’ know what is the cutcome of this.
general of esa_ the decision has to be made by the member states.
you think a reset and a rethink is overdue?
think that we have i of a security system in europe.
security is under threat, as we all know, in the battlefield, space is an integral part, domains, navigation being one of them.
and think this is something that has to be seen very interesting.
final point.
europe’ never actually, of course, put men into space flight.
the americans have done it, the chinese have done it, many countries have done it, but europe hasn’ done it.
because it’ very expensive and if one talks about getting men - human beings, should say - back on the moon and then to mars, vast, vast expense and time frames which are already stretching to 2040, 2050 before it’ conceivable it could happen.
say, "you know that?
"we’re not going to do that any more - it’ too expensive.
"we need to focus our resources on safeguarding our own planet, "not least from climate change.
” do you think that needs to be the focus going forward?
and earth observation, at our planet, investigating climate change, sustainability, biodiversity and these aspects.
so, europe is never going to bother with talking of manned mission to mars?
wait, wait.
and this is fundamental, and think this goes very well of states, heads of government of all european countries.
everyone has declared climate change to be the biggest threat of everyone, of mankind, of the whole planet, and that’ europe has played a major role in pioneering this aspect, including in space.
absolutely right - today, and like your challenge because i’ challenging my decision-makers with exactly the same question.
because today, europe is spending 7% of the budget nasa is spending on exploration.
and you’re absolutely right - today, europe’ astronauts are not flying with a european a1 rocket today and, in the past, also with a russian rocket.
a states, my politicians, is this right or should this change?
in a word, do you think it will change, yes or no?
i’ve been mandated by the ministers, and including president macron - who has written me a letter - to put a group of high-level experts in place to ask exactly this question.
these are not space people - these are people from society.
journalists, economists it’ not exactly a decisive answer, but it’ the answer i’ going to get.
= to the member states iin november next year.
josef aschbacher, i’ sorry to interrupt, but we have end there.
thank you so much for being on hardtalk.
111918 for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
so, in the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy getting a little warmer potentially later in the week but not as warm as it will be for england and wales.
northampton fairly typical of many parts of england, seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees by the end of the week.
the reason being the azores high is pushing its way so, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’ brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend we will still have cloud approaching the west, though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
elsewhere, think under the starry skies as the showers but plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease away as the cloud spills across scotland, bringing some patchy rain particularly to the highlands and the islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across northern england - northern ireland, too.
so, england and wales will see the best of the sunshine, the lion’ share of the sunshine again, but feeling warm when the sun does come out in parts of just warmer further south.
and again in the south, some very high levels of pollen are forecast once again on monday, as well as strong sunshine - high levels of .
in fact, this week we might see some very high levels of .
through the night, then, we’ll continue to see - that’ monday night - those weather fronts brushing close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6 and 7, 10 to 11 for the towns plenty of sunshine follows, then, for england and wales on tuesday but again, ela but particularly for the north and west of scotland, rather more cloud, some patchy dia close by but still, we’re starting to pick those temperatures up further north and really building that heat across the bulk of england and pushing towards eastern now, it’ not the heat that we are seeing further i where it’as been intense for a week or so now - a 1 but we will find this week, as this high-pressure slips bit, so it’ perhaps temperatures are expected to get, particularly across central and eastern as ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’ more i’ sally bundock with the latest headlines for viewers in the russia is accused of killing hundreds of civilians in the the ukrainian igo0 amnesty international says moscow is using indiscriminate shelling and banned weapons.
5 it was horrible, horrible when he russians were firing.
it’ to describe, but that what was gains for a new left wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
tougher background checks for gun sales to anyone republican and democratic party senators reach an agreement.
"lawful” and "correct” - the british government says its changes to brexit will not undermine the northern ireland peace agreement.
a senior tech engineer claims an artificial intelligence tool has developed a mind of its own.
hello and welcome to the programme.
hundreds of civilians have been 18 of kharkiv since the start of the conflict by indiscriminate russian shelling.
in @ new report, amnesty international accused moscow cluster munitions and scatterable mines.
the human rights organisation said the decision to use such weapons showed an "utter disregard for civilian lives” and could constitute the kremlin has previously denied using cluster munitions in ukraine and insisted that i 8 struck military targets.
from the city of kkarkiv, wyre davies reports.
from the very start of this war, the city of kharkhiv bore tla 4 of russian shedding.
the brunt of russian shedding.
often indiscriminate, and inaccurate.
this, at the unction utside a large public spital.
one of the northern suburbs, there hospital.
one of the nerthern i hospital.
one of the nerthern suburbs, there is barely a lding undamaged.
in these areas sees amnesty ternational, the review team of unguided rockets by ussian forces in built-up 1 1ge 13 russian ferces in built-up residential suburbs resulted in reds of casualties.
those tiatil - hundreds of casualties.
those who survived the onslaught have , those who who survived the onslaught have a a left, those who now return do only briefly.
:.
as horrible, horrible.
the ssians were firing ould russians were firing we would get thrown into the air russians were firing we would grg0 get thrown into the air from your get thrown into the air from a 1 chair.
it’ hard to your chair.
it’ hard to describe but that’ what it was .
20 miles from the border, harkhiv was a key russian 4 rget in the early weeks of war, they literally threw everything at city, ncluding widely banned weapons iscriminate by their very nature.
the world has indiscriminate by their very nature.
the world has made ese weapons illegal because are so devastating and ainly affect civilians.
there be no reason legally or \ morally to use cluster unitions in ukraine or anywhere else.
this onstrates the indiscriminate estruction demonstrates the indiscriminate aaat demonstrates the indiscriminate destruction that cluster ammunitions can bring.
a large explodes casting up dozens of smaller bombs, as explode over is an area they explode over is an area they show a people and ldings with thousands of pieces of shrapnel.
this case kiv’ children’ kharkiv’ children’ hospital.
those struck down by some of those struck down by cluster ammunitions and russian ers re now recovering in showers are now recovering in city hospitals.
:.
a hole in leg the it was a hole in my leg the ize of a first.
it was a hole in my leg the size of a first.
he tells me how he fell to the ground vinced he was going to die everal other cluster bombs xploded round him.
according the regional medical 1 to the regional medical director, more than 600 ilians have been killed and ,200 injured in kharkhiv rgol alone, 1,200 injured in kharkhiv alone, material damaged in the infrastructure to is bvious all of which says esty may constitute war wyre davies, news.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
a british family say their son has been killed while fighting russian forces in the east of ukraine.
jordan gatley, who left the british army in march to travel to ukraine, was shot in the city of severodonetsk.
gatley is the second british person to be killed police in brazil say they’ve found items belonging to a british journalist and his travelling companion, who disappeared in nerare officers discovered dom phillips’ rucksack, and bruno pereira’ card and clothes.
a fisherman has been arrested, and traces of blood on his boat are being analysed.
on his final leg of a visit to the democratic republic philippe has met victims of sexual violence in the east of the country.
he visited a hospital run by the nobel laureate, denis mukwege - a congolese gynaecologist well known for his efforts to stop sexual violence being used das a weapon of war.
the author of a review of food and farming in britain says recommendations in its new food strateqy, which will be released today.
henry dimbleby said the plan wasn’ a disaster, but lacked enough details to be called a strategy.
later we will be lloeoking that later we will be looking at 0 later we will be looking at that food strategy that is expected to help boost the economy or at least that’ what i me minister will tell us we will talk through of that, french president emmanuel macron is at risk of losing his outright majority after a strong challenge from a coalition of left-wing parties in national assembly elections.
jean-luc melenchon’ left-green alliance finished neck and neck with macron’ ensemble in terms of votes cast in sunday’ first round.
the president faces a battle round to win 289 seats and keep his majority.
: with regards to this first round, the new ecologic and social people’ union has come out on top and will be present in more than 500 constituencies in the second make sense, other than to maintain an illusion - and we hope our adversaries the truth is that the presidential party, with regards to the first a cross-party group of senators has reached agreement they have some a the measures include tougher background checks for gun buyers under the age of 21, and expanded mental health here’ our north america correspondent, david willis.
this is a significant move and assuming these proposals pass into law, they would represent the first gun control the proposals themselves are fairly modest, they include tighter background checks for gun sales involving customers under the age of 21, and the introduction or expansion of so-called red flag laws which would and greater federal funding for school security systems what these proposals do not include is an outright ban and buffalo new york shootings, i a nonetheless, president biden welcomed this move, he said it was, quote, "important step in the right direction”.
the last meaningful gun control regulations in this country were introduced in the mid-1990, the brady bill, which created the national background check system, who oppose anything that transgresses upon the so-called second amendment, the right to bear arms in this country.
the majority of americans polls show continue to support the news of these latest proposals came on the six-year anniversary of a shooting at a gay in florida iry i a tte lost their lives.
ay the question is where does aleg ntrol go from here.
you gun control go from here.
you can download gun control go from here.
you gun control go from here.
you can download the news app.
legislation will be introduced in the house of commons later that will allow changes to be made to parts post-brexit trade arrangements the protocol requires extra checks on some goods moving across the irish sea, but ministers want to unilaterally relax some of those requirements.
correspondent, chris page.
this legislation could potentially have implications for the ’ relationship with the , for boris johnsen’ relationship with his own party, and for the future the devolved assembly remains in the deep-freeze more the democratic unionist party 3 currently blocking the - formation of a i formation of a power-sharing ition with nationalists, reventing the assembly from ing at over i & opposition to the eating at all over its opposition to the northern land protocol.
the wants an end to checks on goods arriving here at belfast port, for example, from the rest of the , and it says it wants what it calls decisive action will soften its stance whenever this legislation is published tomorrow, at the very least, the want to see how the legislation is worked through.
non-unionist parties and the irish government have secretary brandon lewis has while the political discussion on legal wrangling will here which has seen northern ireland without a devolved government at a time when so many people are struggling with the rising cost-of-living.
the new legislation will be published today by the overnment.
what is it oposing proposing in terms of changes, ill the community how will the community react?
all of that covered in usiness overage.
to stay our business coverage.
to stay with us on our business coverage.
to stay .
an australian newspaper has denied threatening to out actress rebel wilson amid a storm of criticism over its reporting of her new relationship with a woeman.
a code word known to be one used by the was given.
army bomb experts were examining a suspect van when there was a huge explosion.
the south african parliament has destroyed the foundation = by abolishing the population registration act which, i igell \ each citizen according to race.
and the royal baby is tonight sleeping in his cot at home.
early this evening, the new prince was taken by his mother and father to their apartments in kensington palace.
germany’ parliament, the bundestag, has voted by a narrow majority berliners celebrated into the night, but the decision was greeted with shock in bonn.
the real focus of attention today was valentina tereshkova, the world’ first woman cesmonaut.
what do you think of the russian woman in space?
think it’ a wonderful achievement and think we might be able to persuade the wife it would be a good idea if i could to get her to go up there for a little while.
this is world news.
russia is accused of killing hundreds of civilians in the ukrainian igo0 amnesty international says moscow is using indiscriminate shelling and banned weapons.
there are gains for a new left-wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
listen to this story.
this will get you talking today.
a senior google engineer says one of the company’ artificial being and was thinking and reasoning like a human being.
conversation, they are not free thinking.
are the bolts taking over?
i’ joined now by our news reporter, mark lobel.
what prompted this former google employee to speak out?
you were given some tough tasks 1 i !
you were given some tough tasks at times somewhat prompted this oyee to speak out?
his fear employee to speak out?
his fear employee to speak out?
his fear is that the outcome set up mic speech by hoovering up of the to mimic speech by hoovering up to mimic speech by hoovering up all of the words on the ernet, baga loads of words, ears to have me to life.
appears to have come to life.
i is impersonating, he thinks, awareness of in and human awareness of pain and 0 ering and this former suffering and this former 0 gle software engineer who google software engineer who was made a google software engineer who a google software engineer who was made a priest and served i was made a priest and served in brought this life the army brought this to life by telling the washington post a an when talk to "i know a man when talk to "i know a man when talk to irl 4 him" and it matters because this chat him" and it matters because hat bot lamda is meant to this chat bot lamda is meant to used in the this chat bot lamda is meant to this chat bot lamda is meant to be used in the future for oogle search gine and google’ assistant and this man sked to test it to google’ assistant and this man rila was asked to test it to find if he speed emerged from bot out if he speed emerged from a religion moved slowly to a robotics and we have the transcript that he published and this the kind of thing that shut at was aying.
" use language understanding and intelligence.
dispute out responses” do not dispute out responses” to hich blake lemoine said hat about nguage usage "what about language usage is = "what about language usage is so important to being human?
” he bot says "it is what akes us different against her animals?
and blake = lemoine says" what do you mean us?
you are a lemoine says” what you mean - - lemoine says” what you mean us?
you are a bot.
” and the xes have thoughts boxes have thoughts and feelings like other people.
they went down his rabbit hole then they went down his rabbit i where they talked about les iserables and they feel about injustices in it and i one point the chat bot of its own personal fears all of this gives the - and all of this gives the software engineer it is more just al.
it sounds scary than just al.
it sounds scary and in and in my experience with i ool and in my experience with chatbots is they come back with eric response.
and you are a generic response.
and you are desperate for a human being.
how have google responded?
google says there is no evidence presented by these to support them and claims to support them and also, this employee at the had violated its nfidentiality policy.
other say ake lemoine was say blake lemoine was obviously very empathetic as a on and had his empathy hijacked.
and that, by losing and what is going on and focus and what is going on and what he was talking to and kind ing sucked into it, of being sucked into it, elae i 0 of being sucked into it, according to them, risks, risks of its own, 4 3 brings risks of its own, the where you are not kind where you are not guestioning what you are lking to and what was behind this thing was talking to and what was behind a1 talking to and what was behind what this thing was set up to this is explained, and let’ let’ listen now to emily nder, a linguistics rofessor.
we as people like to gine that something that is following rules and is ective and separate will make better decisions but the his technology is built, 3 way this technology is built, it is reproducing patterns from rading data and so, if we its trading data and so, if we deploy that at scale and up autonomy to these chines let them ake decisions for , we will be reproducing all he systems of oppression that have eated the training data in first place and ¥ real people will be harmed.
so they could leave people to rely when they think it is on data when they think it is something else and it could i i lead them down the wrong something else and it could lead them down the wrong path king decisions.
google placed blake lemoine on administrative leave and he went the other way and invited yer to represent a lawyer to represent the chat bot going forward.
make of that you well.
the allegations, aid, which were of he said, which were of unethical behaviour i preo unethical behaviour he has rted to the house judiciary mmittee.
google, as said, there is no evidence to ort the laims.
the mystery support the claims.
the mystery continues!
thank you, mark, for aining that.
a scary story aaeiat i ur: let’'s move frem and advances in technology what is ppening in sport.
it’ time for the latest sport from the sports centre.
i’ marc max verstappen has extended his lead at the top of the driver’ championship after winning the azerbaijan grand prix with ferrari’ charles leclerc suffering an engine failure.
it was a red bull 1-2 as sergio perez finished runner up, while the british mercedes duo of george russell and lewis hamilton finished third and fourth respectively.
a bad day at the office for ferrari, both drivers not finishing the race.
all plaudits belonging to verstappen, though, as he takes control of the world championship.
and ollie pope have kept england in the second test with new zealand on what was a riotous third day at trent bridge in nottingham.
new zealand posted a mammoth first innings total of 553 but england have managed to eat into that hefty total, the hosts finishing the day on 5/473, trailing the kiwis we want to get as close to them as we can, if not ahead.
the pitch is starting to spin a little bit so that may provide and then, because it is such a 144 scoring ground, they almost ave to quick scoring ground, they 4 quick scoring ground, they a i almost have to bat us out of it itially and then, if we get early wickets, we will sep.
rory claimed his first win of the year as he defended his canadian open title with a two-stroke victory from tony finau.
and sets him up perfectly for the open, which starts on thursday.
it’ a first victory a a major winner and he couldn’ resist a dig at greg norman afterwards, the golf chief executive, who has been running a long, long time, the 21st tour when, one more than eone else, but gave me a little someone else, but gave me a id bit of extra incentive today and i’ happy to get it sweden’ linn grant has made the first female winner on the world tour.
the 22-year-old, who only turned professional late last year, clinched victory by nine shots at the scandinavian mixed compatriot henrik stenson and scotland’ marc warren.
the event has been a fixture on the men’ european tour since 1991 but became a mixed event two years ago.
hope & hope it’, mean, hope it’ big.
for sure, just hope it kind it’ big.
for sure, just hope a be i kind of brings women a that it kind of brings women a i eles that it kind of brings women a bit more forward and gets ple’ eyes on a little people’ eyes on us a little i it more and then, it’ always to say that you beat bit more and then, it’ always a 0 i guys for a nice to say that you beat you guys for a week.
-- the guys for a week.
andy murray’ bid for a first grasscourt singles title in six years ended in defeat by matteo berrettini in the stuttgart open final.
the italian world number 10 is coming back from hand surgery and missed the entire clay court season, but started strongly to take the opening set.
murray battled back to take it to a decider but then had to have treatment on his hip twice before berrettini took the match 6-4, 5-7, 6-3.
it has been two decades world cup without an australian side and the soccerocos are hoping to increase that time as they gear up for their crucial world cup playoff final against peru.
the sides meet in qatar later on monday with the winners in the year.
having reached the 2018 world cup in russia with knockout wins over syria and honduras.
you can get all the latest sports news at our website - that’ bbc.
com/sport.
but from me and the rest of the team, that’ your sports goodbye cletels goodbye to marc edwards and the team.
we are thankful for that .
queen elizabeth had a lot to celebrate last weekend at her platinum jubilee, now she has another achievement to chalk up, as the second-longest serving monarch in world history.
the queen has been for 70 years and 127 days now.
only louis of france has ruled for longer.
and lasted more than 72 years.
an australian newspaper has denied threatening to out actress rebel wilson amid a storm of criticism emily brown reports.
june is the month of pride events, celebrating the + community around the world.
it was not a time actress and comedian rebel wilson by an australian newspaper.
but when the sydney morning herald gave her two days to comment on her new relationship with a woman, which was about to report, ebel decided the star, known for her roles in bridesmaids and pitch perfect, announced to her instagram followers that , disney princess.
this did not impress the columnist for the sydney morning herald, who complained that rebel had gazumped the story.
he went on to say that her choice to ignore their enquiries and, the herald’ script was underwhelming.
the paper’ reporting sparked a fierce online backlash and a heated response from + campaigners, who say it’ unacceptable to put pressure on people ieree 0 and then, there was this reaction from the star, describing it as a "very hard situation™ and thanking a stonewall spokesperson said, "coming out is a deeply "personal decision.
"whether, when and how to come -ts "by the individual entirely on their terms.
” emily brown, news.
broadway stars have been enjoying a night of glitz and glamour at the 75th tony awards, which took place at radio city music hall in new york.
the west side story star ariana debose hosted the event.
5 it was held on sunday evening.
the musical company cleaned up with gongs for patti lupone as best actress in a musical marianne elliott won the director of a musical award matt doyle took best featured actor and the production also took elsewhere, phylicia rashad scooped best featured actress the lehman trilogy has been named best play.
sam mendes won best director for the production and simon russell beale was named best lead actor in a play.
jesse tyler ferguson a ele for his role in take me out, which was also named best revival play.
and last but not least, deirdre ’connell has won the tony for best actress for her role in dana .
0 we have plenty more for you on this programme, a look at all top business stories, including the changes to the hern ireland protocol, what proposed northern ireland protocol, what 5 is proposed by the government today, what impact uld have a business and, of urse, the relationship ith he .
we’re lso looking with the .
we’re also looking 1 the food strategy roposed by ime minister boris ohnson, but also the agenda today, so a one and i today, so a busy one and today, so a busy one and ncellor rishi sunak is out and i chancellor rishi sunak is out and about in london and chancellor rishi sunak is out and about in londen and we will tell you what he is up to.
so, for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
so, in the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy getting a little warmer potentially later in the week but not as warm as it will be for england and wales.
northampton fairly typical of many parts of england, seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees by the end of the week.
the reason being the azores high is pushing its way so, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’ brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend we will still have cloud approaching the west, though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
elsewhere, think under the starry skies as the showers but plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease away as the cloud spills across scotland, bringing some patchy rain particularly to the highlands and the islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across northern england - northern ireland, too.
so, england and wales will see the best of the sunshine, the lion’ share of the sunshine again, but feeling warm when the sun does come out in parts of just warmer further south.
and again in the south, some very high levels of pollen are forecast once again on monday, as well as strong sunshine - high levels of .
in fact, this week we might see some very high levels of .
through the night, then, we’ll continue to see - that’ monday night - those weather fronts brushing close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6 and 7, 10 to 11 for the towns plenty of sunshine follows, then, for england and wales on tuesday but again, ela but particularly for the north and west of scotland, rather more cloud, some patchy dia close by but still, we’re starting to pick those temperatures up further north and really building that heat across the bulk of england and pushing towards eastern now, it’ not the heat that we are seeing further i where it’as been intense for a week or so now - a 1 but we will find this week, as this high pressure slips bit, so it’ perhaps temperatures are expected to get, particularly across central and eastern areas, towards the 30-degree mark.
as ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’ more this is news with the latest business headlines for viewers in the will the brexit deal with the covering trade the government introduces changes today and insists they will not brake international law.
a strategy to secure the future of the food on our plates 4 4 government later.
the health of people or the planet.
the big baby milk crisis.
is the running out of formula and what’ a8 and no change.
women are still under-represented on company boards according to the latest research.
is the government poised to announce changes to the northern ireland protocol that could break international erd brandon lewis, the northern ireland secretary insists the new legislation to be announced today will not.
but critics, including ida1 the conservative party, disagree.
the protocol currently keeps northern ireland market for goods.
it prevents a hard border with the republic of ireland but means checks on some goods arriving from other parts this is what the british and foreign secretary liz truss is expected to propose several changes.
joining me now is rebecca harding, independent trade economist and chief executive of coriolis technologies.
let’'s first of all alk about might be in this hill that what might be in this bill that has been presented politicians two days.
we are ing about fast tracking talking about fast tracking certain goods through that are going to northern island, 1 1 just going to northern island, what are some of these ideas tion that?
it’ interesting cause a lot of this is about smoothing out trade between 1 britain and northern island, creating a green line ods are going to of goods are going to be staying in northern island, checks will be removed and border checks will be removed rie border checks will be removed and a redline for any goods through northern island the republic and therefore to ope.
there a couple constitutional things quite important because it basically in the role of the european of justice, in this european 1 european points 1 i court of justice, in this european points over northern island and great rotation and effectively going to be two 303 sets of requlations running.
law and northern island and ish law requlation in british law regulation in as british law regulation in northern island well so here are some quite thing oposed the spell.
big changes to what is called the hern island protocol brokered between the and ich was one of the main a1 sons brexit was so difficult otiate initially.
from your erspective is this breaking an rnational treaty which the - government will say it’ not?
think it’ i trillion it’ not?
think it’ the trillion dollar question, trillion dollar question, the lem is the government is problem is the government is saying it’ definitely not , illegal saying it’ definitely not illegal and the bigger issue is her it is not or legal whether it is not or is legal ’ living a nasty taste in reputation of government.
it’ saying - we will form a deal but we it we will form a deal but we might break that if we feel re are other things take stake like this issue of trade between great britain and as between great britain and northern island.
so it’ more reputation, if the government saying is legal other people are saying legal it’ more about the putation of the government, ’ the important point.
3 it can’ overstated to discuss what’ at a it can’'t be overstated to discuss what’ at stake here, ave businesses, hugely you have businesses, hugely ofled you have businesses, hugely el= 47 impact by whatever the decision-making is or the ationship, whether it gets ter or worse between the and he .
we have washington tching very closely not to ention politics and northern island, storm art, the saying unless this protocol is we won’ even saying unless this protocol is sorted we won’ even consider being a part of the political ess?
i exactly, this is about a bigger picture, geopolitical ation well as something round the administration and independence storm art the independence of storm art a1 the independence of storm art itself, the bigger picture is our trade with the @ i european about our trade with the european union, the trade with a0 est of the world and ocur the rest of the world and our capacity to form create deals a tlaiea with other countries.
we have seen our trade with europe lback 8% since we voted fallback by 8% since we voted 0 the , we have also seen 1ids to the , we have also seen our trade with the republic cted, and it’ beginning to have an effected, and it’ beginning to effected, and it’ beginning to have an impact on small inesses as well, ose businesses as well, whose ers especially in northern sland ave fallen back quite verely.
this is island have fallen back quite severely.
so this is having an impact, and econemic impact and ill have an impact, and economic impact and impact, and economic impact and it will have an impact on our it .
doctor rebecca harding, thank you for your thoughts.
we appreciate it.
thank you for your thoughts.
we 111 1 thank you for your thoughts.
we appreciate it.
our website will dating you through the day ith any up - developments on story.
now here’ some food for thought - how about we grow more food in the and export less in a bid to stave off recession?
does that sound like a plan?
well, that’ what the prime minister will convince us today when he announces a new food strategy.
as households grapple with the cost of living crisis and economic bodies warn of a gloomy outlook for the , the government will reveal plans to boost farmers and produce more home grown food.
in a little more than an hour from now, the will release its latest figures, the week after the said will go from the second-fastest growing economy in the 7 group of industrial nations to the slowest growing next year.
joining me now is russ mould, bell.
good morning.
first of all the figures a figures due out will tell things have been in the us how things have been in the month us how things have been in the a us how things have been in the us how things have been in the month of april, what are we ecting?
economists are ooking for small bounceback re was a dip march an there was a dip and march an unexpected dip in march and was sed down to revised down to beef, yot a1 revised down to beef, economists looking for small ovement in improvement in april, month on month in improvement in april, month on i 1 18 month in the year-on-year ooyl month in the year-on-year 163 numbers should still not quite decent because we were in partial lockdowns in still in partial lockdowns in england through to july last .
so that would be the tatistics coming out at seven ’clock statistics coming out at seven ’clock this morning, in terms outlook, there of negativity of the outlook, there is a lot of negativity out there right oming from the , now coming from the , coming from all sorts of 11 coming from all sorts of directions.
what you make of food strategy that will this food strategy that will be announced today?
know quite a it appears to have been eaked already, so there been quite a lot of press a been quite a lot of press ment and the author of the 1 initial report, henry dimbleby xpressed pleasure in some reas saying half of his commendations look they recommendations look like they be implemented and a lot i production of those to focus on food production and how farmland can i located shared or spared he is frustrated he feels be allocated shared or spared he is frustrated he feels half of his he is frustrated he feels half his report as being ignored greenpeace picked up that ecause the focus is very upen on food production which can much upon foed production which you can understand a cost of living crisis, ssue such living crisis, the issue such as tackling obesity and making products more expensive some products more expensive and ironmental issues and the environmental issues may have to be less of a focus moment.
the prime at the moment.
the prime minister said he will grow and ore of our wn.
in terms eat more of our own.
in terms a conomic benefit, of the economic benefit, given the challenges facing the i 1 the challenges facing the currently, the inflation early double digit numbers, are your thoughts on nearly double digit numbers, & what are your thoughts on that?
a1 rtainly any government has key things that has to cus on, one energy focus on, one is energy 0la18 focus on, one is energy 1 0118 7 focus on, one is energy security and food security, and learning that to a degree the hard way, financial times newspaper ions when covid-19 first started many western economies ust the swapped not just the swapped brilliance for efficiency using rnational flight chains, 4 that process is reversing re may benefits in the there may be benefits in the very long time, in the short you could argue it could be more expensive to grow it at , employing more expensive workers in , there could some impact on inflation, nother key part he overall another key part of the overall economic when talking about the economy, currently we are given the impression its all doom and gloom but tech start-ups do provide a glimmer of hope.
when it comes to attracting funding, tech companies have secured more venture capital funding in the first five months of this year than in the whole of 2020.
this puts the second to start-up investment raised this year, ahead of china, india and france.
and chancellor rishi sunak is among those celebrating this success in london today at the kick off of london tech founder of tech london advocates, joins me now.
he has got up very early to peak to us about this?
are ech start-up attractive tech start-up so attractive now?
think we are seeing is only successful panies different parts of the technology sector, from ncial technology companies, ducational technology panies and told all securing terest from companies and told all securing interest from investors not just here interest from investors not 4 here in the but from he , sia and other parts of world, we are seeing over 00 tech the world, we are seeing over nola 14 the world, we are seeing over 100 tech unit calls $1 billion i !
companies, and think value companies, and i think ooy value companies, and think a0 vw11 success is begetting success.
an’ become complacent but 4 hink we will celebrate some of that exciting news this ning and as you mentioned great to have the chance to us kick off london technically, now its ninth ar.
is that year.
is that actually the name, one of the key trends you have inted out as 3 a0es trends you have pointed out as city such as bristol, oxford, cities around seeing other cities around seeing huge growth?
absolutely we may to change the name for future vents which is exciting all of us is tech sector now sits alongside the , and india as a world leading technology sector, not in terms of investment in i unicorns but if just in terms of investment in a 1 tech unicorns but if you look 1 0 tech unicorns but if you look at the number of digital tech ers in he economy, workers in the economy, the mbers keep growing and ccelerating.
so, ink, given the revious report it’ exciting to see such phenomenal growth in technology.
the is calling the government to do to to support businesses especially months ahead and in the months ahead and 2023, to prevent from slipping the recession, to prevent from slipping ngrr3 1 into the recession, what you see in terms of support for hnology art-ups?
one of technology start-ups?
one of technology start-ups?
one of the things you will hear about is the introduction of a digital rategy, that 8 inforces the number digital strategy, that reinforces the number of pregrammes that the government eady put into place, but will also alk about a number , of other features that we need to look at.
of other features that we need - to look at.
one of the areas that we really focus on is ent, and bringing more diverse talent into sector, oth from the and from erseas to both from the and from overseas to make sure we can a& stain the high level of rowth.
we have over 100,000 vacancies in sector tech vacancies in the sector today, although other parts of ritish today, although other parts of a0 ritish economy are the british economy are struggling, struggling to fill - - 0 1 sector, so the vacancies we see in the sector, so think the ernment ill talk about government will talk about that, government will talk about 43 11 government will talk about that, and and encourage the ate sector to really step private sector to really step up and found the support and ning required to bring more lent into training required to bring more talent into technology.
we watch very closely.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the has joined aviation industry bodies who are calling to the shortage occupation list.
it says this would allow i of the many gaps in the aviation sector as the summer holidays approach.
ground handling operations at airports are particularly short staffed and the industry wants to see vast numbers of new recruits brought in.
linked to a single bar in the capital beijing.
a government spokesman has tiae a1 4 as "ferocious”.
all residents living in the area where the bar with new lockdown measures in place.
and in shanghal, authorities have also annocunced another residents.
in the community there despite a two-month lockdown that ended on june 1st.
the challenges that chinese officials are facing as they stick to a strict zero-covid approach.
stay with us on news, still 1 no change.
women are still under-represented on company boards according to the latest research.
a code word known to be one used by the was given.
army bomb experts were examining a suspect van when there was a huge explosion.
the south african parliament has destroyed the foundation = by abolishing the population registration act which, i igell \ each citizen according to race.
and the royal baby is tonight sleeping in his cot at home.
early this evening, the new prince was taken by his mother and father to their apartments in kensington palace.
germany’ parliament, the bundestag, has voted by a narrow majority berliners celebrated into the night, but the decision was greeted with shock in bonn.
the real focus of attention today was valentina tereshkova, the world’ first woman cesmonaut.
what do you think of the russian woman in space?
think it’ a wonderful achievement and think we might be able to persuade the wife it would be a good idea if i could to get her to go up there for a little while.
russia is accused of killing hundreds of civilians in the ukrainian igo0 amnesty international says moscow is using indiscriminate shelling and banned weapons.
there are gains for a new left-wing alliance in the first round of france’ parliamentary elections.
president macron is at risk of losing his outright majority.
now to south korea, where thousands of truckers protesting over pay as fuel prices soar.
they’ve disrupted production at many companies and slowed down port operations, which pose new risks to a global supply chain already under strain.
our asia business reporter monica miller is following the story from our asia business hub in singapore.
how badly will this hurt the global supply chain?
we’ve been getting some numbers today in terms of trade and startling one, if we want focus one startling one, if we want cus on one industry, is to focus on one industry, is he petrochemical productions have the petrochemical productions - the petrochemical productions which have been down about 90% the seven day strike hit.
since the seven day strike hit.
if we i remember along the ay, we’ve talking about \ supply chains but truck drivers major link in the chain and when are a major link in the chain a &4 1 are a major link in the chain and when we look at what south - i reates for the world, we korea creates for the world, we look at semiconductors, steel, nt, cars and of these cement, cars and all of these faced disruption because many lockdowns and re are just starting atch up and also ome just starting to catch up and just starting to catch up and also some numbers out of just starting to catch up and i att also some numbers out of tucson port, the seventh biggest in orld, they re seeing the world, they are seeing heir traffic down about -thirds compared two-thirds compared to nermal san.
also hyundai is -- busan.
also hyundai is saying they have taken some of plants off-line because have to remember once these are done, they have to store them for a while and now they are at capacity.
south rea’ steel plant is aying hey do not have enough 1 to put the final products space to put the final products there.
what it comes down to is thing think can all something i think we can all understand, truck drivers have asking for an extension, some money and tax incentives hings of that nature, that helped them get through ive them basically sic and give them basically a basic salary as they see a spike in rices.
the government is gas prices.
the government is saying that they can hear them here isn’ much but there isn’ much they can because parliament is do because parliament is the one who has to change this islation.
in terms of legislation.
so in terms of talks, they have met about four , the government official union, they have not really to any consensus and come to any consensus and everyone hopes that maybe that happen sometime soon.
will happen sometime soon.
= 4 1 the united states continues to suffer from a shortage of baby formula.
families are still confronting real uncertainty about how the shortage was initially caused by one of the biggest manufacturer’ closing plants a but other manufacturers have not been able to make up the lost supply.
our business correspondent michelle fleury reports from new jersey.
stephanie esposito cannot find her her baby’ formula anywhere.
do you want to chew on that?
ause nine-month-old dominic as allergies, she uses a ecific hypoallergenic brand.
as searched and searched but all she found is out she has searched and searched but all she has found is out of stock signs.
a search every ing and see if can find it and never can and will to the store and either target, you know, walmart, rite, acme, things like shoprite, acme, things like that & look and can never ver find it.
thanks to the dness family a kindness of family and ever find it.
thanks to the kindness of family and friends, as built up mall supply she has built up a small supply 4 is worried it ill not last.
we have two weeks worth.
at the oint now that we are at the point now that am getting nervous that will able to find am getting nervous that will able to find after the not be able to find after the 18 day that have.
mean, how i i does that 18 day that have.
mean, how does that make you feel?
vous, angry.
infuriated ecause what are we supposed to our abies?
so she became a formula matchmaker, setting online exchange group to i1 help parents find what need.
eeded help and know any other parents but also yol eded help.
four companies ael control about 90% of the baby formula market.
abbott, johnson, baby formula market.
abbott, 0 johnson, nestle and mead johnson, nestle and pericoe.
the shortage began one of hem, abbot when one of them, abbot laboratories, down a plant authorities found otentially harmful bacteria, ravating existing supply a in problems.
for many arents, it’ een hard to wrap eir heads arocund the fact that america’ formula that america’ baby formula market is so vulnerable that losure of a single factory the united states could lead a food crisis.
one company hat ants to help but cannot bobby.
the company sells its anic milk -based formula a0 organic milk -based formula directly to consumers, despite are skyrocketing since telud sales are skyrocketing since the abbott recall, it has pped accepting new ustomers.
it is major players make formula in the country but that make formula in the i a 1 that make formula in the country but are.
with their own facturing and there is only lee manufacturing and there is only one contract manufacturer manufacturing and there is only i one contract manufacturer that makes other drinking formulas.
a is a and co-founder of obbie.
there is nothing re painful than being in this tuation right now and not ing able to ramp up and meet emand.
so yeah, when one nufacturer closes their doors owns the majority of the arket, not everyone else is to ramp up get what is able to ramp up to get what is a able to ramp up to get what is needed.
the abbott factory at tart of the -- heart needed.
the abbott factory at a the start of the -- heart of he shortage has reopened, a ificant moment but not an significant moment but not an immediate fix.
especially for arents who need this the parents who need this 0 uid gold to feed their babies right now.
michelle fleury, news.
in spite of making up 40% of the global workforce, the overall pace of change remains glacially slow for women reaching leadership roles.
and global consulting firm protiviti, half of companies in the all-share ex350 have all male executive leadership teams with no female executive leaders in -suite positions.
the report calls for ongoing and deeper scrutiny across listed companies to give a true picture of boardroom diversity.
of women on boards .
good morning to you, fiona.
morning.
tell us a little more about what you’ve ound and described the kind of panies that you were looking this time, because when we -\ say , the all share 350, many may not know who you talking out.
yes, we’ve are talking about.
yes, we’ve heard about the top 100 panies, they other companies the biggest market pitalisation, the largest es, the largest profits.
the 0 a a sales, the largest profits.
the 250 is the next level and what looking at is the we’re looking at is the all-share which is the big id companies that make up 600 of our top companies and looked at the companies we’ve looked at the companies utside those top 350, where to it has been very little crutiny indeed.
it’ really - scrutiny indeed.
it’ really because of course the focus has on the biggest companies, been on the biggest companies, sn’ it?
sorry, is it not a tural next step now, , to en, to i natural next step now, then, to focus on those that are a bit her down in terms of scale ?
ink it was natural step but the question is is doing it?
egime has been looking our regime has been looking at targets rather than quotas and is looking at quotas and the is looking at quotas and worked really effectively cause we’ve been monitoring managing those top ompanies we haven’ been oking at the companies that smaller and we to, to find the 50% have men reporting to the no women reporting to the ive board is very executive board is very worrying.
it compares worrying.
it compares to a top ompanies which have 5% 100 companies which have 5% tee i8 100 companies which have 5% from only 5% 100 companies which have 5% 01 100 companies which have 5% from only 5% but have no women - at the top, and it really, %1\ does matter because our esearch has also shown that re here is a female chief executive, and there where there is a female chief a - 0 executive, and there are only 7% a 7% of chief executives are across the al, the leadership team reporting to oard is 55% so that the board is 55% so that is an enormous difference compared to ale chief executive and the average men in the -suite which only 17% it so it really matters that we get more diversity of thought, engagement, investment in these ler companies smaller companies and we are calling on the financial orting calling on the financial i orting council, the listed changes to do more work in of scrutiny at this level cause what gets measured gets aged, what get manage gets a8 managed, what get manage gets done and we need to done and we need to do something about this so we 4 something about this so we don’ lose our global a % don’ lose our global competitiveness.
fiona, we have time left but hardly have any time left but briefly, are you then therefore vour of quotas?
would like for otas not to have come in quotas not to have to come in because we’ve been so successful with the compliant lainant of the 350 that i’ complainant of the 350 that i’ ure collectively we can a 7 improve the rest of the sure collectively we can improve the rest of the listed unity and also the community and also the large private boards, the european ’ quotas fect companies union’ quotas affect companies that employ 250 people, they have to that employ 250 people, they don’ have to be listed.
so we’ve got thousands of 01 panies, about 11,000, that 03 mploy 250 and we know that but ody is ooking at them and we need to do that, we need to etter.
fiona, thank you, to talk you.
that rings to a close proegramme.
brings to a close the programme.
will see you soon.
for the week ahead will be a tale of two halves.
so, in the north, it was quite unsettled, windy with showers.
not as windy this week but remaining quite cloudy getting a little warmer potentially later in the week but not as warm as it will be for england and wales.
northampton fairly typical of many parts of england, seeing those temperatures pushing towards 30 degrees by the end of the week.
the reason being the azores high is pushing its way so, we’'ll say goodbye to the low pressure that’ brought the unusually windy weather through the weekend we will still have cloud approaching the west, though, towards dawn on a weak weather front.
elsewhere, think under the starry skies as the showers but plenty of sunshine to start with, then that tends to ease away as the cloud spills across scotland, bringing some patchy rain particularly to the highlands and the islands, perhaps the odd spot elsewhere and across northern england - northern ireland, too.
so, england and wales will see the best of the sunshine, the lion’ share of the sunshine again, but feeling warm when the sun does come out in parts of just warmer further south.
and again in the south, some very high levels of pollen are forecast once again on monday, as well as strong sunshine - high levels of .
in fact, this week we might see some very high levels of .
through the night, then, we’ll continue to see - that’ monday night - those weather fronts brushing close by the north and west, but for many with the clearer skies, the light winds again in rural spots 6 and 7, 10 to 11 for the towns plenty of sunshine follows, then, for england and wales on tuesday but again, ela but particularly for the north and west of scotland, rather more cloud, some patchy dia close by but still, we’re starting to pick those temperatures up further north and really building that heat across the bulk of england and pushing towards eastern now, it’ not the heat that we are seeing further i where it’as been intense for a week or so now - a 1 but we will find this week, as this high pressure slips bit, so it’ perhaps temperatures are expected to get, particularly across central and eastern areas, towards the 30-degree mark.
as ever, we’ll keep you posted and there’ more this is incredible.
ethan is adrift in an out-of-body experience, suspended in a crowd surf, floating on a sea of hands.
because this song is bigger than gravity.
be there without being there.
everyone growing up wants to drive a lorry.
1 here we go.
you’re in my bay, you clown!
1 right now, that rover, perseverance, 5 200 million miles away on the surface of mars.
and i’ve been given extraordinary access, following the rover’ every move as it attempts to travel further than ever before.
welcome to house!
my instinct is that it’ irwin 3.
and who’ just faking?
do you know where we keep the collar for hamish?
we don’, because he’ dead.
feel like that revealed quite a lot.
that was good!
this is my house continues: were there any ongoing disputes?
you know what folk are saying.
someone’ targeting striking miners.
mean, who’ next?
brand-new drama.
here we go!
could be lively, folks.
it is an absolutely stupendous bit of fielding.
what a finish.
every single man, woman and child are on their feet.
good morning, welcome to breakfast with jon kay and sally nugent.
our headlines today.
a strategy to secure the future of the food on our plates unveiled by the government later.
but critics say it doesn’ do enough to improve the health of people or the planet.
personal items belonging to missing british journalist dom phillips and his brazilian colleague are discovered by police in a remote area of the amazon rainforest.
five years after being horrifically injured in the manchester arena bombing, martin hibbert conquers mount kilimanjaro.
don’ write off somebody look at what they can do when they’ve got the right help and support - they can climb mount kilimanjaro.
good morning from this factory in rochdale, where they cut doors into .
what shape is the economy shape.
what shape is the economy in?
we get the latest figures this ing.
england’ greatest ever - another joe root century - his fastest ever - has his team mates purring over his performance.
good morning.
many of us starting off with a fair of cloud this morning.
some shine.
the cloud will build rough the day.
patchy rain at the north.
this through the day.
patchy rain at the ela through the day.
patchy rain at the far north.
this week it is getting er, especially across england and wales.
good morning.
it’ monday, june the 13th.
they’ll be the central promises within the government’ food strategy for england, which is released later today.
the plan should improve food security, but well publicised sugar and junk food, are not expected to be included.
our environment correspondent, claire marshall, has more.
from the fields to our forks - more than three years in the making, this is the government’ plan for how our entire food system should look.
growing our own will boost food security, the government says, and create jobs.
among the plans, a framework for farming the land sustainably, including taking care of nature.
a consultation on whether the public sector - hospitals, schools and care homes - should spend more of their budgets on locally grown, or higher standard food.
there will be a review of the labour shortage, including using more machines, and issuing more visas for migrants.
no mention of reducing meat consumption, but there will be money for research into meat alternatives.
henry dimbleby.
he told the less than half of his recommendations have been adopted, but it wasn’ a disaster.
there was progress on how the environment could be helped, he said, and a recognition of the damage being done by the junk food cycle.
but there was nothing on trade.
after withering criticism of an earlier leaked draft, the national farmers’ union welcome the plans.
think it’ really welcome to see government committing to food production and food security.
there’ a strong commitment letlae:ta levels of self-sufficiency, and to produce more, effectively, of we are good at, more of our fruit and vegetables which have been in decline.
so, you know, that’ a laudable ambition.
there’ strong commitments on government procurement.
and that’ very, very welcome indeed for farmers.
but i think all of this will depend on the policies that are put in place to deliver it.
so, it’ the start of a journey.
many campaigners are asking though, what happened to the proposed sugar and salt tax and healthier school meals?
white paper at a later date.
claire marshall, news.
we are going to talk a lot about that on the programme this morning, impact on farmers and by the impact on farmers and brazilian police say they have found personal items belonging to the british journalist dom phillips, who has been missing in @ notoriously dangerous part of the amazon rainforest for more the items include phillips’ boots and a backpack with clothes in.
he went missing with another man, bruno pereira.
our south america correspondent katy watson sent this report.
5 it was along this stretch of water that dom phillips and bruno pereira peared.
the vastness of the mazon plain to see.
armed