military, and the season after that, we basically tried to diagnose what’s wrong with the american court system and was going to say, that first one was such a huge success, you know, went viral, led you to co-founding, you know, an entire production company, serial productions, which you then sold to the new york times for a reported $25 million.
more proof for some that he is arrogant and out of touch, the president of the rich, despite creating jobs and paying billions to keep french workers afloat through covid.
as we have been hearing in lucy’s report, ally signifies the of really signifies the rise of populism, the decline of i alism and republicanism, also if we look at the campaign we can see that pen ad a slick campaign.
he and the khmer rouge movement he led were responsible for the deaths of an estimated 1.
shehbaz arif was a very seasoned dministrator, he has a lot of erience administrator, he has a lot of ience running province of punjab, and being a party der and think it is really for any leader and i think it is really a for any poor java-based fidae easy for any poor java-based politician to have an easier tionship with the pakistani itary, which has dominated ethnic punjabi soldiers and litary officials, so there is ittle bit military officials, so there is military officials, so there is a little bit more of a natural nic relationship there, and he i organic relationship there, and think where it will get plicated is shehbaz sharif & ill likely want to have an ening with india fairly soon, and while the pakistani military would like to restart conversations with the indians, those conversations with the indians, think they would efer take it slowly and at prefer to take it slowly and at heir own prefer to take it slowly and at own pace, and shehbaz their own pace, and shehbaz ielad will probably want to sharif will probably want to ove a little bit sharif will probably want to little bit faster on move a little bit faster on reopening say economic and ties, and punjab stands it enefit a trade ties, and punjab stands nefit a lot from normalisation i a 2 =r normalisation of relations with a,
enter rebel wilson, who has defied convention to become one of the most famous 4 2 she’s been a part of some of the biggest comedy films in recent years, including i but like many of us during the pandemic, reassessing her life.
and when was in the hospital back in south africa recovering from it, had a hallucination % and, like, it was so real!
so what did is used all those experiences in a positive way and, like, learned stuff from watching these guys and - but really wanted to get to the point where had the power to make the movies and choose who put in the movies and it’s just cool cos you can be more authentic and put more of your messages - and my latest one, it’s just so girl power and there’s so many and this is your movie that you’re directing next year?
didn’t predict the pandemic, but weirdly, thought - "oh, i feel like i’m not gonna be working much this year "and feel like turning 40, i’m gonna, like, concentrate "on my health,” and was dealing with fertility stuff and the doctors were like, "you’d have better chances,” so that all kind of culminated, and so the moment it hit 2020, was like, ", yeah, it’s gonna be my year of health.
i never thought of it as a negative because i’m the type of person that some people see, yeah, being bigger as, like, a hindrance to being an actress and go "i’m gonna use it and use it for my comedy".
feel like, yeah, may - i’ve grown into my looks 100% and, like, feel like i’m at 41 now, like, looking, most people peak, don’t
no, maybe that is the legal side of me that you don’t - don’t want to go through any unnecessary court cases or whatever.
it’s not like things change overnight with the metoo movement and then, suddenly it’s all safe, and like, there have been very positive changes but there still - there still need to be more.
more proof for some that he is arrogant and out of touch, the president of the rich, despite creating jobs and paying billions to keep french workers afloat through covid.
he and the khmer rouge movement he led were responsible for the deaths of an estimated 1.
it is hoped that following so many setbhacks with covid restrictions over the past years, that the shows can finally go on.
what’s interesting about these reports - and often, people don’t recognise - these are signed up they’re written by scientists and then, there is a couple of weeks where the government and scientists get together and wrestle through the words and strike out some stuff and maybe water things down but at the end of the day, saudi arabia, 0 so, this week, we saw consensus - world consensus - 1 problem, that we are heading for really serious difficulties unless we urgently accelerate of the world economy - not individual economies, the world economy - would add two points.
if the is right - the says we are essentially at peak carbon.
but what hasn’t changed, just to go back, inevitably but this concept of energy security is now 0 just like the pandemic global health at the centre stage and stopped us from talking face-to-face for two years, what is happening and what putin has done has forever reminded us that we need to really understand the consequences of our energy supply.
more proof for some that he is arrogant and out of touch, the president of the rich, despite creating jobs and paying billions to keep french workers afloat through covid.
he and the khmer rouge movement he led were responsible for the deaths of an estimated 1.
i think where it is going to get plicated is sharif will ikely ant to have an opening india fairly soon and - with india fairly soon and while the pakistani military like to restart would like to restart those a versations with the indians, think they uld prefer to take it slowly and at their own and sharif will probably pace and sharif will probably ant to move a little bit a ter on reopening, say, a1l faster on reopening, say, economic and trade ties.
it is hoped that following so many setbhacks with covid restrictions over the past 1 finally go on.
if you think the international order and international rules are at stake, how disappointed were you that when it came to that crucial early vote at the united nations, demanding a withdrawal of russian forces from all ukrainian territory, some of the biggest, most influential countries in the world chose to abstain - and i’m not thinking just of china itself, but india, if you in taiwan want to convince yourselves that the international community does respect rules and does value democracy, maybe that vote was a bit of a disappointment?
number two, is what the economic impact will be of global sanctions against russia?
it would be very important for our global community, to reshape supply chain security for many items such as energy, food, plnne key industry sectors.
china has been infuriated i - lithuania, has tried to isolate lithuania, and lithuania paying a price and, indeed, is so upset that it’s lril a =¥ measures at the but, surely, the message of that spat between giant china atiny lithuania is that many europeans are going to think very hard before they confront china in that way?
he and the khmer rouge movement he led were responsible for the deaths of an estimated 1.
and the rest of the team that’s your sports news taa the queen has spoken for the first time publicly her majesty was talking on a zoom video call to hospital staff and patients when she revealed that - she did struggle.
louisa pilbeam reports: it does leave one very tired and exhausted, doesn’t it, this ible pandemic.
ventilator due to the virus.
it was february when the queen isclated here at dsor castle after testing positive for covid.
and despite aking of exhaustion ovid caused r, perhaps the biggest covid caused her, perhaps the gest clue to her majesty ‘s
it is hoped that following so many setbhacks with covid restrictions over the past years, that the shows can finally go on.
it’s also forecasting there will be greater economic damage than was caused by the covid-19 pandemic unprecedented sanctions leading in russia, too.
between ukraine and russia, you have about 25% of twa production in the the wheat production in the the wheat production in the world and the world bank has quoted before, saying that kraine on its own feeds abhout million people around the world, so 400 million people around the 1 , so the fact that there world, so the fact that there are such supply chain ruptions are such supply chain i are such supply chain disruptions coming out of these ignificant exporters is using a problem.
meanwhile, the pandemic has left macron’s government with little cash on hand after it spent heavily to support businesses through the crisis.
but at eight of he covid the height of the covid pandemic, it had to close and it reopened, tourist when it reopened, tourist traffic had disappeared.
the covid
the covid a1 is came as a that is changing.
the covid that is changing.
the covid crisis came as a huge shock for ce’s batlketle crisis came as a huge shock for france’s cultural sector.
their reopening has crisis.
their reopening has been a major factor in the ntry’s economic covery.
country’s economic recovery.
04 to 0 country’s economic recovery.
but to ensure the country’s economic recovery.
i8 but to ensure the recovery last, france has also committed assive investment programme.
the sectors most cted by the pandemic crisis were industry, construction, elat culture.
covid recovery a3 will benefit.
covid recovery has already cost france dearly.
public finances under strain.
airports say they are i1 new staff quick enough to cope with demand and airlines have also been hit by covid-related staff absences.
ines are wrestling with airlines are wrestling with high levels of sick must and with staff where they covid with staff and where they planned buffers usually with sickness, they haven’t normal sickness, they haven’t been able to keep up with that.
for the lockdown in shanghai.
some 25 million residents have been under quarantine measures and in the last few hours we’ve had some economic data ocut of china that gives us an indication of if any of this impacting the economy.
factory gate prices risen more than expected in march which is oil ices were going up raine kraine and also prices were going up in ukraine prices were going up in ukraine and also factories in china struggling operate were struggling to operate under strict covid lockdowns.
a reminder here that he lockdown in shanghai has extended, 26 million been extended, 26 million people remain stuck at home and is one of china’s gest what is one of china’s biggest and most prosperous cities and are signs of trouble there are signs of trouble elsewhere.
in guangzhou, 18 ien people are about to be million people are about to be tested because a handful of cases tested because a handful of i n0 chinese government is cases were found there but the chinese government is actively to cushion the blow from hese policies on the economy.
it’s already announced an riee ase in fiscal spending lso tax cuts increase in fiscal spending and rie also tax cuts for smaller enterprises but as long as this emic wave keeps spreading, the outlook pandemic wave keeps spreading, atl it ok for the the outlook for the chinese conomy will remain highly wants to build a fracking test site to show the process can be performed safely.
hence = & hence ineos hence ineos wants to vide a test site invite provide a test site and invite 1 the public or rather the government into actually watch hole process of trying to velop this.
her majesty describes how she was left feeling by her recent bout of the virus.
it does leave one very tired and exhausted, doesn’t it, this horrible pandemic.
