tech giant, tencent, says it’s not relaxing strict rules on the number of hours they’re allowed to spend playing.
even though i’m wearing them all, all the time, they don’t have the same view of how many footsteps so decided it was time to put some of the latest devices to the test to see how they fare.
wheelchair user karina has been testing the app in exercise sessions with disability sports .
i think this is no time for steady as it goes sinking inte decline.
now, here on the outskirts of yellowstone, they’re actually testing the sturdiness of food containers by putting them up against actual bears.
and, uh, needless to say, these ones didn’t quite pass the test.
next week, we’re in senegal as the world’s biggest hospital ship prepares to embark on its first-ever mission.
everyone would accept that a large onstration, even a million ople, if carried out eacefully, people, if carried out 18 people, if carried out peacefully, that’s their test, it’s a democracy, that ould be llowed, but there ere hundreds people who stormed the capitol building urely that is a stormed the capitol building and surely that is a moment or hame for any democracy?
around a dozen people near manhattan, a number of them are being treated in hospital.
in the i ast handful of years, through earch have done more research have done more broadly, sasser and o’neill at university in the , a =l blda climate imagery, there lot of important work on climate imagery, there has been away from the solely a shift away from the solely positive imagery associated heatwaves and extreme vents.
scientists like to explain.
the answer, he believes, is that uthorities had ignored ious signs of child xploitation and blamed the ldren is exploitation and blamed the i children is not the ig5 perpetrators and, in many 4 , would not investigate cases, would not investigate because of nervousness ahout e.
he did a screen test he put paper handkerchiefs what is the interest for my family?
we’ve talked a about the damage done to lice officers, 140 injured, several deaths resulting.
i think this is no time for steady as it goes sinking inte decline.
tech giant tencent says it won’t relax its restrictions on the hours children in china can play games - even during their summer break.
because you, unlike many very senior church people, you’ve got your hands dirty, not just with matters of faith and theology and the church, you’ve been involved in founding and operating a university, a hospital, shops, commercial ventures.
mean, believe your university has, what, roughly 800 places for students, your hospital has kt4 we are 280 and next year we are expecting so you’re hoping to expand?
and then your hospital has beds, what, for 100 people?
but there have been cases, christianity today reported being reported as ousted by their families, removed from their homes, threatened, "to the point of death that’s a fact.
and if you help a christian school, which has 90% and the same thing when it comes to hospital, clinic, you could tell.
the ukrainian authorities say they’re increasing the export of grain through formerly disused ports and canals on the danube river delta between ukraine and romania.
around a dozen people near manhattan, a number of them are being treated in hospital.
late on wednesday, the netherlands will play portugal, and they’ll be without all-time record goalscorer vivianne miedema, who has tested positive for covid and will be in isolation for the next few days.
we just care about her now in isolation, taking care of herself like jackie is.
not only has been over half a million israeli tourists flocking to eaches and of the beaches and malls of dubai during the pandemic when they it, but during the pandemic when they = needed it, but there are 2 lions of dollars of deals being transacted.
there are lots of very tive igns that are going positive signs that are going and positive signs that are going positive signs that are going on and think that we are at the brink of a new 1k a.
supply chain disruptions paying the price as samira hussain reports from new york.
ave to eni supply chain problems.
stimulus in response to the stimulus in response to the pandemic.
emphasise even though i would emphasise even though the fed has begun to move i aggressively, the inflation sted federal fund raise still adjusted federal fund raise still negative and so it has a ificant amount too high.
though disappointing, that fall was driven by a reduction in the covid = aes programmes - without that impact the economy would have expanded by 0.
it’s ontracted in march, as well, today it is likely to have 3 and today it is likely to have a bit of growth but generally talk about the trend it can ctually fall into negative growth territory.
1 produce this report reqularly and have say, in ntire career, have overed this story and the progress cotcito progress is so slow and wol to progress is so slow and the demic pandemic has progress is so slow and the pandemic has made it worse, ’t it?
in some countries rules have still not ack to normal.
even before the emic in 2019, out of the pandemic in 2019, out of the pandemic in 2019, out of the total number of hours are spent paid work, ferment that was about 20% of their e.
but today, support for all candidates will be put to its first test.
