@il on the commercialisation and the power of individuals a you have been quoted in the recent past as saying you are worried that such is the scale of spacex’s invelvement now, particularly in putting satellites ftag g1 and elon musk dominating that marketplace, that you believe he is, in a sense, being allowed to make the rules in space.
’ and democratic parties have reached agreement on a series of gun control measures.
but what’s not included are measures that the democrats and president biden had advocated, such as raising the age for buying semiautomatic rifles to 21, or new limits 38 our north america correspondent david willis this is a significant move and assuming these proposals into law, they would represent he first gun control measures 48’ country has seen in decades.
nonetheless, dent biden had welcomed this move, president biden had welcomed move, saying it was a quote, important step in the direction stop at the 1 i right direction stop at the last meaningful gun-control lations in this country regulations in this country were introduced in the -19 90s, the ady bill, which reated he national background system but since check system but since then, here has been very little u0 vement, largely due to the pposition republicans in the centre to oppose anything that transgresses upon so-called that transgresses upon the led second amendment, the right bear arms and this untry stop in the majority of ericans continue to support i americans continue to support tighter gun-control measures in 48’ country and irenically, they they don’'t make the news ews of they don’t make the news of hese latest proposals came a six anniversary i shooting at a gay with a six anniversary of shooting at a gay in 49 people lost their lives i’m joined now by manuel oliver, whose 17-year-old son joaquin "guac" oliver was killed in the shooting at marjory stoneman douglas high school in 2018.
and that ays a lot about the erican ociety, like these are measures that you can tell there is a lot of detail and some kind of, some politicians fraid of going all are afraid of going all the ay, like we were asking for raise the age to 21 tee i8t them to raise the age to 21 from 18.
it all began wei fenghe was testing it i - for hate speech and disc itary speed.
we, as 8t we, as people, like to imagine thing that is simply following rules is objective and separate is going better decisions but to make better decisions but weather technology is ilt, it is reproducing to patterns built, it is reproducing patterns from its draining , so if we employed at data, so if we employed at ale and give up autonomy to machines and let them decisions for us we’re ing to be reproducing all of systems oppression that ave the systems of oppression that have created the training a in he first place and real eis i will be harmed.
you clearly are being regulated by ofcom and seeking to play by their rules.
so you’re happy to be regulated by ofcom, you haven’t come a cropper with the ofcom requlators, but let’s talk away from the ofcom rules and simply about the nature of balanced pregramming.
you know, we’re 12 months i o0 1 do work very closely within the ofcom rules.
but you set your own rules as well.
"how did what do bhreak the rules?
” can you explain how he broke your rules?
but the ’s rules are not necessarily the same the rules are pretty clear in terms of standards of dealing with things, with making sure that things g- and ensuring that with respect, watched nigel farage on dan wootton’s programme the other day talking about immigration.
so, for example, dan wootton tweeted a picture of a couple of people in a park wearing a mask.
and the point was, "why on earth are they wearing a mask?
full fact, the fact checking operation, found that he was wrong to state that a covid booster increases your chances of hospitalisation and death.
the pandemic went on longer than we had planned, certainly, there are cost pressures, but that’s different to any media business, ultimately.
’ and democratic parties - have reached agreement on a series of gun control measures.
but what’s not included are measures that the democrats and president biden had advocated, such as raising the age for buying semiautomatic rifles to 21 or new limits on assault-style rifles.
this is a significant move and assuming these proposals they would represent the first gun control measures this country has the proposals themselves are fairly modest, they include tighter background checks for gun sales involving customers under the age of 21, and the introduction or expansion of so-called red flag laws which would potentially lead to the confiscation of weapons in the hands of people deemed a risk to themselves or others, and greater federal funding for school security systems and mental health what these proposals do not include lril =r style weapons, the kind used in the uvalde and buffalo new york shootings, those that president biden welcomed this move, he said it was, quote, "important step in the right direction”.
he mediate obstacle has been in united states senate immediate obstacle has been in the united states senate where ibuster rules still in the filibuster rules still in place meaning that to enact slation, instead of needing set i8 i8 legislation, instead of needing is set majority of 59 votes out 0 senators you actually need 60 and 4 of 100 senators you actually need 60
in addition the ssue, support for gun i gun issue, support for gun rights has increasingly become mus est for republican a litmus test for republican a vatism in recent years,
i’m sure i there are those who want to think there are those who want to 2 of theirs as a i steppingstone think of theirs as a steppingstone but what this y- " to steppingstone but what this says to me is that they can get through congress they will done with this through congress they will be done with the measures with this lae a4 congress, simply this current congress, simply n4 ause it was very difficult to because it was very difficult i iae because it was very difficult nsiln a1 because it was very difficult to construct this coalition, haven’t passed it to construct this coalition, a a 1a 1 they haven’t passed it yet, and w1 ngress is a full plate of 0 other measures to deal with in he democrats have to other measures to deal with in a the democrats have to ask themselves where do the democrats have to ask 2 the democrats have to ask themselves where do we want to chips in the next six 4 put our chips in the next six months before the 2014 november 8 1 tions roll around, so my elections roll around, so my guess is if they get this rough, and learns i 14 through, and it learns on president biden’s desk or his 1 signature, president biden’s desk for his signature, the net will be it egislation activity, at gun legislation activity, at an in the senate and obably in the house of the opposition leftwing alliance in france has scored elections.
and, at this as asked to test it around the world.
and, at this a man was asked to test it for hate speech to see if it came ith anything like that.
the measures fall short of the changes demanded by president biden.
you have got a massive drop in the number of people you’ve got a big increase in the people on long-term sickness, partly because of long covid.
but think things became more polarised, but think, you know, look, but we’ve got i elon we’ve got to set up now a positive future for the country that moves on.
’ and democratic parties have reached agreement on a series of gun control measures.
the developments come after the tragic mass shootings the measures include tougher background checks for gun buyers under the age of 21 and moves to prevent people buying such arms for others who are restricted from purchasing them.
this is a significant move and assuming these proposals they would represent the first gun control measures this country has the proposals themselves are fairly modest, they include tighter background checks for gun sales involving customers under the age of 21, and the introduction or expansion of so-called red flag laws which would potentially lead to the confiscation of weapons in the hands of people deemed a risk to themselves or others, and greater federal funding for school security systems and mental health what these proposals do not include lril =r style weapons, the kind used in the uvalde and buffalo new york shootings, those that president biden welcomed this move, he said it was, quote, "important step in the right direction”.
and the former google software engineer, who was made a priest and served in the army, told the washington post, "l know a man when talk to it," and it matters because the chatbot in question is planned by google to be embedded in the speech function and its assistance function, you know, it will be used by hundreds of millions and this man was asked to test it for hate speech to see if it &1 4 anything like that.
the measures fall short of the changes demanded by president biden.
positive, "decisive, conclusive™ and as though it was some sort of triumph.
a senior tech engineer is put on leave after claiming an artificial intelligence tool has developed a mind and democratic parties have reached agreement on a series of gun control measures.
the developments come after the tragic mass shootings the measures include tougher background checks for gun buyers under the age of 21 and moves to prevent people from purchasing them.
well, earlier, spoke to robert spitzer, at the state university new york, cortland, to agree on new gun control measures.
support for gun rights has increasingly become a litmus test for republican conservatism in recent years, and so that means that lawmakers have felt a certain obligation to prove they’re conservative bona fides by supporting an absolute gun rights point of view that is not allowing any kind of gun measures.
as a stepping stone, but what this says to me is that if they can get this through congress, with this current congress, simply because it was very i itat a1 coalition, they haven’t passed it yet, and congress has a full plate of other measures to deal with and the democrats have we want to put our chips in the next six months before the 2024 november elections roll around, so my guess is if they get this through, and it lands on president biden’s desk for his signature, legislation activity, at least in the senate and probably in the house of representatives as well.
niy because the chatbot in question the lamda chatbot, is planned by google to be embedded in the speech function and its assistance function, you know - it will be used by hundreds of millions and this man was asked to test it for hate speech to see if it &1 4 anything like that.
the measures fall short of the changes demanded by president biden.
@il on the commercialisation and the power of individuals a you have been quoted in the recent past as saying you are worried that such is the scale of spacex’s invelvement now, particularly in putting satellites ftag g1 and elon musk dominating that marketplace, that you believe he is, in a sense, being allowed to make the rules in space.
one of the northern suburbs, there hospital.
one of the nerthern i hospital.
this case kiv’s children’s kharkiv’s children’s hospital.
he visited a hospital run by the nobel laureate, denis mukwege - a congolese gynaecologist well known for his efforts to stop sexual violence being used das a weapon of war.
: with regards to this first round, the new ecologic and social people’s union has come out on top and will be present in more than 500 constituencies in the second make sense, other than to maintain an illusion - and we hope our adversaries the truth is that the presidential party, with regards to the first a cross-party group of senators has reached agreement they have some a the measures include tougher background checks for gun buyers under the age of 21, and expanded mental health here’s our north america correspondent, david willis.
i is impersonating, he thinks, awareness of in and human awareness of pain and 0 ering and this former suffering and this former 0 gle software engineer who google software engineer who was made a google software engineer who a google software engineer who was made a priest and served i was made a priest and served in brought this life the army brought this to life by telling the washington post a an when talk to "i know a man when talk to "i know a man when talk to irl 4 him" and it matters because this chat him" and it matters because hat bot lamda is meant to this chat bot lamda is meant to used in the this chat bot lamda is meant to this chat bot lamda is meant to be used in the future for oogle search gine and google’s assistant and this man sked to test it to google’s assistant and this man rila was asked to test it to find if he speed emerged from bot out if he speed emerged from a religion moved slowly to a robotics and we have the transcript that he published and this the kind of thing that shut at was aying.
we as people like to gine that something that is following rules and is ective and separate will make better decisions but the his technology is built, 3 way this technology is built, it is reproducing patterns from rading data and so, if we its trading data and so, if we deploy that at scale and up autonomy to these chines let them ake decisions for , we will be reproducing all he systems of oppression that have eated the training data in first place and ¥l real people will be harmed.
and ollie pope have kept england in the second test with new zealand on what was a riotous third day at trent bridge in nottingham.
so this is having an impact, and econemic impact and ill have an impact, and economic impact and impact, and economic impact and it will have an impact on our it .
a1 rtainly any government has key things that has to cus on, one energy focus on, one is energy 0la18 focus on, one is energy 1 e01e18 7 focus on, one is energy security and food security, and learning that to a degree the hard way, financial times newspaper ions when covid-19 first started many western economies ust the swapped not just the swapped brilliance for efficiency using rnational flight chains, 4 that process is reversing re may benefits in the there may be benefits in the very long time, in the short you could argue it could be more expensive to grow it at , employing more expensive workers in , there could some impact on inflation, nother key part he overall another key part of the overall economic when talking about the economy, currently we are given the impression its all doom and gloom but tech start-ups do provide a glimmer of hope.
he has got up very early to peak to us about this?
all residents living in the area where the bar with new lockdown measures in place.
in the community there despite a two-month lockdown that ended on june 1st.
the challenges that chinese officials are facing as they stick to a strict zero-covid approach.
they’ve disrupted production at many companies and slowed down port operations, which pose new risks to a global supply chain already under strain.
how badly will this hurt the global supply chain?
a consultation on whether the public sector - hospitals, schools and care homes - should spend more of their budgets on locally grown, or higher standard food.
there’s a strong commitment letlae:ta levels of self-sufficiency, and to produce more, effectively, of we are good at, more of our fruit and vegetables which have been in decline.
