derbyshire, talking to mark while he was llive in @ hospital bed.
and like covid times, she’s joining us from from our spare room.
but it’s just so achingly slow and piecemeal, when what we really & 1 we’ve just been through a global pandemic.
our top stories: we witness life on the frontline for ukrainian forces - fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
the country’s second largest city - after the capital kyiv - has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds of injuries.
so here at the city’s hospital number four, they keep the wounded in hallways - away from the windows.
this is news, we’re with ukrainian forces on the frontline, fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
the city has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s one and a half million residents new satellite images show the russian military convoy heading towards kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery redeployed in firing positions.
rules, so really, my efforts rules, so really, my efforts were rather pathetic.
the country’s second largest city, after the capital, kyiv, has endured russian air attacks, and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s 1.
so here at the city’s hospital number four, they keep the wounded in hallways - away miss valentina has been hit by shrapnel.
now, today president putin said, "we will adapt, we will overcome, we will take measures,” he said, against those foreign companies pulling out of russia - raising fears of nationalisation, seizing of assets.
the russian oligarch, vladimir potanin, one of the richest men in russia, wrote today that those kind of measures would put russia back 100 years, back to 1917, the time of the russian revolution.
a post saying, for example, death ssian invaders, it would usually break rules, is now wed.
the city has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s one and a half million residents new satellite images show a large russian military convoy seen heading towards kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery redeployed in firing positions.
once lisa hospital, we had as a family.
once lisa i = hospital, said, don’t we just move away?
two years ago, enquiry two years ago, a public enquiry began into the manchester arena ck, and began into the manchester arena a a , and each of the 22 attack, and each of the 22 deaths.
saffie was the first person to be taken to hospital after an ambulance heading to the arena was flagged down.
at 11:40pm, more than an hour after the attack, saffie died in hospital.
two sets of medical experts 115"2 one group said saffie’s injuries were too severe rinein - the other said it’s possible she could’ve lived if she’d received basic treatment.
also want to say to the professionals, like the emergency services and mi5, that this inquiry isn’t about protecting your job, your reputation we understand the sheer panic and fear you were faced with that night, but until you admit the failings, a positive change?
our top stories: we witness life on the frontline for ukrainian forces, fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
the country’s second largest city, after the capital, kyiv, has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s 1.
so here at the city’s hospital number four, they keep the wounded in hallways - away from the windows.
now, today, president putin said, "we will adapt, "we will overcome, we will take measures,” he said, "against those foreign
the russian oligarch vladimir potanin, one of the richest men in russia, wrote today that those kind of measures would put russia back 100 years, back to 1917, the time of the russian revolution.
facebook’s parent company meta is changing its rules the company says it has "temporarily" relaxed a post saying, for example, "death to the russian invaders” that would usually break its rules, is now allowed.
ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv the city has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s one and a half million residents new satellite images show a large russian military convoy seen heading towards kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery redeployed in firing positions.
do this replacement of russian gas at a faster rate than they would have done otherwise, of course, it will take some time, dehelae that’s the point, it will take some time and the war people are being killed and wounded as we speak, and the measures which europe to squeeze the kremlin of finance is going in slow moticn.
this is a test of european resolve and europe is failing.
we have taken a decision, alongside the european union, to give collective protection to ukrainians, so we will not make individual cases but, you know, as a ukrainian, you can come to norway.
at the maternity hospital weapons?
we witness life on the frontline for ukrainian forces, fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
at the maternity hospital weapons?
at the 2 tlees hospital at mariupol?
hospital at mariupol?
at the a aaeld hospital at mariupol?
or at the children’s hospital?
now to an exclusive report from the frontline of the battle for ukraine’s second biggest city kharkiv.
so here at the city’s hospital number four, they keep the wounded in hallways - away from the windows.
and instagram, says it’s changing its rules on violent speech in several countries, including russia, b1 the ukraine invasion.
the company says it’s temporarily made allowances for violent speech that would usually break its rules.
this already talk of a0 of several interest rate hikes tee i8t of several interest rate hikes from the federal reserve, the : 4 ntral bank that is, keeping in that if flation eeps moving higher and quite ressively in with aggressively in step with higher oil and wheat prices, will put more and more that will put more and more pressure on the federal reserve ther central banks to hike and other central banks to hike interest rates but at the same time, it is also the issue of a ould impact on the major negative impact on the overall pean economy and european economy and the trickle-down effect of the economy.
high hopes - airlines were planning a comeback after two years of pandemic disruption.
the demand so strong this mmer, australia has opened, here’s lots of family trouble back going back and forth, so here is still a lot to think there is still a lot to 101 think there is still a lot to be positive about and the war rustration, we don’t need it, but we will survive and a4 our way through it’s like i the airline industry always does.
you mention the rerouting ussian irspace being and russian airspace being osed and it is a huge area hat airlines cannot through, western airlines, so at extent through, western airlines, so through, western airlines, so to what extent does that through, western airlines, so i to what extent does that affect them, given to what extent does that affect 1 to what extent does that affect them, given the travel between and asia is fairly limited because of the pandemic ay with the restrictions anyway with the restrictions still in place in china and pan?
