protesters have defied an island-wide curfew and at least eight people have died and 200 have been injured, as our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan reports from colombo.
a capital under curfew.
at the city’s main hospital, more this man fractured his leg after a tear gas canister landed on it.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
so really, people’s immediate needs are not being addressed, and the government does not seem to be implementing adequate measures g- the head of the world health organization has said china’s zero tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
but the ’s director general said he had told chinese i when we talk about the covid strategy, we don’t think that sustainable between what have with it is sustainable between what with the virus now and what we anticipate in the ure.
curfew in sri lanka, calling for the country’s president to step down.
if proven, this behaviour would amount to abuse of a dominant position, which is illegal under our rules.
a crishid testing, resting, digesting, divesting and ingesting.
a warning for china - the world health organization says beijing must change course on covid.
when michelle jaques zero covid strategy, we don’t sustainable idering considering the behaviour of the virus now and what we anticipate in the future.
soaring prices, power cuts been injured, as our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan reports a capital under curfew.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
protesters want the president gotabaya rajapaksa to resign - as long as he stays, tensions on this island the head of the world health organization has said china’s zero-tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
the authorities in beijing have imposed lockdowns affecting tens of millions of people, lasting several weeks, to to prevent any spread of the illness, but the ’s director general said he had told when we talk about the zero-covid strategy, we don’t think that it’s sustainable considering the behaviour of the virus now, and what we anticipate in the future.
it is fair to point out, i sn’t it, this zero covid roach has ant, relative to approach has meant, relative to i - approach has meant, relative to most other countries, a very essful containment of successful containment of the west of covid, so what is successful containment of the a west of covid, so what is not tainable about it?
well, the olicy had its value at the ginning, even at the - well, you well, you know, if you beginning, or even at the - well, you know, if you months after the start of the pandemic.
after the start of the after the start of the pandemic.
if you are in a tball game and your first ten minutes strategy eing played out in the overtime, will, there is something rong, and so do not it is stainable in light of the ilge- sustainable in the light of the current variant, its w10 a7 taf infectivity, w10 a7 taf n1 a0 current variant, its infectivity, but also current variant, its a 1 current variant, its infectivity, but also the fact there are other tools available.
se, china has other ols at its disposal that can tools at its disposal that can be deployed, and think it ould seriously consider xpanding a little bit of focus & other tools and easing on the so-called zero lerance or zero covid policy.
that seems an extraordinary, an aly, really, that seems an extraordinary, an a 1 y, really, within china anomaly, really, within china that that is allowed to happen use if they want impose because if they want to impose certain because if they want to impose 3 because if they want to impose certain restrictions as they done with isolating people locking down, can’t hey mpose the insistence at they ave vaccines?
well, they - again, even before & a1 1s are - again, even before draconian mandates or ict mandates, there are a lot of things in the toolbox of mandates, there are a lot of things in the toolbox of public entities, including in hina, for example, soft ndates meaning requiring accination mandates meaning requiring loe - mandates meaning requiring vaccination for certain 'eia 1y dltiia- 'eia 1y activities and vaccination for certain ltit 0la vaccination for certain activities and countries like have shown at using france have shown that using those kinds of nudges or strong nudges can be helpful.
ave to leave it there, 4 will have to leave it there, = thank you very much indeed - for your expertise as china 1aa a0l for your expertise as china continues to for your expertise as china for your expertise as china continues to battle with challenge of covid there.
anti-government protestors defy a nationwide curfew in sri lanka, calling for the country’s president to step aside.
the head of the world health organization has said china’s zero-tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
china has been urged to change its zero-covid strategy by the world health organization.
the virus were unsustainable.
many cities in china have faced lockdown restrictions as the country suffers its worst covid ocutbreak since the pandemic began.
survive through the pandemic.
so before covid, it was a proper mission to get up to the acropolis if you had any sort of mobility issues.
the acropolis is greece’s number-one tourist attraction and, pre-pandemic, over 3.
entry fees can push up into the hundreds of euros at somewhere like astir beach during peak season.
meet the woman who helped hundreds of her four-legged friends survive the pandemic here in athens.
how did the pandemic affect the work that you were doing, well, suddenly, because the town was empty, you could see s0 many, many cats, revealed a lot of cats were around and we had to feed more because probably some of them were eating around tavernas who were not any more open.
our top stories: "shoot on sight” - the orders for security forces in sri lanka amid violent protests a warning for china - the world health organization says change course on covid.
when we talk about a zero-covid strategy, we don’t see it as sustainable, considering =r in the future.
a capital under curfew.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
i policy against covid isrg the authorities in beijing have imposed lockdowns millions of people, lasting several weeks, to to prevent any spread of the illness.
when we talk about the zero-covid strategy, we don’t think that it’s sustainable considering the behaviour of the virus now, and what we anticipate in the future.
saad omer, the director asked him for his view on china’s zero-covid strategy, at the - well, you know, a few months after the start if you are in a football game and your first ten-minute strategy out in the overtime, and so do not think it is sustainable in the light of the current variant, so, china has other tools at its disposal that can be deployed, and think it should seriously consider expanding a little bit of focus on these other tools and easing up when you talk about the other tools, presume that vaccines are one of those.
and then coming back to the sorry - just on that point - that seems an extraordinary, to happen, because if they want to impose certain restrictions - as they have done with isolating people and locking down - can’t they impose the insistence that they have vaccines?
again, even before draconian mandates or strict mandates, there are a lot of things in the toolbox of public health entities, including in china, for example, soft mandates, meaning requiring vaccination for certain activities, and countries like france have shown that using those kinds of nudges or strong nudges can be helpful.
left wing, that that they have -- left wing, =1l right when information is ore likely to amplified and viral on the platform.
sign up for a platform and gree to bide by rules.
if you the rules often break the rules often enough, you will get banned.
anti-government protestors defy a nationwide curfew in sri lanka, calling for the country’s president to step down.
the head of the world health organisation has said china’s zero-tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
let me ask you then, in searching ome sort of positive is for some sort of positive is perhaps not the right word here onsolation prize, when you i 0 talk about a ebuild, let’s a city there are take a city and there are cities aplenty at the moment we could point out in a3 various parts of the world.
china has been urged to change its zero-covid strategy by the world health organization.
the virus were unsustainable.
many cities in china have faced lockdown restrictions as the country suffers its worst covid ocutbreak since the pandemic began.
its daily spending on many services fell by 40% from 2010 to before the covid pandemic.
beijing must change course on covid.
when we talk about a zero-covid strategy, we don’t see it as sustainable considering the behaviour of the virus now =r in the future.
soaring prices, power cuts been injured, as our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan reports a capital under curfew.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
but the ’s director general said he had told when we talk about the zero-covid strategy, we don’t think that it’s sustainable considering the behaviour of the virus now, and what we anticipate in the future.
asked him for his view on china’s zero-covid strategy.
and then coming back to the sorry - just on that point - that seems an extraordinary, to happen, because if they want to impose certain restrictions - as they have done with isolating people and locking down - can’t they impose the insistence that they have vaccines?
again, even before draconian mandates or strict mandates, there are a lot of things in the toolbox of public health entities, including in china, for example, soft mandates, meaning requiring vaccination for certain activities, and countries like france have shown that using those kinds of nudges or strong nudges can be helpful.
anti-government protestors defy a nationwide curfew in sri lanka, calling for the country’s president to step down.
the head of the world health organization has said china’s zero tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
china has been urged to change its zero-covid strategy by the world health organisation.
the virus were unsustainable.
many cities in china have faced lockdown restrictions as the country suffers its worst covid ocutbreak since the pandemic began.
think most of us in the west over the last few years, particularly here in this country, have felt, whether it’s with covid, some of the political dysfunction in this country - can liberal democracy be successful against authoritarian regimes and think what at least the ukrainian people have said is they are voting with their lives to say we will give up our lives to have a taste of the kind of freedom that we in the west enjoy every day.
but when you see the butchery that took place in a community like bucha, how does a 0l now, that does raise the concern of when you’ve got someone like putin who rules with a small cabal, when this individual who’s become more and more disconnected from, leadership, him at one end it speaks a thousand words.
7 trillion of new tax-and-spend measures stuck, not least because people in your own party, in the senate, your own colleagues, manchin, sinema, they won’t vote for it.
but the fact that we have managed to take on covid, that we do have job growth at record levels infrastructure plan.
david, this was not only swept through, unlike other funding appeals that hit the buffers, like funding to tackle the latest coronavirus spike, but added to.
that’s right, republicans and democrats can agree, of course 1 tually nothing, they on virtually nothing, they can’t agree on the amount oney, for example that should mbating the latest bike in he coronavirus cases here, but subject, all as on one subject, all as unanimously, they agree on lying aid to ukraine.
soaring prices, power cuts been injured, as our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan reports a capital under curfew.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
for more than three decades, scientists have investigated the cause of so-called gulf wwar - a collection of chronic health problems that affected more than a quarter of the coalition troops deployed during the first gulf war in 1991.
the chemical gent sarin was released in the scientists say it is a air and scientists say it is a breakthrough that vindicates eterans.
i i 0 disease that would relieve them of of some of their symptoms.
has not only a huge array carry has not only a huge array of symptoms, including memory but an arsenal of =t medication to loss but an arsenal of medication to help with them.
is it even a fair test anymore?
at is true and there always comments about the role litics in of politics in eurovision and its 1yt its political impact and say the vast majority of times here isn’t the best doing well generally but ould be impossible for a ontest like eurovision contest to ignore wider political things going on and errible situation in the terrible situation in ukraine the terrible situation in i ukraine and no surprise that russia ukraine and no surprise that sia and belarus as well were iie invited to take part in the test.
president joe biden says his administration could drop that comment from biden comes against in remarks at the white house on tuesday, biden also blamed the rising cost of living on pandemic disruptions and the war in ukraine.
president popularity has taken a hit over this issue told popularity has taken a hit over vet 1 1a 1 popularity has taken a hit over this issue told americans felt this issue told americans felt their pain though he blamed in ukraine and the pandemic soaring prices.
if he war in ukraine grinds into rsistent conflict energy prices might be elevated for time, china eps the some time, china keeps the lockdowns in place, there are eady showing signs of inging back supply chain ottlenecks, both those will translate to persistently hire es.
