she came to open our local hospital furnace general and we would we’d have the day off school to go to see her as a brownie pack.
and we’d waited all day long, all afternoon long for her to come out of the hospital.
rare earth elements and metals require extensive mining with considerable environmental, social our goal is to make all of our products daisy is helping us with that - she can do 23 models of iphone, and all of that means more material going back around a circular supply chain so, ultimately, we can end our reliance on mining.
yep, co- ted sarandos has announced the streaming giant will begin testing a new cheaper tariff option - if you don’t mind some commercials popping up while you watch your medical students at the university of cambridge are taking part in what the uni says is a world first - treating holographic patients.
many thousands have heeded the call, but many more have not and have chosen river levels across kyushu i rising fast and will peak in the next 12 hours.
many thousands have heeded the call, but many more have not and have chosen river levels across kyushu i rising fast and will peak in the next 12 hours.
singapore managed to a largely positive experience from the colonisation and i colonisation and from the exit 8t negotiated from the empire as well.
so we not out back into the pacific, so we not out of the danger zone all, rivers are swollen across south-western apan and there is still plenty otential for those rivers to peak over the next 24-hour an cause, to burst banks and burst through flood defence and cause widespread flooding, but as his is a ery well engineered country engineered country and so far held up pretty ll.
and he said yes, that is fourth time resident biden has this president biden has said this nce he has been an office president biden has said this since he has been an office in he previous three times the house walks back, white house walks it back, r4 n’t know how you can walk his ack when resident biden so explicit stop can ure you the leadership in hina will be reading that the ative sense possible and my l4 negative sense possible and my concern is that instead eterring china from an attack kind of hing may take the this kind of thing may take the very attack we wish to deter.
itis, but we just have to be careful we don’t do things that can result in a negative lt, what we that can result in a negative i a1 that can result in a negative result, what we want to vent, the deal as we prevent, the ideal as we would the status quo to continue we would ike to want to a1 on, we would like to want to continue to be an independent on cannot continue to be an independent cannot be attacked by nation cannot be attacked by china, that is self-evident.
she used to 4 peak to us like we were bers of her family.
