there is a risk of a few isolated showers and favoured spots for that perhaps on thursday into the north—east of scotland.
but there will be some spells of sunshine coming through and those temperatures will be a little warmer, 23 degrees, that’ 73 fahrenheit.
moving out of thursday into friday is almost a repeat performance.
we’re still under that inﬂuence of high pressure, although this weather front may well spoil things for the start of the weekend, but don’ worry about that at the moment.
let’ take a look at friday’ weather.
as you can see, mostly dry, still the risk of an isolated shower, but they should be few and far between and again 23 degrees the high.
but if you are planning on spending time with friends and family outside at the weekend, well, you do have to be prepared for the potential of the return to some sharper, possibly thundery, downpours moving in from the south—west.
now obviously the position of these showers certainly subject to change this far out, but, on saturday, across england and walas, we could see some sharp showers.
scotland and northern ireland may well stay and relatively settled.
"what on earth is happening?
‘ you may ask.
well, thejet stream has been pretty powerful, fast moving, and it’ the jet stream that drives in areas of low pressure and we have been on the north side of the jet, the cooler side, so that drives in those low-pressure systems, that brings that wetter weather and also the disappointing feel to the story.
so we have been used to scenes like this so far injuly.
however, as we move into next week, there are indications that the jet stream is going to weaken offjust a touch.
it’ also going to move to the north of the , so once we’re on the south side of the jet, the warm side, that potentially allows areas of high pressure to build in from the south and that means that there is potential for seeing some sunshine, but not only that, some warmth returning.
we could see temperatures into the mid 205.
a lot of water to go under the bridge, quite literally, before then, but keep watching the forecast for further details.
fire service!
is anyone in?
join the yorkshire firefighters where are you stuck?
from the station : i love you.
to the front line potentially we’re sending them to their death.
to see what life is like are we all right coming in?
you haven’ got covid?
no, i ain’ got covid.
behind the visor.
it’ about the camaraderie.
it’ about the togetherness.
can i suggest we do a montage?
are you ready for the twist?
it’ a good one.
in defeating terrorism and defeating terrorism has failed.
the military compartment that was intended to fight extremism and terrorism, that, rather than doing the job correctly and where it was needed, began to hurt and harass and bomb and imprison afghans.
that’ where it failed.
that’ where our failure today is.
others blame endemic corruption, inefficiency and massive waste.
the conflict has costed an estimated $1 trillion and over 100,000 lives, and it could be about to get worse.
taliban insurgents are on the offensive.
they reportedly control a quarter of afghanistan’ districts after overrunning several government outposts.
they are insisting no western forces be left behind.
all foreign forces should withdraw from the country whether they are contractor, adviser or trainers because they were part of the occupation.
that’ a violation, we will react.
but that reaction would be based on the decision of our leadership.
in kandahar province — the former taliban stronghold — residents have been voicing their fears of what they think the return to power might mean.
: the taliban don’ want peace, the taliban want the whole government.
the taliban are only killing.
and there’ another concern.
osama bin laden may be dead, but his organisation, al-qaeda, lives on.
many fear a return of the taliban means a return of al-qaeda.
a nightmare scenario not just for afghanistan, but for much of the world.
frank gardner, news.
lyse doucet is in the afghan capital, kabul.
—— the british prime minister borisjohnson has confirmed that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions in england in two weeks time, with a final decision next week.
that would mean workers returning to the office and an end to social distancing.
but it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
the government says this is manageable because pitalisations are under ontrol.
with the delta riant, is growing rapidly this graph shows current ospitalisations are lagging behind the second wave.
they are still on the up but at slower pace and a a much slower pace and a similar pattern can be seen in tatistics for deaths, far the statistis for deaths, far fewer than in the previous .
mrjohnson has warned that vid and actions across were predicted to rise 50,000 a day later in the nth.
vicki young has this eport.
all around us signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
instructions about where we can go, who we can see even in our own home and how far apart we must stand, but in two weeks things could change.
covid has not gone but most restrictions in england are likely to disappear.
restaurants and pubs can open normally and theatres and cinemas can fill every seat.
the prime minister put the emphasis on personal responsibility instead of government orders.
i want to stress from the outset that this pandemic is farfrom over and we must reconcile ourselves sadly to more deaths from covid.
there’ only one reason we can contemplate going ahead to step four in circumstances where we would normally be locking down further and that is because of the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
and in bristol, people are starting to contemplate life with fewer rules.
personally i think it’ better to be safe than sorry, but just like every normal person i welcome the change.
it’ the wrong thing, wrong decision.
why?
because cases are going up.
at least give it a go and then if anything gets worse you can always go back.
i think we just have to live with it.
you can’ keep living your life being told what to do.
people are now afraid even to go out, some people.
for some, the face mask has become a hated symbol of intrusive government.
it will still be recommended in hospitals and enclosed public spaces but the legal requirement to wear a face covering will go.
unions say that will put workers at risk.
the days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations to follow will soon be gone and instead the government is asking us to use a common sense and make personal decisions about how we stay safe.
it’ a big shift in approach but comes at a time when cases are rising.
the prime minister has been marking the ’ birthday, and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart of his covid strategy.
can you tell us how bad you expect it to get?
obviously we have to be cautious and we will continue to look at all the data as we progress.
if we don’ go ahead now when the summer fire break is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages that should give us in fighting the virus, then the question what the modelling would imply is we will reach that peak before we get to the point where we have the kind of pressures that we saw in january for example this year.
labour says some will need more support.
to throw off all protections at the same time when the infection rate is still going up is reckless.
we need a balanced approach and need to keep key protections in place including masks, ventilation and crucially on something we’ve asked for during the pandemic, proper payment for those who need to self—isolate.
later in the week we will find out about government plans for foreign travel and when we come into a positive case what will happen.
in schools entire class bubbles will not be sent home.
we have lived under restrictions that we could not have imagined.
today, boris johnson signalled it is time to get back to normal.
vicki young, news, westminster.
joining me now is eric feigl—ding, an epidemiologist and senior fellow at the federation of american scientists.
thank you very much for joining us.
it does feel a bit nterintuitive.
cases are going up and restrictions are down but the government coming down but the government specific views hospitalisations etty low.
50 is this the are pretty low.
so is this the right time to strike?
thank you aving me.
this is for having me.
this is absolutely the wrong time and rong decision, period.
all ran say is it’ orrible, a, terribla, no good decision.
the a variant is not your ormal variant.
the delta riant is the fastest most ntagious variant, more than ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is - times greater of hospitalisation than the old in and also it is vaccines strain and also it is vaccines somewhat attenuating and sive so one dose is not nough and we know that with doses, in israel we’ve seen fficacy drop from the 905 5495, it the efficacy drop from the 905 to 64%, it is the wrong time.
ric, you are lutely clear eric, you are absolutely clear on that.
isn’ the point, ugh, that vaccinations in are at a pretty high evel.
i know you mentioned srael ath.
and that while it a it is easily ansmissible, it is as virulent as previous not as vimlant as previous strains of proved to be.
that omplete misinformation and completely false.
that , you are comparing apples oranges.
act is the and oranges.
the fact is the delta variant is way more ere, way more virulent rauses evere risk and risk of spitalisation by four to five according to the studies, reviews and also according overnment data.
it is wrong ay it is less severe.
what ould you than to the prime nister and he says, "look, don’ go head now, when do go ahead?
" what is your ssage here?
is framing it as , we don’ want to live under roud of lot down or we want to reopen.
this is not a choice down or reopen.
if you want to avoid lockdowns, ryone wants to avoid lockdown, nobody wanted kdown, if you want to avoid a lot down, the path to do that the one he chose, the is not the one he chose, the past -- departed that is more , ventilation, air cleaning, , those things we ussed by the puppies chosen the path towards mock down we don’ want that because spitalisations, workers, althcare workers, there is a it take and when toll it can take and when medical ethics dictate you always protect and revent people from suffering pitalisations and long covid, which one in 70 adults adults and one in 12 --17 adults and one in 12 children, that is not eptable 3 statistic so acceptable a statistic so saying, let’ flood the pitals right now, our ospital beds are not empty, is a complete dereliction any public health and hical measures, especially as vernment.
that is a very ear message.
eric, thank you much for sharing that with .
stay with us on news.
still to come: a russian gang behind a huge cyber attack demands $70 lion in ransom.
central london has been rocked by a series of terrorist acks.
police say they have many casualties and there rowing speculation that al-qaeda was responsible.
rmany be the hosts of the 2006 foot four world cup.
he favourite south africa a singla vote.
they’re in outh frica the possibility of sing hadn’ even been mplimented.
celebration arties were cancelled.
a man ered the palace to a ownstairs window and made his to the queens private bedroom and asked her for a arette and not a pretext for rranging some to be ought, some footmen on duty took the way.
one child, one man away.
one child, one teacher, one book and one pen hange the orld.
education is the only olution.
this is news.
lam i am david eades.
the latest headlines: strips head for the exit in afghanistan as the taliban inues to seize more districts and more than 1000 an soldiers have been said afghan soldiers have been said to have fled the country.
and as coronavirus cases rise rapidly, the prime minister unces plans to scrap most announces plans to scrap most remaining restrictions in two “ ’ time.
gunmen in north—west nigeria have targeted a hospital, a school and a police station — in less than 2a hours.
140 students were taken from the a baptist school in the early hours of monday morning.
it follows an attack on a nearby hospital, where at least eight people were abducted, including nurses and three children under the age of three.
our nigeria correspondent, mayenijones, has more.
nigeria’ kidnapping crisis is spiralling fast.
we’ve just heard of a kidnapping that took place at a hospital on sunday in the town of zaria.
now it seems another kidnapping has happened at a school in the northern state of kaduna.
we spoke to a parent who told us that in the early hours of monday morning, around 2am, a number of armed gunmen stormed a baptist school in kaduna, they came into the back, they knocked down a fence.
a mother we spoke to said there was as many as 60 gunmen, and they abducted the students with them.
this is happening at a time when kidnapping is at an increasing right across nigeria.
there is an economic crisis here brought on by the fall and the price of oil and lockdown during the covid—19 pandemic, unemployment has risen, the price of food is rising, and many criminals are turning to kidnapping as a way of making money, which we have seen in north—western nigeria, in particular, the mass kidnapping of students.
since december, there have been more than 1,000 students abducted.
nine of them were unfortunately killed.
200 students are still missing.
say some of them are as young as three years old.
this latest kidnapping will be a headache for the governor of kaduna state who’ vowed not to negotiate with criminals because he says it incentivises them.
unfortunately, this meant that a number of kidnappers have come to kaduna state and are carrying out attacks with increasing frequency.
with the economy doing as bad as it is and with security forces unable to stop more attacks from happening, it’ difficult to see how this crisis is going to end.
mayeni jones on the latest kidnapping in north—western ria.
a russian—based hacking group known as revil has compromised the computer systems of up to something like 1,000 businesses worldwide by targeting an american provider that writes and updates their software.
one of those affected is sweden’ co—op supermarket, which has had to close some 500 outlets — that’ more than half its stores — because tills and self—service checkouts had stopped working.
revil has tailored its ransom demands to the size of each respective company, but then on sunday said it would settle the lot for $70 million if someone were prepared to pay it.
in the cyber policy initiative of the technology and international affairs programme at the carnegie endowment for international peace, and is a former intelligence analyst for the government.
john, thank you very much for joining us.
this sounds like sort of auctioneering rocess as part of the daily siness, and we are getting so to hearing about these cidents.
but not quite on his scale?
that’ right.
what this sub?
that’ right.
what we’re seeing here with this is really the combination two beings that ppened efore, but rarely together —— ngs.
one is a chain things.
one is a supply chain compromise whereby hackers gain to one victim and then use that to then get a low—on access to many other ictims.
he other is ransomware, where a company’ a is hostage in the data is held hostage in the sleep pay cryptocurrency.
both ese things are ncreasingly common, but this of the most expensive acks at combines boast techniques together, and that people are calling this is peopla are calling this the biggest ransomware attack time, although it is still a bit early to quantify mpact —— both techniques.
onder hat you make of this job lot approach, given it is illion and will clear $70 million and will clear everybody?
these are all arate businesses?
it’ ascinating.
we haven’ seen before.
some people theorise it is actually too victims for the ransomware process.
keep in mind these somware gangs operate much ike businesses.
they have a tomer service line and peopla re paid primarily to otiate interact with negotiate and interact with victims.
another possibility is ansomware gang involved here it realised they had done more damage than they had a bit more damage than they had intended and the level of law rcement and intelligence ould be beyond what they icipated.
rate.
these are two theories.
you call it a nsomware gang.
any idea on many are involved in this ort of thing?
it may not be work of a state but how people does it take to form a gang ike an revil?
it is hard to say, because most of operate now on an them operate now on an affiliate or franchise model eby one set of people develop the malware and another people go out and gain set of peopla go out and gain access to victims and installs malware.
there may be a hird set of people that ctually the negotiations payment processing.
but it kely that this was the responsibility of russian cyber inals and not something pecifically ordered by the sian state.
it is also important to realise that is what beside the point because moscow has a —standing government policy tolerating and legally otecting these sorts of angs.
ultimately, vladimir in is culpable for such a tax.
jon ateman, thank you much.
ank you.
they call very much.
thank you.
they all it manic monday at wimbledon.
of he men’ and women’ all of the men’ and women’ last extend matches have been place.
defending men’ champion novak djokovic is through — as is roger federer.
former women’ champion, german angelique kerber, beat teenager coco gauff, but there was disappointment for the home fans as the last remaining brit in the singles, emma raducanu had to retire.
ben rothenberg as a writer for the new york times and hosts challenges remaining podrast.
the hardest working nalist in wimbledon.
i do journalist in wimbladon.
i do have to start with emma ucanu, partly because we’re ritish very ited.
but a british very excited.
but a mysterious and very ppointing into her disappointing into her fourth—round match?
yeah, very , mysterious, abrupt, mysterious, disappointing, for sure.
she laying well and second set eem to have breathing ficulties and left court for eatment and did not come .
it’ very unusual for a layer to sort of retire from a or abandon a match thout coming back on the ourt to shake the opponent’ and in that sort of thing.
it was concerning for her that she ble to make it back.
she as doing well.
there hasn’ much information from the ournament or her out tournament or from her about how she is doing more the icial reason for her withdrawal being her breathing iculties that make you speculation there.
one very ted teenager does go out.
as does the other, coco gauff, re ——we are familiar with who are "we are familiar with now.
and angeli cobra, i saw madge doesn’ actually look pretty good.
—— angelique er.
he hadn’ made a grand kerber.
she hadn’ made a grand slam quarterfinal since bledon in 2018, her last of wimbladon in 2018, her last of her three major titles, but she ally growing in confidence.
think she is a yer who builds confidence ally well and she is someone remaining in the draw ill want to be across the net.
also the only former champion left in the side.
we are still in that desire area men stand where no—one is in women stand where no-one is establishing themselves, even williams, let’ be nest, is struggling to aintain her prowess, if you , on the court.
i think you re pointing out something ike there have been 22 fferent women’ names in the arterfinals for the slams his year out of 2a possible places?
it’ been really places?
yeah!
it’ been really remarkable and a completely new of players conveyed to slate of players conveyed to the final eight in paris.
eady complete 100% turnover.
barty, the number one and ash barty, the number one ranked player, ithink she has nce of solidifying herself being a force if she goes on run here.
maybe she will a good here.
maybe she will add stability for the title.
aomi osaka when she comes and naomi osaka when she comes back, someone who is still very etitive there.
it might competitive there.
it might look random but certainly here near the stability of men’ side with novak okovic.
we have an australian oducer working on this story, , it is in australia uarterfinal.
ash barty against her tom langdon beach, who basically had that win.
it shows how late is there!
do you think barty could merge as the winner in the men’ side?
yeah absolutely!
is comfortable on grass, -one oubts after she ecovered from that head ury.
and she is basically doing 0, and her were convincing so far.
she should ably be favourite.
quick word about the man.
no surprises, djokovic is through.
is through but it wasn’ fetter is through but it wasn’ easy, but straight sets in the -- roger ederer.
but end?
-- roger federer.
but there is no—one but novak kovic to in the men’ singlas, is there?
i think if djokovic loses, it will kely be to himself.
there are capable players in the final that are still there.
the of queens club is winner of queens club is emerging as a solid player on .
but think novak grass.
but i think novak djokovic is still ahead of the and pulling his way over ristian goring today was very nvincing.
not many signs of owing down at this point in tournament.
dare i say, ome of the matches in the week were just first week were just spectacularly good west and have we already had the best half of wimbledon?
i hope i do think there are not too many upsets, not too many of empty pockets with the sort of empty pockets with the draw collapsing but i think we a good spot.
especially, ’ really good for the arterfinals with fetter, edvedev, good stuff.
plenty to go.
i hope more to go.
i hope they keep the lights on for you.
—— roger rer and medvedev.
this is news.
hello there.
monday was drierfor a while across england and wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill from the south.
this rain here is marching its way northwards across the up into northern england and scotland, where already in the past few days in edinburgh, we have had a month’ worth of rain.
now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times — northwards up towards scotland and northern england with blustery showers following to the south.
for a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather along the coast of england all the way from dorset across to suffolk, gusts of 50 in the morning.
it won’ be as windy in the afternoon, but there will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got this more persistent rain, never really clearing away from northern england, pushing into eastern scotland.
elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
the showers are never too far away, and they may well be heavy as well.
generally, temperatures a bit lower on tuesday, 18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it stays wet in northern england and eastern scotland.
and as we have seen, there are some showers around, they could well affect wimbledon once again.
it’ going to be another day where we may well have the covers on and off.
those showers will probably tend to ease off though during the evening and into the night.
more places become dry, still got some wetter weather towards the north—east of scotland.
the breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
now, it’ low pressure that’ brought all the rain over recent days, in the centre of the low pressure, by the time we get to wednesday, it’ close to the north—east of scotland.
so there’ more cloud rolling in here and some patchy rain around too.
elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine, but we are going to find showers breaking out, and those could turn heavy and thundery come the afternoon, particularly across wales, the midlands, across to lincolnshire as well.
temperatures may be a notch higher on friday, still no better than 20—21 celsius.
let’ end with a glimmer of hope, because the low pressure is trying to move away.
this is where high—pressure is, weather, and this is trying to nudge up from the south—west across the .
50 during thursday and friday, the winds won’ be as strong, and for more places, it will be dry.
some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for scotland and northern ireland.
temperatures should be a little bit higher.
eiii, are back to this is news, the headlines: russia, iran and turkey have suspended work at their consulates in the afghan city of mazar——sharif — as the taliban make advances across the region, a week after troops completed their exit.
over a thousand afghan soldiers have been forced to flee across the border into tajikistan.
i-i’ at least 140 students have been kidnapped in north—west nigeria, following the latest attack on a school.
the military says 26 children were rescued.
more than 1,000 students have been seized for ransom since december.
nine have been killed and more than 200 are still missing.
england’ covid lockdown will end in two weeks’ time despite scientists urging caution as the number of cases is still rising.
the british prime minister says it’ possible because 86 per cent of adults have been vaccinated.
now on news, the media show.
hello.
have we got a scoop for you!
bags top newspaper execs to discuss all things tabloid and mass—market.
the headline — "have our red tops got their mojo back?
" the sun’ front page last week that ended matt hancock’ cabinet career, at least for now, was a classic splash — not seen too often since the phone hacking scandal.
it had it all — an illicit relationship, hypocrisy, and alleged cronyism.
a dynamite combination that ultimately cost hancock his job.
maybe the ingredients weren’ quite right when it came to other recent scoops like the mirror’ dominic cummings trip to barnard castle, or the daily mail’ investigations into covid and care homes.
no heads rolled after those exclusives.
but is there now a sense, despite issues over circulation and revenues, that fleet street is back to its pugnacious best?
well, i told you we had a scoop.
three of the biggest beasts in fleet street nowjoin us for their media show debuts.
take a bow, victoria newton, editor in chief of the sun and sun on sunday.
hi, victoria.
hello.
hiya.
a classic tabloid pun on your front page the day after england’ footballers beat germany.
"55 years of hurt never stopped us raheem—ing.
" how long did it take to come up with that one?
well, you know, we have the best headline writers in the world on our back bench.
it took him about two seconds!
brilliant stuff!
tobyn andree, deputy editor of the daily mail.
tobyn, great to have you here.
good afternoon.
yeah.
your paper is printed in a tabloid format.
so you’re a tabloid writer — are you still a bit sniffy over there at north cliff house?
not in the least.
no, we’ve always been great supporters of the popular market and, indeed, newspapers right across the board.
nice one, tobyn.
and emily sheffield, editor of the evening standard.
hi there, emily.
hi, how are you?
i’ very well, thank you.
you’re celebrating your one—year anniversary this year — congratulations — as editor.
your predecessor, george osborne, dropped the word "london" from the london evening standard.
now, my mum in — what would she find interesting in the londoners’ diary or "my london" section at the back of the magazine?
you can’ be trying to make it out to be a national publication, are you?
no, quite the opposite.
since i took over, i’ve doubled down on all things london.
excellent.
all right, 0 — although londoners might not be too happy about that.
the sun’ hancock scoop.
we’ve to get into that, haven’ we?
that’ the only place to start.
already a contender for story of the year, the paper showed matt hancock in a steamy clinch, liaison, whatever you want to call it, with his aide, gina coladangelo.
and the images appear to have been taken from footage filmed in hancock’ government office.
victoria newton, simple question — how did the sun get the story?
we were contacted by a whistle—blower who said he had information about hancock having an illicit affair with an aide.
and the whistle—blower was outraged at his behaviour — there’ parts of that i can’ tell you — but the hypocrisy he felt he was seeing, was that this is a man who’ been on national , stared down the barrel of the lens and said, "you must stay at home, protect lives, protect the " — and we’ had 18 months of social distancing rules that he himself was not following.
so that was how the whistle—blower got in touch with us.
did you have any qualms about the story, and, in particular, using the video?
yes, of course.
i mean, we believe in responsible journalism, and my first thought when this information came in was, "my goodness, can this be real?
can he really be doing that at 3pm in the afternoon?
" i literally couldn’ believe it.
so, we have loads of checks and balances that we have to follow procedurally.
we got our legal team involved immediately, to get advice from them before we went any further, and then, obviously once we’ seen the footage for ourselves, we were careful to match up images of matt and gina together on their day—to—day working lives and to really make sure that it was definitely her.
i mean, it was 100% matt hancock — as soon as i saw it, i knew that — as soon as you watch the video, his mannerisms and everything, there was no doubt.
but then obviously, of course, we went through all the legal procedures to make sure we were in a good position to be able to run the story.
has your collar been felt by the police or secret service about how you got the footage?
no.
yet?
not yet!
but if it is, i’ perfectly happy with how we conducted the story, how we ran it, and, you know, we consulted top lawyers before we went ahead with publication.
yeah, i mean, you mentioned the whistle—blower — what steps have you taken to protect that source?
i mean, did you warn them about possible repercussions and all that?
yes, of course, we would always do that.
we would never reveal a source.
i’ve done everything i can to protect that person, and i’ rather go to jail than hand the name over.
right, 0.
i’ sure the source is pleased to hear that.
phone hacking scandal — nothing to do with you, nothing to do with the sun, it was the news of the world, and that is defunct — but did the phone hacking scandal give you pause for thought over using that footage leaked from a private office?
privacy is always going to be an issue, but the overwhelming public interest was just so blindingly obvious from the start.
i almost didn’ need a lawyer to tell me that.
i could just see it there for myself.
but, of course, that whole period, things have moved on since then, and we are a hugely compliant company, and there are lots of checks and balances in place, and we all have training.
so i don’ think we’re in the same place that we were then.
but the public interest to me was so overwhelming — not just the hypocrisy of the social distancing, but the massive question it threw up was, was he in a relationship with this woman when he hired her?
and he still hasn’ really answered that question publicly.
he’ only admitted to the social distancing breach.
and i think we’re still all waiting to hearfrom him on that one.
yeah, i mean, the public interest point you make there, very compelling.
but two marriages are now in trouble, children are involved.
would you have run the story involving the health secretary if there was no pandemic?
that’ an interesting question.
i think we probably would, because i would be looking at the issue around when he hired her — we’ have to be clear on that, i guess.
and, as for the issue of the families, we went to great lengths.
none of the children were named in the story.
after day one of the story, i took our photographers and reporters off that home address.
you’ll find other papers still carried on running pictures — i chose not to — of the wife.
as i say, the public interest in the story was so overwhelming that i think we’ve handled it really well.
emily, if i can turn to you.
after the story broke, you ran a front—page in the standard featuring a very large picture of hancock’ wife, martha.
did you decide to focus on that side of the story?
because she was going to take the direct hit from the revelations.
our headline was very much about what he would be under fire for, and, following very much what victoria said, this was clearly public interest.
we also remain we think big questions remain — was he in a relationship already when he hired her?
and we debated, actually, for an incredibly long time, and i was it’ always the stories, i would say, break when you are in the middle of something else — i was actually in the middle of doing some filming, i wasn’ on edition.
i was having to move, i was on whatsapp.
our information was, and i went back and forth about this, and i can’ give too much detail, is that maybe she was not entirely adverse to being photographed.
right.
0.
ercan you elucidate a little?
no.
0, she wanted to get her side of the story out there.
that she’, you know i really, i don’ want to elucidate.
all right.
but we do go into a lot of, particularly my early decision was not to put her on the front.
interesting.
we’ re pretty careful.
i think all of us, as editors, very much feel, you know, the right people should be taking the public hit.
right, 0.
of course, martha isn’ here to give her side of the story, but we hear what you’re saying.
tobyn, you also ran stories on hancock’ wife, martha, as well.
did you go down that road?
well, i think in the case of the story, she is absolutely at the heart of it, as well, because aside from the political scandal and the implications that come from that, it is a very, very human betrayal, as well, and i think, actually, that there’ no reader who wouldn’ have anything but the utmost sympathy for a woman in her position.
so, we did cover that.
we thought very carefully about how we go about that.
and we have every sympathy and support for her.
but, as you say, there’ a question about going forwards — would we carry on doing that?
no.
and i hope that she has the space now to rebuild her life and her children’ lives as she chooses.
absolutely.
i mean, victoria, you’ve talked about not focusing too much on martha in the days after the brilliant scoop, but you did set 3 here running there, and emily decides what she’ll do and tobyn and his folks decide what they’re going to do, but you set the here running.
do you feel comfortable about that when it comes to the kids and martha?
well, there’ always the decision you have to make when you weigh up do the public have a right to know how their health secretary has been behaving versus the right to privacy of his family.
i felt strongly — and i think everybody’ agreed with me — the lord chiefjustice, the justice secretary, the lord chancellor have all agreeed that the story was in the public interest.
so, that’ what you weigh up on a daily basis on stories.
yeah, of course.
let’ broaden the discussion a little bit.
tobyn, the mail turns a century—and—a—quarter old this year.
sum up its role in public life, if you could — particularly in the digital age.
well, i think fundamentally its role is to give a voice to the voiceless, to campaign vigorously for the causes and beliefs that lie at its heart, and, fundamentally, to entertain, engage, inform its readers, and, of course, above all, and sell as many newspapers as we can — or attract as many eyeballs as we can online — whilst sticking to ourjournalistic integrity, our beliefs, and the passion would and bring to every story, whether it’ light or shade.
i mean, the great newspapers, the great interviewers — humphreys, paxman, dimbleby — they sniff out lies, hypocrisy, unfairness, corruption.
does that sum up, do you think, part of the role of the mail in society?
absolutely.
well, following on from the matt hancock story, we had a bold front page with, "how can he cling on?
" which i think is people’ instinctive reaction, otherthan, bizarrely, the prime minister and the former health secretary.
so i think it’ headlines like that, projected with vigour, that do bring about change — in this case, political change — but there’ other stories that we have covered, whether it’ dementia care, whether it’ , that we project with confidence, we get to the heart of the story, and we can make real impact and bring about change for the better, which we are very, very proud of doing.
i’ve mentioned your work on covid and care homes, which was superb.
paul dacre, the previous editor, of course, before geordie greg, 2016, of course, he had the headline, "enemies of the people", and pictures of three high courtjudges.
would you have that on the front page today?
i suspect not.
every editor makes their own judgements.
of course, it’ always great to be wise with hindsight.
would paul dacre use the same headline again?
i can’ speak for him.
he was a tremendously gifted editor from whom i learned an awful lot.
but it’ a fast—paced newsroom — sometimes mistakes do get made.
i can’ promise they won’ ever get made again.
that’ part of the risk that we take every day with our front pages, the stories that we cover.
and we shouldn’ be afraid of being challenging when we do that.
mm, i mean, given the mission statement that you laid out a few seconds ago, that headline and that front page didn’ seem to fall into those categories, did it, really?
well, it provoked a very, very strong reaction, not all of it positive, but we moved forward.
there’ a new editor at the helm, has a different way of editing the paper.
but that doesn’ take away from the astonishing legacy that paul dacre left behind.
well, the mail seems to be comfortable kicking down as well as punching up.
i mean, you’ll go after those who are not necessarily powerful or part of the establishment.
are benefit cheats, for instance, as fair game as matt hancock?
they’re in a different category, but i think anyone who cheats the system — or, indeed, who breaks the law — risks being held to account by the standards that apply both in public life and in personal responsibility.
free they’re obviously of a different magnitude of offence, and hopefully we will balance that out in the way the stories are presented in the paper.
victoria, the sun’ not averse to a bit of kicking down, is it?
i’ not sure that’ entirely fair.
i think i edit the paper in a different way to perhaps some of my predecessors.
i make it my conscious decision to work with people on stories a lot of the time, and, you know, it’ i have brilliant relationships with many celebrities and their agents, and i think we do a lot we’ve turned into a very positive force for good.
i mean, so many of the campaigns we’ve done during the pandemic have been massively in the public interest.
for example, we got 50,000 readers to volunteer to help staff the vaccination centres with ourjabs army campaign.
you know, we are a tremendous force for good.
and i think the other point i wanted to make, going back to your one of your other questions, was really interesting that, six weeks before the pandemic started, i took over.
it was quite a different experience, being an editor.
one of the things i noticed was the huge appetite from the public for information about this terrible coronavirus.
so, you saw a huge uplift in newspaper sales, and digitally traffic was through the roof.
people were desperate for information — and they turned to us, as newspaper brands, as trusted sources.
and hand—in—glove with that, you have the government coming to us saying, "we really need your help to get this public service message out there.
" so this sort of feeds back into the questions you were asking at the beginning about the role of mass—market brands — and the pandemic has proved how vitally important we are.
absolutely right.
as mass—market brands, you can get that message out to as many people as possible in one go.
i mean, emily, the evening standard’ had a long—established relationship with the conservatives and the conservative party.
george osborne, of course, was editor in chief of the standard.
is it a political paper?
very political.
we are incredibly influential in westminster.
in fact, only a year ago, we were voted the most—read by mps.
i think that’ got a lot to do with our physical presence in westminster.
i mean, you literally can’ escape us.
copies are taken by the westminster doorkeeper to the tea room and other strategic locations when you walk out as an or a spad or aide — you know, they’re there in the tube station, if you take a taxi at the member door’, and member’ entrances, there’ a big pile.
we’re even sitting in the underground car park.
50, within westminster we are widely read, very influential, we’re breaking often the time they get us is between 1:30 and 2pm, and they’ve got big statements to make that afternoon, often big debates.
i mean, i remember on the first day i arrived here, which was injuly, so ijoined, like victoria — did you join during the pandemic?
just before.
just a few weeks before.
i mean, ijoined after the first big lockdown.
and on my very first day, i had to do the paper, put that the bed, and then go straight to westminster to interview borisjohnson with our brilliant, sort of, lobby legend political editorjoe murphy.
and as his head aide came out the door to meet us, she had a copy of the standard tucked under her arm.
i was standing 3 little bit behind joe, so i don’ think she saw me.
and i know a few bad—tempered words were expressed about our quite waspish leader we had done that day on borisjohnson and sadiq and the handling of the pandemic.
and the paper must have literally just landed.
but are you a political paper for the conservative party?
no.
i think we would change i think we could change depending on who we wanted, who we thought was best to lead the country.
we didn’ come out for corbyn.
i don’ remember many newspapers coming out for corbyn.
even the guardian didn’ come out for corbyn.
yeah, i think that might be the point.
we did, by the way, i mean, way before my time, come out for tony blair.
so no, i would absolutely take each election depending on who we thought was the right person, that our readers thought as well to take the country forward in the best possible way.
and that’ the same for the mayor, as well.
sure.
i mean, tobyn, the hope is any scoop, especially a political one, will have real impact and force change.
they’re notjust there to win awards.
but is that more difficult in an era where politicians tend to to tough things out?
resignations — shame, one would say — doesn’ come as easily to public figures these days.
well, in a way, that comes back to the point i was talking about earlier, which is that, in regards to the hancock story, was that clearly the view had been taken in downing street, which was of a wider feeling, i think, in downing street, that they’re going to and out ride the media.
they’re going to carry on doing what they want, not to be held to account by the press or by broadcast media.
and i think they were proved humiliatingly wrong in this instance.
the leaders across fleet street were universally condemnatory.
ourfront page, i repeat, "how can he cling on?
" and behold, within 2a hours, he hadn’.
it had been the hope, i think, in downing street, no great secret, that it would be a three—day wonder and we could all move on, but they were very, very wrong.
and they paid a heavy political price for that.
victoria, do you think it’ trickier for scoops to really and these days, because of what some people suggest is an age where there is no shame any more?
i don’ know.
i think some of the other stores you’re referring to, things like the scandal around whether priti patel bullied her staff, you have thejenrick scandal.
thejenrick one was really complicated, i think, for the public to understand.
a lot of detail.
and in terms of the priti patel one, it wasn’ something that affected the whole country.
it was a row about how she was treating civil servants, so it didn’ affect everybody up and down the country in the way this story did.
i think that’ it got the cut through, because lockdown has affected every single one of us in the way nobody has ever lived through anything like this.
i think that’ the difference.
0.
i’ interested now in how scoops might help the bottom line.
victoria, in the olden days, a scoop like yours would’ve had people rushing to the newsstands to get their copy of the newspaper, to see those pictures.
it did.
i suspect there was a lot of traffic to the website, as well.
but surely not as much as perhaps you would have got if people bought a physical copy, right?
well, the physical copies of our paper went up considerably that morning on friday, and also on the morning of sunday morning, which was the day after the resignation.
so people rushed to the new stand to buy more copies.
obviously, during lockdown times, we haven’ been able to sell as many copies because shops have been closed.
thankfully, things are opening up now.
but, digitally, it’ a fascinating story.
so, that video, when we put the video out there, it’ actually been the biggest, most—viewed video in the sun’ history.
and i think the reason for that is that people really wanted to see for themselves — is it true, is it real?
sometimes you can look at a grab at the picture and really wonder what is the circumstances, is it really that bad, could it have been faked?
and when you watch the video, you know this is real.
the traffic to our website and our apps over the whole of that weekend was hugely up.
and when i start my day editing the newspaper, the top of my conference list is google search — what’ everybody searching for on google this morning, what are they looking at on facebook and twitter?
so, that informs where we are.
on the morning of the hancock story, on the friday morning, all the top items on google, facebook, twitter was all hancock.
that’ when you know it has national cut through.
i mean, did you pay the whistle—blower?
did you pay for this story?
i’ not going to get into that.
i need to protect the whistle—blower.
did i bother asking that question?
nice try.
i know, i know, pathetic really.
i suppose i want to ask you, tobyn — the mail has been targeted by campaigners, including stop funding hate.
do you think that is?
because it has very strong, very powerful views that not everybody agrees with, much to my amazement.
but i think often they pick wholly the wrong target.
the daily mail, amongst other things, won the inaugural public service in journalism award from the british journalism awards this year.
we are a, i believe, tremendous force for good, notjust in holding the powerful to account, but particularly in some of the campaigns that we’ve done over the past decades, and particularly in this year with our mail force campaign, which raised over £25 million in the space of 12 months, for and computers for disadvantaged children — which i think is an astonishing achievement testimony, really, to our readers’ generosity, and their sense of engagement with a brand that they really trust and feel is a part of the family, notjust another thing they buy.
it’ part of their identity, it shares their beliefs, it supports them where things are going wrong.
and we supplied 42 million pieces of to the front line of the , which i think is a, kind of, first for newspapers.
yeah, it’ a powerful campaign.
how much money do you think you would have forked over for the hancock story?
that wouldn’ be for me to say.
not on this show, anyway.
not on this show, no.
but, victoria, if you could send the cheque to my usual address, that would be great.
indeed, indeed.
emily, how reliant are you on commuters returning to the offices, and do you worry about advertiser boycotts?
because that’ obviously your main source of income.
we are — we do want commuters to come back.
we want our advertisers to feel confident, our print advertisers to feel confident that they are being picked up by their usual audience, but we have been doing home delivery to 200,000 homes.
think is astounding.
we’ve kept on the streets the whole way through this pandemic, through successive lockdowns, and i think there was an incredibly important thing for us to do, and, as you mentioned earlier, clive, we are a thinner paper at the moment, but we can’ help a pandemic and i think it was incredibly important for all of us here at the standard that we never disappeared from the streets.
because i was not editor when we went into lockdown.
you know, london emptied, we were in the most scary situation, looking at what was happening in italy.
and i see i’ve grown up with the standard and i think, rather like the red bus, it is like a symbol, like a legacy symbol of london.
i think if we have disappeared, that would’ve been terrible.
we have taken a financial hit, but we are seeing our advertisers coming back — some of them are still being hit by the pandemic, travel, we have big advertisement from travel.
but we are really confident they all want to return and the paper will return to its normal thickness.
but, at the same time, i want us to pivot more digitally.
we are seeing much of our younger audience reading digital—only.
our revenues there have grown dramatically.
50 has our audience.
since i was able to put all my restructures in, from the end of october, we have gained an extra eight million unique viewers month—on—month.
alright.
it is going well.
it’ great that the paper continued to get out there on the streets during the pandemic.
very quick question, victoria.
erm, has rupert been in touch?
he must be chuffed.
well, he’ actually in the at the moment, so i’ve seen a fair bit of him.
he’ taking you out for dinner, then, isuspect.
oh, yeah — and it’ all on him.
what a fantastic show.
great to see you guys.
thank you forjoining us.
victoria newton, editor—in—chief of the sun and the sun on sunday.
tobyn andreae, deputy editor of the daily mail.
and emily sheffield, editor of the evening standard.
that’ it.
the media show will be back same time next week.
thank you for watching.
hello there.
more green around at the moment.
low pressure pushing around, at times zero ﬂuids up that around, at times zero fluids up into scotland with of blustery showers to south.
some unseasonably weather around the coast south—east of england all way from dorset to suffolk, 0 miles an hour gust in the rning.
usy for england and walas and we have it ran ther wales and we have it ran further north that really never away from northern england, pushes into eastern is .
elsewhere, brighter, maybe some sunshine, we will inue to see some showers continue to see some showers which could be heavy as well.
generally on tuesday but specially chilly in eastern tland and the north—east of gland.
we have this patchy rain.
elsewhere, ghter with some sunshine but owers are likely to develop, ose are likely to be heavy hungry across wales and ands towards lincolnshire ith afternoon temperatures up igh as 20 or 21 celsius.
request this is news.
i’ david eades.
as troops head for the exit in afghanistan, the taliban seizes more districts, and over 1,000 afghan soldiers are said to have fled the country.
in england, where coronavirus cases are sharply on the rise, the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most remaining restrictions in two weeks.
more abductions in nigeria as gunmen kidnap at least 140 schoolchildren in the north—west of the country.
and the british teenager emma raducanu’ wimbledon journey ends abruptly as she pulls out injured in the fourth round.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
in afghanistan, a development many people feared, and many predicted.
violence is on the rise since the military withdrew from bagram airfield last week, and the taliban have seized more districts.
this map — from a defence research think thank — shows the areas now in taliban control — they are the dark grey areas you see on the map.
the contested areas are in red and areas controlled by the afghan government in light grey, almost whitish colour there.
the claims about territory, are for the moment, impossible to verify.
but the taliban says it has captured 150 out of 369 districts in the past two months of fighting.
afg hanistan’ interior ministry neither confirm or deny the claim — saying, that though the taliban claim the districts, it "does not mean all of them have completely fallen".
more than 1,000 afghan government soldiers have fled across the border to tajikistan after clashes with the insurgents.
the ’ security correspondent frank gardner reports.
on their own now, but still fighting the taliban.
afghan security forces are in action this week without the military support they’ve relied on for the past 20 years.
the strategic air base just north of kabul is an afghan the strategic bagram air base just north of kabul is an afghan government hands now.
the americans pulled outlast week, leaving behind a deeply unstable country.
the former president blames the west.
the entire mission with regard to the stated objective of the united states and its nato allies in defeating terrorism and defeating terrorism has failed.
the military compartment that was intended to fight extremism and terrorism, that, rather than doing thejob correctly and where it was needed, began to hurt and harass and bomb and imprison afghans.
that’ where it failed.
that’ where our failure today is.
others blame endemic corruption, inefficiency and massive waste.
the conflict has costed an estimated $1 trillion and over 100,000 lives, and it could be about to get worse.
taliban insurgents are on the offensive.
they reportedly control a quarter of afghanistan’ districts after overrunning several government outposts.
they are insisting no western forces be left behind.
all foreign forces should withdraw from the country whether they are contractor, adviser or trainers because they were part of the occupation.
that’ a violation, we will react.
but that reaction would be based on the decision of our leadership.
in kandahar province — the former taliban stronghold — residents have been voicing their fears of what they think the return to power might mean.
: the taliban don’ want peace, the taliban want the whole government.
the taliban are only killing.
and there’ another concern.
osama bin laden may be dead, but his organisation, al-qaeda, lives on.
many fear a return of the taliban means a return of al-qaeda.
a nightmare scenario not just for afghanistan, but for much of the world.
frank gardner, news.
the british prime minister borisjohnson has confirmed that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions in england in two weeks time, with a final decision taken next week.
that would mean workers going back to the office and an end to social distancing.
but it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
there’ been an average of more than 25,000 daily cases this week.
the government says this is manageable because hospitalisations are under control and deaths are comparitively low.
with the delta variant, it is growing rapidly but this graph shows another story, that current hospitalisations are lagging far behind the second wave.
they are still on the up but at a much slower pace and a similar pattern can be seen in the statistics for actual deaths, you can see far fewer than in the previous wave.
were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day by later in the month.
our political correspondent vicki young has this report.
all around us signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
instructions about where we can go, who we can see even in our own home and how far apart we must stand, but in two weeks things could change.
covid has not gone but most restrictions in england are likely to disappear.
restaurants and pubs can open normally and theatres and cinemas can fill every seat.
the prime minister put the emphasis on personal responsibility instead of government orders.
i want to stress from the outset that this pandemic is far from over.
and we must reconcile ourselves sadly to more deaths from covid.
there’ only one reason we can contemplate going ahead to step four in circumstances where we would normally be locking down further and that is because of the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
and in bristol, people are starting to contemplate life with fewer rules.
personally i think it’ better to be safe than sorry, but just like every normal person i welcome the change.
it’ the wrong thing, wrong decision.
: why?
because cases are going up.
at least give it a go and then if anything gets worse you can always go back.
i think we just have to live with it.
you can’ keep living your life being told what to do.
people are now afraid even to go out, some people.
for some, the face mask has become a hated symbol of intrusive government.
it will still be recommended in hospitals and enclosed public spaces but the legal requirement to wear a face covering will go.
unions say that will put workers at risk.
the days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations to follow will soon be gone and instead the government is asking us to use a common sense and make personal decisions about how we stay safe.
it’ a big shift in approach but comes at a time when cases are rising.
the prime minister has been marking the ’ birthday, and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart of his covid strategy.
can you tell us how bad you expect it to get?
obviously we have to be cautious and we will continue to look at all the data as we progress.
if we don’ go ahead now when the summer fire break is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages that should give us in fighting the virus, the question is when would he go ahead.
what the modelling would imply is we will reach that peak before we get to the point where we have the kind of pressures that we saw in january for example this year.
labour says some will need more support.
to throw off all protections at the same time when the infection rate is still going up is reckless.
we need a balanced approach and need to keep key protections in place including masks, ventilation and crucially on something we’ve asked for during the pandemic, proper payment for those who need to self—isolate.
later in the week we will find out about government plans for foreign travel and when we come into a positive case what will happen.
in schools, whole classes or bubbles won’ be sent home.
for 16 months we’ve lived under restrictions that we could not have imagined.
today, boris johnson signalled it is time to get back to normal.
vicki young, news, westminster.
that signal has had some mixed responses.
i’ve been speaking to eric feigl—ding, an epidemiologist and senior fellow at the federation of american scientists.
i asked if the government had made the right decision.
this is absolutely the wrong time and the wrong decision, period.
all i can say is it’ a horrible, terrible, no—good decision.
the delta variant is not your normal variant.
the delta variant is the most contagious, fastest—transmitting variant, more than we’ve ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is 4—5 times greater risk of hospitalisation than the old strain, and also it is vaccine somewhat attenuating and evasive, so one dose is not enough and we know that with two doses, in israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905 to 64%, it is the wrong time.
eric, you are absolutely clear on that.
are at a pretty high level?
i know you mentioned israel there.
and that whilst it is easily transmissible, it is not as virulent as previous strains have proved to be.
so that is a complete misinformation and completely false.
that data wasyou are comparing apples and oranges.
the fact is the delta variant is way more severe, way more virulent, it causes severe disease and greater risk of hospitalisation by 4— to 5—fold according to the studies, peer reviews and also according to government data.
it is completely fals to say it is less severe.
what would you say then to the prime minister when he says, "look, if we don’ go ahead now, when do we go ahead?
" what is your message there?
he’ framing it as, "0, we don’ want to live under look, this is not a choice between lockdowns or reopening.
if you want to avoid lockdowns — everyone wants to avoid lockdown, nobody wanted lockdown — if you want to avoid a lockdown, the path to do that is not the one he chose, the path to do that is more masks, ventilation, air our hospital beds are not empty," that is just complete dereliction of any public health and ethical measures, especially as a government.
” a pretty clear critique therefrom eric feigl—ding on johnson’ test boris johnson’ latest pronouncements.
stay with us on news.
still to come: a russian gang behind a huge cyber attack demands $70 a ransom from a swathe of different companies.
central london has been rocked by a series of terrorist attacks.
police say there have been many casualties and there is growing speculation that al-qaeda was responsible.
germany will be the hosts of the 2006 football world cup.
they pipped the favourite south africa by a single vote.
in south africa the possibility of losing hadn’ even been complimented.
celebration parties were cancelled.
a man entered the palace to a downstairs window and made his way to the queen’ private bedroom, he asked her for a cigarette and under a pretext of arranging for some to be bought, some footmen on duty took the man away.
one child, one teacher, one book and one pen can change the world.
education is the only solution.
this is news.
lam david eades.
the latest headlines: troops are heading for the exit in afghanistan as the taliban continues to seize more districts and more than 1,000 afghan soldiers have been said to have fled the country.
in the , as coronavirus cases rise rapidly, the prime minister announces plans to scrap most remaining restrictions in two weeks’ time.
gunmen in north west nigeria have targeted a hospital, a school and a police station in less than 2a hours.
140 students were taken from the a baptist school in the early hours of monday morning.
it follows an attack on a nearby hospital, where at least eight people were abducted.
this is a scene outside a school where families are ting for news.
our nigeria correspondent, mayenijones, has more.
nigeria’ kidnapping crisis is spiralling fast.
we’ve just heard of a kidnapping that took place at a hospital on sunday in the town of zaria.
now it seems another kidnapping has happened at a school in the northern state of kaduna.
we spoke to a parent who told us that in the early hours of monday morning, around 2am, a number of armed gunmen stormed a baptist school in kaduna, they came into the back, they knocked down a fence.
a mother we spoke to said there was as many as 60 gunmen, and they abducted the students with them.
this is happening at a time when kidnapping is at an increasing right across nigeria.
there is an economic crisis here brought on by the fall and the price of oil and lockdown during the covid—19 pandemic, unemployment has risen, the price of food is rising, and many criminals are turning to kidnapping as a way of making money, which we have seen in north—western nigeria, in particular, the mass kidnapping of students.
since december, there have been more than 1,000 students abducted.
nine of them were unfortunately killed.
200 students are still missing.
say some of them are as young as three years old.
this latest kidnapping will be a headache for the governor of kaduna state who’ vowed not to negotiate with criminals because he says it incentivises them.
unfortunately, this meant that a number of kidnappers have come to kaduna state and are carrying out attacks with increasing frequency.
with the economy doing as bad as it is and with security forces unable to stop more attacks from happening, it’ difficult to see how this crisis is going to end.
mayenijones there.
a russian—based hacking group known as revil has compromised the computer systems of up to something like 1,000 provider that writes and updates their software.
one of those affected is sweden’ co—op supermarket, which has had to close some 500 outlets — that’ more than half its stores — because tills and self—service checkouts had stopped working.
revil has tailored its ransom demands to the size of each respective company, but then on sunday said it would settle the lot for $70 million if someone were prepared to pay it.
earlier, i spoke to jon bateman, a fellow in the cyber policy initiative of the technology and international affairs programme at the carnegie endowment for international peace, and is a former intelligence analyst for the government.
what we’re seeing here with this heck is really the combination of two things that happened before, but rarely together.
one is a supply chain compromise, whereby hackers gain access to one victim and then use that to then get a follow—on access to many, many other victims.
the other is ransomware, where a company’ data is held hostage unless they pay cryptocurrency.
but again, both of these things are increasingly common, but this is one of the most expensive hacks that combines both techniques together, and that is people are calling this the biggest ransomware attack of all time, although it is still a bit early to quantify the impact.
yeah, ijust wonder what you make of this ‘job lot’ approach, saying, give us $70 million and we’ll clear everybody?
i mean, these are all completely separate businesses?
it’ fascinating and we haven’ seen that before.
some people theorise it’ actually just too many victims for the ransomware gang to process.
keep in mind these ransomware gangs operate much like businesses.
they have a customer service line and there are people who are paid primarily to negotiate and interact with victims.
but another possibility is that the ransomware gang involved here realised that they had done a bit more damage than they had intended and the level of law enforcement and intelligence scrutiny could be beyond what they anticipated.
right.
these are just two theories.
yeah.
you all it a "ransomware gang".
i mean, any idea on how many are involved in this sort of thing?
i think we recognise it may not be the work of a state, but how many people does it take to form a gang like an revil?
it’ hard to say, because most of them operate now on an affiliate or franchise model, whereby one set of people develops the malware and another set of people go out and gain access to victims and installs that malware.
and then there may be a third set of people that actually does the negotiations and payment processing.
but it’ likely that this was the responsibility of russian cyber criminals and not something specifically ordered by the russian state.
but it’ also important to realise that is somewhat beside the point, because moscow has a long—standing governmental policy of tolerating and legally protecting these sorts of gangs.
so, ultimately, vladimir putin is culpable for such attacks.
jon bateman.
there have been homophobic attacks by nationalists.
that all it anic monday in you call it manic monday in wimbledon.
—— they do call it.
jokovic is through, so novak djokovic is through, so as roger federer.
the former ’ champions league, gelique kerber defeated coco ff.
the most manic moment was reserved unfortunately for ast remaining british pair he singles, amber rudd khan had retire for good reasons.
as i am going to show ere, she has become a eature of the headline writers the papers, and this is he front page of the times.
bowed out in the fourth und.
and this is the front 9 of the daily telegraph.
ben rothenberg as a writer for the new york times and hosts the no challenges remaining podcast.
yeah, very abrupt, mysterious, disappointing, for sure.
she was playing well and second set seem to have breathing difficulties and left court for treatment and did not come back.
it’ very unusual for a player to sort of retire from a match or abandon a match without coming back on the court to shake the opponent’ and in that sort of thing.
it was concerning for her that she was able to make it back.
she was doing well.
there hasn’ been much information from the tournament orfrom her about how she is doing more the official reason for her withdrawal being her breathing difficulties.
speculation there.
one very excited teenager does go out.
she hadn’ made a grand slam quarterfinal even since winning wimbledon in 2018, her last of her three major titles, but she’ really growing in confidence.
i think she is a player who builds on that confidence really well and she is someone known remaining in the draw will want to be across the net.
she is also the only former champion left in the side in this final eight.
and we are still in that bizarre era in women’ tennis, aren’ we, where no—one is establishing themselves, even serena williams, let’ be honest, is struggling to maintain her prowess, if you like, on the court.
and i think you were pointing out something like there have been 22 different women’ names in the quarterfinals for the slams this year, out of 2a possible places?
yeah.
no, it’ been really remarkable and a completely new slate of players compared to the final eight in paris.
so, already complete 100% turnover.
and ash barty, the number one ranked player, i think she has a chance of solidifying herself as being a force if she goes on a good run here.
maybe she will add a little bit of stability for the title.
and naomi osaka when she comes back, someone who is still very competitive there.
it might look random at a casual glance, but certainly nowhere near the stability of the men’ side with novak djokovic.
we have an australian producer working on this story, ben, it is an all—australia quarterfinal.
ash barty against either tom, who basically had that win it shows how ate it is there!
do you think ash barty could emerge as the winner in the women’ side?
yeah absolutely!
she is comfortable on grass, no—one doubts after she recovered from that hip injury.
and she is basically doing 0, and herwins were convincing so far.
she should probably be favourite.
quick word about the men.
no surprises, djokovic is through.
federer is through but it wasn’ easy, but straight sets in the end?
but there is no—one but novak djokovic for the men’ — to win the men’ singles, is there?
i think if novak djokovic loses, it will likely be due to himself.
there are some capable players in the final that are still there.
the winner of queens club is emerging as a solid player on grass.
but i think novak djokovic is still ahead of the field and pulling his way over christian goring today was very convincing.
not many signs of slowing down at this point in the tournament.
shares in a russian wine maker have soared in response to a new law that’ making french champagne makers describe their product as sparkling wine.
the law — approved by president putin — dictates that russian producers can call their bubbly shampanskoye, the russian word for champagne.
i can’ imagine that the vineyards in this champagne region are going to be too impressed by this.
president putin’ main critic in exile, mikhail khodorkovsky, said the law was another an example of the kremlin’ incomprehensible whims.
hello there.
monday was drierfor a while across england and wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill from the south.
this rain here is marching its way northwards across the up into northern england and scotland, where already in the past few days in edinburgh, we have had a month’ worth of rain.
now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times — northwards up towards scotland and northern england with blustery showers following to the south.
for a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather along the coast of england all the way from dorset across to suffolk, gusts of 50 in the morning.
it won’ be as windy in the afternoon, but there will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got this more persistent rain, never really clearing away from northern england, pushing into eastern scotland.
elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
the showers are never too far away, and they may well be heavy as well.
generally, temperatures a bit lower on tuesday, 18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it stays wet in northern england and eastern scotland.
and as we have seen, there are some showers around, they could well affect wimbledon once again.
it’ going to be another day where we may well have the covers on and off.
those showers will probably tend to ease off though during the evening and into the night.
more places become dry, still got some wetter weather towards the north—east of scotland.
the breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
now, it’ low pressure that’ brought all the rain over recent days, in the centre of the low pressure, by the time we get to wednesday, it’ close to the north—east of scotland.
so there’ more cloud rolling in here and some patchy rain around too.
elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine, but we are going to find showers breaking out, and those could turn heavy and thundery come the afternoon, particularly across wales, the midlands, across to lincolnshire as well.
temperatures may be a notch higher on friday, still no better than 20—21 celsius.
let’ end with a glimmer of hope, because the low pressure is trying to move away.
this is where high—pressure is, weather, and this is trying to nudge up from the south—west across the .
50 during thursday and friday, the winds won’ be as strong, and for more places, it will be dry.
some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for scotland and northern ireland.
temperatures should be a little bit higher.
this is news.
i’ david eades.
our top stories: russia, iran and taking suspend officers after a thousand han soldiers roughly across border of afghanistan.
more abductions in nigeria as gunmen kidnap at least 140 schoolchildren in the north—west of the country.
1 26 children were rescued.
more than a thousand students have seized for ransom.
nine have been killed and more than still missing.
england?
200 is still missing.
england?
covid lockdown will and in two despite scientists urging aution as a number of cases still rising.
the premise it is possible because 86% that it is possibla because 8696 of dults have been vaccinated.
now it’ time for a look back at the day in parliament.
hello again and welcome to monday in parliament.
ministers are to scrap most covid rules in england, but they warn we’ll have to learn to live with the virus.
the situation can change and it can change quickly.
but we cannot put our lives on hold forever.
mp5 from all parties line up to condemn a new law to limit demonstrations.
the struggles and protests being demonised by this bill today are actually seen as the milestones of progress in our society.
like the suffragette movement, which faced considerable state repression and police brutality.
also in this programme: can save the hedgehog?
there can be little doubt that some modern farming practices have made survival more difficult for this country’ favourite prickly mammal.
but first, most covid rules in england are to be scrapped onjuly 19th, a week next monday.
you’ll no longer be told to work from home or wear a facemask in shops and the social distancing rule will go.
the rule of six in private homes will also be removed.
the prime minister made the announcement at 3 downing street news conference.
simultaneously, the health secretary updated mps.
despite the unlocking, sajid javid warned that covid cases were rising and would continue to rise significantly.
we can reasonably expect that by the 19th ofjuly, the number of daily cases will be far higher than today.
against this backdrop, i know that many people will be understandably cautious about easing restrictions.
after many months of uncertainty, this is entirely natural.
but we can now protect without having to go to to extraordinary that we’ve had to do so in the past.
that is not to say that this is going to be easy, speaker.
of course, the pandemic is not over.
the virus is still with us.
it hasn’ gone away.
and the risk of a dangerous new variant that evades vaccines remains real.
we know that with covid—19, the situation can change and it can change quickly.
but we cannot put our lives on hold forever.
in essence, our national response to covid—19 will change from one of rules and regulations, to one of guidance and good sense.
we will revoke all social distancing guidance, including the two metre rule.
hallelujah!
except, for specific settings such as ports of entry and medical settings where of course it would continue to make sense.
it will no longer be a legal requirement to wearface coverings in any setting, including public transport.
although we will advise this as a voluntary measure for crowded and enclosed spaces.
labour wanted to know more about the strategy of learning to live with covid.
how many deaths does he consider is acceptable when we are living with covid?
how many cases of long covid—19 does he consider acceptable when we are living with covid—19 and given what we know that when the covid—19 rates are circulating that high rates of the virus can escape and evolve, what risk assessment has he done of the possibilities of a new variant emerging and will he publish it?
the secretary of state says that this carries risks and that is we need to learn to live with covid—19.
but we should not have to take a high risk approach, we should be pushing down risks and indeed, we mitigate against risks across society all the time.
we just do not accept other diseases, we take interventions to and prevent other diseases.
so, is he collapsing all mitigations completely when he knows that the covid—19 rates will continue to rise?
now, it’ important to remember that this announcement affects only england.
northern ireland is due to review its rules in the next few days, with the welsh government looking to announce its plans next week.
the —run scottish government hopes to end most restrictions on the 9th of august, and its record prompted some fierce exchanges at westminster.
the governments failure to lock down last september allowed the alpha variant to emerge in the southeast of england and spread across the and indeed the rest of the world.
so, if the health secretary is going tojust let it rip, variant with even greater vaccine resistance?
with over 150,000 people dead, has he returned to the false narrative that covid—19 is just like flu?
using phrases like let it rip, if anything, speaker, the only part of the where cases could be described as ripping would be in scotland where the case rate is higher than any other part of the .
in fact, i think they have seven of the ten highest hotspots in the number of cases throughout europe and the honourable lady should reflect on that.
and then she claimed that i suggested that somehow that covid—19 is like the flu.
i have never said that, they’ll be complete nonsense for anyone to suggest that covid—19 was like the flu.
failing to mandate mass wearing and stuffy crowded places like public transport and often people have been pressed together for longer than 15 minutes risks high costs.
allowing people rather to choose whether or not to put others at risk is both reckless and unfair.
if the freedom to pelt down the motorway at 100 is restricted because it poses risks to others, with millions still unvaccinated with some immune and some suppressed with the risks of long covid—19 rising, does the health secretary not apply the same logic to mask wear?
madam deputy speaker, to the honourable lady that i do understand where she’ coming from but the important thing is that we do have to learn to live with covid—19 and that does mean that these restrictions that have been necessary up until now, that we have to at some point confront them and start removing them.
and now is the best time to do that because of the defence that is being built by the vaccine.
conservative lockdown sceptics were noticeably less critical than before.
we will never again sacrifice free enterprise, freedom of association and indeed, freedom of worship in order to manage hospital admissions ever again, will we?
madam deputy speaker, i take it from that that my right honourable friend is pleased with today’ announcements.
there were few details on what this all means for international travel, for self—isolation or for schools.
but with many pupils absent for covid—related reasons, sajid javid promised more information within days.
onjuly the 19th, it is our plan to remove bubbles and to end a requirement for early years setting schools and colleges to routinely carry out contact tracing and i will have more to say on how we intend to exempt under 185 to close contacts from the requirement to self—isolate.
sajid javid.
that update on coronavirus restrictions interrupted consideration of the mammoth police, crime, sentencing and courts bill.
the commons only had one day to debate a large number of changes suggested by across all the various parts of the bill.
one of the main points of contention was a measure to limit public protest, including the setting of noise limits and making it an offence to cause a public nuisance.
critics say it would pit demonstrators against the police.
mp5 from across the commons spoke out against it.
the new measures in the bill target protesters for being too noisy and causing serious unease or serious annoyance.
the vague terminology creates a very low threshold for a police involved imposed conditions and essentially rules out entirely potentially peaceful protests.
the government must have the power to arrest people who cause serious annoyance or serious inconvenience.
these are incredibly vague terms, frankly.
it was clearly a breach of the normal reasoning behind a demonstration when somebody glues themselves to a train with direct intention of inconveniencing everybody else.
but demonstrations do lead to inconvenience.
incongruent between a government that says it wants to defend free speech in the universities, but is effectively attacking freedom of expression on our streets by criminalising activities that will cause serious unease.
the risk is that it serves only to pit the police against the protesters because it won’ be the home secretary who makes the decision about what is noisy and causes serious annoyance, it will be police officers and very often police officers actually on the ground at any given moment in time and that again risks undermining the very fundamental principle of policing by consent.
we can be under no illusion that this is another authoritarian clampdown on our civil liberties, the right to peaceful assembly and protest are fundamental principles of any democracy and the rich tradition of dissent in this country shows us that they can literally change the course of history.
they are the reasons someone of my race, and of my class and of my gender has the rights that i do and i can even stand here as a member of this house.
we cannot forget the struggles and protests being demonised by this bill today are not actually seen as milestones of progress in our society.
like the suffragette movement, which faced considerable state repression and police brutality.
but the government did have some support.
a local labour councillor, teresa norton, satin the middle of the street, in the middle of scarborough, on the first weekend when many of our hard pressed tourist businesses were team to make up some of the money they’ lost during the pandemic.
set in the middle of the street and caused a massive traffic jam, supposedly demonstrating in the cause of extinction rebellion.
that is the sort of behaviour that should not take place because it disrupts peoples lives and i believe actually antagonizes people against those issues.
several labour felt the bill fell short, especially on the issue of protection for women and girls.
sexually predatory men who feel they can harass and intimidate young girls and young women when they’re on the street, especially if it’ after dark, especially if they are on their own.
we just simply have to decide, are we going to and support the rights of men to do that or are we going to say no, we support the rights of women and girls to be able to walk down our streets at night, on their own, after dark in the winter, coming home from school without being subject to this sort of intimidation, menace and harassment?
the minister gave her response to the issues raised.
this bill balances the rights of protesters to demonstrate with the rights of residents to access hospitals, to go to work, to let their children sleep at night.
and despite some of the claims opposite, this bill includes measures that will help protect women and girls but indeed go further than that and protect the whole of society from some of the most dangerous offenders.
in a series of votes, none of the changes suggested by was approved and the bill new moves on to the lords, where no doubt peers will suggest more amendments.
you’re watching monday in parliament with me, david cornock.
the government has been pressed over its response to the seizure by the taliban in recent weeks of more territory in afghanistan.
the militant group has launched attacks coinciding with the withdrawal of nato troops after a 20—year mission in the country, with most troops having already pulled out ahead of a september deadline.
at question time, a senior conservative said afghanistan now faced a high risk of civil war.
with the taliban advancing and securing more districts by the day, speaker, i repeat my call for a formal inquiry so we can understand how this nato mission, endorsed by the , lasting two decades, has now ended in failure.
we’re now abandoning the country to the very insurgent organisation that we went in to defeat in the first place.
this cannot be what we expected when we went in there.
it’ not the exit strategy that we anticipated.
our presence gave legitimacy to the afghan authorities and our exodus will be seen as a victory for the taliban.
please, let’ have the inquiry.
can ijust remind people, front benchers as well and chairs of select committees?
if you want a long question, go in questions earlier.
they’re short and punchy.
we’ve got to keep it that way to get the rest in.
secretary of state.
speaker, two things.
first of all, the right honourable friend, as i’ve said earlier, has means of his own salvation.
he does chair the select committee, and if the select committee wishes to have an inquiry, i will be happy to make sure the department services it.
this is a profound moment for more than 150,000 men and women who have served in afghanistan.
i pay tribute to their service and their sacrifice, especially the a57 that lost their lives.
where does this withdrawal leave the strategy of forward deployment in a region that sits between russia, china and iran, three of the main state—based threats identified in the integrated review?
and how will the government ensure that afghanistan does not again become an operating base for terrorism directed against the west?
the leaving by the united states left us in a very difficult position to continue that mission.
it left many of us unable to continue that without a significant international uplift.
that has not been forthcoming, and therefore we are in a position where we too are in that path of withdrawal, with all the risks that that may leave in the near future, in the next ten, 20 years, and therefore we have to do our very best with what we have now.
that means we will continue to work with the afghan government and we continue to focus on the threats that emanate from afghanistan and may grow to emanate towards the united kingdom and our allies, and we will do whatever we can.
what conclusions have our ministers and strategists drawn from our use of military force from outside the borders of states like syria and iraq which might help prevent the re—emergence of afghanistan as a base and as a launch pad for international terrorism campaigns, like those of daesh and al-qaeda, following the withdrawal of nato troops from afghanistan?
the minister pointed to the operations conducted in syria against the so—called islamic state — or .
we absolutely reserve the right to counter terrorist threats to the united kingdom that may re—emerge in afghanistan.
and he’ absolutely right to point us towards an outside—in model, such as that prosecuted from cyprus in support of operation shader.
i know that that is very much in the thoughts of those who are planning for that eventuality in afghanistan.
the session also saw questions about the proposed new £200 million yacht, a successor to the royal yacht britannia.
but does the secretary of state believe it’ the woeful lack of investment in our personnel which is driving the current recruitment challenges in the armed forces, or is it the chronic accommodation that he expects our service personnel to live in that’ to blame?
because, soon, the size of the army will be at its lowest since 1714, so how does the splashing £200 million on a new royal yacht help with these challenges in our armed forces?
given that the national audit office have judged the defence equipment plan as unaffordable for the fourth year in a row, the continuing well—publicized disasters and rising costs of the ajax project and, of course, the cancellation of warrior, could the minister explain this vanity project has become a spending priority for the minister of defence?
we’re delighted to be playing our part in delivering this first—rate asset.
and he said its cost would be a tiny fraction of the defence budget.
over four years, you’re talking around the region of 0.
1% of that kind of impact on the overall defence budget, so i’ like to put that into perspective for him.
jeremy quin.
to the lords now, where highways england has been accused of "vandalism" for filling in the arches of disused historic railway arches with tonnes of concrete.
campaigners have criticised in particular the infilling of the scenic victorian bridge at great musgrave in cumbria.
a labour peer noted that highways england seemed to have rowed back on some other works.
can she confirm that highways england have now reduced their hit list of 134 structures to be destroyed to 69?
and will she instruct them to consult with notjust local authorities, but cycling and walking groups and heritage railways, before they go ahead with any more of the cultural vandalism which we’ve already seen?
i’ really happy to reassure the noble lord that highways england already does exactly what he asked me to make sure that they do.
onsult with local authorities, with parish councils, with those people who run active travel schemes and, of course, with heritage railway providers, whether or not the railway is actually built or not.
it is the case that of the 3,250 railway properties, there will be some that will require works which is in excess of maintenance.
that may include infilling.
but, of course, my lords, infilling can be reversed.
some peers were concerned that highways england could use what are known as permitted development rights to fill in arches without planning permission.
can the minister comment on whether highways england, who manage the historical railways estate, should be excluded from using permitted development rights to infill bridges or other structures in the estate, so as to ensure they actively engage with local authorities and other organisations on the future of assets which run through an area, so that these can be considered for cycling or other schemes?
well, my noble friend has just once again raised the issue of the permitted development orders, and i’ just like to restate that they are only used in emergency circumstances.
and i’ just like to remind noble lords that, actually, a couple of decades ago, on the clifton hall/ black harry tunnel in salford, the shaft collapsed, a house was demolished and the residents were killed in their beds.
this is a serious issue we’re talking about here.
sometimes there are emergency circumstances when permitted development orders are required, but as i said, in the majority of the cases, they are not required and planning permission is sought and given.
lady vere.
now, the plight of the british hedgehog has been troubling campaigners, who created a petition to call for more protections for the prickly creatures.
during a debate on their appeal in westminster hall, mp5 of all stripes had stories to tell about their love of hedgehogs — with one appearing to catch the heart of a nation.
as some of my twitter followers may have seen, we recently welcomed a new tenant to the halfon household.
horace the hedgehog moved into our garden earlier this year and he’ very much made himself at home.
and given these modern times, although we have called him horace, he clearly is a he/him or she/her hedgehog.
he’ even been brave enough to approach the back door to and watch netﬂix through the window, particularly sons of anarchy, and he’ risen to dizzying heights of fame on our social media page.
and i’ve had individuals write to my office, whether horace will be making an appearance in upcoming zoom meetings.
but while horace may be well looked after, the shocking reality of the declining number of his species focused minds.
before this debate, i had the pleasure of meeting with representatives from the british hedgehog preservation society, and they told me that since 2000, we’ve lost half of all of our rural hedgehogs and a third of our urban ones.
sadly, they were recently added to the red list for britain as vulnerable.
that is having appreciable risk of extinction in the next ten years.
a number of factors are thought to be to blame.
according to the , the main reasons for the decline is destruction of their shelters and habitats, increased levels of traffic and poorly planned roads and the use of pesticides.
these are all things that we can — and should — work to prevent.
there can be little doubt that some modern farming practices have made survival more difficult for this country’ favourite prickly mammal, so the schemes which will replace the european union’ common agricultural policy should aim to secure and restore hedgerows and habitats, to give our hedgehogs a bit of a brexit dividend.
every time that farm fields are built over, hedgerows go, headlands go, the fields themselves that have crops in them go, and those are the habitats notjust for hedgehogs but for thousands — literally thousands — of birds, mammals, butterflies, insects — the insects upon which hedgehogs feed.
and it’ because of that loss of habitat that we’ve lost so many hedgehogs.
but some were also concerned that the regular review of the wildlife and act taking place this year would cause more grief for the animal.
i am extremely concerned to hear that the terms of this year’ review have been changed and that, contrary to what a reasonable person might expect given the well—documented decline in biodiversity across the board, this is likely to result in fewer species under protection, not more.
the new standards would mean that an animal or plant species would only be protected if in imminent danger of extinction, with the result that dozens of species face losing vital safeguards.
it also means that action to protect a species would only come when it was in crisis, when it already might be too late.
this cannot be right.
there were more suggestions from on how to help the species thrive.
and one of the things i hope to see come out of the government in the next few months is a plan to turn the current system into one of holistic analysis of what wildlife is on a site and what needs to be protected, so you don’ simply bulldoze a roadside or cut down a hedgerow with no regard at all for what animals are inside it.
and all too often, it’ the hedgehogs who are inside it.
that is a change that is urgently needed.
we absolutely need biodiversity targets, and they should be ambitious.
we shouldn’tjust halt the decline of hedgehogs and other nature.
we should reverse it.
but the minister pledged that hedgehogs were at the heart of her remit.
this government is absolutely committed to ensuring that our native species thrive, as we take action to address the declines that we’re all so sad about.
rebecca pow.
britain’ newest has taken her seat in the house of commons.
for batley and spen who was murdered five years ago.
kim leadbeater held her sister’ old seat for labour at last thursday’ by election.
i do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm that i will be faithful and bear true allegiance to her majesty queen elizabeth, her heirs and successors, according to law.
hear, hear!
the new was in such a hurry, she forgot to sign in.
you’ve just got to sign in.
don’ worry, we’ll have a chat in a minute!
kim leadbeater.
and that was monday in parliament.
thank you for watching.
i hope you canjoin me at the same time tomorrow for tuesday in parliament.
until then, from me, david cornock, bye for now.
hello there.
monday was drierfor a while across england and wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill from the south.
this rain here is marching its way northwards across the up into northern england and scotland, where already in the past few days in edinburgh, we have had a month’ worth of rain.
now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times — northwards up towards scotland and northern england with blustery showers following to the south.
for a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather along the coast of england all the way from dorset across to suffolk, gusts of 50 in the morning.
it won’ be as windy in the afternoon, but there will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got this more persistent rain, never really clearing away from northern england, pushing into eastern scotland.
elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
the showers are never too far away, and they may well be heavy as well.
generally, temperatures a bit lower on tuesday, 18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it stays wet in northern england and eastern scotland.
and as we have seen, there are some showers around, they could well affect wimbledon once again.
it’ going to be another day where we may well have the covers on and off.
those showers will probably tend to ease off though during the evening and into the night.
more places become dry, still got some wetter weather towards the north—east of scotland.
the breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
now, it’ low pressure that’ brought all the rain over recent days, in the centre of the low pressure, by the time we get to wednesday, it’ close to the north—east of scotland.
so there’ more cloud rolling in here and some patchy rain around too.
elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine, but we are going to find showers breaking out, and those could turn heavy and thundery come the afternoon, particularly across wales, the midlands, across to lincolnshire as well.
temperatures may be a notch higher on friday, still no better than 20—21 celsius.
let’ end with a glimmer of hope, because the low pressure is trying to move away.
this is where high—pressure is, weather, and this is trying to nudge up from the south—west across the .
50 during thursday and friday, the winds won’ be as strong, and for more places, it will be dry.
some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for scotland and northern ireland.
temperatures should be a little bit higher.
welcome to news.
i’ david eades.
our top stories: the taliban take advantage with troops pulling out of afghanistan, they seize more districts while a thousand afghan soldiers are said to have fled the country.
in england, the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most remaining covid restrictions, despite a sharp rise in coronavirus cases.
a russian gang behind a huge global cyber attack demands $70 million in ransom.
and the british teenager emma raducanu’ wimbledon journey ends abruptly as she pulls out on medical grounds in the fourth round.
hello and thanks for joining us.
in afghanistan, a development many people feared and many predicted.
violence is on the rise since the military withdrew from bagram air field last week, and the taliban have seized more districts.
this map, from a defence research think thank, shows the areas now in taliban control — they are in dark grey.
contested areas are in red and areas controlled by the afghan government in light grey.
it’ not impossible to verify, but the taliban says it has captured 150 out of 369 districts in the past two months of fighting.
afghanistan’ interior ministry says it does not mean all of those areas have completely fallen.
more than 1,000 afghan government soldiers have fled across the border into tajikistan, according to the government there.
the ’ security correspondent, frank gardner reports.
on their own now, but still fighting the taliban.
afghan security forces are in action this week without the military support they’ve relied on, for the past 20 years.
the strategic bagram air base just north of kabul is an afghan government hands now.
the americans pulled out last week, leaving behind a deeply unstable country.
the former president, hamid karzai, blames the west.
the entire mission with regard to the stated objective of the united states and its nato allies in defeating terrorism and extremism has failed.
the military compartment that was intended to fight extremism and terrorism, that, rather than doing the job correctly and where it was needed, began to hurt and harass and bomb and imprison afghans.
that’ where it failed.
and that’ where our failure today is.
others blame endemic corruption, inefficiency and massive waste.
the conflict has costed an estimated $1 trillion and over 100,000 lives, and it could be about to get worse.
taliban insurgents are on the offensive.
they reportedly control a quarter of afghanistan’ districts after overrunning several government outposts.
they are insisting no western forces be left behind.
all foreign forces should withdraw from the country whether they are contractor, adviser and trainers, because they were part of the occupation.
that’ a violation, we will react.
but that reaction would be based on the decision of our leadership.
in kandahar province — the former taliban stronghold — residents have been voicing their fears of what they think the return to power might mean.
: the taliban don’ want peace, the taliban want the whole government.
the taliban are only killing.
and there’ another concern.
osama bin laden may be dead, but his organisation, al-qaeda, lives on.
many fear a return of the taliban means a return of al-qaeda.
a nightmare scenario not just for afghanistan, but for much of the world.
frank gardner, news.
the british prime minister, borisjohnson, has confirmed that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions in england in two weeks’ time, with a final decision next week.
that would mean workers returning to the office and an end to social distancing.
but it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
there’ been an average of over 25,000 daily cases over the past week.
but the government says this is manageable because the vaccine rollout has meant hospitalisations and deaths are comparatively low.
this graph shows the growth of cases in the second and the current third wave of the virus, which includes the new delta variant, with both growing rapidly.
but this graph shows that current hospitalisations are lagging far behind the second wave, although they are still rising.
and a similar pattern can been seen in the statistics for deaths.
as you can see they are far fewer than in the last wave.
mrjohnson has warned that covid infections across the were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day later this month.
our political correspondent vicky young reports.
all around us the signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
instructions about where we can go, who we can see even in our own home, how far apart we must stand, but in two weeks things could change.
covid has not gone but most restrictions in england are likely to disappear.
restaurants and pubs can open normally, theatres and cinemas can fill every seat.
the prime minister put the emphasis on personal responsibility instead of government orders.
i want to stress from the outset that this pandemic is far from over.
and we must reconcile ourselves sadly to more deaths from covid.
there’ only one reason we can contemplate going ahead to step four in circumstances where we would normally be locking down further and that is because of the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
and in bristol, people are starting to contemplate life with fewer rules.
personally i think it’ better to be safe than sorry, but just like every normal person, i welcome the change.
it’ the wrong thing, wrong decision.
: why?
because cases are going up.
at least give it a go and then if anything gets worse, you can always go back.
i think we just have to live with it.
you can’ keep living your life being told what to do.
people are now afraid even to go out, some people.
for some, the face mask has become a hated symbol of intrusive government.
it will still be recommended in hospitals and enclosed public spaces but the legal requirement to wear a face covering will go.
unions say that will put workers at risk.
the days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations to follow will soon be gone and instead the government is asking us to use a common sense and make personal decisions about how we stay safe.
it’ a big shift in approach but it comes at a time when cases are rising.
the prime minister has been marking the ’ birthday, and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart of his covid strategy.
can you tell us how bad you expect it to get?
obviously we have to be cautious and we will continue to look at all the data as we progress.
if we don’ go ahead now when the summer fire break is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages that should give us in fighting the virus, the question is when would he go ahead.
what the modelling would imply is we will reach that peak before we get to the point where we have the kind of pressures that we saw in january for example this year.
labour says some will need more support.
to throw off all protections at the same time when the infection rate is still going up is reckless.
we need a balanced approach, we need to keep key protections in place including masks, ventilation and crucially on something we’ve asked for during the pandemic, proper payment for those who need to self—isolate.
later in the week we will find out about government’ plans for foreign travel and when we come into a positive case what will happen.
in schools, whole classes or bubbles won’ be sent home.
we have lived under restrictions that we could not have imagined.
today, boris johnson signalled it is time to get back to normal.
vicki young, news, westminster.
it has prompted some strong reactions.
earlier i spoke to eric fiegl—ding, an epidemiologist and seniorfellow at the federation of american scientists.
i asked him if the british government had made the right decision.
this is absolutely the wrong time and the wrong decision, period.
all i can say is it’ a horrible, terrible, no—good very bad decision.
the delta variant is not your normal variant.
the delta variant is the most contagious, fastest—tra nsmitting variant, much more than we’ve ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is 4—5 times greater risk of hospitalisation than the old strain, and also it is vaccine somewhat attenuating and evasive, so one dose is not enough and we know that with two doses, in israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905 to 64% — it is the wrong time.
eric, you are absolutely clear on that.
are at a pretty high level?
i know you mentioned israel there.
and that whilst it is easily transmissible, it is not as virulent as previous strains have proved to be.
so that is a complete misinformation and completely false.
that data wasyou are comparing apples and oranges.
the fact is the delta variant is way more severe, way more virulent, it causes severe disease and greater risk of hospitalisation by 4— to 5—fold according to the studies, peer reviews and also according to government data.
it is completely false to say it is less severe.
what would you say then to the prime minister when he says, "look, if we don’ go ahead now, when do we go ahead?
" what is your message there?
he’ framing it as, "0, we don’ want to live under a shroud of lockdowns, or we want to reopen.
" look, this is not a choice between lockdowns or reopening.
if you want to avoid lockdowns — everyone wants to avoid lockdown, nobody wanted lockdown — if you want to avoid a lockdown, the path to do that is not the one he chose, the path to do that is more masks, ventilation, air cleaning, ppes, things we discussed, but the path he’ chosen is the path towards lockdowns and we don’ want that because hospitalisations, you know, workers, healthcare workers, there is a toll that they can take, and when every medical ethics dictate you should always protect and prevent people suffering from hospitalisations and long covid, which 1 in 7 adults and 1 in 12 children suffer from long covid, that is not an acceptable statistic, so just saying, "let’ flood the hospitals right now, our hospital beds are not empty," that is just complete dereliction of any public health and ethical measures, especially as a government.
let’ spread the covid story further afield.
an alarming number of doctors in india have found themselves the targets of attacks by family members of patients who say their loved ones haven’ received sufficient medical care.
the indian medical association is now calling for a new law to protect healthcare workers.
divya arya has more from delhi, and a warning that her report contains disturbing scenes at the very start.
they used whatever they could lay their hands on, a metal bedpan, a wooden stick, orjust theirfists.
shocked by the death of their loved one from covid, these relatives took out their anger on this doctor.
on just a second day of work after graduating medical school.
one month later, the memory of the attack was still fresh.
: i was very scared.
and it felt like i wouldn’ survive the attack.
they were hitting my head.
my nose was constantly bleeding.
i begged them to stop, but they didn’.
36 people have now been charged.
a shocking case, but not by a long way india’ first during the pandemic.
in some cases, doctors have taken to the streets, complaining about the ongoing attacks that have occurred throughout the pandemic.
: the responsibility for the workers, the responsibility for all of us, so i wanted to be investigated properly.
they started throwing a plastic chair.
nobody was arrested over the attack, which has left the doctor suffering flashbacks.
at the peak of the second wave of infections, angry relatives damaged property at the apollo hospital.
: the most common factor is the lack of infrastructure in hospitals, because of this, hospitals get overcrowded, and as a result, the junior doctors often become the target of violence by relatives.
last month, doctors across india held demonstrations, calling for legal protection for health care staff, saying there has been a sharp increase in attacks during the pandemic.
many indian states have laws against attacking health workers, but the indian medical association says state legislation is not always enforced or even publicised.
they believe on the a new law passed by the central government can help stop the violence.
india has very few doctors for its billion plus people, now it is struggling to keep them safe.
divya arya, news.
at least140 students have been kidnapped in north west nigeria, following the latest attack on a school.
the military says 26 children were rescued.
more than 1,000 students have been seized for ransom since december.
nine have been killed and more than 200 are still missing.
well, stay with us on news, if you ran.
still to come: wimbledon woes for the british teen tennis sensation, emma raducanu.
we will explain.
central london has been rocked by a series of terrorist attacks.
police say there have been many casualties, and there is growing speculation that al-qaeda was responsible.
germany will be the hosts of the 2006 football world cup.
they pipped the favourite, south africa, by a single vote.
in south africa, the possibility of losing hadn’ even been contemplated.
celebration parties were cancelled.
a man entered the palace through a downstairs window and made his way to the queen’ private bedroom, then he asked her for a cigarette and, under the pretext of arranging for some to be bought, summoned a footman on duty who took the man away.
one child, one teacher, one book, and one pen can change the world.
education is the only solution.
this is news.
i’ david eades.
the latest headlines: troops head for the exit in afghanistan, as the taliban continues to seize more districts, and more than 1,000 afghan soldiers are said to have fled the country.
in england — where coronavirus cases are rising rapidly — the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most of the remaining restrictions in two weeks.
a russian—based hacking group known as revil has compromised the computer systems of at least 1,000 businesses worldwide by targeting an american provider, that writes and updates their software.
one of those affected is sweden’ coop supermarket, which has had to close some 500 outlets — that’ more than half its stores — because tills and self—service checkouts had stopped working.
well, revil has tailored its ransom demands to the size of each respective company, but on sunday said it would settle the lot for $70 million if someone were prepared to pay it.
earlier i spoke tojon bateman, a former intelligence analyst for the government.
what we’re seeing here with this heck is really the combination of two things that have happened before, but rarely together.
one is a supply chain compromise, whereby hackers gain access to one victim and then use that to then get a follow—on access to many, many other victims.
the other is ransomware, where a company’ data is held hostage unless they pay cryptocurrency.
but again, both of these things are increasingly common, but this is one of the most expensive hacks that combines both techniques together, and that is people are calling this the biggest ransomware attack of all time, although it is still a bit early to quantify the impact.
yeah, ijust wonder what you make of this ‘job lot’ approach, saying, give us $70 million and we’ll clear everybody?
i mean, these are all completely separate businesses?
it’ fascinating and we haven’ seen that before.
some people theorise it’ actually just too many victims for the ransomware gang to process.
keep in mind these ransomware gangs operate much like businesses.
they have a customer service line and there are people who are paid primarily to negotiate and interact with victims.
but another possibility is that the ransomware gang involved here realised that they had done a bit more damage than they had intended and the level of law enforcement and intelligence scrutiny could be beyond what they anticipated.
right.
these are just two theories.
yeah.
you all it a "ransomware gang".
i mean, any idea on how many are involved in this sort of thing?
i think we recognise it may not be the work of a state, but how many people does it take to form a gang like an revil?
it’ hard to say, because most of them operate now on an affiliate or franchise model, whereby one set of people develops the malware and another set of people go out and gain access to victims and installs that malware.
and then there may be a third set of people that actually does the negotiations and payment processing.
but it’ likely that this was the responsibility of russian cyber criminals and not something specifically ordered by the russian state.
but it’ also important to realise that is somewhat beside the point, because moscow has a long—standing governmental policy of tolerating and legally protecting these sorts of gangs.
so, ultimately, vladimir putin is culpable for such attacks.
jon bateman.
they call it manic monday at wimbledon — and it’ lived up to that name, as all the men’ and women’ last 16 matches have been taking place.
defending men’ champion novak djokovic is through — as is roger federer.
no surprise.
former women’ champion, german angelique kerber beat coco gauff, but perhaps the most manic moment was reserved, very nfortu nately, for the last remaining british player in the singles, emma raducanu, who had to retire for medical reasons.
she was largely unknown before these wimbledon championships, but has already become a feature of newspaper headlines.
here is the times.
this is the telegraph’ sports section.
dramatic close to her rather dramatic close to her wimbledon there.
ben rothenberg is a writer for the new york times and host of the ‘no challenges remaining’ tennis podcast.
hejoined me from the press room at wimbledon a short time ago, saying there’ been little information released about emma raducanu’ retirement from the match.
yeah, very abrupt, mysterious, and disappointing, for sure.
raducanu was playing well and in the second set and seemed to be have some breathing difficulties and was hyperventilating a bit and then left court with the doctors for treatment and did not come back.
and it’ very unusual for a player to sort of retire from a match or abandon a match without coming back on the court to shake the opponent’ and everything.
so, it was concerning for her that she was not able to make it back to the court.
hopefully she is doing well.
there hasn’ been much information from the tournament or from her about how she’ doing, except to say the official reason for her withdrawal was for her breathing difficulties.
yes, speculation there.
one very exciting teenager does go out.
as indeed does the other, coco gauff, who we are familiar with now.
only 17.
and angelique kerber, i saw that match — kerber looked pretty good.
yeah, kerber is rounding into form very well.
she has had a couple of quiet years.
she hadn’ made a grand slam quarterfinal even since winning wimbledon in 2018, which is her last of her three major titles, but she’ really growing in confidence.
i think she’ a player who builds on that confidence really well and she’ someone who — no—one remaining in the draw will want to see across the net.
she is also the only former wimbledon champion left in the side in this final eight.
and we are still in that bizarre era with women’ tennis, aren’ we, where no—one is establishing themselves.
i mean, even serena williams, let’ be honest, is struggling to maintain her prowess, if you like, on the court.
and i think you were pointing out something like there have been 22 different women’ names in the quarterfinals for the slams this year, out of 2a possible places?
yeah.
no, it’ been really remarkable and a completely new slate of players compared to the final eight in paris.
so, it’ already complete 100% turnover.
and one of those names who have been in two, ash barty, who is the number one ranked player, i think she has a chance to solidify herself as being a force if she goes on a good run here.
maybe she will add a little bit of stability for the title.
and then obviously naomi osaka when she comes back, someone who is still very competitive there.
it might look random at a casual glance, but certainly nowhere near the stability of the men’ side with novak djokovic.
we have an australian producer working on this story, at the moment, ben.
sol have got to mention it — it is an all—australia quarterfinal.
ash barty against either tomljanovic, who basically had that win it shows how ate it is there!
the light is going!
do you think ash barty could actually emerge as the winner in the women’ side?
0, absolutely!
she is comfortable on grass, she — no—one doubts after she recovered at the french open from that hip injury.
and through her four matches, she makes it look like she is doing 0, and her wins were convincing so far.
she should probably go in as the favourite for every match she plays for the remainder of this tournament.
a quick word about the men.
no surprises, djokovic is through.
federer is through but it wasn’ easy, but straight sets in the end?
but there is no—one but novak djokovic for the men’ — to win the men’ singles, is there?
i think if novak djokovic loses, it will likely be to himself — beating himself.
there are some capable players in the final that are still there.
matteo berrettini, the winner of queen’ club is really emerging as a solid player on grass.
but i think djokovic is still ahead of the field and pulling his way over christian garin today was very convincing.
and so not many signs of slowing down at this point in the tournament.
ben rothenberg.
thanks for watching.
hello there.
monday was drierfor a while across england and wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill from the south.
this rain here is marching its way northwards across the up into northern england and scotland, where already in the past few days in edinburgh, we have had a month’ worth of rain.
now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times — northwards up towards scotland and northern england with blustery showers following to the south.
for a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather along the coast of england all the way from dorset across to suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
it won’ be as windy in the afternoon, but there will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got this more persistent rain, never really clearing away from northern england, pushing into eastern scotland.
elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
the showers are never too far away, and they may well be heavy as well.
generally, temperatures a bit lower on tuesday, 18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it stays wet in northern england and eastern scotland.
and as we have seen, there are some showers around, they could well affect wimbledon once again.
it’ going to be another day where we may well have the covers on and off.
those showers will probably tend to ease off though during the evening and into the night.
more places become dry, still got some wetter weather towards the north—east of scotland.
the breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
now, it’ low pressure that’ brought all the rain over recent days, in the centre of the low pressure, by the time we get to wednesday, it’ close to the north—east of scotland.
so there’ more cloud rolling in here and some patchy rain around, too.
elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine, but we are going to find showers breaking out, and those could turn heavy and thundery come the afternoon, particularly across wales, the midlands, across to lincolnshire as well.
temperatures may be a notch higher on friday, still no better than 20—21 celsius.
let’ end with a glimmer of hope, because the low pressure is trying to move away.
this is where high—pressure is, weather, and this is trying to nudge up from the south—west across the .
50 during thursday and friday, the winds won’ be as strong, and for more places, it will be dry.
some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for scotland and northern ireland.
temperatures should be a little bit higher.
this is news.
the headlines: russia, iran and turkey have suspended work at their consulates in the afghan city of mazar——sharif, as the taliban make advances across the region, a week after troops completed their exit.
over 1,000 afghan soldiers have been forced to flee across the border into tajikistan.
england’ covid lockdown will end in two weeks’ time despite scientists urging caution as the number of cases is still rising.
the british prime minister says it’ possible because 86% of adults have been vaccinated.
from the 19th ofjuly face masks will be voluntary and social distancing scrapped.
a cybercrime gang thought to be behind a huge global ransomware attack, is demanding $70 million in cryptocurrency.
the russia—linked revil group says it will unlock all the computer systems it’ blocking in exchange for the payment.
the end of social distancing in england’ pubs and restaurants means a return to drinking at the bar without the requirement for table service.
will also reopen.
the hospitality industry has been hit hard by the pandemic and has welcomed the announcement, though some staff are worried about working in a crowded environment without face masks.
our north of england correspondent danny savage reports.
another busy lunchtime at the bull inn, in north yorkshire.
staff are wearing facemasks, customers have to register, it is table service only and all at a safe social distance.
but in two weeks’ time, all those restrictions go.
a bit scared, really.
commercially, fantastic, let’ just go back to normal.
gill runs the pub but does she trust the public to act responsibly?
there is a big section of the community, particularly when they get a few points down them, who don’ take that much responsibility for themselves or others.
and i don’ want to damn people but it’ a fact, i’ve witnessed that.
lifting restrictions will potentially see demand soar in hospitality.
you could stand at the her again, although table service has won a lot of fans.
but the big debate will be about facemasks.
at the wardrobe bar in leeds today, manager ryan discussed the changes with his staff.
no codes, no social distance, no masks around at work.
how do you feel?
what should we be doing?
quite excited not to wear a mask in this weather!
i think i’ll be happy to get rid of them.
it’ been so long having them on and it willjust be nice to go back to normal.
the easing of the restrictions is great, it quadruples the numbers we can get in, in the bar and in the music venue as well and by that perspective, yeah, it’ fantastic.
downstairs, this venue is currently allowed 70 customers.
soon a50 will be allowed back in.
professional guitarist jake can finally see some hope arriving.
i would say about 90% of my income was live performance and live sessions and due to theatres and venues being closed for that long, it’ just not been able to go ahead at all.
it would mean a lot.
many people in hospitality will still wear facemasks, they feel safer doing so, but will customers match them?
danny savage, news, leeds.
now on news, the travel show you’ve gotta love it, proper british coastline.
we’re on an adventure across the as it opens up for travel again.
yes!
we’re open!
from rugged coastlines to breathtaking landscapes and natural habitats.
see that?
ourjourney will take us to the four nations that make up the united kingdom.
and with an eye on our carbon footprint, we’re in an all—electric revamp of an iconic british motor.
on this week’ show, lucy’ behind the wheels in wales, where she’ll be trying to take it down a notch oh, god.
i’ going a bit too fast.
that’ right.
it’ quite a discipline.
making some new mates in the do you want more food?
oh, that feels really weird on my hand!
and throwing herself right in the deep end.
whoo!
hello and croeso i gymru, or welcome to wales, and the next leg of our travel showjourney across the .
i don’ know about you but i’ pretty excited!
we’re in cardiff, the capital of wales, a country that usually attracts 1 million international visitors a year.
now, how do we turn it on?
nothing but silence.
at the moment, i don’ really feel like i’ driving a big van.
it’ just — it’ quiet, it’ smooth — a bit too smooth.
there’ no sound, which is freaking me out a little bit.
i’ not completely confident with it yet.
at one of cardiff’ most recognisable landmarks, there’ definitely a sense that tourism is returning.
but i’ heading south to the waterfront — a symbol of the city’ successful regeneration.
cardiff bay — or tiger bay, as it was known to locals — was home to one of the earliest large—scale multiracial communities in britain.
tiger bay it’ not very far from the dock as the welsh coal industry grew, so did cardiff.
by the 19th century, it was the biggest exporter globally.
workers flocked to the area, creating a community in butetown that was soon home to more than 50 nationalities.
tiger bay keith murrell is the man behind butetown carnival, an annual celebration of the area’ diverse past.
this is the core of the traditional butetown community.
things have been changed but this is almost the epicentre of where everything was happening.
50 describe the festival to me.
i would say it’ two days of music and fun, but the emphasis is on local music.
so, you know, with a lot of tourists coming here, would you say butetown festival is something that they would consider?
would they be welcomed here?
absolutely.
as i said, in its heyday, we were getting attendances of 25,000 people.
that was a time when maybe 4,000 people were living here.
so it was obviously catering for the whole of the city and yet, presenting butetown in the most positive light.
this is a port.
and this community most especially is built on a port.
it’ about people coming and going — we love people coming and going.
one of the things is — again, about community pride — if you’ve got something, you want people to come to it.
last year, organisers were forced to take the carnival online.
but this year, they are hoping to hold a stripped—back event.
and preparations are under way.
for the last few years, june has performed at the carnival.
her trinidadian—inspired outfit is homage to the people that once migrated here hundreds of years ago.
butohjapanese is a style of very slow motion.
i’ not a young person anymore so moving quite slowly, it’ giving me another vehicle to perform.
so i’ just going to take yourfoot forward and you just slowly lunge as if you’re in slow motion.
it almost looks like the bionic man.
like someone has hit the slomo button on us.
and you just — you just — that’ it.
you just kind of breathe and slowly move and maybe i’ gonna do a wave, so you take your time to oh, god — i’ going a bit too fast!
that’ right.
it’ quite a discipline.
and then just do a little way.
just a little wave.
oh, my gosh, the concentration!
my legs are shaking a little bit.
so what was that about you not being young?
my thighs are aching and ijust did that for about two minutes!
well, it’ been brief — i’ve only been here for a couple of days — but i have had the best time here in cardiff and i genuinely cannot wait to see what else wales has in store for me.
i leave the city for the rolling hills of the brecon beacons, less than an hour’ drive from cardiff.
the national park is home to over 1000 farms, largely dedicated to livestock.
and with over 250,000 visitors a year, one particularly savvy farmer has developed an interesting business model — trekking with sheep.
he’ checking me out.
he’ just checking — he’ checking i’ all good.
his problem is he can’ really see very good because his hair is so long, it’ in his face.
meat patches, my new pal for the afternoon.
do you want more food?
i need to prove that i’ your friend.
oh, that feels really weird on my hand!
you’ve got a very warm tongue there, patches!
come on!
patches, you can have more food in a moment.
the plan is to follow a trail around the farm with my fluffy companion.
he’ pretty obedient.
sometimes he kind of veers to the left or right and i feel like i’ the one being walked.
it turns out to be trickier than it looks.
come on, patches!
come on!
50 nicole, since lockdown, have you seen demand for this experience growing?
yeah, so a lot of people want to be outside in the open air.
this experience, because we are able to be distanced, there is not so much pressure on that, and people just enjoy being with sheep and being able to stroke the sheep and actually being able to physically be around them, whereas normally they just see in the fields and they run away.
when we first opened, it was quite slow.
we did not really have that many people.
i think people were a bit wary.
they are bit like "hmm, really?
walking sheep?
" yeah, yeah.
they’ not really heard of that before.
we started because it was similar to alpaca trekking but with sheep, it’ more native.
and we ourselves are used to looking after sheep, whereas alpacas is something a bit different and a bit scary.
now before i head off, nicola says she’ got one more surprise in store.
welcome to wales’ very own crufts—inspired goat agility training course.
so the easiest one to start with this probably this one.
they come out and you can give them a bit of food and then they will walk down the other side.
alrighty!
whee!
up you go!
come on, you can do it!
you can do it!
limb, climb, yeah!
yay!
there we go!
woo—hoe!
well done!
good boy!
i am getting tangled a bit!
yeah!
come though and this way.
good boy!
so how did you start these agility courses?
we’ve seen dogs do agility, we’ve actually seen pony and horse agility yes.
and we’ve seen some videos of youtube on people doing sheep agility and we thought "we’ll have a go!
" goats!
not?
so, and goats love to climb.
yes.
they love to just jump and just cause havoc.
as we saw.
yeah!
so we thought "why not have a go and to see whether they enjoy it?
" and they seem to love climbing things.
yeah, i was gonna say, they do really seem to enjoy this, and they are learning as well.
exactly.
these guys are only about 16 weeks old now.
yeah.
they have not been doing about long, so it’ all new to them and they are just loving every minute of it, really.
yeah, so what’ the purpose.
obviously, you said to me they are learning and learning skills, but do they compete?
no.
not yet!
not yet!
we haven’ seen any goat agility competitions yet.
yeah, yeah.
there’ always a first for everything, huh?
exactly, exactly!
maybe we’ll enter in some dog agility with the goats.
i’ sure we will get some funny looks there.
yeah, i’ sure!
come on!
for my next adventure, i’ swapping green hills for craggy coastlines as we head west.
pembrokeshire is the ’ only national park, where beaches and coves punctuate nearly 200 miles of cliffs.
the beauty of pembrokeshire has not gone unnoticed and in recent years, the amount of visitors to the area has been growing.
now, as lockdown loosens, this summer, businesses are expecting more bookings than ever.
so welcome to ramsey island.
my guide ffion has worked on the waters around ramsey island for over 20 years.
this is the largest gull in the world.
it’ the great black—backed gull.
i’ve seen one eat a rabbit, whole, live, down in one.
they have also been known to take little terriers, so definitely not one to be messed with.
seagulls are pretty intimidating though, aren’ they, so at nearly 400 feet in places, the western cliffs on the island are some of the highest in wales, making it one of the best places for birdwatching in the .
25 years ago, an oil tanker spilt 72,000 tons of oil into these waters, turning beaches black and killing thousands of seabirds.
this devastating event spurred on locals to develop a marine code for visitors.
part of the problem is other water users who are not used to the area don’ know the area, don’ know the wildlife.
and it is not knowing about it, so not knowing that they may be disturbing it.
the code encourages visitors to plan ahead, reduce speed and keep their distance from wildlife.
people will only save what they are passionate about.
and to make them passionate about it, you have to take them out and show it to them.
so it’ about striking a real balance between showing them what an amazing wildlife we have on our doorstep, but also not impacting it, not having a detrimental effect on it in the sort of meantime, so it’ trying to strike that balance.
in recent years, this stretch of coastline has made a name for itself as one of the best places in the world to go to coasteering.
which is essentially scrambling along the cliffs.
it’ hard to put a date on when coasteering started — i’ sure it’ been happening for hundreds of years — but we are the first company to provide it as a commercial activity.
so we made it more accessible to people and gave anybody, essentially, the opportunity to come and see what the coastline about here has to offer, you know?
and yeah, it’ a bit mad to think that it started just over here.
how did you cope during the last year?
how has it been for you guys?
so it’ been really difficult but we are seeing a lot more tourism in the area.
there’ a lot of people that would be going to europe or further afield and if we can give them an insight into the spaces that we have on our doorstep, because we know how important they are — especially after the lockdowns, the difference that being outside can make.
we just need to make sure that we’re not abusing those spaces and that we’re really looking after them, so that generations to follow can also enjoy them.
so now that i’ looking out, the nerves are kicking in a little bit, but it’ more about the temperature of the water, rather than the activity — i’ actually really looking forward to exploring kind of nature at sea level.
i’ve never done this before, so get me in that water.
yes!
there’ no way i could have done that without my hands.
i need more confidence.
as well as performing backflips, sam was also an expert on the local geology and wildlife.
then it was back into the waves for the big finale.
sam had one lastjump in store for me.
this is real adrenalinejunkie stuff, and it is notjust aboutjumping off the cliffs and getting in the water, it’ so much information, so much nature and wildlife, and sam is so good at breaking it down, so you experience the mixing of the crazy sport element and just learning, honestly i could do this all day.
next up, lam heading 90 miles inland, to the dyfi valley.
situated on the southern edge of snowdonia national park, it’ home to one of the steepest cliff funiculars in the world.
i can hear it filling up with water, here we go!
we are on the move.
what is unusual about this is that it’ powered by water, one of only a handful of its kind.
this funicular is 30 years old, and was put in place to essentially get people up and down the hill, a hill that was originally used to get slate down.
it’ a little disconcerting looking at the view, but what a view, and what a fantastic use of sustainable technology.
and it’ all part of this — the centre for alternative technology.
founded in the 705 on a disused slate quarry, this place was ahead of its time, a pioneer in the move towards renewable lifestyles.
in 2009, the region was given biosphere status to recognise the area’ green credentials.
down the road from , and another attraction is doing its bit to promote a more sustainable future.
all with the help of the world’ second largest rodent — the beaver.
well, as we came out of the last lockdown we have a new addition to the nature reserve, and we now have a family of beavers.
so explain to me what i’ looking out on here.
where would the beavers live?
the beavers is an enclosure, that’ just in this area here.
they have seven acres of wet scrub to get their teeth into, and they are here to help us with reserve management.
400 years ago, beavers were hunted to extinction for theirfur, meat and oil.
this loss had a devastating impact on the land, and today ecologists are hoping their reintroduction can reverse this effect.
and what was it like finally getting them here?
to actually release them and see them swim into that pool, it was a bit goosebumpy.
i bet!
here we are, the beaver enclosure.
i say to people, i am going into the bog on a daily basis.
sadly, beavers don’ have a great rep, but kim is hoping to change that.
there is a lot of information out there about beavers, people don’ understand that they are vegetarian, and so there is some conflict that they are going to eat all the fish from the rivers.
as with anything that is new and change there is fear around that, but we are just trying to educate people that this is what beavers do in this landscape.
beavers are just one additional tool in the current climate crisis.
where you have beavers, you have increasing biodiversity.
amazingly, kim has already seen a change to the reserve.
they have only been in six weeks and already we’re seeing in changes to the water channels, they are connecting up the pools, they have made a canal, and we are seeing lots of pathways like this when they are coming in and out and feeding on this stuff, on the willow.
i couldn’ come all this way and not see what all the fuss was about.
but because beavers are nocturnal, we had to come back dusk.
yeah, yeah, there is a beaver coming!
oh i see it, i see it, yeah, yeah, yeah!
coming straight towards us.
just coming across.
right into the sun.
well, we have been waiting quite a while, i was just about to give up hope, and around the corner came a beaver, totally worth being eaten alive by midges for, i think i’ve inhaled about 20 as well.
totally worth it.
we saw beavers!
for my last leg of this journey i am heading west to aberystwyth, a popular welsh holiday resort and home to a thriving student population.
i am at the university’ art centre where wales’ musical tradition is being given a new lease of life.
the two outside rows are like the white notes one piano .
which means you get that nice echo sound, and the middle row are like the black notes.
but i won’ demonstrate because i never tune them, because life’ too short.
this is the triple harp, an instrument only played by a handful of people across the world.
i think it’ europe’ only unbroken harping tradition.
so it very nearly did die out, but it’ great that recently i think there has been a surge in interest in young people.
cerys is member of avanc, a welsh folk band formed of young musicians from all over wales.
over lockdown they recorded and collaborated remotely, streaming their performances to thousands across social media.
would you say doing these virtual performances and recordings, has that kept you sane during lockdown?
yeah, there’ a world out there.
yeah, but i bet you can’ wait for things to get back to normal, so performances can resume, things like that.
oh, the wind is playing the harp!
it’sjoining in.
yeah, this is the wind playing the strings.
well, here’ hoping i can play this thing better than the wind.
i am not going to lie, cerys, i feel a bit unnatural here.
i look the part you look the part, and that is all that matters.
all right, here we go.
i am on the red string and you get the hand on the other red string, and you play them, and you’ve got a little echo.
like that, and back down again, then here it’ really messing with my eyes, how do you do this without going mad!
that was the first bar of a famous welsh tune called bys, which is the one everyone learns first, so you are well on the way.
you’ll make a star of me yet, cerys.
what a trip!
wales has made me feel well and truly welcome.
and that’ what’ really struck me at every turn during this journey — the openness of the people i’ve met, their history and their hope for the future.
next time, in the final leg of our series: christa is in northern ireland where she will take to the skies her hand at oyster shucking and explore one of the country’ magnificent natural wonders.
incredible.
legend has it that it came about because of a fight between two giants.
hello there.
monday was drierfor a while across england and wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill from the south.
this rain here is marching its way northwards across the up into northern england and scotland, where already in the past few days in edinburgh, we have had a month’ worth of rain.
now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times — northwards up towards scotland and northern england with blustery showers following to the south.
for a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather along the coast of england all the way from dorset across to suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
it won’ be as windy in the afternoon, but there will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got this more persistent rain, never really clearing away from northern england, pushing into eastern scotland.
elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
the showers are never too far away, and they may well be heavy as well.
generally, temperatures a bit lower on tuesday, 18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it stays wet in northern england and eastern scotland.
and as we have seen, there are some showers around, they could well affect wimbledon once again.
it’ going to be another day where we may well have the covers on and off.
those showers will probably tend to ease off though during the evening and into the night.
more places become dry, still got some wetter weather towards the north—east of scotland.
the breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
now, it’ low pressure that’ brought all the rain over recent days, in the centre of the low pressure, by the time we get to wednesday, it’ close to the north—east of scotland.
so there’ more cloud rolling in here and some patchy rain around, too.
elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine, but we are going to find showers breaking out, and those could turn heavy and thundery come the afternoon, particularly across wales, the midlands, across to lincolnshire as well.
temperatures may be a notch higher on friday, still no better than 20—21 celsius.
let’ end with a glimmer of hope, because the low pressure is trying to move away.
this is where high—pressure is, weather, and this is trying to nudge up from the south—west across the .
50 during thursday and friday, the winds won’ be as strong, and for more places, it will be dry.
some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for scotland and northern ireland.
temperatures should be a little bit higher.
welcome to news.
i’ david eades.
our top stories: the taliban take advantage, with troops pulling out of afghanistan, they seize more districts, while 1,000 afghan soldiers are said to have fled the country.
in england the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most remaining covid restrictions — despite a sharp rise in coronavirus cases.
a russian gang behind a huge global cyber attack demands seventy million dollars in ransom from dozens of companies.
and the british teenager emma raducanu’ wimbledon journey ends abruptly as she pulls out on medical grounds in the fourth round.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
in afghanistan, a development many people feared, and many predicted.
violence is on the rise since the military withdrew from bagram air field last week, and the taliban have seized more districts.
this map, from a defence research think thank, shows the areas now in taliban control — they are in dark grey.
contested areas are in red and areas controlled by the afghan government in light grey.
it’ not possible to verify, but the taliban says it has captured 150 out of 369 districts in the past two months of fighting.
afghanistan’ interior ministry says it does not mean all of those areas have completely fallen.
more than a thousand afghan government soldiers have fled across the border into tajikistan according to the government there.
the ’ security correspondent frank gardner reports.
on their own now, but still fighting the taliban.
afghan security forces are in action this week without the military support they’ve relied on, for the past 20 years.
the strategic bagram air base, just north of kabul, is an afghan government hands now.
the americans pulled out last week, leaving behind a deeply unstable country.
the former president, hamid karzai, blames the west.
the entire mission with regard to the stated objective of the united states and its nato allies in defeating terrorism and extremism has failed.
the military compartment that was intended to fight extremism and terrorism, that, rather than doing the job correctly and where it was needed, began to hurt and harass and bomb and imprison afghans.
that’ where it failed.
and that’ where our failure today is.
others blame endemic corruption, inefficiency and massive waste.
the conflict has costed an estimated $1 trillion and over 100,000 lives, and it could be about to get worse.
taliban insurgents are on the offensive.
they reportedly control a quarter of afghanistan’ districts after overrunning several government outposts.
they are insisting no western forces be left behind.
all foreign forces should withdraw from the country whether they are contractor, adviser and trainers, because they were part of the occupation.
that’ a violation, we will react.
but that reaction would be based on the decision of our leadership.
in kandahar province — the former taliban stronghold — residents have been voicing their fears of what they think the return to power might mean.
: the taliban don’ want peace, the taliban want the whole government.
the taliban are only killing.
and there’ another concern.
osama bin laden may be dead, but his organisation, al-qaeda, lives on.
many fear a return of the taliban means a return of al-qaeda.
a nightmare scenario not just for afghanistan, but for much of the world.
frank gardner, news.
the british prime minister borisjohnson has confirmed that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions in england in two weeks time, with a final decision next week.
that would mean workers returning to the office and an end to social distancing.
but it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
there’ been an average of over 25,000 daily cases over the past week.
but the government says this is manageable because the vaccine rollout has meant hospitalisations and deaths are comparatively low.
this graph shows the growth of cases in the second and the current third wave of the virus — which includes the new delta varient — with both growing rapidly.
but this graph shows that current hospitalisations are lagging far behind the second wave — although they are still rising.
and a similar pattern can been seen in the statistics for deaths.
as you can see they are far fewer than in the last wave.
mrjohnson has warned that covid infections across the were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day later this month.
our deputy political editor vicky young reports.
all around us the signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
instructions about where we can go, who we can see, even in our own homes, how far apart we must stand, but in two weeks things could change.
covid has not gone but most restrictions in england are likely to disappear.
restaurants and pubs can operate normally, theatres and cinemas can fill every seat, large crowds can meet once more.
the prime minister putting the emphasis on personal responsibility instead of government orders.
i want to stress from the outset that this pandemic is farfrom over.
and we must reconcile ourselves, sadly, to more deaths from covid.
there’ only one reason we can contemplate going ahead to step four in circumstances where we would normally be locking down further, and that is because of the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
and in bristol, people are starting to contemplate life with fewer rules.
personally i think it’ better to be safe than sorry, but just like every normal person, i welcome the change.
it’ the wrong thing, wrong decision.
: why?
why?
because the cases are going up.
at least give it a go and then, if anything just gets worse, go back to it — you can always go back.
i think we’ve just have to live with it, and that’ that.
you can’ keep living your life being told what to do.
people are now afraid — they’re even now afraid to go out, some people.
for some, the face mask has become a hated symbol of intrusive government.
it will still be recommended in hospitals and enclosed public spaces but the legal requirement to wear face coverings will go.
unions say that will put workers at risk.
the days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations to follow will soon be gone.
instead the government is asking us to use our common sense, make personal decisions about how we stay safe.
it’ a big shift in approach but it comes at a time when cases are rising.
the prime minister has been marking the ’ birthday, and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart of his covid strategy.
can you tell us how bad you expect it to get?
obviously we have to be cautious and we will continue to look at all the data as we progress.
if we don’ go ahead now when the summer fire break is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages that that should give us in fighting the virus, then the question is when would we go ahead?
what the modelling would imply is that we will reach that peak before we get to the point where we have the kind of pressures that we saw injanuary, for example, of this year.
labour says some will need more support.
to throw off all protections at the same time, when the infection rate is still going up, is reckless.
we need a balanced approach, we need to keep key protections in place, including masks, including ventilation and, crucially, something we’ve been asking for throughout the pandemic, proper payment for those that need to self—isolate.
later in the week we will find out about government’ plans for foreign travel and what happens when we come into contact with a positive covid case.
in schools, whole classes or bubbles won’ be sent home.
for 16 months we have lived under restrictions we could never have imagined.
today, borisjohnson signalled that it is time for life to get back to normal.
vicki young, news, westminster.
these changes have elicited some very strong reactions.
earlier i spoke to eric fiegl—ding, an epidemiologist and senior fellow at the federation of american scientists.
i asked him if the british government had made the right decision.
this is absolutely the wrong time and the wrong decision, period.
the only thing i can say is it’ a horrible, terrible, no—good, very bad decision, because the delta variant is not your normal variant.
the delta variant is the most contagious, fastest—tra nsmitting variant, much more than we’ve ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is about 4—5 times greater risk of hospitalisation than the old strain, and also it is vaccine somewhat attenuating and evasive, we know that one dose is not enough and we know that with two doses, in israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905 to just 64%, according to the latest data — this is the wrong time.
eric, you are absolutely clear on that.
are at a pretty high level — i know you mentioned israel there — and that whilst it is easily transmissible, it is not as virulent as previous strains have proved to be.
so that is a complete misinformation and completely false.
that data wasyou are comparing apples and oranges.
the fact is that the delta variant is way more severe, way more virulent, it causes severe disease and greater risk of hospitalisation by 4— to 5—fold, according to the studies peer—reviewed, and also according to government data.
so it is completely false to say it is less severe.
what would you say then to the prime minister when he says, "look, if we don’ go ahead now, when do we go ahead?
" what is your message there?
he’ framing it as, "0, we don’ want to live under a shroud of lockdowns, or we want to reopen.
" look, this is not a choice between lockdowns or reopening.
if you want to avoid lockdowns — everyone wants to avoid lockdowns, nobody wanted more lockdowns — if you want to avoid lockdowns, the path to do that is actually not the one he chose, the path to do that is more masks, ventilation, aircleaning, ppes, and things we’ve discussed, but the path he’ chosen is the path towards lockdowns and we do not want that because hospitalisations — you know, workers, healthcare workers, there is a toll that they can take, and when every medical ethics dictate you should always protect and prevent people from suffering, hospitalisations and long covid — which 1 in 7 adults and 1 in 12 children sufferfrom long covid — that is not an acceptable statistic, and so just saying, "let’ flood the hospitals right now, our hospital beds are not empty," that is just complete dereliction of any public health and ethical measures, especially as a government leader.
asl as i said, some strong views held there.
let’ stay on the theme.
an alarming number of doctors in india have found themselves the targets of attacks by family members of patients who say their loved ones haven’ received sufficient medical care.
the indian medical association is now calling for a new law to protect healthcare workers.
divya arya has more from delhi, and a warning that her report contains disturbing scenes at the very start.
they used whatever they could lay their hands on, a metal bedpan, a wooden stick, orjust theirfists.
shocked by the death of their loved one from covid, these relatives took out their anger on 5er kumar senapati, on just a second day of work, , after graduating from medical school.
one month later, the memory of the attack was still fresh.
: i was very scared.
and it felt like i wouldn’ survive the attack.
they were hitting my head.
my nose was constantly bleeding.
i begged them to stop, but they didn’.
36 people have now been charged.
a shocking case, but not by a long way india’ first during the pandemic.
: we wantjustice!
in some cases, doctors have taken to the streets, complaining about the ongoing attacks that have occurred throughout the pandemic.
you are responsible for all these things so we are not seeing the case properly.
they started throwing a plastic chair.
nobody was arrested over the attack, which has left the reddy suffering flashbacks.
at the peak of the second wave of infections, angry relatives damaged property at apollo hospital.
: the most common factor is the lack of infrastructure in hospitals, because of this, hospitals get overcrowded, and as a result, the junior doctors often become the target of violence by relatives.
last month, doctors across india held demonstrations, calling for legal protection for health care staff, saying there has been a sharp increase in attacks during the pandemic.
many indian states have laws against attacking health workers, but the indian medical association says state legislation is not always enfored or even publicised.
they believe on the a new law passed by the central government can help stop this violence.
india has very few doctors for its billion plus people, now it is struggling to keep them safe.
divya arya, news, dehli.
stay with us on news, still to come: wimbledon woes for the british teen, tennis sensation, emma raducanu.
them are central london has been rocked by a series of terrorist attacks.
police say there have been many casualties, and there is growing speculation that al-qaeda was responsible.
germany will be the hosts of the 2006 football world cup.
they pipped the favourite, south africa, by a single vote.
in south africa, the possibility of losing hadn’ even been contemplated.
celebration parties were cancelled.
a man entered the palace through a downstairs window and made his way to the queen’ private bedroom, then he asked herfor a cigarette and, under the pretext of arranging for some to be bought, summoned a footman on duty who took the man away.
one child, one teacher, one book, and one pen can change the world.
education is the only solution.
this is world news, the latest headlines: troops head for the exit in afghanistan — as the taliban continues to seize more districts, and over a thousand afghan soldiers flee the country.
in england — where coronavirus cases are rising rapidly — the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most of the remaining restrictions in two weeks.
a russian—based hacking group known as reevil has compromised the computer systems of at least 1,000 provider, that writes and updates their software.
0ne of those affected is sweden’ co—op supermarket, which has had to close some 500 outlets — that’ more than half its stores — because tills and self—service checkouts had stopped working.
reevil has tailored its ransom demands to the size of each respective company, but on sunday said it would settle the lot for $70 million if someone were prepared to pay it.
earlier i spoke to jon bateman, a former intelligence analyst for the government.
what we’re seeing here with this heck is really the combination of two things that have happened before, but rarely together.
one is a supply chain compromise, whereby hackers gain access to one victim and then use that to then get a follow—on access to many, many other victims.
the other is ransomware, where a company’ data is held hostage unless they pay cryptocurrency.
but again, both of these things are increasingly common, but this is one of the most expensive hacks that combines both techniques together, and that is people are calling this the biggest ransomware attack of all time, although it is still a bit early to quantify the impact.
yeah, ijust wonder what you make of this ‘job lot’ approach, saying, give us $70 million and we’ll clear everybody?
i mean, these are all completely separate businesses?
it’ fascinating and we haven’ seen that before.
some people theorise it’ actually just too many victims for the ransomware gang to process.
keep in mind these ransomware gangs operate much like businesses.
they have a customer service line and there are people who are paid primarily to negotiate and interact with victims.
but another possibility is that the ransomware gang involved here realised that they had done a bit more damage than they had intended and the level of law enforcement and intelligence scrutiny could be beyond what they anticipated.
right.
these are just two theories.
yeah.
you all it a "ransomware gang".
i mean, any idea on how many are involved in this sort of thing?
i think we recognise it may not be the work of a state, but how many people does it take to form a gang like an revil?
it’ hard to say, because most of them operate now on an affiliate or franchise model, whereby one set of people develops the malware and another set of people go out and gain access to victims and installs that malware.
and then there may be a third set of people that actually does the negotiations and payment processing.
but it’ likely that this was the responsibility of russian cyber criminals and not something specifically ordered by the russian state.
but it’ also important to realise that is somewhat beside the point, because moscow has a long—standing governmental policy of tolerating and legally protecting these sorts of gangs.
so, ultimately, vladimir putin is culpable for such attacks.
jon bateman.
president of georgia has condemned the attacking of ces in the capital related the pride movement.
the arch for dignity" has also been lled, by the president, ecipe for ivil strife.
they call it manic monday at wimbledon — and it’ lived up to that name, as all the men’ and women’ last—16 matches have been taking place.
defending men’ champion novak djokovic is through — as is roger federer.
former women’ champion, german angelique kerber beat coco gauff but perhaps the most manic moment was reserved, very nfortu nately.
for the last remaining british player in the singles, emma raducanu, who had to retire for medical reasons.
she was largely unknown before these wimbledon championships, but has already become a feature of newspaper headlines.
ben rothenberg is a writer for the new york times and host of the ‘no challenges remaining’ tennis podcast.
hejoined me from the press room at wimbledon a short time ago saying there’ been little information released about emma raducanu’ retirement from the match.
yeah, very abrupt, mysterious, and disappointing, for sure.
raducanu was playing well and in the second set and seemed to be have some breathing difficulties and was hyperventilating a bit and then left court with the doctors for treatment and did not come back.
and it’ very unusual for a player to sort of retire from a match or abandon a match without coming back on the court to shake the opponent’ and everything.
so, it was concerning for her that she was not able to make it back to the court.
hopefully she is doing well.
there hasn’ been much information from the tournament or from her about how she’ doing, except to say the official reason for her withdrawal was for her breathing difficulties.
yes, speculation there.
one very exciting teenager does go out.
as indeed does the other, coco gauff, who we are familiar with now.
only 17.
and angelique kerber, i saw that match — kerber looked pretty good.
yeah, kerber is rounding into form very well.
she has had a couple of quiet years.
she hadn’ made a grand slam quarterfinal even since winning wimbledon in 2018, which is her last of her three major titles, but she’ really growing in confidence.
i think she’ a player who builds on that confidence really well and she’ someone who — no—one remaining in the draw will want to see across the net.
she is also the only former wimbledon champion left in the side in this final eight.
and we are still in that bizarre era with women’ tennis, aren’ we, where no—one is establishing themselves.
i mean, even serena williams, let’ be honest, is struggling to maintain her prowess, if you like, on the court.
and i think you were pointing out something like there have been 22 different women’ names in the quarterfinals for the slams this year, out of 2a possible places?
yeah.
no, it’ been really remarkable and a completely new slate of players compared to the final eight in paris.
so, it’ already complete 100% turnover.
and one of those names who have been in two, ash barty, who is the number one ranked player, i think she has a chance to solidify herself as being a force if she goes on a good run here.
maybe she will add a little bit of stability for the title.
and then obviously naomi osaka when she comes back, someone who is still very competitive there.
it might look random at a casual glance, but certainly nowhere near the stability of the men’ side with novak djokovic.
we have an australian producer working on this story, at the moment, ben.
sol have got to mention it — it is an all—australia quarterfinal.
ash barty against either tomljanovic, who basically had that win it shows how ate it is there!
the light is going!
do you think ash barty could actually emerge as the winner in the women’ side?
0, absolutely!
she is comfortable on grass, she — no—one doubts after she recovered at the french open from that hip injury.
and through her four matches, she makes it look like she is doing 0, and her wins were convincing so far.
she should probably go in as the favourite for every match she plays for the remainder of this tournament.
a quick word about the men.
no surprises, djokovic is through.
federer is through but it wasn’ easy, but straight sets in the end?
but there is no—one but novak djokovic for the men’ — to win the men’ singles, is there?
i think if novak djokovic loses, it will likely be due to himself — beating himself.
there are some capable players in the final that are still there.
matteo berrettini, the winner of queen’ club is really emerging as a solid player on grass.
but i think djokovic is still ahead of the field and pulling his way over christian garin today was very convincing.
and so not many signs of slowing down at this point in the tournament.
ben rothenberg.
plowing through the night.
this is news.
hello there.
monday was drierfor a while across england and wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill from the south.
this rain here is marching its way northwards across the up into northern england and scotland, where already in the past few days in edinburgh, we have had a month’ worth of rain.
now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times — northwards up towards scotland and northern england with blustery showers following to the south.
for a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather along the coast of england all the way from dorset across to suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
it won’ be as windy in the afternoon, but there will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got this more persistent rain, never really clearing away from northern england, pushing into eastern scotland.
elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
the showers are never too far away, and they may well be heavy as well.
generally, temperatures a bit lower on tuesday, 18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it stays wet in northern england and eastern scotland.
and as we have seen, there are some showers around, they could well affect wimbledon once again.
it’ going to be another day where we may well have the covers on and off.
those showers will probably tend to ease off though during the evening and into the night.
more places become dry, still got some wetter weather towards the north—east of scotland.
the breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
now, it’ low pressure that’ brought all the rain over recent days, in the centre of the low pressure, by the time we get to wednesday, it’ close to the north—east of scotland.
so there’ more cloud rolling in here and some patchy rain around, too.
elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine, but we are going to find showers breaking out, and those could turn heavy and thundery come the afternoon, particularly across wales, the midlands, across to lincolnshire as well.
temperatures may be a notch higher on friday, still no better than 20—21 celsius.
let’ end with a glimmer of hope, because the low pressure is trying to move away.
this is where high—pressure is, weather, and this is trying to nudge up from the south—west across the .
50 during thursday and friday, the winds won’ be as strong, and for more places, it will be dry.
some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for scotland and northern ireland.
temperatures should be a little bit higher.
this is news.
the headlines: russia, iran and turkey have suspended work at their consulates in the afghan city of mazar——sharif, as the taliban make advances across the region, a week after troops completed their exit.
over a thousand afghan soldiers have been forced to flee across the border into tajikistan.
england’ covid lockdown will end in two weeks’ time despite scientists urging caution as the number of cases is still rising.
the british prime minister says it’ possible because 86% of adults have been vaccinated.
from the 19th ofjuly, face masks will be voluntary and social distancing scrapped.
a cybercrime gang thought to be behind a huge global ransomware attack, is demanding $70 million in cryptocurrency.
the russia—linked revil group says it will unlock all the computer systems it’ blocking in exchange for the payment.
now it’ time for hardtalk.
welcome to hardtalk.
i’ stephen sackur.
in our culture of 24/7 news and trending social media reactions, it sometimes takes a novelist’ eye to chart the deeper currents swirling beneath society’ surface.
my guest today relishes entering choppy waters and swimming against the cultural tide.
lionel shriver is a british—based american writer whose fiction has addressed school shootings, obesity, economic crisis and, in her latest book, voluntary euthanasia.
she is a contrarian, but is she also a combatant in the western world’ culture wars.
lionel shriver in new york, welcome to hardtalk.
it’ a pleasure to talk to you.
it’ a pleasure to have you on the show.
would it be fair to say, judging from your recent writing, that your creative mind is increasingly preoccupied with ageing and with thoughts of mortality?
um short answer, yes.
long answer, i think i’ve always had a morbid streak and also a strange consciousness of ageing.
my first novel was written about a protagonist who was 59 years old and i look back on that rather comically because i thought that was old.
well, you know, i hope it’ not ungallant to say that you have crossed the 59 year threshold a few years ago.
but alas, yes.
yeah.
but the novel that you’ve just released, should we stay or should we go, it centres on two characters who we meet when i think they’re in their late 505.
but we then follow them through after they make a decision.
that is cyril and kay wilkinson, they make a decision that when they get to 80, or at least when kay, who’ the younger one, when she gets to 80 years old, they’re going to kill themselves to ensure that they neverfall into agonising dementia and physical decay.
did you play with that idea?
well, i was first inspired by a stray remark by a friend of mine who announced, with some conviction, that she had no desire to live beyond the age of 80, after which things seem to be going downhill, and i was curious whether or not she would be proactive once she actually got to the age of 80 or would laugh at her silly younger self and carry on indefinitely.
and, you know, ithink it throws up a lot of interesting moral and emotional questions.
i mean, the couple in the novel, who both work for the , have a lot of social consciousness as a result, and don’ want to cost the too much money as they age.
and they’ve also watched kay’ father deteriorate from dementia into a person that doesn’ resemble the estimable father she grew up with.
and it’ all very well to make a vow when you’re in your 505 that once you get to this unimaginable age that you’ll call it quits.
once you’re really up against it, it’ a different question.
yeah.
but, of course, for none of us at all is this just theoretical.
it’ real life for all of us, because not only are we ageing, but those of us who are lucky enough to still have parents around, we see them advancing in years as well.
and i know this is personal for you because you’ve written about the fact that your parents, and particularly your mother is struggling a great deal with dementia.
i think she’ about to turn 90.
so was that something very much in your mind as you wrote this?
0, certainly what’ happening with my parents has played a part in my interest.
i mean, afterall, we that’ what we go through.
if we’re fortunate enough to have parents who, you know, last, then we also often have to go through the misfortune of watching them deteriorate.
and that is very emotional, notjust because, you know, generally we care about them and treasure our images of our parents in their prime, but also it’, obviously, the writing on the wall.
when you watch your parents get old, it’ usually the first time you register on a really gut level that it’ going to happen to you.
you, ithink, relish plain speaking, so i’ going to ask you a very direct question.
when you talk about your mum and you say that, you know, she is physically very disabled now, she’ incontinent, she barely recognises anybody.
and i’ asking this in the context of your novel.
do you think that it would be better if she were able to end her own life as she wishes at the time of her own choosing?
well, one of the one of the difficulties of making these kinds of plans or vows on your own behalf is the kind of circumstance my mother finds herself in.
she had a terrible stroke in 2015 and she’ not really in any condition to make a decision like that.
no doctor would take seriously an announcement from her that she had had enough.
in fact, she often declares that that she’ ready to die.
actually, the most profound thing i heard her say was that, "i don’ want to die, but i need to die.
" but then she doesn’.
and the the body is just incredible, right?
it really does just chug on and it wants to survive.
and i think that, you know, because my work has often looked at the relationship between self and body, that’ one of the curious things about ageing and deteriorating is that, whatever you may feel, you know, however enthusiastic or not you may be about continuing, the body wants to live, the body wants to survive, and the body doesn’ get bored, the body doesn’ feel unsatisfied with its life.
so then, lionel shriver, it’ a battle between the mind and the body.
and you’re a woman of very strong mind and, thank god, able—bodied, but are you, right now in your 605, contemplating, like the character in your novel, stashing away a supply of deadly drugs so that there might come a time when you would say to yourself, "i want, while i can, i want to end my life "before it becomes agonising and counterproductive"?
well, i haven’, like my characters, actually stashed a little black box at the top of the refrigerator.
um but can see the attraction of of feeling that you have some kind of control, not necessarily to leave the building whenever the least discomfort strikes, but to feel that they can exercise some kind of agency.
and, you know, we seem to be, especially in britain, terribly paranoid about the so—called slippery slope, but what we would discover if we changed the law is not that we have this cascade of people queuing up to kill themselves, but how few would actually take advantage of such a law.
it’ intriguing to me that you wrote this novel clearly during the early phases, perhaps, of the pandemic and the pandemic is sort of a theme that runs see thousands dying around them and they’ve already made a pact to kill themselves, even though they’re perfectly able—bodied themselves.
how has the pandemic affected you personally?
i mean, did you find writing during a pandemic a very different experience?
well, of course, there was, you know, loads of time and no interruptions so, in some ways, it was perfect for a writer.
i mean, writers worth their salt would probably enjoy being in lockdown indefinitely.
iwas i was a little disturbed by how little my life changed because i stay home a lot anyway.
um you mean self—isolation is your natural state, is that what you’re saying?
it is indeed.
yeah.
and i got out of all those parties.
it didn’ really upset me.
i mostly found the pandemic disturbing on a political level, because i think, you know, we’ve never responded to a disease by locking down all of society and telling healthy people they couldn’ leave their home and enforcing it with the police.
but there was a reason liberties were curtailed.
it wasn’ simply because we have governors who want to repress us.
it was for the collective good.
there was something very collective about the response to the pandemic.
did you not, in some ways, think that highly admirable?
no, ididn’.
i thought it was a panic response.
i thought it was imitative on a governmental level, it was imitating other countries and it set a gruesome precedent for the future.
after all, we now have an understanding that if there is any perceived communal need, then we can rescind civil rights, and indefinitely.
and every kind of civil right, including the right to protest that you don’ want your civil rights taken away.
it’ interesting that you are known for your novels and they’ve been very successful notjust in the english—speaking world, but beyond, but in some ways right now you seem more energised — correct me if i’ wrong — by your role as a sort of outspoken provocateur in magazines, newspaper columns.
i don’ know how much you use social media, but you really get your opinions out there.
do you think that, in some ways, is more culturally influential than your novels?
i’ sad to sayprobably.
certainly my fiction career is more important to me, and i think that if my novels do endure, they have a better chance of lasting culturally than anything i write in non—fiction.
on the other hand, not that many people read novels, honestly, so that the audience for columns and comment pieces is right, but i wonder if, you know, this word i used, provocateur, that once you take that course, go down that track, of course you have to have opinions that do stir up a reaction, that provoke people, and maybe you relish that.
now, i’ just looking at some stuff you’ve written recently or said recently about immigration.
you know, you’ve talked about this, "not being something "one is supposed to say, but the experience of being "taken over" — you meant by immigrants — "is not that different from a military takeover.
"some people will celebrate the end of white hegemony.
"maybe that is great, but i’ one of those white people "and it’ hard to celebrate with my heart and soul.
" i mean, that kind of railing against immigration, it is bound to cause great offence, is it not?
i think immigration is an issue where people have told that they have to keep their mouths shut.
i should clarify that i’ very big on immigration, if only because i myself am an immigrant to britain.
you are.
so a small, steady, controlled level of immigration is entirely healthy for any society.
it brings fresh blood and new ideas and different perspectives.
i have a different view of uncontrolled, mass, largely illegal immigration, and i think a lot of people agree with me.
i mean, you talk about the scale of the ’, quote, "ethnic transformation".
you feel and see that, do you?
that’ your experience?
well, anyone who lives in london is has the ethnic transformation of britain up in face, and, no, ijust think that cultural change is usually more graceful when it is gradual.
and also the degree of transformation in europe in general is occurring without any consultation with the people who live there.
do you think you’ve ever taken it too far, your desire to sort of, i suppose, get in people’ faces with your views?
i’ thinking particularly, this goes a way back now, but i think five years ago you went to australia to talk at a literary festival and you donned a sombrero for some of that speech to make a point of, i suppose, mocking the decision in an american college to reprimand some students for holding a mexican tequila party wearing sombreros, so you chose to wear a sombrero, and then you made a speech in which you hoped that the notion of cultural appropriation in fiction was a fed, and that caused a real storm.
did you go over the top, do you think?
no, i don’ think so.
i mean, first of all, i should clarify that that speech is widely misreported, and i wore a sombrero for exactly the last two words of that lecture.
so it was just a little touch.
and then it gets widely reported that i wore it for the entire speech, which i find offensive mostly on a theatrical level.
i mean, that’.
that would be bad drama.
i don’ take back anything i said in that speech, which i don’ think was especially radical.
ido i had been hoping that cultural appropriation as a taboo was a fed, and it’ i haven’ taken that back.
i think it probably is, but it’ lasting longer than i hoped.
and, just briefly, especially in fiction writing, i believe that if you are not given permission to inhabit the lives of people different from yourself, then there is no fiction.
and i can’ help but see that as a loss because i am a fiction writer.
it is fascinating territory, sensitive territory.
i mean, your contention is that you are going to write fiction, you are going to continue to write with all sorts of different voices, using your imagination to inhabit worlds, you know, maybe of a young black woman or a black man or an indigenous person from australia.
i’ just guessing, i don’ know, but there are no limits, no fetters on your ability and right to imagine yourself into any situation, into any other person.
right?
that’ what you feel.
broadly, yes, and then, you know, the reader is welcome tojudge whether i did a good job and whether this person is plausible.
the upset caused by that, and i’ just going to quote to you the words of one member of the audience who walked out, who’ an australian writer, yassmin abdel—magied there was only one member who walked out, which got a lot of press.
yeah, sure.
she got a lot of press because she took seriously and thought seriously about what you said and she was appalled by it, you know, and she said that the reality is that those from marginalised groups, even today, don’ get the luxury of defining their own place in a norm that is profoundly white, straight and often patriarchal.
and she felt you were not allowing for that deep inequality that exists in the voices in literature, as in so many other parts of society.
i don’ think anything i said in that speech or outside it has suggestedhas damaged marginalised peoples in the slightest.
i’ just arguing for freedom of imagination for everyone.
and that includes non—white writers writing about white people.
i don’ want to cling to my culture and say, you know, "oh, you know, i have german heritage "and you can’ listen to beethoven.
" that’ absurd.
i want us to all relax and share what we know right.
and extend ourselves to each other.
that’ obviously one of the things that fiction is good for.
but i guess i guess your critics in the so—called progressive or woke community or whatever one calls it, but people who culturally are on a different side to you, they say, well, that’ all fine, but you have to look at the realities, the systems and where power and control lies in culture and society today.
and not spend more time trying to address the structural inequalities?
and they would then point to what you said after big publishing house penguin random house said that it was going to make its authors and staff members reflect more closely the ’ demographic balance across ethnicity, gender, sexuality, etc, and you said that was completely unacceptable.
and you said that it was going to be a complete sort of block on creativity.
why?
is it?
can’ there be efforts made to increase diversity?
i have no problem with efforts made to increase diversity.
ijust don’ like racial quotas.
i don’ like quotes of any kind.
and i value excellence above diversity, and i know that that’ become a controversial position, but i think publishing companies should make decisions about what to sell to the public, primarily according to whether the book is any good and whether or not there is a market for that book.
let me ask you this.
are there creative sort of projects that you have considered that you will now no longer work on because you fear the sensitivities are just too hot, the backlash likely to be too difficult for you to deal with.
no, i don’ have any subjects that i feel are off limits because they’re going to get me into trouble.
there are subjects that i’ likely to avoid because i’ just not going to do a good enoughjob or the idea i get for the novel is insufficient to make a good book.
i mean, that’ how i make my decisions.
it’ just i’ interested, not long ago, you were asked the question, would you write a novel with a black protagonist at the centre of it, and you said, "i should feel perfectly happy about that idea "but i bet i never do it.
"it strikes me as too dangerous.
" if i had a really great idea for a book and it had to have a black protagonist, i would give myself permission to do that.
but i would not do so naively and i would know that i would be subject to a certain amount of scrutiny.
and i find that having to anticipate that kind of scrutiny is disappointing.
it’ one of the difficulties of my era.
and, you know, it’ harder to be a novelist than it used to be.
right, last question.
some people who rail against quote—unquote "woke culture", they say that, you know, it’ become a cancel culture, but it strikes me people like you are very far this from being cancelled.
and the as well right now.
there isn’ a cancel culture, is there?
well, i’ afraid there is.
there are any number of people who have lost theirjobs because of minor political perceived indiscretions.
i have never complained that i have personally been subjected to some kind of cancellation.
i’ve stirred up some hornet’ nests on twitter, but i’ not even on twitter, so i haven’ had to subject myself to them.
so, you know, ithink i’ve been fortunate.
i have personally never felt that what i say has been restricted.
but i should clarify that the primary reason that i’ still here and still talking to you is that my publishing company, harpercollins, and the likes of the spectator, which publishes my column fortnightly, have stuck by me and have never told me there are things i can and cannot say.
they haven’ denounced me if i get bad press and i would like to see some more of that kind of courage at an institutional level.
the whole so—called cancel culture problem is not really rooted in social media and with a bunch of activists who get upset at anything, but with people in positions of authority who run scared, are terrified of controversy and don’ stick by their employees or their faculty or their writers.
and that’ the solution to any problem of cancel culture.
lionel shriver, we have to end there, but i thank you very much indeed forjoining me on hardtalk.
thank you.
i enjoyed talking to you.
hello there.
monday was drierfor a while across england and wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill from the south.
this rain here is marching its way northwards across the up into northern england and scotland, where already in the past few days in edinburgh, we have had a month’ worth of rain.
now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times — northwards up towards scotland and northern england with blustery showers following to the south.
for a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather along the coast of england all the way from dorset across to suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
it won’ be as windy in the afternoon, but there will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got this more persistent rain, never really clearing away from northern england, pushing into eastern scotland.
elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
the showers are never too far away, and they may well be heavy as well.
generally, temperatures a bit lower on tuesday, 18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it stays wet in northern england and eastern scotland.
and as we have seen, there are some showers around, they could well affect wimbledon once again.
it’ going to be another day where we may well have the covers on and off.
those showers will probably tend to ease off though during the evening and into the night.
more places become dry, still got some wetter weather towards the north—east of scotland.
the breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
now, it’ low pressure that’ brought all the rain over recent days, in the centre of the low pressure, by the time we get to wednesday, it’ close to the north—east of scotland.
so there’ more cloud rolling in here and some patchy rain around, too.
elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine, but we are going to find showers breaking out, and those could turn heavy and thundery come the afternoon, particularly across wales, the midlands, across to lincolnshire as well.
temperatures may be a notch higher on friday, still no better than 20—21 celsius.
this is where high—pressure is, weather, and this is trying to nudge up from the south—west across the .
50 during thursday and friday, the winds won’ be as strong, and for more places, it will be dry.
some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for scotland and northern ireland.
temperatures should be a little bit higher.
this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
overdue, or reckless?
the british government plans to end most of england’ covid restrictions, despite a sharp rise in cases.
russia a sharp rise in cases.
evacuate a consulate as the russia evacuate a consulate as the taliban continue to make advances across afghanistan.
a $70 million ransom demand as a ian gang launches a global yber attack against dozens of panies.
italy and spain’ footballers go head to head for a place in the euro 2020 final hello and welcome.
scientists around the world have been reacting to the england’ decision to lift most coronavirus restrictions in two weeks time.
prime minister borisjohnson said although cases were rising, it was now or never to make the change, and vaccines were having an impact.
if the plan is confirmed, masks will become optional and social distancing will end.
but one expert has told the , the plan doesn’ allow for the risk posted by the new delta variant.
damien grammaticas reports.
will hospitals be able to cope?
it’ a risk the prime minister ntemplating taking.
his sire is to remove all covid estrictions across england, as infections are rising fast again.
but borisjohnson eves relaxing curbs now in believes relaxing curbs now in the summer is preferable.
ting could be worse.
be run the risk ither opening up at a very difficult time in the has an edge, an advantage the colder months, or again ting everything off to next ear, so do think it will be very balanced decision.
what nvisages no more social distancing, no limits on how ran visit your home, or many ran visit your home, or how many ran pack restaurants, and and pubs, theatres, nightclubs, sports stadiums all and full.
no more empty open and full.
no more empty offices, as the requirement to from home would end as well.
but there is a concern 3 ave of covid is under third wave of covid is under way, with an average of more 25,000 cases each day in than 25,000 cases each day in the past week, and the number cted is doubling roughly ery nine days.
his own chief ientific advisor said now is time to be controlling the vims.
us.
we are in the face of an easing epidemic at the moment, and therefore we need have accordingly in terms trying to limit transmission ead.
but the vaccination rogramme is blunting the ndemic.
the numbers in ospital and dying with covid relatively low.
is the reason mrjohnson believes he ahead, and he wants to ran go ahead, and he wants to remove the legal obligation to a mask as well, but the wear a mask as well, but the scientists are cautious, saying will continue to where there’.
there was a really consensus that under all rcumstances, some degree of rther social distancing will aintained even after the restrictions are lifted in law, hat has been part of the roadmap all the way through and is widely supported by the ientific views.
today we will more about the plans for ools.
here too the schools.
here too the government is hoping to live rictions, to put an end to bubblas and isolation of whole - ups, judging the cost is no nger worth the benefit.
germany has lifted its ban on travellers from the entering the country.
from wednesday, people who’ve had both vaccine doses won’ have to quarantine.
the changes also apply to those travelling from portugal, russia, india and nepal.
people who aren’ fully vaccinated will still have to quarantine for at least five days.
later in the programme, about 25 minutes, we will be essing what the economic outlook is for the economy ere is a vigilant third if there is a vigilant third wave of coronavirus, what will ean restaurants and it mean if restaurants and hospitality fully opens up without social distancing?
we will be having that nversation a little later in business coverage.
to afghanistan now, where russia hasjoined iran and turkey in suspending operations at its consulate in the northern city of mazar——sharif as the taliban make sweeping advances across the country.
militants claim they’ve captured 150 out of 369 districts in the past two months.
thousands of people have been displaced by fighting, as mark lobel reports.
the military left this air base just north of kabul so that night, its new afghan mander was only told after they had gone.
afghan security must now face the taliban alone.
in many vinces, including this one the country’ north—east.
: the taliban tried break the city’ defence and enter yesterday until dnight, but they faced a rong resistance from our efence and security forces.
: i’ a soldier of national army and i will efend my homeland, as long as of blood remains in my ody.
just 100 kilometres orth of here, neighbouring ikistan says more than 1000 fghan government soldiers have their.
a number of afghan ces may well have fled, but forces may well have ﬂad, but the afghan national army, the tomach afghan national police force that we have ked really hard to build up, hey have a fairly good pability, and we are not eally leaving with everything, ntelligence and drones will be there, and it is the han people’ will to defeat he taliban that is really dible.
the dark grey parts credibla.
the dark grey parts of this map showed areas iban it has captured.
150 of 369 districts in the two months of fighting, ncluding recapturing what now mbles a ghost town in their resembles a ghost town in their former stronghold of khandahar, uthern afghanistan, living security forces on edge and lies fleeing.
: tried to kill me.
if they lled me, who would look after children?
the taliban don’ peace, they want the whole vernment.
foreign forces a0 liban years after they offered a safe haven to qaeda, who attacked america, could that threats now —emerge?
if the country ollapses ack to the taliban, threat will be concentrated afghanistan and they have strong ties with al-qaeda.
if those ties resume, women’ are set ack, and rights are set back, and fighting in cities intensifies, any may question what they and many may question what they wore cost 200,000 lives and $1 lion is achieved?
there are many routes into europe, but none are strange as one.
belarus appears to be encouraging migrants who’ve arrived there from the middle east to cross over into neighbouring lithuania.
so far this year, the numbers are ten times what they were in the whole of 2020.
the president of the european union, ursula von der leyen says it appears to be politically motivated.
sara monetta has more.
the whiter specs on the screen re a group of iraqi men legally crossing from belarus nto huania.
in the past few into lithuania.
in the past few weeks, more and more have ched the european union in way.
the new migrant route hat caught the tiny baltic completely by surprise.
: each day we are aining around hundred 50 llegal migrants.
we have never seen such numbers before.
on average, they welcome about 70 ants in a year.
in the past migrants in a year.
in the past month alone, they have received than 1200 people.
the more than 1200 peopla.
the government says it’ not a ncidence.
: today thuania is experiencing an precedented migratory essure.
we witnessed how the ime of belarus is using migration tool of migration as a tool of political manipulation.
horities believe that belarus ' state airline is ying grants from baghdad and istanbul to the belarus and ital of nsk, and from capital of minsk, and from there, they can easily make eir way to lithuania their way to the lithuania border.
: it is not icult to understand the difficult to understand the certain link between the ctions that the has ppﬁed sanctions that the has applied belarus, and the ions that lukashenko is aking across the border now.
imposed sanctions on belams us after a ryanair flight forced to land at minsk so authorities could arrest the ident dissidentjournalist.
in retaliation the longtime arus and leader alexander kashenko said his bodyguards re no longer stop migrants rom crossing into the .
down he border, its full at the border, its full emergency, with lithuanian rnment asking villages to government asking villages to make room for the new arrivals, nnouncing the setting up of a second migrant camp.
: hybrid war is aged against lithuania and we to be united in focus, oth on the municipal and tional level in addressing challenges.
with belarus behaving re and more npredictably, people here are acing for act.
a russian—based hacking group known as reevil has compromised the computer systems of at least 1,000 provider, that writes and updates their software.
one of those affected is sweden’ co—op supermarket, which has had to close some 500 outlets — that’ more than half its stores — because tills and self—service checkouts had stopped working.
reevil has tailored its ransom demands to the size of each respective company, but on sunday said it would settle the lot for $70 million if someone were prepared to pay it.
i’ joined now byjoseph menn, investigative technology reporter for reuters, and an author on technology security.
tell us what you think of this most recent cyber attack.
it’ alarming.
it is the a very alarming.
it is the worst by scale ransom where ack otivated by money.
attack motivated by money.
there have been more than ing pretended to be about but have been more about stroying things, this one is ally about money though, but ay be more destructive in the end.
they asked for $70 million to shut the whole down, most that has thing down, the most that has ever been sought in a somewhere , but think the most alarming thing is the victims ’ do anything wrong.
they sing a managed security ovider in the managed curity provider itself got ked, so this is what the professionals advise, if you in a big enough company are not in a big enough company to manage your own security, urn it over to you turn it over to professionals, and in this case as professionals that it was the professionals that got hacked, so that is an rming escalation.
they are ing to be paid in bitcoin, 70 million worth.
your oughts on that?
that’ a bit nfusing.
they have infected least several hundred, quite sibly more than 1000 companies, and some of the som where demands to individual companies have been small, a few thousand dollars, and the biggest case know is 5 million.
they been in monteiro, so it’ ange they are asking for $70 lion to in bitcoin, when bitcoin is more traceable, and rticular there have been two big cases in the , one ainst the eline, one against the pipeline, one against the meatpacker, and in ipeline case that paid in the pipeline use that paid in bitcoin, , and the was able to it back in a sense, hack it back in a sense, recover a bunch of.
is weird these guys are asking for that these guys are asking for bitcoin.
i was going to ask that.
given that the dark pack on the pipeline hat caused chaos to big athes of the for a period time, they managed to get the money back, the authorities, we were all saying time does this not put at the time does this not put off future cyber attacks in of what hackers might do terms of what hackers might do next, or how they might move ?
50 ransom where is very next?
so ransom where is very interesting and has a political ection.
biden brought it up ith putin at the recent mmit, it because a lot of hese gangs are russian based ave some overlap with ussian intelligence, in the at least, and so on the one hand if you are politically vated, it is good that an motivated, it is good that an entire country gets angry ugh, maybe they will pay, ecause a single company can’ me up with $70 million come up with the $70 million but the united states ernment could, but on the other hand you don’ want to be so notorious that the government has you in the sides rings you up with the government of your country, may cause you to rebrand, breakup of the debate and a different way, so it’ a a bit of a risky gambit.
we will certainly see how this one out, good to have you on the programme, thank you, and again a little later in our business coverage we will to someone who runs a cyber security firm to get his take on what is going on.
do stay with us here at news.
a full sport rounmd up including, the up including, players who have made it through the players who have made it through to the quarter—finals women’ wimbledon.
central london has been rocked by a series of terrorist attacks.
police say there have been many casualties, and there is growing speculation that al-qaeda was responsible.
germany will be the hosts of the 2006 football world cup.
they pipped the favourite, south africa, by a single vote.
in south africa, the possibility of losing hadn’ even been contemplated.
celebration parties were cancelled.
a man entered the palace through a downstairs window and made his way to the queen’ private bedroom, then he asked herfor a cigarette and, on the pretext for arranging for some to be bought, summoned a footman on duty who took the man away.
one child, one teacher, one book, and one pen can change the world.
education is the only solution.
an alarming number of doctors in india have found themselves the targets of attacks by family members of patients who say their loved ones haven’ received sufficient medical care.
the indian medical association is now calling for a new law to protect healthcare workers.
divya arya has more from delhi, and a warning that her report contains disturbing scenes at the very start.
they used whatever they could lay their hands on, a metal bedpan, a wooden stick, orjust theirfists.
shocked by the death of their loved one from covid, these relatives took out their anger on 5er kumar senapati, on just his second day of work, after graduating from medical school.
one month later, the memory of the attack was still fresh.
: i was very scared.
and it felt like i wouldn’ survive the attack.
they were hitting my head.
my nose was constantly bleeding.
i begged them to stop, but they didn’.
36 people have now been charged.
a shocking case, but not by a long way india’ first during the pandemic.
: we wantjustice!
in some cases, doctors have taken to the streets, complaining about the ongoing attacks that have occurred throughout the pandemic.
you are responsible for all these things so we are not seeing the case properly.
they started throwing a plastic chair.
nobody was arrested over the attack, which has left the reddy suffering flashbacks.
at the peak of the second wave of infections, angry relatives damaged property at delhi’ apollo hospital.
: the most common factor is the lack of infrastructure in hospitals, because of this, hospitals get overcrowded, and as a result, the junior doctors often become the target of violence by relatives.
last month, doctors across india held demonstrations, calling for legal protection for health care staff, saying there has been a sharp increase in attacks during the pandemic.
many indian states have laws against attacking health workers, but the indian medical association says state legislation is not always enfored or even publicised.
they believe on the a new law passed by the central government can help stop this violence.
india has very few doctors for its billion plus people, now it is struggling to keep them safe.
divya arya, news, delhi.
1 now let’ pause in terms of news for the moment and take in he latest sports stories.
hello, i’ mark edwards and here is your sports news.
brazil are into the final of the copa america for the second edition in a row after beating peru 1—0 in rio janeiro.
the 9 time champions seeing off the 2019 runners up courtesy of a solitary goal from lyon midfielder lucas paqueta.
peru keeper pedro gallese was in inspired form as he produced a stunning double save to keep out neymar and then richarlison.
but there was nothing he could do about the goal, neymar bamboozling alexander callens with a nutmeg before setting up paqueta in the 24th minute and that proved to be enough for the reigning champions.
they’ll take on the winner of argentina colombia in the final.
we really are at the business end of the euro 2020 tournament now with the first semi final taking place later on tuesday, and what a titanic clash that promises to be.
it’ italy spain at wembley.
two teams that know each other very well.
they’ve met seven times at the euros previously, the italians who knocked the spanish out of euro 2016, are on a 32—match unbeaten run while spain are the tournament’ highest—scoring team with 12 goals in five matches.
to wimbledon now and its ladies quarter—finals day in south west london a full capacity crowd on centre court and they’ll be treated to the all australian tie between top seed ashleigh barty and ajla tomljanovic.
barty came through her match against the french open champion barbora krejcikova in straight sets and is into the last 8 at the all england club for the first time.
ido i do everything in my power to make sure that i was well pared to come into this ournament, ifeel like re doing all the right things, we rying to do everything that we can each and every day as many possible ——to to be as many as possibla "to be as ready as possible, that fferent to how we prepare is different to how we prepare for each and every tournament finitely happy with the way things are going.
but the first match on centre court on tuesday sees tunisia’ ons jabeur up against 2nd seed aryna sabalenka.
jabeur having made history by becoming the first arab woman to reach the quarter finals at wimbledon.
she produced a stunning display to defeat swiatek.
jabeur became the first arab woman to win a title at the birmingham classic injune and, having become the first arab woman to reach the fourth round at wimbledon, continues to break new ground.
south africa’ match against georgia on friday is in jeopardy after the springboks were forced to suspend training and place their squad into isolation because of an outbreak of coronavirus.
second row lood jager returned a positive test and on the grounds of his close contact with a number of players, the whole squad are having to quarantine.
it is the second time the springboks have been forced to take such measures during the build—up to the test series against the british and irish lions, which opens in cape town onjuly 24.
the tour france resumes on tuesday with the stage 10 taking the riders out of the alps down to the slopes of the rhone valley into valence.
tadej pogaca will start the day in the race leader’ yellow jersey after winning stage 8 mark cavendish will be hoping to add to his tally of sprint wins as the race heads closer to paris, while the rest of the field will be hoping that the second week is less eventful than the first.
you can get all the latest sports news at our website — that’ bbc.
com/sport.
but from me and the rest of the sport team, goodbye.
let’ talk about what was cancelled in 2020, the celled festival will be having opening ceremony.
onavirus played havoc in the coronavims played havoc in the film industry but as tom brooke rts, cannes is back.
this year’ one film festival will be a little different.
ght, you have a very particular niche, if i’ve got ght.
this man has been hosting redcarpet coverage at for french television cannes for french telavision for more than two decades.
-19 will finitely affect —19 will definitely affect festival, cannes is about 000 people coming in to town 80,000 peopla coming in to town for the festival, the talent, ournalist, the journalist, the professionals that come here to icipate stopping there on’ be that many people it ould 40,000.
movies of course will be the big raction.
opening—night film an eratic musical eaturing a celebrity couple a french director, starring oscar—winning french ess hollywood’ adam actress and hollywood’ adam driver.
if the movie is like other endeavours, it will a film that pushes the velope.
that is something has been there from day and that we carry through he current time that we ust always want to be allenging what we are doing.
nnes can boast a big lineup.
erican films like the french spatch from wes anderson and rnadette, a controversial story between two th—century nuns.
the festival hoping to gain its potency a showcase.
look at mething like parasite, which debuted at cannes and went rough to becoming a best cture when a first korean ilm ever to win the best cture oscar, that is what you from cannes.
the pandemic definitely shaped movies being seen at cannes.
the year everlasting storm is an of the evertasting storm is an anthology of films from seven emed filmmakers that were under lock and with the igid stipulated rules.
things you to shoot from your home, onset cast and crew be imited to those who are with you and quarantine, think that the theme of rebirth is really embedded ughout the film.
throughout the film.
-19 has changed the landscape of ma.
it is now a world of ubiquitous streaming.
film ivals like cannes rooted and celebrating movies destined inema face uncertain for cinema face uncertain times, but have cannes lives up pectations, it will at least, over the next 12 days, owcasing excellent works rom some of the greatest kers in the world.
tom rooke, news, cannes.
and as restrictions are lifted and eased, what will mean for events and the that mean for events and the hospitality industry?
we will scussing that next.
hello there.
monday was drierfor a while across england and wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill from the south.
this rain here is marching its way northwards across the up into northern england and scotland, where already in the past few days in edinburgh, we have had a month’ worth of rain.
now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times — northwards up towards scotland and northern england with blustery showers following to the south.
for a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather along the coast of england all the way from dorset across to suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
it won’ be as windy in the afternoon, but there will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got this more persistent rain, never really clearing away from northern england, pushing into eastern scotland.
elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
the showers are never too far away, and they may well be heavy as well.
generally, temperatures a bit lower on tuesday, 18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it stays wet in northern england and eastern scotland.
and as we have seen, there are some showers around, they could well affect wimbledon once again.
it’ going to be another day where we may well have the covers on and off.
those showers will probably tend to ease off though during the evening and into the night.
more places become dry, still got some wetter weather towards the north—east of scotland.
the breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
now, it’ low pressure that’ brought all the rain over recent days, in the centre of the low pressure, by the time we get to wednesday, it’ close to the north—east of scotland.
so there’ more cloud rolling in here and some patchy rain around, too.
elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine, but we are going to find showers breaking out, and those could turn heavy and thundery come the afternoon, particularly across wales, the midlands, across to lincolnshire as well.
temperatures may be a notch higher on friday, still no better than 20—21 celsius.
let’ end with a glimmer of hope, because the low pressure is trying to move away.
this is where high—pressure is, weather, and this is trying to nudge up from the south—west across the .
50 during thursday and friday, the winds won’ be as strong, and for more places, it will be dry.
some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for scotland and northern ireland.
temperatures should be a little bit higher.
this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
back to business, as boris johnson announces most restrictions will be eased in england on the 19th ofjuly we assess the impact on the economy.
stand and cyber—deliver!
hackers demand $70 million to release the keys that will unlock victims files — up to 1,500 companies worldwide could be affected.
and how to take your holiday in a sustainable and responsible way — we hearfrom one company that aims to convince travellers to prioritise the planet.
across the hospitality sector, theatres, nightclubs, weddings and events.
you can hear a collective sigh of relief as they gear up forjuly the 19th.
as you’ve been hearing, the prime minister says that’ when most legal restrictions and guidance in england will be lifted despite the rising number of covid cases in the country.
his annoucement was met with positive reactions from industry groups representing the sectors that has been hardest hit by the pandemic.
a significant third wave could still be on the way but is it time now to think differently about covid?
in a moment i’ll be discussing this with the head of policy and governance at the institute of directors.
but first, kate nicholls, chief executive of hospitality joins me.
of this is the news you have been waiting for, but just lain he challenges facing those in hospitality still.
it is very welcome news, for a rter of our hospitality usinesses, this is the first from which they will be able allowed to trade egally, they will have been losed 16 months with no venue, and the remainder of industry, a chance for them turn the corner, to make eir business is viable for he first time in 16 months, restrictions have meant they can’ make a profit, look forward to be able to the business on a ustainable and more secure ing, but you are right, footing, but you are right, this is just the start of the ess, it will be a long slow process, it will be a long slow road to recovery as these inesses emerge, face the new allenges of working with and iving with rus and living with the virus and customer expectations, and also out of this crisis with high levels of debt that they need to pay down, so it will need to pay down, so it will probably take our sector two years to recover.
what are you still calling for he chancellor, from the easury, in terms of financial ?
i think about making aid?
i think it is about making sure that financial aid does not slip away too earty.
we know we have the measures in until april of financial place until april of financial aid?
i think it is about making that financial aid does not slip away too earty.
we know we have the measures in until april of tourism place until april of tourism for the sector going ward from march next year.
goes up to 12 1/2% in september, we would like to see continuing for longer but do need to make sure that we a sustained and maintained level of tourism for the sector going forward from next year.
it goes up at 12 296 in march next year.
it goes up at 121/2% in september, we would like to at continuing and like to see that continuing and we need root and branch reform business rates to make ure our.
do those within spitality not paying the ghest property taxes in the and have a chance of ecovery from that.
do those hin be very close to other peopla in and restaurants, here will be a lot of vousness out there, isn’ there?
there is, and we need to without.
two—thirds of customers have come back to the itality sector since reopening in april, and ssuringly, over 80% of them tell us we believe we are tell us that we believe we are safe, and we can allow them to ialise fely.
this will be socialise safely.
this will be a gradual iteration, there are of changes that have lots of changes that have happened within hospitality the course of the crisis over the course of the crisis that many businesses will want moving forward, is a table service, using apps to and pay for and order and pay for food and drinks, those will be kept for of people, equally a lot a lot of peopla, equally a lot of businesses will continue seating, but it does allow eopla to make the choice and be able to choose what works their business, and the rnerstone of keeping people fe, the recommendations by eping people safe are good entilation, good levels of iene and sanitation, and those are the three rnerstones that we will be aking forward to make sure our inesses are safe, our team mbers are kept safe because staff are our top priority, that we can offer a safe but welcome to our ustomers.
good to talk to you in, thank you.
the again, thank you.
the chief executive of hospitality.
now to roger barker, director of policy at the institute of directors.
if: he also governance — governance is also a big part of your .
is this the right ecision on the part of the vernment?
ultimately it is right decision because the estion arises, when i’ going break out of our restrictions?
when is business to be llowed to get going again?
given that the between hospitalisations, severe disease and cases pears to have broken down, it doesn’ appear to be that strong link anymore, i think that the government is , that we are going to have to get used to living with virus, and treating it as of normal life.
is this at your members have been lling for?
it is, but i think members, like other members the public, they have been autious about this pandemic, have wanted to do the right thing in terms of public measures, and when a month ago the government ided to postpone the end of strictions by a month, until 19th of uly, broadly speaking, they were supportive.
wanted to see more people get vaccinated, but now, i think they absolutely are ready up.
our members are to open up.
our members are pretty optimistic about the re.
there are many hallenges ahead, but we look our ember surveys, their levels of business optimism are high, and they really just want to get back now just want to get going back to business.
how important is this move now for the economy?
is incredibly ortant.
big sectors of the onomy have been effectively tricted and prevented from rking properly.
obviously the pitality travel and leisure ectors, now i think this also the green light for loyers to think how do we now get back into the kplace?
the workplace is not ing to be as it was reviously.
most employers seem moving toward some kind of hybrid working, but at least hey can start to think how now they ran start to think how ran we implement these new course the real challenge i think is for employers to ssure their employees that workplace is going to be , and also the government has to, and the rail companies public transport companies have to persuade us hat it’ going to be safe all that it’ going to be safe and reasonable to commute into again on lic transport.
work again on public transport.
good to talk to you.
roger ker from the institute of irectors, thank you.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the owner of car brand vauxhall is expected to announce plans to build electric vans at its ellesmere port plant in cheshire.
the investment, said to be worth hundreds of millions of pounds, would safeguard more than 1,000 factoryjobs.
the future of the plant has been in doubt after vauxhall’ parent company, stella ntis, scrapped plans to build its new astra model there.
oil prices rose on monday after 0pec+ — that’ members of oil—rich nations and their partners — cancelled talks on a new output deal.
that means the current production limits will remain.
this follows a public rift between saudi arabia and the united arab emirates last week on a proposal to extend output curbs.
more new on the gang behind a colossal ransomware attack.
the group known as revil is demanding $70 million paid in bitcoin in return for a universal that it says will unlock the files of all victims.
firm kaseya, has hit one million systems.
this number has not been verified and the exact total of victims is unknown.
however, it does include 500 swedish coop supermarkets and 11 schools in new zealand.
amit yoran is chairman and chief executive of tenable, a nasdaq listed cyber exposure company that helps organisations understand and reduce their cyber risk.
good to talk to you.
give us your take on what is going on, use it would seem that because it would seem that these many many companies which run to more than 1000 could to more than 1000 were doing what they should do ctually protecting themselves by using an outside any such as yours to company such as yours to provide cyber security.
what now, we don’ have seeing now, and we don’ have all the facts just yet, at the there are a great varied umber of potential outcomes.
ould be as many as a it could be as many as a thousand, but it appears to be ess.
it may be as low as far less.
it may be as low as 60 which is what kaseya is iming, working with a orensic company to help them ermine exactly what appened.
it is still very ious, and we’re seeing ople being impacted, permarkets closed, other rganisations being impacted, certainly could have been far worse.
you say it have been worse, but is it is extremely worrying that sort of activity seems to happening more and more requently, despite the fact we thought the good guys ort of got the upper hand response to the dark side ran somewhere attack on the pipeline, the authorities heir money back that was paid, it was finally fixed, we like we were ahead in this and yet here we are again with companies globally exposed being held to ransom.
for we don’ have a handle on hese issues.
these issues are redibly complex, and far—reaching.
organisations to do a better of need to do a better job of protecting themselves.
we know ule of law does not exist, the ml; of law does not exist, uniformly, , across the internet.
many nationstates harbour or tacitly allow cyber inals to operate within heir borders and when that rs, in a flat domain, like occurs, in a ﬂat domain, like the internet, crimes will ur, and laws are not very well enforced, and it is umbent upon each organisation to really step up ame and protect itself.
its game and protect itself.
easier said than done, when you ider these hackers and the act that they always seem to head of the next security oftware platform.
they seem to a way of undermining it.
what we see is a vast majority breaches that occur, and rtainly by no means everyone, the vast majority of the reaches that occur, north of : occur because organisations aren’ ercising good tandards of care with their ystems.
are not patching systems.
they are not patching the systems properly, not rongly thenticating their sers, they are not backing their systems and having good ups ready for restoring backups ready for restoring when they do fall victim to ewhere, so there is a number things that organisations do to better protect hemselves and be better pared for when these events cur.
well, we shall see how his one pans out.
thank you being on the programme.
stay with us on news, still to come: to take your holiday in a sustainable how to take your holiday in a sustainable and responsible we will talk to a company way, we will talk to a company that is aiming to convince vellers to prioritise the planet.
central london has been rocked by a series of terrorist attacks.
police say there have been many casualties, and there is growing speculation that al-qaeda was responsible.
germany will be the hosts of the 2006 football world cup.
they pipped the favourite, south africa, by a single vote.
in south africa, the possibility of losing hadn’ even been contemplated.
celebration parties were cancelled.
a man entered the palace through a downstairs window and made his way to the queen’ private bedroom, then he asked herfor a cigarette and, on the pretext for arranging for some to be bought, summoned a footman on duty who took the man away.
one child, one teacher, one book, and one pen can change the world.
education is the only solution.
this is world news, the latest headlines: the british government confirms plans to end most of england’ covid restrictions, despite a sharp rise in cases.
russia evacuates a consulate, as the taliban continue to make advances across afghanistan.
over 1,000 afghan soldiers have fled the country.
as we adjust to life post pandemic many are re—assessing their work life balance.
decisions are being made about where and how we work as economies reopen and some are considering an experiment in iceland.
trials of a four—day week there were an "overwhelming success" and led to many workers moving to shorter hours.
many moved to a 4 day week but were paid the same amount between 2015 and 2019 and researchers say productivity remained the same or improved in the majority of workplaces.
joining me now is maike currie, investment director, fidelity international.
lovely to see you.
i think it is what they got?
i think it is very interesting, the —19 emic as had a profound pandemic has had a profound impact on the way we work, the that i am talking to you from my home office and reasingly people are valuing xible working more and the untries and companies where have trailed the four day rking have actually seen very positive results, improve uctivity, improved health well—being, among their taff.
0 there are countless upsides to ing to that four day working week.
it is quite resting, actually, because put this question to our iewers to say what do they of this and many have been touch to say could we do is and other countries in the .
this possibly works for ffice workers, people who work aces such as that however in places such as that however people who work outside, doing sical bs, builders, physicaljobs, builders, plumbers, electricians, hanics, that doesn’ necessarily work in those ticular industries.
that we ave got another viewer who , i know if i’ put this to says, i know if i’ put this to my employer he would say well, ran can work in four days if you ran work in four days what they have been paying you ive paying for for five paying for five?
i think the benefits are much der than that.
the first broader than that.
the first thing is health and well—being rkers.
the second thing of workers.
the second thing is, productivity, and anyone as worked part time which a lot of women have, know that an probably squeeze and you ran probably squeeze and five days of work into four and have more of a days and have more of a balance, spent more time with amily, something that ’ve also seen during the -19 andemic.
the climate, orking one left me 27 million cars on the road, that ces the carbon footprint of many countries and crucially as mentioned, this will be i’ve mentioned, this will be good for gender equality ause if there has been one small silver lining, uite significant silver lining to andemic it is that it has made flexible working the norm, at eannie is never going and that jeannie is never going back into the bottle.
that is news for women because good news for women because women tend to choose careers shorter commutes, with with shorter commutes, with more giving hours so that they alance time with their ran balance time with their children, with parents, and is really something that ployers need to consider.
hey also need to consider this hey are going to continue attract the best talent cause we know the younger neration value that type of ibility.
and also as well, one of he experiments, well, they conducted in iceland, owed that people chose to work a longer day four rather than working five ys, paid the same amount and re more productive, actually.
the important thing about is as well, isn’ it, is out the employer and the mployee really not working on fifth day, because that fifth day, because although you say you are not labla, , often you might get available, often you might get the odd —mail or you get drawn a conversation or into a conversation or something.
absolutely and ’ about it a culture, we know that the working weekend, weekend was invented a or the weekend was invented a century ago, and since then, was during the time of the dustrial revolution, the orld has changed dramatically employer practices need to up with that, but the key ng, really, is that, you know, if you are in a customer business and you need to facing business and you need to be available to customers, you need some flex ability will need some flex ability around that.
all right, lovely you.
see you again soon.
you might not know this, but when you ferment beer, it releases carbon dioxide.
now an australian craft brewery has partnered with climate scientists to turn it into oxygen.
and the secret is micro—algae.
my name is oscar mcmahon, i am one of the cofounders of this ery here in newtown, brewery here in newtown, sydney, australia.
what we’re to ork out how much trying to work out how much algae you need to adjust the of 02 that beer amount of 02 that beer creates.
microalgae or toplankton are tiny plants.
can’ hem with the human either they are a fantastic chemical factory.
% the biochemical factory.
7096 of the planet is ater, and that is ere the phytoplankton are wing.
so one of the things hat we can do to address imate change is to actually the algae to capture 02.
: we capture 02 off the top of a beer fermenter and we feed it ugh a bioreactor which houses microalgae.
brewers heeds sugar, creates 02 alcohol.
algae or microalgae eats 02, creates algae and releases oxygen, they become dizzy and ntigang organisms that urally balance each other .
that would be like knocking down a city block and planting and letting them grow for trees and citing them grow for 20 years, and that is something ran an be made in a warehouse that ran be made in a warehouse within weeks.
think about that ing a solution, it is quite mind blowing.
we are king into second uses for algae, there are people making lastic, there is a lot of bio plastics, there is a lot of research being done into human nimal eed, so atch this and animal feed, so watch this space.
the planet needs our , but the solutions are help, but the solutions are here now.
this is just the , very eginning.
it’ a bit bulky and a bit weird but also a bit cool.
dorky and weird!
let’ talk travel now.
do travellers and tourists care about sustainable and responsible tourism 7 as restrictions for travel are beginning to ease in some countries the world travel market is hoping to convince consumers to think about their impact.
and for companies like contiki, who target 18—35—year—olds — do their potential consumers look for responsible tourism holidays?
joining me now is tasha hayes, sustainability officer & european operations director, contiki.
good morning to use.
i’ assuming your potential tomers care a lot about the customers rare a lot about the impact they have on the net when they are travelling?
good ing, certainly, they do.
and recent research done by the travel market really world travel market really shows a telling generational here.
we are seeing that 0% of 16-24 year—olds are 7096 of 16-24 -year-olds are willing to pay ore money if mpanies will assist them in coming more sustainable, is a little bit different rom the 35 to a0 —year—olds said they would only who said that they would only do that 9% of the time, so yes are seeing a real generational divide and the iki age group really anting to travel more stainably.
so what are you ffering at contiki to make one’ holiday that much sustainable?
well, contiki done a few things and a lot of it was predated to .
we have a sustainability strategy ace which focuses on 11 in place which focuses on 11 goals that we believe have the impact to the biggest issue that the climate is cing right now, like climate nge, so with that we got a limate action plan which is a tep plan hat is looking at “75 5-step plan that is looking at ways that we can first reduce sions because that is very ey.
second, remove carbon from atmosphere, and then use offsets for any unavoidable sions that we can’ avoid, eing a travel company.
on a actical level, what does that an for someone going on a oliday?
what is different out their holiday?
from the of january 2022, all of trips be carbon eutral, meaning that we will fsetting the emissions for hose trips that are navoidable but what we’re oing on that we will be using the most eco— friendly of of coaches, we are also ﬂeet of coaches, we are also subbing some of our coaching rains, eing more eco— for trains, being a more eco- friendly way to travel around.
looking at, or we have we are looking at, or we have implemented renewable energy at wned properties, and we our owned properties, and we are also looking at ways that actually on the ground make a ifference with the mmunities and people that are isiting.
and really visiting.
and just really brieﬂy, , what markup does all at put briefly, what markup does all of that put on someone’ iday.
hat percentage or are hey paying ecause of that?
ell, nothing actually because of these costs are on ontiki, we are absorbing cause we believe that this is way, the future of travel.
now that travellers are alking with their money and are wanting to support brands that are doing this so is something that as a pany we are factoring in and it is part of our cost as a iness.
all right, thanks for ing on the programme, good to to you.
some of us may tually go on a holiday, it no longer be a dream.
ank you for your company.
ave a lovely, lovely day today don’ forget there’ more tails on the stories we have ered on our website.
see you on.
i want to understand the experiences of people who migrated to this country to serve in the .
i’ going to open up government archives to discover how they were seen by a system that needed them but didn’ always want them.
finally, it has happened to me right in front of my face my feelings can’ describe it finally, you come along wimbledon is back.
seeing glastonbury for the first time was mind—blowing.
the closing set at block9, 2015.
i wish you could bottle that up and then take it away with you.
the sunshine and you’re looking at the pyramid stage, there’ no better feeling in the world.
even a bad time at glastonbury is better than a good time anywhere else.
get that glastonbury feeling.
relive the best of the festival.
the olympic games, tokyo 2020 fire service!
is anyone in?
join the yorkshire firefighters where are you stuck?
from the station : i love you.
to the front line potentially we’re sending them to their death.
to see what life is like are we all right coming in?
you haven’ got covid?
no, i ain’ got covid.
behind the visor.
it’ about the camaraderie.
it’ about the togetherness.
what is a panic attack?
fear incarnate.
it’ like having liquid terror injected into your veins.
i’ve been turning to music as some kind of soothing agent during these times of chaos.
the queen — i think she might be an original spice girl.
this astronaut looking back from space and everybody wants a piece of you.
there was another part of my anatomy which luckily they saved.
so, i don’ know if i can say it on the radio.
yes, you can, you’re on woman’ hour.
the whole nation is coming together.
you know, it’sjust brilliant.
that’ the spirit!
passengers, this is yourfinal call.
get in there!
wurrrgh!
now, rise for me, baby.
oh, yes.
centre court theatre.
spin the wheel!
that will do nicely.
stop it!
have you been injured at work?
ha—ha—ha!
that’ classic!
she’ going to take the gold medal!
mmmm!
i love it.
yes!
yeah, now we’re cooking.
this summer, it’ high—octane entertainment on one.
good morning, welcome to breakfast with louise minchin and dan walker.
our headlines today.
pupils in england may no longer have to isolate if a classmate tests positive for covid, under new plans to be announced later.
the prime minister says he wants to lift almost all of england’ restrictions in two weeks.
face covering laws will be abolished — but the and his advisers say they won’ ditch theirs.
i will obviously wear a mask in crowded places where you are meeting that you don’ know.
i will peopla that you don’ know.
i will do so, particularly at this point epidemic is clearly when the epidemic is dearty significant and rising.
good morning iverpool.
unlimited numbers coming through the doors and ding at the bar with who you for as long as you want.
it is new chapter for hospitality.
but every business will survive to it.
good morning from wimbledon, where there was disappointment for british teenager emma raducanu last night.
the 18—year—old was forced to retire from her last 16 singles match due to difficulty breathing.
good morning.
lam iamat i am at hampton court palace garden festival.
we have got some heavy here.
and the forecast for many of us that there is a wet one.
we will see some sunshine and showers.
hose can be heavy and even those can be heavy and thundery.
a breezy in the south.
details coming up.
good morning.
it’ tuesday, july 6th.
our top story.
school pupils in england could soon avoid having to self—isolate if a classmate tests positive for coronavirus.
the education secretary is expected to outline plans to scrap the bubble system later today.
last week, more than 275,000 children had to stay at home after coming into contact with a coronavirus case.
the changes are likely to come into effect on the 19thjuly — the same day most other restrictions in england are due to be eased.
here’ our political correspondent, damian grammaticas.
will hospitals be able to cope?
it’ a risk the prime minister is contemplating taking, his desire to remove all covid restrictions across england just as infections are rising fast again.
but borisjohnson believes relaxing curbs now in the summer is preferable.
waiting could be worse.
we run the risk of either opening up at a very difficult time when the virus has an edge, has an advantage, and in the cold months, oragain, putting everything off to to next year.
so i do think it’ going to be a very balanced decision.
what he envisages is no more social distancing.
no limits on how many can visit your home, or how many ran pack restaurants, bars and pubs.
theatres, nightclubs, sports stadiums all open and full.
no more empty offices, as the requirement to work from home would end too.
but there’ a concern 3 third wave of covid is under way, with an average of more than 25,000 cases a day in the past week, and the number infected is doubling roughly every nine days.
his own chief scientific adviser said now is the time to be controlling the virus.
we are in the face of an increasing epidemic at the moment, and therefore we need to behave accordingly in terms of trying to limit transmission spread.
but the vaccination programme is blunting the pandemic.
the numbers in hospital and dying with covid are relatively low.
it’ the reason mrjohnson believes he can go ahead.
and he wants to remove the legal obligation to wear a mask too, even if the scientists are cautious, saying they will continue to wear theirs.
there was a really clear consensus that under all circumstances, some degree of further social distancing will be maintained, needs to be maintained, even after the the restrictions are lifted in law.
and that’ been part of the road map all the way through.
and that is widely supported by the scientific views.
and today, we’ll hear more about the plans for schools.
the government is hoping to lift restrictions to put an end to bubbles and isolation of whole groups.
judging the cost is no longer worth the benefit.
damian grammaticas, news.
draft legislation intended to tackle what ministers describe as a "broken asylum system", is being introduced to parliament today.