probably around the pennines and eastwards.
so that means that irish sea coasts, the coasts of wales and certainly through the midlands and the south, the weather isn’ looking too bad at all on friday.
now, beyond that, the weather pattern is going to change.
we are no longer going to have the cold current of air from the north, we’re going to see a low pressure, and that low pressure is going to push some subtropical air in our direction, so we cut off that source of cold air.
now, with that comes a weather front.
there will be outbreaks of rain, so you can already see that saturday is not looking pretty across the .
at least the winds aren’ going to be too awful, i think we’re talking about a breezy day but nothing more than that.
and you can see the temperatures are rising, 15 degrees in london, still single figures in the north.
now, that low pressure is going to hang around, so, inevitably the weather is going to be unsettled through the weekend.
here’ a cold front.
behind it, we will see some colder air coming in, but ahead of it, just in that south—eastern portion of the and in east anglia, temporarily, with southerly winds, we could see temperatures nudging up to 20 degrees, possibly more.
we’ll call it around 19 in london and in norwich.
but here in the north and the west, where the cold air is already digging in from the north, it’ turning a little bit cooler.
and you can see that weather front, the cold front, pushes across the into more central parts of europe during the course of monday and early in the week, so wrapped around this area of low pressure we’ve got the colderairfeeding in, and again, this pattern here in the rain, this blotchy pattern is an indication that further showers are on the cards.
but it’ not going to be particularly cold on monday, we’re talking around the mid—teens across the .
that’ because the air is not coming in from the north.
now, tuesday, and into wednesday, the jet stream is expected to stay to the south of the .
when we see this pattern, we know that colder air will tend to drift in from the north and spread across the .
now, i know there’ some yellows there, so relatively mild air, but the really warm air is going to stay to the south of us, and that is a hint that later next week, things are going to stay pretty cool across the , so it looks as though, overall, the chilly spring weather is set to continue into next week.
that’ it from me, bye—bye.
i didn’ have a weakness.
i was strong in all departments.
in the ‘80, snooker was a national obsession.
it was everywhere.
people became addicted.
when they come into the room, there’, like, an aura.
it was just crazy, crazy times, you know.
now we’re getting headlines, for good and for bad.
you ran shove your snooker up - i ain’ playing.
revealing the inside stories of the gods of snooker on thursday, may the 6th, voters across scotland head to the polls.
but what do the results mean for you?
for full coverage, expert analysis and the latest news as the results roll in join us for election 2021 scotland.
other oscars handed out included best documentary of self africa’ love affair with the octopus.
we went into the oscars believing that steven soderbergh, a film—maker was one of the producers of the oscars show, was going to reinvent the oscars ceremony and use the restrictions imposed by covid—19 to create something quite wondrous.
well, it didn’ quite work.
the evening started on a promising note, with actor and director regina king strutting through union station while theatrical credits appeared on the screen.
steven soderbergh had said the oscars would unfold like a movie.
it didn’ totally deliver that way.
there was a nice intimate supper club atmosphere, but acceptance speeches dragged on.
there was not much humour, although glenn close did do a little dance, which was quite funny.
but there was no overarching concept that bound everything together that shone through.
i think there are just some hindrances, just given the pandemic and what it’ wreaked on hollywood and the precautions that obviously had to go into effect in order for it to even take place in person.
i do think that they really successfully pulled off the whole no mask thing.
i think it was really exciting for everyone watching, obviously, to see talent without masks, all dressed up, showing off their famous faces.
and it kind of brought a sense of normalcy to the whole night.
for those tuning in to watch the ceremony at home, there was a range of opinion.
certainly some disappointment.
it did seem rather not relevant any more tonight, unfortunately, but it used to feel relevant.
and that, i think, was a bit sad, really, to watch and they were celebrating so much and it really didn’ feel like we were celebrating current culture, really.
it just felt a bit distant from the media and things i have seen over the past last year.
i enjoyed it.
it was good to see how they transformed union station into an intimate atmosphere, it had tables and the way they were set in tears on top of each other.
when the ratings came in the day after the oscars, it was a disastrous showing.
less than 10 million tuned in to watch the , a low record last year for the last oscars pulling in more than 23 million viewers.
when the problems is the potential audience for this year’ oscars ceremony shown on had little awareness of the crop of best picture nominees.
the extent to which this is an asterisk year, i think they get a pass.
it is amazingly pulled off a show at all.
i think it was incredibly logistically challenging and we shouldn’ be too harsh on them.
i think that the people at know full well that the movies that were in contention are what make ratings and the movies were not well known.
the movie business is shaky.
it is not sure where it is heading and there is this terrible precipice that could just people the exhibition could just disappear.
and there could be no movies, and we could be watching everything on .
i don’ think that is going to happen, but that is the backdrop for a grimmer, sadder oscars and we have to pull out and recover and bring people back to the cinemas.
and one day, very soon, take everyone you know into a theatre shoulder to shoulder in that dark space and watch every film that is represented here tonight.
a big part of the traditional oscars ceremony is the humongous red carpet.
this year, there was a red carpet, but much more modest.
but the organisers were keen on fashion.
they issued a dress code instruction to nominees, that they should dress in a way that was inspirational — whatever that means.
but stylists did work with hollywood stars to get them to express themselves through fashion, as triston daly reports.
at the oscars this year was a small step towards normalcy.
some of hollywood’ most recognisable faces walked the socially distanced red carpet.
this year’ oscar fashion was really strong and i think that added on to the enthusiasm ofjust the public being excited to watch the red carpet before the ceremony.
we saw a lot of the midriff trends happening on the red carpet.
andre day looked amazing in her gown and that dress, vera wang went to a welder to create because it is totally made out of metal.
laurie thys, stylist to best actress nominee andre day and best singer songwriter has felt the pressure of working with clients through this pandemic.
there are moments where i am yelling with them, there are moments where i am a person, but it has been a little bit of both.
fittings via zoom and know sitting close in and making sure that things are there.
trying to get a good gauge and division and making sure the cameras in the right place so you can see everything, you know?
it has been a bit of a challenge in that way, but we are pushing through, so it is a good thing.
of adjusting to working in the midst of a pandemic.
without red carpets for a good portion of award season, the fanfare in the form of endless flash photography and press yelling at stars names was missing.
but place of the carpet was a more intimate venue for celebrities to display fashion.
we have been in all these people’ homes and in their backyards.
i have had to bring gear.
i would say it has made photographing a bit more intimate.
the second you step into someone’ home, everything is stripped down, you know?
and i feel like there is a level of personal ability and connectivity that you get from being inside these people’ homes, it is really cool.
some agree there is an upside of seeing celebrities in their homes but the red carpet is unmatched in terms of glamour.
this award season, the oscars was able to set itself apart when it comes to spectacle.
i think people are really tired of zooms and these virtual events.
in my opinion, we need physical award shows, we need physicalfashion shows in orderfor these things to survive because fashion and film, they need to be seen in order to survive.
well, with oscars 2021 behind us, where will we be one year hence?
who’ll be the possible academy award winners in 2022?
talking movies has been trying to find out.
i thinkjennifer hudson has a good chance of getting the nomination for best actress in respect.
she was hand—picked by aretha franklin herself to play her in the biopic, and we have seen her do her magic in playing dream girls effie and her singing won her the oscar that year.
it would be great to see her do a repeat and if she did that it would be the icing on the cake.
i really like ana armis, who is coming off brilliantly in 2019 with knives out.
you can see her maybe in a year being best actress for her role in blonde, which is a fictionalised take on marilyn monroe, based on the novel by carol oates, i think it is going to be talked about a lot for best actress.
one of my big picks for best actor in 2022 is denzil washington.
he is in oscar’ favourite, he has already won two oscars over the course of his illustrious career and in his next film he is playing none other than the role of macbeth.
you cannot ask for a better role than macbeth.
if the film is as good as everybody hopes, i think denzil washington stands a really, really good chance.
i think that in 2022, it is going to be oscar isaacs’ year.
he has a role coming up in the card counter, a new movie that involves a gambler and a revenge plot.
itjust sounds juicy and fun, but also a meaty role and i just can’ to see what oscar isaac does with it.
a huge contender for getting the oscar for best director at the 2022 academy awards is nia dacosta for candyman.
she is talking about social justice and racial relations in america in the history of black americans in this country.
it would be awesome if she was recognised for that work.
i think the best director next year, actually someone who is really in the conversation this year and that is director chloe zhao, with her next film, eternals, which really stepped up to the plate of directing a hollywood blockbuster.
it is a marvel film and early buzz on the film says she really hits it out of the park, but also stays true to who she is as a film—maker.
it is hard for me to imagine best picture going to anything other than westside story.
you know, it is steven spielberg’ first musical.
we are coming into a year where all i think people will want is big entertainment that reminds you of what movies can do, so it seems like a shoe in for best picture.
i suspect we will have dune winning the oscar for best picture in 2022.
people will be engrossed by the cinematic magnitude of this film.
it’ starring oscar isaac and timothy charlemagne.
i think it is one of those stories that has been called unfilmable because it is so expensive, but overall i think this will be a fan favourite at the oscars.
my pick for best picture is actually a film i thought was going to win best picture this year and that the film in the heights.
it was delayed due to the pandemic, but now it’ finally being released this summer.
millions of people are clamouring to see this beloved musical by lin—manuel miranda brought to life by the director.
i think it could be the best pic.
what a strange year for the oscars, a very unusual ceremony, record low ratings, at least in the united states, and clearly there is a lot of thinking that needs to be done, but what does bring reassurance is that all eight pictures up for best picture all were very fine films.
i was very pleased that no man and won for best picture, i was very pleased that nomadland and won for best picture, but personally i would ave liked to seen another film get the best prize.
so for me, tom brook, the rest of the talking movies team here at los angeles, new york and london, it is goodbye, as we leave you with the song that won for best original song at this years oscars.
always fight for you i always always fight for you see it through baby, you always fight for you.
hello there.
the weather is set to change a hit this weekend as the wind direction changes.
at the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy showers again during thursday.
certainly a dramatic day on wednesday, lots of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
a lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got a cold start.
may be a frosty start in places on thursday morning.
not as cold in the southwest where there is more cloud moving in.
that’ going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that will run its way along the south coast through the english channel for a while.
but could be a bit snowy to start with in scotland.
snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers will move across scotland into northern england.
fewer showers for northern ireland, while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast corner of england for a while, there should be fewer showers through the midlands, wales and southern england.
temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
as we head into the evening we will see those showers continuing to move their way southwards, fading away for most inland areas overnight.
that means temperatures are going to fall away.
it’ going to be another cold night.
there is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold by friday morning.
plenty of sunshine to start the day.
we will see the cloud developing, and a few showers breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers with hail confined to eastern scotland and some eastern parts of england, turning drier further west.
temperatures should be a little bit higher on friday, but still no better than 1a, maybe 15 degrees.
now into the weekend, the changes i promised.
we’ve got another area of low pressure.
that is going to strengthen the wind and these weather fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
looks like it’ going to be a southerly wind that brings that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air, especially during the second half of the weekend.
wet weather, though, i think for england and wales on saturday and for a while in northern ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into scotland where it’ going to be a cold day here.
temperatures across england and wales away from the north should get up to or 15 degrees.
maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
we should be turning more showery, i think, during sunday and with that warmer air across most areas, 19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
it cools on monday, but the showers will continue.
welcome to news — i’ lewis vaughanjones.
our top stories: global vaccine rollout, the united states backs an idea to remove intellectual property protections for coronavirus vaccines.
facebook upholds its suspension of donald trump, ruling that the former president broke its rules.
the is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to monitor a planned blockade ofjersey’ main port.
it’ the latest escalation with france over post—brexit fishing rights.
the entire indian delegation at the 7 summit in london, is self—isolating after two members test positive for coronavius.
nine little miracles.
a woman in mali expecting to give birth to seven children has been surprised by two more.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
after increased pressure the biden administration says it supports a removing patent protections for covid—19 vaccines.
the move aims to make it easier for more companies to produce vaccines and make them more widely available for developing countries.
trade representative katherine tie said in a statement: "this administration believes strongly in intellectual property protections, but in the service of ending this pandemic, supports the waiver of those protections for covid—19 vaccines.
" well this was welcomed by the director—general of the world health organisation, who said this was "a monumental moment in the fight against covid—19.
" on the other hand — a vaccine waiver makes it harder for vaccine manufacturers to make money out of their products.
shares in a number of them tumbled on the news.
the international federation of pharmaceutical manufacturers and associations says the plan is a red herring when it comes to improving the distribution of vaccines.
here’ the association’ director general.
the decision by the administration is disappointing, but it doesn’ change that it’ a wrong answer to complex problem.
it’ a wrong but simple answer to a complex problem because it disrupts, it distracts from tackling the real challenges, which are trade barriers, including from the , disrupting supply chains.
it prevents the immediate tackling of the bottlenecks in the supply chain, the scarcity of raw materials, where you really need full partnership.
and it also prevents a fast move because what we need now, looking at the dramatic situation in india, is rich countries starting rapidly to share their doses with poor countries.
it is unfair to see that we have countries where 20—year—old healthy young people vaccinated, and most of africa, basically, doesn’ get any vaccine now that india is in such a dramatic situation.
professor george contreras, is a professor of law at the university of utah and says while addressing intellectual property rights is important, it’ only one piece of the puzzle.
department of state and the government, which has usually been quite protective of intellectual property rights.
what are the implications of it?
you know, as many have said, this is a necessary but not sufficient step to distributing a covid vaccine on a worldwide basis.
intellectual property rights are there, they’re important, but there are a lot of other pieces to the puzzle, including supply and manufacturing, regulatory approval, safety and so facebook says it will continue to stop donald trump from directly using its platforms.
the social media giant ruled the former president had broken its standards and rules by appearing to sympathise with january’ capitol building attack, while continuing to falsely insist that he had won a landslide victory in the presidential election.
facebook’ oversight board said it upheld the decision, but that a review would be carried out within six months.
james clayton has more.
trumps use of social media almost possible impossible to disentangle with jumpers amidst it was his way of the.
it was his way of communicating directly with icans, bypassing mainstream media that he so loathed.
the also use that platform radicalise?
were his posts art esponsible for these in part responsible for these deadly riots?
the facebook boss that posts could thought that his posts could cad to further violence and pended donald trump permanently.
twitter banned him ver, he will never be for ever, he will never be allowed onto the platform to book asked for its decision to be reformed —— reviewed by a board claims is 3a —— board it claims is independent.
it is designed to difficult decisions and the decision today was complex said the oversight board held the decision to suspend access to post content on ebook and instagram.
but it lso said that facebook could ban donald trump not ban donald trump indefinitely.
the company must sess the penalty within six onths.
the gement oes months.
the judgement does leave away back for donald on facebook but for now the dough -- oor is firmly sed.
and that is a huge roblem or donald trump and his hopes of litical return.
in a statement, the president lashed out former president lashed out saying that facebook was an rrassment to our country.
they and other social media ntries must pay a political rice.
facebook has been sential for trump.
campaign used to raise money and micro target voters.
he spent more than $200 million in between his campaign and 2020 between his campaign and his on acebook advertising.
it is not an opinion that was early in ssential part of his political er, it was one of the few places where he was putting his where his mouth was.
money where his mouth was.
yesterday trump released his ommunications platform.
own communications platform.
that it is really no placement for being on witter or facebook.
at the of a button trump click of a button could beam himself onto the uters and phones of tens of illions of americans to that ton is now gone, perhaps for er.
israeli president has asked the leader of the centrist yesh atid party, yair lapid, to to form a coalition government.
it could mean an end to 12 consecutive years in power for benjamin netanyahu — who was unable to form a coalition of his own after the elections in march.
our correspondent in jerusalem yolande knell has the latest.
the president spent the day talking to members of the ferent political parties re and then he announced his ision in a ive roadcast a decision in a live broadcast a short time ago saying he had yair lapid, a centrist politician, rmer finance minister before its time in politics he was a television or.
he said he had anchor.
he said he had the backing of 56 of 120 members of the israeli liament so, obviously, till short of a majority but he ught that he had the best ance of being able to form a overnment that had support of liament despite their still difficulties, the resident said.
so now yair pid will enter into political ngling with many of the ther parties that had lined up pose benjamin netanyahu returning to another term in ce.
but what will be a real challenge for him is that those ies are from across the parties are from across the political spectrum in israel left to right so they have dig ideological differences een them that he will have to bridge.
britain is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to the island ofjersey, in the english channel, to monitor the situation after a row erupted with france over post—brexit fishing rights.
the french government threatened to cut off power supplies to the channel island in a dispute over new a licensing system for french fishing vessels.
butjersey’ government says a more imminent danger is 3 blockade by fishing boats of helier — the island’ main entry point for goods.
our correspondent robert hall has the latest from the island.
news that those vessels were being deployed followed a phone to the jersey vernment all to the jersey government from number 10, from boris hnson who ressed his johnson who expressed his unwavering support for jersey’ tion.
to be fair, jersey politicians been trying the past few days to calm hings down ahead of a protest hich more in the moment.
how did we get here?
french hermen and channel islands ishermen have traditionally ked together well most of the time but that is starting downhill after brexit hen ersey began to re—establish its territorial to on the weekend it also began to issue licenses to boats.
those licenses cover boats that i regularly , they ver what they can hear, they cover what they ran catch, the amount of time that are in jersey waters and hat as almost immediate ushback from the french mmunities along the normandy who said, look, this is ntenable.
we have not had ough time, there is detail ere which is unacceptable and orkable.
and at a meeting a uple of days ago they got ogether with other fishing and said we’re going to have to do something here.
we are going to stop jersey boats landing, will protest in jersey, that oks like it will ahead, and that we had a peech in the french partiament yesterday the maritime yesterday from the maritime minister saying that we may use eys supply from our grid as a as a negotiating tool.
as i speak around 70 boats are on way to ersey, hey will their way to jersey, they will anchor outside helier and may be protesting and they may be protesting and whether the presence of the navy will help or hinder royal navy will help or hinder we shall see in the coming .
the entire indian delegation to the 7 summit is self isolating two members tested ositive for covid—19.
the news as oreign minister is came as foreign minister is reconvened for the last day of alks.
our correspondent the talks.
our correspondent reports.
borisjohnson, dropping by the 7 talks this afternoon, determined to show confidence in an international meeting hit by a covid scare, determined to show that face—to—face diplomacy is possible in a pandemic.
i had a very good meeting with secretary blinken.
india’ foreign minister, 3 guest at the talks, has spent the last few days in london meeting counterparts from the united states and south africa, even the home secretary, priti patel.
but then this morning, this.
in a tweet, he said that he was made aware yesterday evening of his exposure to possible covid positive cases.
"as a measure of abundant caution, i decided to conduct my engagements in the virtual mode.
" india has suffered grievously in recent weeks, and it appears two junior officials may have travelled while infected.
the foreign office has imposed tight covid rules at lancaster house and the indian delegation had yet to attend any meetings here, but the cases were picked up by mandatory daily tests.
the foreign secretary said the problem had been managed and it was vital for essential diplomacy to continue.
we’ve done this in a very secure way but we’ve got to get governments together, leaders together and countries together if we’re going to solve what is clearly notjust a global pandemic but a global plan for recovery.
so, today, the indian ministerjoined the meeting in the now traditional way.
officials say the discovery of these two cases shows the effectiveness of the tight regulations they put in place.
but it will surely raise questions about whether it’ too early for face—to—face diplomacy like this and whether future, planned international meetings should go ahead in person as planned.
as it happened, the pandemic was top of today’ agenda.
ministers agreed to produce more vaccines, share them more fairly, but there was no promise to spend more money doing so.
stay with us on news, still to come: a look at how rangers in south africa are going to extreme measures to tackle the problem of rhino poaching.
i, nelson rolihlahla mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful to the republic of south africa.
after six years of construction and numerous delays, the channel tunnel has been formally opened by the queen and president mitterand.
the tunnel is not yet ready for passengers and freight services to begin.
for centuries, christianity and islam struggled for supremacy.
now the pope’ visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
roger bannister became the first man in the world to run a mile in underfour minutes.
memories of victory as the celebrations reach their climax.
this night is dedicated to everyone who believes in a future of peace and freedom.
this is news, the latest headlines: the united states backs an initiative to waive intellectual property protections for coronavirus vaccines.
facebook upholds its suspension of donald trump, ruling that the former president broke it’ rules.
let’ stay with that story now: alan rusbridger is a member of facebook’ oversight board and we asked him no clear decision was made on whether donald trump can return to facebook.
i think it was a clear answers.
i think that we said they were both right and wrong, they were right to take the stuff down, they were right to stop him because he was a clear and present danger at a time of great volatility in the united states, but it was wrong then to go on and say, well, you are banned indefinitely because indefinitely is not a word that appears anywhere on facebook’ own rulebook, and it is an arbitrary thing, and so we’ve just gone back and said, you know, "well done forgetting the original decision right, but can you think more carefully about defining what what this period of ban is, and why?
" i’ve been speaking to even greer who’ a digital rights activist and i asked him what he made of the decision made by the facebook oversight board.
i think when we focus on these individual moderation decisions, especially ones about high profile individuals like former president trump, we are missing the point which is that facebook’ business model of harvesting our data and using it to algorithmically amplify and suppress certain content is fundamentally incompatible with democracy.
we can go back and forth all day about whether or not he should have been banned, how long he should be banned for but in the end that is not going to solve that fundamental problem.
we need comprehensive policies to address the harms of big tech.
but given all that you have to make decisions and just wishing them away by saying that we need stronger oversight or whatever, in the here and now, decisions have to be made about whether or not donald trump is allowed back on.
that’ certainly right and i think it makes sense we’re having this conversation and donald trump is a repugnant human being that has used facebook and other platforms to espouse racism and other harmful ideologies.
and so, i certainly understand the ground swell of outrage and the desire for him to be removed from these platforms but again i think we need to look at the bigger picture because even if we do kick trump off of all of these platforms we still have a real problem on our hands, which is that these companies that are harvesting our data and amplifying some of the worst content on the internet in pursuit of advertising dollars are actually building the foundation that brought us donald trump in the first place.
and so even if we never hear his name again, we’re not to address these concerns that are undermining democracy and human rights and civil rights until we get those policies in place, get that oversight in place of these companies, notjust facebook but all of these surveillance companies — amazon, google and youtube as well.
facebook is saying, this isn’ a perfect answer and they introduced this oversight board in the absence of any government regulation.
they said it is a fairly unprecedented move they took to to get some consistency in these decisions.
they themselves admit it is not perfect but it is better than what is out there at the moment.
what do you make of the oversight board and how it is working?
i think the most important thing that came out of this oversight board decision today is the fact that facebook refused to give the oversight board information that they requested — this allegedly independent oversight board — requested information from facebook about how its algorithms operate and whether its algorithms were amplifying donald trump’ racist and harmful content.
facebook refused to give their own oversight board that information.
and again to me that points to the fact that this is not about some partisan bickering back and forth about whether this content should be up or down, this is a broader problem, a problem of this business model and one that can only be addressed through robust anti—trust enforcement, privacy legislation and more.
our thanks to even greerfor us there.
in atlanta in the united states, a sacked white police officer is to get his job back despite facing murder charges for fatally shooting a black man lastjune.
rayshard brooks was shot outside a restaurant by garrett rolfe — who faces life in prison or the death penalty if convicted.
he lost his job after the shooting, but a police oversight board has ruled that his dismissal did not follow due process.
to myanmar now.
with the military still in control of the country — the main civilian opposition has now formed its own armed forces unit.
the national unity government says it created a quote "people’ defence force" — to protect civilians from military attacks.
our southeast asia correspondent, jonathan head gave us this update.
there are lots of people willing to fight.
there are many groups involved in the civilian opposition in the cities who have now taken up basic weapons, and we are beginning to see some groups in places like chin state way out on the border with india.
we’ve seen a number of soldiers killed there, and the ethnic insurgent groups that have been fighting for years on the borders who have formally pledged their support to this national unity government, which in return says it will create a federal system including properly representing them for the first time and incorporating those insurgents into what they say will be a federal army.
they say this people’ defence force is the first step in that.
there’ also a great deal of frustration about how little international support there has been for a different outcome in myanmar.
the national unity government was formed in the hope they’ get recognition internationally as a far more legitimate government than the military men who seized power back in february.
seized power remember from a government that had just been re—elected by a landslide.
that hasn’ been forthcoming and i suspect in some ways this declaration of an armed wing of what has to now been in unarmed movement is also a warning shot to the outside world saying we have no choice, we will have to start arming to defend ourselves and to fight against the dominance of the military because nobody else is helping us.
it does raise the risks of a much wider conflict in myanmar and there are lots of fears that is where myanmar is heading.
all of their neighbours, particularly thailand where they have the longest border, big economic ties, and china most critically, and india, all of the bordering states and southeast asia — this is a warning sign to them as well, take it more seriously and take more action to resolve this conflict otherwise it must inevitably descend into a much more serious war.
our thanks to jonathan there.
now, to an extremely rare case that has generated huge interest on social media.
a 25—year—old malian woman has given birth to nine babies at once.
two more than doctors had detected during scans.
courtney bembridge has the details.
one.
two.
three.
four.
five.
six.
seven.
eight.
and nine.
halima cisse gave birth to five girls and four boys.
the babies are all well and, if there are no complications, the family will set a new world record.
nonuplets are extremely rare and risky.
doctors in mali were worried, so the government intervened and the mother was flown to morocco.
: she was 25 weeks pregnant so we tried to make the pregnancy go longer until she reached 30 weeks.
she gave birth eventually with the help of a cesarean operation.
we were surprised to find nine babies.
nadya suleman came to international attention when she had octuplets in 2009, and she holds the current world record for most babies born in a single birth to survive.
courtney bembridge, news.
one unexpected consequence of the coronavirus pandemic was a dramatic reduction in the poaching of wild rhinos.
the figure fell by around a third last year — the lowest level in nearly a decade.
but — as lockdown restrictions ease — that number is creeping up again.
rangers in south africa are going to extreme measures to tackle the problem.
tim allman reports.
by air and by land, the battle against the coaches on.
here at this nature eserve they hunt down and ate a giant rhino.
what they next may trike you as rather gruesome.
we have ided to the haunt the entire pulation because of our high vel of threat — de—horn, ’re going de—horn every rhino even rhinos with lves.
de—horning can be ontroversial, critics say it eave the animals can leave the animals defenceless.
it is designed to oachers.
hunt a hino or its horn when it has lready been removed.
a lot say a relatively short term and the horns do eventually back but something needs to be done.
rhino numbers in area fell by two—thirds between 2008 and 2019.
kdowns load that decline but hen the lockdown was eased.
november, december, last ear and into 2021, this ndscape and in particular ruger national park has been eriencing serious numbers of in approaching incidents.
africa is at the centre a poaching crisis.
local nters supplying a lucrative ternational trade.
this may like a cruel solution but seem like a cmel solution but the poachers will simply let rhinos die.
tim allman, news.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @ lvaughanjones.
lam i am lewis vaughan—jones and this is news.
goodbye.
hello there.
the weather is set to change a hit this weekend as the wind direction changes.
at the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy showers again during thursday.
certainly a dramatic day on wednesday, lots of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
a lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got a cold start.
may be a frosty start in places on thursday morning.
not as cold in the southwest where there is more cloud moving in.
that’ going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that will run its way along the south coast through the english channel for a while.
but could be a bit snowy to start with in scotland.
snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers will move across scotland into northern england.
fewer showers for northern ireland, while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast corner of england for a while, there should be fewer showers through the midlands, wales and southern england.
temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
as we head into the evening we will see those showers continuing to move their way southwards, fading away for most inland areas overnight.
that means temperatures are going to fall away.
it’ going to be another cold night.
there is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold by friday morning.
plenty of sunshine to start the day.
we will see the cloud developing, and a few showers breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers with hail confined to eastern scotland and some eastern parts of england, turning drier further west.
temperatures should be a little bit higher on friday, but still no better than 1a, maybe 15 degrees.
now into the weekend, the changes i promised.
we’ve got another area of low pressure.
that is going to strengthen the wind and these weather fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
looks like it’ going to be a southerly wind that brings that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air, especially during the second half of the weekend.
wet weather, though, i think for england and wales on saturday and for a while in northern ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into scotland where it’ going to be a cold day here.
temperatures across england and wales away from the north should get up to or 15 degrees.
maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
we should be turning more showery, i think, during sunday and with that warmer air across most areas, 19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
it cools on monday, but the showers will continue.
in a future of peace and freedom.
this is news, the headlines: the will support a plan to remove patent protections on covid vaccines.
the move would make it easier for more companies to produce vaccines, making them more widely available for developing countries.
the world health organization calls it "a monumental moment" in the fight against covid—19.
donald trump’ ban from facebook and instagram has been upheld by facebook’ oversight board.
the social media giant ruled the outgoing president had broken its standards and rules by appearing to sympathise with the capitol building attackers, while continuing to falsely insist he won the election.
the is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to the island ofjersey — to monitor the situation in the english channel — after the french government threatened to cut off power supplies to the channel island, the probation officer who was in charge of the man who carried out the fatal attacks at fishmongers’ hall in london has told an inquest that he had no indication he was being deceived by usman khan.
but he admitted there had been some prison intelligence that khan might return to ‘his old ways’.
daniel sandford has more.
the disastrous consequences of allowing a recently released, high—risk convicted terrorist travel alone to london.
the battle on london bridge, with usman khan, who had just stabbed two people to death.
saskia jones and jack merritt had been involved with learning together, a prison education organisation whose events khan had been attending.
khan had been a difficult prisoner, involved in violence against other inmates and radicalisation.
he had improved his behaviour but there was intelligence suggesting that he might go back to his old ways.
the inquests into the deaths of saskia jones and jack merritt have heard that it was usman khan’ probation officer, ken skelton, who authorised his trip to the learning together event.
but today, he insisted that he didn’ make that decision alone.
he said that a mapper panel, a panel of experts responsible for public protection, had backed the decision.
ken skelton told the jury that although there is no written record of the mapper experts positively agreeing to the trip, they had been aware of it and had not objected.
"they must have said he can go," he explained, "that decision would not have been made alone by me.
" either way, khan did travelm by himself, on a train to the capital, despite what saskia jones’ family’ lawyer said today was a remarkable number of red flags waving.
daniel sandford, news.
now on news: the travel show.
coming up on the show — getting up close to an american icon in new york.
now for the the piece resistance.
the original torch.
wow!
cooking up a michelin star takeaway in singapore.
so this is the chef extraordinaire, hawker—chan.
and i’ on the hunt for london’ fast—disappearing red phone boxes.
if you say "london", it is the telephone — it’ the red telephone box.
hello and welcome to the travel show with me, christa larwood, still here at home in london.
but as you can see, some things are starting to return to normal and fingers crossed we will be back out on the road sometime soon.
until then, this week, let’ take a look at some of our favourite trips to the world’ most vibrant cities here on the show.
well, new york is always one of our favourite attractions.
maybe it’ the sheer noise, bustle and knowledge that, under normal circumstances, it really does feel like the city that never sleeps.
and back in 2019, lucy was lucky enough to be given a behind—the—scenes look at one of the city’ newest and perhaps most iconic attractions.
i was up at sam to catch the staff ferry — the very first boat of the day to leave for liberty island, hours before the arrival of the public.
wow!
i’ve never seen the statute this close before.
definitely worth the ungodly wake—up call.
until recently, visitors that wanted to learn more about the statue’ history were directed to an exhibit in its base.
but the space was so limited, only a few people actually got to see it.
that’ all set to change with the opening of the new museum.
the museum takes people all the way back to the statue’ creation.
it was designed by frederic august bartholdi, who built it in his paris workshop.
the statue marked 100 years since the declaration of independence and the historic alliance between america and france.
in 1885, it was shipped in 350 individual pieces over to new york, where it was reassembled and unveiled to the american public the next year.
now for the the piece resistance, the original torch.
the torch!
the original torch!
wow!
it stood up there from 1886 until 1984.
the original torch had been changed from bartholdi’ design to include a glass—paneled flame that could be lit up night.
in the 1980, it was removed and replaced during a massive restoration of the statue.
talk to me about how difficult it was to get the torch in here.
well, it — i didn’ have to do it!
but it was a — it was quite a task.
yeah.
people worked for about two weeks from 3:00 in the afternoon till 3:00 at night and they had this carrier that they laid — they laid the face on its back, and then put the torch on it.
we had not put in all the glass here so that it could lift quite nicely into its position, and it all worked quite well.
and here it is!
martin and his team have been in charge of conserving the torch and cleaning it up.
well, today is the last day.
it’ sort of the clean down from the top down and so, as they’re finishing up the lighting fixtures inside, myjob is then the final clean down of everything that falls down.
you’re one of the last people who get to be here before it’ off i do feel very honoured.
yeah.
it’ so iconic and — and you think about its history and how it stood for freedom and for liberty to people all over the world, it really is a remarkable piece of work.
lucy getting a close—up look at lady liberty back in 2019.
now, for many travellers, one of the benefits of exploring the world is getting the chance to all sorts of local cuisine.
back in 2016, henry visited singapore to meet a man whose street food earned him a michelin star.
this is singapore’ largest hawker markets in the heart of chinatown, and it’ rampacked with stalls selling traditional dishes.
one stall in particular is causing quite a stir.
this queue is absolutely humongous, full of all sorts of people from singapore, from around the world, there’ a lot of tourists here.
and you’ imagine it for some sort of concert but in fact, it’ for that hawker stall over there.
it’ one of two recipients here in singapore who actually achieved a michelin star, so i’ going to meet the chef.
hawker chan!
hi!
so this is the chef extraordinaire hawker chan, and he’ been doing this for over 30 years, right?
yeah.
tiga puluh tahun?
yeah.
wow!
the stall has become famous for serving the world’ cheapest michelin starred meal.
we’re a well—oiled machine here, but i’ feeling the pressure.
so one, one sauce here?
one portion costs less than $2.
but the waits can be up to three hours.
0!
so the rice!
it’ boiling.
that was pretty good!
it’ hoped the star award might mean more young people consider a career in the street markets.
hawker expert tay explans how there are fears the tradition might die out.
most of the hawkers, they want — they don’ their kids to do what they’re doing because it’ — it’ hard work, it’ hot, long hours, and if you sell any of the hawker food for more than $3 or $4, people will start to question.
50 three or four bucks!
we have to change the perception of hawker food as being cheap.
wow, so this is like a full one—woman operation then?
0, it’sjust me in the morning, yeah.
just you in the morning?
just me in the morning.
the places like this will actually encourage more youngsters to actually start a business in maybe a little bit better environment.
it’ not a traditional hawker centre, it is more rowdy.
like, i invent my logo to suit this place because it is more like hipster area.
it’ still hot and hard work, but it’ hoped these new, more contemporary surroundings will encourage the next generation of singaporeans to keep creating some of the best street food in the world.
henry there helping, hopefully not hindering, hawker chan to keep his michelin star, back in 2016.
well, do stay with us, because coming up on the show — wejump on board a magical bus in karachi.
i’ll just say that there’ just so much more to karachi than we know.
and i go in search of london’ disappearing red phone boxes.
so don’ go away.
now, karachi is pakistan’ biggest city and almost 50 million people call it home.
but it has had something of a reputation for not being the easiest, or may be safest place for tourists to explore.
but back in 2017 ben zand went there to meet a group of people working to change that.
i want to get a taste of karachi, and when you think of a tour you usually think of a friendly tour guide, some foreigners, a casual stroll around the city.
but in karachi it is much different.
it is done on one of these things.
this is the super savari express.
in a city linked more with bombs and guns than tourist trips, the super savari seems a safe choice.
but this is a unique kind of tour bus, created to change the image of karachi not only locally but also around the world.
main aim — to help karachi’ population reconnect with their city, and help the rich meet the city’ poorest members.
in its early days, each tour will come with an armed guard, but as the situation has improved, it is nowjust this big, beautiful bus.
i love this bus, it’ incredible.
don’ we all?
what is the history of it?
you see them everywhere in karachi.
well, you know, the concept works on the lines of this actually being a representation of the brides of the guys who drive them.
obviously, you can climb on the roof, and who doesn’ want to climb on the roof of a bus?
do you think a city like karachi needs something like this?
there has been a disconnect between educated classes in karachi and the general population.
and do you do this because you think karachi is misrepresented and it has a reputation it doesn’ deserve?
i will just say that there is so much more to karachi than we know.
there is something special about this mosque that i have to show you.
the tour takes visitors around the city in an attempt to show its diversity.
you visit mosques, hindu temples, churches, karachi’ version of the big ben, and then it is time for food.
sorry.
i’ going to ruin your tea party.
what is this?
this guy says traditional pakistani breakfast.
ssentially you get chai and a type of an omelette, essentially most things in pakistan are made spicy, so the same with omelettes.
i have noticed, my stomach noticed that a few days ago.
you dip some of that in chai.
you actually dip it in the tea?
yeah.
i am just ruining your tea.
i have got soggy pieces of dough in your tea.
our next stop.
so this is lyari, widely regarded as the most dangerous area of karachi.
so here in lyari there is only one sport people care about, and that is football.
there’ over 175 registered clubs, and that’ because these guys, like everybody else, absolutely love it.
anywhere you look you see man united tops, real madrid tops and hopefully some liverpool tops, and i am here to find out a bit more about that is the case.
this is our lyari centre, in lyari, a centre of excellence, where we have approximately 100 kids that come across to train four or five times a week.
we give them free football coaching, we give them life skills, sessions on top of it.
so i have been asked to have a game with these kids, who look pretty good.
because i am wearing 3 liverpool top, everybody thinks i play for liverpool.
a huge crowd has gathered.
yeah, look forward to me embarrassing myself in front of everybody.
here we go.
after eyeing up the opposition, we began.
sand and heat, it is not a good combination.
soon, though, we were losing by two goals.
me and my new friend michelle realised it was our moment and, after generously being awarded a free kick, i curled it into the corner.
then two penalties later, we had won the game.
after celebrating with my team, adequately named benjamin’ liverpool warriors, i spoke to michelle about football here.
she runs the local women’ team and is trying to get more women involved in football and, amazingly enough, it turned out i had just witnessed herfirst ever game on this pitch.
you were a little bit nervous about playing because you are like the only girl here.
is this the first time you have played here?
hout any other girls, and if you were to look around, and there’ a game going on there, and there’ an academy here, i think i am the only female in this stadium right now.
sometimes we go into an area where the culture is just extremely male—dominated, and they don’ want females to play.
there are a hundred boys and 35 giris.
two years ago, there re zero.
and football has picked up in areas that have been otherwise neglected.
these guys often have to come up with their own recreation, solving their own problems, and football is kind of inherent to the game, solving your own problems.
0!
ben there on—board what must be one of the world’ most colourful tour buses back in 2017.
if you cast your mind back to a time when travel wasn’ quite as difficult as it is now, there was still the eternal dilemma, what to do with a airport layover?
well, we set ade the challenge back in 2017, how much could he fit into a six hour stopover in rome?
so, you find yourself stuck here at leonardo vinci—fiumicino airport.
this is one of the largest in italy and it is the essential hub for its national airline.
unfortunately, rome is ranked as one of the most delayed airports in the world.
so you’re probably going to find yourself with a bit of time in your hands.
i’ve decided to make it a bit more interesting and set myself a challenge to see rome in under six hours.
hello!
how are you?
nice to meet you.
bongiorno.
where are we going first?
i’ve chosen a bespoke tour and specifically requested five sites to visit during my whistlestop tour.
i want to see the colosseum, the circus maximus, the palatine hill, the mouth of truth, and of course the trevi fountain.
my first proper stop here is to go and see the circus maximus.
older than the colosseum, and with a capacity of hundreds of thousands of people, it was at the heart of rome’ lavish and brutal public entertainment — the gladiators, to you and me.
this was the place for the spectators, the excavation over there.
the spectators set all around.
and resting just above the site is the palatine hill, which is one of the most ancient parts of the city.
next stop is a little hidden gem.
it is the mouth of truth.
if you’re a liar, and you put your hand inside the mouth, your hand will be cut.
every time i see the trevi fountain it always takes my breath away because it’ so beautiful.
and i’ say this is definitely one of the most must—see monuments in rome.
one of the downsides of a tour like this is that there is no real time to stop and really enjoy the sights, because of the tight schedule.
but they give you a great taste of what’ on offer.
who knows?
maybe one day i’ll be back to explore rome at a more leisurely pace.
ade their cramming in the ancient roman sites back in 2017.
to finish off this week we are in my adopted home town of london, famous of course for its white red buses and until relatively recently, its red phone boxes.
but since the arrival of these things, fewer and fewer people have been using the public phones.
so back in 2019, i reported on a programme to remove those iconic red boxes from london’ streets.
after all, it is only tourists that would miss them, right?
the red phone box is synonymous with london.
when they were first introduced in the 19205, they gave many poorer londoners access to the phone for the very first time, and after countless appearances in films, shows and music videos, they became something of an icon both here and around the world.
you say london, it is the red telephone box.
the first thing that comes into my mind when i think of britain, was either the queen or the red phone booth.
although as more people got access to their own phone at home, the numbers of actual cells being made from them dropped.
now, i can remember when i first came here 20 years ago, using a phone box was a really big event, it was like, "i have arrived in london.
" and i probably took several dozen selfies in one of these things.
these days it is just clear it isn’ being used much.
and frankly it isn’ the nicest place to be.
the smell is not ideal, either.
i might get out of here.
even though a lot of these phone boxes aren’ in the best shape now, there is a group of londoners who still take pride in them, and the postcard image they portray.
i thinkjust because phone boxes are british icons, for them to look scruffy in the photos that are going back around the world with tourists after their holidays, i didn’ like that idea.
so i thought, not clean them up?
it’ only polite.
seeing one in a completely sorry state was almost like seeing an elderly relative in distress or something.
we like to help emily, we think it is a worthy cause and we are loyal fans.
it looks nice when they are all scrubbed up.
emily and her band of volunteers regularly spend their spare time sprucing up phone boxes like these for sightseers.
but it looks like even their valiant efforts might not be enough to save them.
they are difficult to keep clean, and they’re not very easy for people with disabilities to use, and we are obliged to have a quite high percentage of payphones which can be used by people with disabilities.
so the question is, what’ going to happen to the old red phone boxes we’ve all come to know and love?
some have been put up for sale, and some are being offered to local communities to turn into things like public libraries.
others are already being rented out to businesses who see the beauty in keeping things small — like fouad, who now repairs phones inside a phone box.
i am not claustrophobic at all.
if you work in an iconic place you are iconic too.
other businesses that have cropped up include cafes, coffee bars, and souvenir shops, all crammed inside a square metre of floor space.
if you think of all the conversations these four walls must have overheard, declarations of love, cries of emergency or whispers of espionage.
these walls have heard it all, every type of conversation.
and i think it is sad to see they are new empty.
sadly that is all we have got time for on this week’ programme but i hope we have given you enough inspiration to keep going until we can all travel again.
coming up next week: it is the turn of technology in the final part of our series in which ade looks at some of the issues to shape travel as we get back out on the road.
so dojoin us then if you can.
in the meantime you can catch up with more of our recent programmes on iplayer and we are on social media in all the usual places.
until next time from me and all the travel show team, it’ goodbye.
hello there.
the weather is set to change a hit this weekend as the wind direction changes.
at the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy showers again during thursday.
certainly a dramatic day on wednesday, lots of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
a lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got a cold start.
may be a frosty start in places on thursday morning.
not as cold in the southwest where there is more cloud moving in.
that’ going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that will run its way along the south coast through the english channel for a while.
but could be a bit snowy to start with in scotland.
snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers will move across scotland into northern england.
fewer showers for northern ireland, while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast corner of england for a while, there should be fewer showers through the midlands, wales and southern england.
temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
as we head into the evening we will see those showers continuing to move their way southwards, fading away for most inland areas overnight.
that means temperatures are going to fall away.
it’ going to be another cold night.
there is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold by friday morning.
plenty of sunshine to start the day.
we will see the cloud developing, and a few showers breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers with hail confined to eastern scotland and some eastern parts of england, turning drier further west.
temperatures should be a little bit higher on friday, but still no better than 1a, maybe 15 degrees.
now into the weekend, the changes i promised.
we’ve got another area of low pressure.
that is going to strengthen the wind and these weather fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
looks like it’ going to be a southerly wind that brings that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air, especially during the second half of the weekend.
wet weather, though, i think for england and wales on saturday and for a while in northern ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into scotland where it’ going to be a cold day here.
temperatures across england and wales away from the north should get up to or 15 degrees.
maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
we should be turning more showery, i think, during sunday and with that warmer air across most areas, 19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
it cools on monday, but the showers will continue.
welcome to news — i’ lewis vaughanjones.
our top stories: a monumental moment in the fight against covid — the united states backs removing intellectual property protections for vaccines.
ruling that the former president broke its rules.
the is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to monitor a planned blockade ofjersey’ main port.
it’ the latest escalation with france over post—brexit fishing rights.
the entire indian delegation at the 7 summit in london, is self—isolating after two members test positive for coronavius.
the entire indian delegation at the 7 summit in london, is self—isolating after two members test positive for coronavius.
expecting seven babies at once would be enough but a woman from mali had two surprises, and is now a mother of nine.
welcome to our viewers in the and around the globe.
after increased pressure — the biden administration says it supports removing patent protections for covid—19 vaccines.
the move aims to make it easier to ramp up production of vaccines and make them more widely available for poorer countries.
trade representative katherine tie said in well this was welcomed by the director—general of the world health organization, who said this was "a monumental moment in the fight against —19.
" a vaccine patent waiver makes it harder for vaccine manufacturers to make money out of their products.
shares in a number of the companies tumbled on the news.
the international federation of pharmaceutical manufacturers and associations says the plan is a red herring when it comes to improving the distribution of vaccines.
the decision by the administration is disappointing, but it doesn’ change that it’ a wrong answer to complex problem.
it’ a wrong but simple answer to a complex problem because it disrupts, it distracts from tackling the real challenges, which are trade barriers, including from the , disrupting supply chains.
it prevents the immediate tackling of the bottlenecks in the supply chain, the scarcity of raw materials, where you really need full partnership.
and it also prevents a fast move because what we need now, looking at the dramatic situation in india, is rich countries starting rapidly to share their doses with poor countries.
it is unfair to see that we have countries where 20—year—old healthy young people vaccinated, and most of africa, basically, doesn’ get any vaccine now that india is in such a dramatic situation.
professor george contreras, is a professor of law at the university of utah and says while addressing intellectual property rights is important, it’ only one piece of the puzzle.
it’ a really surprising and unprecedented move by the department of state and the government, which has usually been quite protective of intellectual property rights.
what are the implications of it?
you know, as many have said, this is a necessary but not sufficient step to distributing a covid vaccine on a worldwide basis.
intellectual property rights are there, they’re important, but there are a lot of other pieces to the puzzle, including supply and manufacturing, regulatory approval, safety and so facebook says it will continue to stop donald trump from directly using its platforms.
the social media giant’ new oversight board ruled the former president had broken its standards and rules capitol.
but the oversight board told facebook to re—consider whether the ban should be indefinite.
james clayton has more.
trump’ use of social media is almost impossible to disentangle with trumpism itself.
it was his way of communicating directly with americans, bypassing the mainstream media that he so loathed.
but did he also use that platform to radicalise?
responsible for these deadly riots?
facebook boss mark zuckerberg thought trump’ posts could lead to further violence and suspended donald trump indefinitely the day after the riots.
twitter went one step further, and banned trump forever.
he’ll never be allowed back onto that platform.
however, facebook asked its decision to be reviewed by its newly formed oversight board, which it claims is independent.
it’ designed to make difficult moderation decisions, and their decision today was complex.
it said that the oversight board has upheld facebook’ decision to suspend trump’ access to post content on facebook and instagram.
however, it’ also said that facebook couldn’ ban trump indefinitely.
the company must reassess this penalty, it said, within six months of the decision.
thejudgment does leave a way back for trump back on facebook, but for now, the door is firmly closed.
and that is a huge problem for donald trump and his hopes of a political return.
in a statement, the former president lashed out, saying: facebook has been essential to trump.
his campaign used it to raise money and micro—target voerts.
he spent more than $200 million in 2020 between his campaign and his on his facebook advertising, so it’ notjust an opinion that facebook was an essential part of this political power.
it was actually one of the few places where he was putting his money where his mouth was.
trump yesterday released his own communications platform, but it’ really no replacement for being on twitter or facebook.
at the click of a button, trump could beam himself onto the computers and phones of tens of millions of americans.
that button has now gone, perhaps forever.
james clayton, news.
alan rusbridger is a member of facebook’ oversight board and we asked him no clear decision was made on whether donald trump can ever return to facebook.
i think it was a clear answer.
i think that we said they were both right and wrong, they were right to take the stuff down, they were right to stop him because he was a clear and present danger at a time of great volatility in the united states, but it was wrong then to go on and say, well, you are banned indefinitely because indefinitely is not a word that appears anywhere on facebook’ own rulebook, and it is an arbitrary thing, and so we’ve just gone back and said, you know, "well done forgetting the original decision right, but can you think more carefully about defining what what this period of ban is, and why?
" the israeli president has asked yair lapid, the leader of a centrist party to and form a coalition government.
it could mean an end to 12 years in power for benjamin netanyahu — who wasn’ able to form a coalition of his own after the elections in march.
our correspondent in jerusalem yolande knell has the latest.
the president spent the day talking to members of the different political parties here and then he announced his decision in a live broadcast a short time ago saying he had asked yair lapid, a centrist politician, former finance minister — before his time in politics he was a television anchor.
he said he had the backing of 56 of the 120 members of the israeli parliament so, obviously, still short of a majority but he thought that he had the best chance of being able to form a government that had support of parliament despite there still being difficulties, the president said.
so now lapid will enter into political wrangling with many of the other parties that had lined up to oppose benjamin netanyahu happy to returning to another term in office.
but what will be a real challenge for him is that those parties are from across the political spectrum in israel from left to right so they have ideological differences between them that he will have to bridge.
britain is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to the island ofjersey, in the english channel, to monitor the situation after a row erupted with france over post—brexit fishing rights.
the french government threatened to cut off power supplies to the channel island in a dispute over new a licensing system for french fishing vessels.
butjersey’ government says a more imminent danger is 3 blockade by fishing boats of helier — the island’ main entry point for goods.
our correspondent robert hall has the latest from the island.
news that those vessels were being deployed followed a phone call to thejersey government from number 10, from borisjohnson who expressed his unwavering support forjersey’ position.
to be fair, jersey politicians have been trying hard the past few days to calm things down ahead of a protest of which more in a moment.
how did we get here?
french fishermen and channel islands fishermen have traditionally worked together well most of the time but that is starting to go downhill after brexit whenjersey began to re—establish its territorial waters.
on the weekend it also began to issue licenses to french boats.
those licenses cover boats that are regularly here, they cover what they can catch, the amount of time that they are in jersey waters and there was almost immediate pushback from the french communities along the normandy coast who said, look, this is untenable.
we have not had enough time, there is detail here which is unacceptable and unworkable.
and at a meeting a couple of days ago they got together with other fishing ports and said we’re going to have to do something here.
we are going to stop jersey boats from landing, will protest injersey — that looks like it will go ahead, and that we had a speech in the french parliament yesterday from the maritime minister saying that we may use jersey’ supply from our grid as a negotiating tool.
as i speak, around 70 boats are on their way tojersey, they will anchor outside helier and they may be protesting and whether the presence of the royal navy will help or hinder we shall see in the coming days.
the entire indian delegation to the 7 summit of leading economies in london is self—isolating after two members tested positive for covid—19.
the news came as foreign ministers re—convened for the last day of the talks.
our diplomatic correspondent james landale reports.
borisjohnson, dropping by the 7 talks this afternoon, determined to show confidence in an international meeting hit by a covid scare, determined to show that face—to—face diplomacy is possible in a pandemic.
i had a very good meeting with secretary blinken.
india’ foreign minister, 3 guest at the talks, has spent the last few days in london meeting counterparts from the united states and south africa, even the home secretary, priti patel.
but then this morning, this.
in a tweet, he said that he was made aware yesterday evening of his exposure to possible covid positive cases.
"as a measure of abundant caution, i decided to conduct my engagements in the virtual mode.
" india has suffered grievously in recent weeks, and it appears two junior officials may have travelled while infected.
the foreign office has imposed tight covid rules at lancaster house and the indian delegation had yet to attend any meetings here, but the cases were picked up by mandatory daily tests.
the foreign secretary said the problem had been managed and it was vital for essential diplomacy to continue.
we’ve done this in a very secure way but we’ve got to get governments together, leaders together and countries together if we’re going to solve what is clearly notjust a global pandemic but a global plan for recovery.
so, today, the indian ministerjoined the meeting in the now traditional way.
officials say the discovery of these two cases shows the effectiveness of the tight regulations they put in place.
but it will surely raise questions about whether it’ too early for face—to—face diplomacy like this and whether future, planned international meetings should go ahead in person as planned.
as it happened, the pandemic was top of today’ agenda.
ministers agreed to produce more vaccines, share them more fairly, but there was no promise to spend james landale, news.
stay with us on news, still to come: a look at how rangers in south africa are going to extreme measures to tackle the problem of rhino poaching.
i, nelson rolihlahla mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful to the republic of south africa.
after six years of construction and numerous delays, the channel tunnel has been formally opened by the queen and president mitterand.
the tunnel is not yet ready for passengers and freight services to begin.
for centuries, christianity and islam struggled for supremacy.
now the pope’ visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
roger bannister became the first man in the world to run a mile in underfour minutes.
memories of victory as the celebrations reach their climax.
this night is dedicated to everyone who believes in a future of peace and freedom.
this is news.
the latest headlines: the united states backs an initiative to waive intellectual property protections for coronavirus vaccines.
facebook upholds its suspension of donald trump, ruling that the former president broke its rules.
to myanmar now.
with the military still in control of the country, the main civilian opposition has now formed its own armed forces unit.
the national unity government says it created a, quote, "people’ defence force" to protect civilians from military attacks.
our southeast asia correspondent, jonathan head gave us this update.
there are lots of people willing to fight.
there are many groups involved in the civilian opposition in the cities who have now taken up basic weapons, and we are beginning to see some groups in places like chin state way out on the border with india.
we’ve seen a number of soldiers killed there, and the ethnic insurgent groups that have been fighting for years on the borders who have formally pledged their support to this national unity government, which in return says it will create a federal system including properly representing them for the first time and incorporating those insurgents into what they say will be a federal army.
they say this people’ defence force is the first step in that.
there’ also a great deal of frustration about how little international support there has been for a different outcome in myanmar.
the national unity government was formed in the hope they’ get recognition internationally as a far more legitimate government than the military men who seized power back in february.
seized power remember from a government that had just been re—elected by a landslide.
that hasn’ been forthcoming and i suspect in some ways this declaration of an armed wing of what has to now been in unarmed movement is also a warning shot to the outside world saying we have no choice, we will have to start arming to defend ourselves and to fight against the dominance of the military because nobody else is helping us.
it does raise the risks of a much wider conflict in myanmar and there are lots of fears that is where myanmar is heading.
all of their neighbours, particularly thailand where they have the longest border, big economic ties, and china most critically, and india, all of the bordering states and southeast asia — this is a warning sign to them as well, take it more seriously and take more action to resolve this conflict otherwise it must inevitably descend into a much more serious war.
our thanks to jonathan there.
next to the united states.
29 students abducted by gunmen in march from a forestry college in nigeria have been released.
the students were brought by police to a police station in the north—western city of kaduna.
reports say a ransom was paid to the kidnappers.
now, to an extremely rare pregnancy, and a possible world record.
a 25—year—old woman from mali has given birth to nine babies at once — two more than she expected.
courtney bembridge has the details.
one.
two.
three.
four.
five.
six.
seven.
eight.
and nine.
halima cisse gave birth to five girls and four boys.
the babies are all well and, if there are no complications, the family will set a new world record.
surprise me because i am a believer.
nonuplets are extremely rare and risky.
doctors in mali were worried, so the government intervened and the mother was flown to morocco.
: she was 25 weeks pregnant so we tried to make the pregnancy go longer until she reached 30 weeks.
she gave birth eventually with the help of a cesarean operation.
we were surprised to find nine babies.
nadya suleman came to international attention when she had octuplets in 2009, and she holds the current world record for most babies born in a single birth to survive.
courtney bembridge, news.
kecia gaither is director of maternal—foetal medicine for new york city health and hospitals.
thank you so much for coming on the programme.
thank you for ting me.
this is absolutely extraordinary.
wonderful of se, congratulations to the and no doubt exhausted ther, but to put it in erspective, how unusual is ?
exceedingly unusual, xceedingly.
nine idon’ know, i can’ get my head around that number, but we other examples of age and ings like that, how unusual it, once we are up past four five, how unusual is it up there?
this is exceedingly edingly rare, probably less than one in a number of lions.
and the question that have is was theirs natural or this ?
ride, i see, cannot answer that, but what he risks?
for a space in a woman’ body that is meant and sometimes two, a9, for one and sometimes two, 49, there must be a huge amount of .
it was a great risk to risk.
it was a great risk to her body.
there is an increased certainly of preterm delivery, certainly of —eclampsia, respiratory pre-edampsia, respiratory issues, , i’ sure the lower remities were swollen from at huge uterus impeding the blood coming back from her , so i’ sure that there ere a lot of issues going on her during the pregnancy.
the reports are that the scans showed seven, so hey were expecting seven, and two extra came out, and that just shows you difficult it is for scanning in uation like this?
it all depends on how far along she hen she had her was when she had her ultrasound.
if it was in the trimester then it would first trimester then it would have been more easier to see any babies there were as opposed to when they get ther along and everybody is rowded in there and you can’ , so it depends on how far along she was when she had a ultrasound.
what about you and our experience?
what he most you have ever elivered?
four.
and how was ?
a couple of quads, it’ .
it may not be fined for he mother, but it’ a very citing time, certainly erything has to be organised, ltiple people in the perating room, a lot of action on, and you have to be repared for it because the an thing that you consider rself whether time yourself whether time of delivery is bleeding, post ing bleeding because that erus has been overly stended, it’ hard for it to ntract our normal —commerce ’ the ain thing you have that’ the main thing you have to concern yourself with.
’ really interesting and orts we have so far are that things seem to be going well wish them all the best.
thank you so much for coming in rogramme, thank you for the programme, thank you for coming on the programme.
to colombia now, and anti—government protests have entered an 8th day with demonstrators gathering across the country.
at least 2a people, including a police officer, have died since the protests began.
the is urging security forces to refrain from using firearms.
more than 800 people have been injured in clashes between police and demonstrators while more than 80 people are reported as missing.
the nationwide rallies were initially against a now—cancelled tax reform bill.
one unexpected consequence of the coronavirus pandemic was a dramatic reduction in the poaching of wild rhinos.
the figure fell by around a third last year — the lowest level in nearly a decade.
but as lockdown restrictions ease, that number is creeping up again.
rangers in south africa are going to extreme measures to tackle the problem.
you may find some of the images in tim allman’ report distressing.
by air, and by land, the battle against the poachers rages on.
here at the balule nature reserve they hunt down and sedate a giant rhino.
what they do next may strike you as rather gruesome.
we have decided to de—horn the entire population because of our high level of threat.
we’re going to de—horn every rhino and even rhinos with calves.
de—horning can be controversial, critics say it can leave the animals defenceless.
it is designed to deter poachers.
hunt a rhino for its horn when it has already been removed 7 some say it is a relatively short term fix and the horns do eventually grow back but something needs to be done.
rhino numbers in this area fell by two—thirds between 2008 and 2019.
lockdowns slowed that decline but then the lockdown was eased.
since november, december, last year and into 2021, this landscape, and in particular kruger national park, has been experiencing serious numbers of rhino poaching incidents.
south africa is at the centre of a poaching crisis.
local hunters supplying a lucrative international trade.
this may seem like a cruel solution but the poachers will simply let these rhinos die.
tim allman, news.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @ lvaughanjones.
hello there.
the weather is set to change a hit this weekend as the wind direction changes.
at the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy showers again during thursday.
certainly a dramatic day on wednesday, lots of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
a lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got a cold start.
may be a frosty start in places on thursday morning.
not as cold in the southwest where there is more cloud moving in.
that’ going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that will run its way along the south coast through the english channel for a while.
but could be a bit snowy to start with in scotland.
snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers will move across scotland into northern england.
fewer showers for northern ireland, while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast corner of england for a while, there should be fewer showers through the midlands, wales and southern england.
temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
as we head into the evening we will see those showers continuing to move their way southwards, fading away for most inland areas overnight.
that means temperatures are going to fall away.
it’ going to be another cold night.
there is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold by friday morning.
plenty of sunshine to start the day.
we will see the cloud developing, and a few showers breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers with hail confined to eastern scotland and some eastern parts of england, turning drier further west.
temperatures should be a little bit higher on friday, but still no better than 1a, maybe 15 degrees.
now into the weekend, the changes i promised.
we’ve got another area of low pressure.
that is going to strengthen the wind and these weather fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
looks like it’ going to be a southerly wind that brings that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air, especially during the second half of the weekend.
wet weather, though, i think for england and wales on saturday and for a while in northern ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into scotland where it’ going to be a cold day here.
temperatures across england and wales away from the north should get up to or 15 degrees.
maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
we should be turning more showery, i think, during sunday and with that warmer air across most areas, 19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
it cools on monday, but the showers will continue.
submit this is news, the headlines: the will support a plan to remove patent protections on covid vaccines.
the move would make it easier for more companies to produce vaccines, making them more widely available for developing countries.
the world health organization calls it "a monumental moment" in the fight against —19.
donald trump’ ban from facebook and instagram has been upheld by facebook’ oversight board.
the social media giant ruled the outgoing president had broken its standards and rules by appearing to sympathise with the capitol building attackers.
britain is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to the island ofjersey — to monitor the situation in the english channel — after the french government threatened to cut off power supplies to the channel island, over disputed post—brexit fishing rights in the lucrative fishing area.
the probation officer who was in charge of the man who carried out the fatal attacks at fishmongers’ hall in london has told an inquest that he had no indication he was being deceived by usman khan.
but he admitted there had been some prison intelligence that khan might return to ‘his old ways’.
daniel sandford has more.
the disastrous consequences of allowing a recently released, high—risk convicted terrorist travel alone to london.
the battle on london bridge, with usman khan, who had just stabbed two people to death.
saskia jones and jack merritt had been involved with learning together, a prison education organisation whose events khan had been attending.
khan had been a difficult prisoner, involved in violence against other inmates and radicalisation.
he had improved his behaviour but there was intelligence suggesting that he might go back to his old ways.
the inquests into the deaths of saskia jones and jack merritt have heard that it was usman khan’ probation officer, ken skelton, who authorised his trip to the learning together event.
but today, he insisted that he didn’ make that decision alone.
he said that a mapper panel, a panel of experts responsible for public protection, had backed the decision.
ken skelton told the jury that although there is no written record of the mapper experts positively agreeing to the trip, they had been aware of it and had not objected.
"they must have said he can go," he explained, "that decision would not have been made alone by me.
" either way, khan did travelm by himself, on a train to the capital, despite what saskia jones’ family’ lawyer said today was a remarkable number of red flags waving.
daniel sandford, news.
now on news, click.
this week: how to uncover deadly secrets online.
the secret codes attracting more women into cybersecurity.
and tenet, the oscar—winning secrets of making time to backwards.
welcome to click.
we all know how easy it is to fake things online these days, not even photos, voiced or videos are safe, as we well know, right?
yes, we’ve worn fake clothes, we have faked our voices with software.
i’ve even been entirely faked with a virtual me — although i am convinced that she looked ten years older.
i whole—heartedly agree.
later in the program, we’re going to see the hollywood version of this, when we look behind the scenes at the film, tenet.
spoiler alert — it wasn’ all real.
but these days, you don’ need a big budget to do this.
just think of those zoom backgrounds that we’ve all been looking at.
admittedly, the edges of your hair do often give the game away, but these pictures are pretty good, a lot better than we would have imagined they could be five years ago.
so, check out the next advancements.
this is where zoom can put meeting participants into a meeting room, a real one that’ not real, although i think something has gone wrong with the sizing here, don’ you!
my seat’ way too low and you’re far too small.
there’ a variety of scenes.
do you want to meet me for a coffee?
look, here we are in a coffee shop.
yeah, i will have a latte, please.
i’ say this is cute but does it make you feel like we’re in the same room, really?
no, i still feel like we’re on 3 zoom call.
maybe this is one for the audience, rather than the participants.
and while there is plenty of fakery around, the truth is out there, as a certain fox once said, and there are some people who know where to look.
the internet is just such a vast place, and like there’ so much out there that’ just public, so many ways that information can be manipulated.
and even, like, political news can be manipulated in someone’ favour, so that is where i think open source intelligence is useful.
18—year—old computer science student kenyon lee has gone viral on tiktok by using so—called open source intelligence, collecting and analysing publicly available data.
his main trick.
he uses objects in a shot to guess heights.
: how tell is spencer?
now, kenyon did do this test on a video of me that he found online and we’ll come back to that later.
mainly on account of it being the most embarrassing video i’ve ever posted online.
but we have some serious stuff to talk about first.
look, trust me on this.
there are groups of people out there who are using open source intelligence techniques to do much more serious detective work.
these are anatoliy chepiga and alexander mishkin, widely believed to have been responsible for the salisbury poisonings in 2018.
this week, a collective of open source intelligence investigators revealed they’ also managed to link to these two men to the bombing of a czech ammunition depot four years previously.
that collective is bellingcat, and we’ve met its founder, eliot higgins, before.
in 2014, it was just him, now he has a foundation in the netherlands, 20 staff members, and a growing network of volunteers all across the world.
i caught up with eliot again recently and he told me that in 2018 were revealed by a russian news site, and that showed that their passport numbers were only a few digits apart, which was to say the least, unusual.
that caught the interest of bellingcat, in particular our investigator christo grozev.
so, christo looked at these databases and discovered these two individuals didn’ exist before 2012.
theyjust popped into existence in these databases in 2013, which was suspicious.
he then approached basically an information broker who sold him these domestic passport registration documents, and stamped on them was the number of the russian ministry of defence.
and it became clear they were not ordinary people, that these appeared to be russian intelligence officers.
bellingcat’ investigation didn’ end there.
their evidence showed that scientists linked to the 2018 poisonings were following russian opposition leader, alexei navalny on a0 separate trips in 2020.
that includes the journey where he was poisoned.
it seems that the site we stumbled on with the skripal story, is this entire kind of network of russian assassinations using nerve agents.
and that sounds completely insane, but, you know, we have the receipts.
we have the phone records.
we have everything to show this is happening.
and this is basically unique to russia because russia has this acute, massive amount of corruption where data, phone records, even if they are spies’ are freely available to anyone that does a bit of googling.
what tools or software do you or your investigators use when you’re looking at photographs and trying to work out where they’ve been taken and when you are tracking information back into the internet?
we have an online tool box, which is basically loads of links that anyone can go and look at and use them themselves.
probably one of the most powerful tools is google, arth, google streetview.
they are extremely useful.
resources now allow you to track aircraft, like flightradar, marine traffic allowing you to track vessels.
photographs and videos can out very convincingly be doctored, does that cause you a problem, or is that a new investigative stream for you 7 you have concern about deep face and there is concern on social media about things being retweeted.
we approach stuff as evidence so when we look at that kind of thing, we say, here is a video of tom cruise playing golf.
can we find out the golf course?
or if someone is giving a speech, it is going to be from a longer piece of media.
people don’ give two minute on 20 seconds speeches.
they are usually longer.
so we look for that original footage.
we look at the account who shared it.
is it shared by an official news organisation?
we look at the account behind it.
have they shared things before?
what has that stuff been?
you look at the different dimensions of that video both inside the video and how it has been shed and propagated online.
absolutely fascinating stuff.
that was elliott higgins.
right, i cannot put this off any longer.
it is time to go back to kenyon lee.
the tiktok person who guessed your height?
the video he chose was my ice bucket challenge from years ago — which, if you have not seen, well, you are probably one of the lucky ones.
i have seen it.
and i can’ unsee it.
i just can’ get enough of you.
i was trying to raise money for a good cause so i decided to go full outrageous and i kind of forgot that the internet never forgets.
i decided to look at the ice bucket challenge.
i marked the top of his head and scaled his height using the bucket.
this translate to about 174 and three quarter centimetres.
there was a point to all of this.
did he get your height right?
he said 174.
75.
let’ have a look.
oh, wow, 175!
not bad, not bad at all.
not bad considering he did that from the dimensions of a bucket.
yes, good job he didn’ use a three and a half inch floppy disk.
hello, and welcome to the week in tech.
was sold to japanese car firm toyota for $550 million.
and tiktok said it would open a european transparency and accountability centre in ireland.
the announcement follows concerns over how the chinese social media giant serves its young users.
the first triple—drop drone hit the skies.
this electric device can carry and deliver three separate loads — although it can only stay in the airfor a maximum of 90 minutes.
two college engineers won awards for their invention.
this remote—controlled robot helps farmers stay safe while it levels and distribute the crop.
it can dig itself out of grain as well.
and australian researchers on labour — this autonomous arm uses alto identify nearby apples, leaves and branches, all so it can plan the path for its pneumatic suction plucker.
it can pick and deposit it apple in as few as seven seconds 7 how do you like them apples?
this is huawei mate 2, the third iteration of its folding phone and easily the best yet.
the folding screen is now protected inside the phone when closed, which makes a lot of sense.
it has been a pleasure over the last years to be able to out so many of these folding phones and see this new category of devices emerge and all the manufacturers have had such different approaches.
huawei’ was always unusual because it wrapped the folding display outside the device which looked super cool but it did leave the display vulnerable.
this time they are taking a leaf out of samsung’ book.
they have put the folding screen on the inside of the phone where it is protected.
they have taken a few leaves.
this is very similar to the galaxy fold2.
from the fingerprint reader on the side here to the speaker on the bottom to the camera button and the chunky hinge.
i thought folding phone might be the end of every phone looking the same but here we.
the mate 2 is a much better design than the original.
the screen snaps into place.
this is a big improvement.
this is the first one of these appeal comfortable enough to throw in my bag like i would with my regular telephone.
another fantastic bit of engineering.
when i first started using it, it felt really comfortable in my hand.
i couldn’ quite put my finger on why.
i’ve been very scared of dropping these folding phones because they are typically very expensive and fragile.
but, with this one, i never felt like i was going to drop it.
it sat comfortably in my hand.
and this is — the phone is wedged—shaped, which moves the centre of gravity closer into your right hand, so when you’re holding it here, there is less weight over here.
it weighs about 3009, which is more than a regular phone but because of this, it does not feel like it.
i also like the outside display because, when it is close, it is a full—size regular smartphone with no compromise.
you get pretty the same experience as you would with a regular huawei smartphone, including the great camera array.
great stuff.
that was chris fox.
the secret services have always been secret.
but it seems that something is in the world in espionage are changing.
mi5 has just joined instagram.
but other areas have not.
for example, the number of women working in the field stands at just 16%.
but 3 schools competition is hoping to change that.
to see the role that women have taken over the years in cybersecurity i first took a trip back in time to look at some pretty special computers and coders that use them.
i’ here at the national museum of computing on bletchley park, a place full of computers and memories, not least of the world war codebreaking.
today, it’ largely associated with alan turing, who cracked the previously unbreakable german enigma code.
his efforts undoubtedly helped give the allies the edge.
but 63% of those working out of bletchley park were in fact women, many of them working on the world—famous colossus.
the job descriptions that they gave to women codebreakers were different from the job descriptions that they gave to men so, if you go and look at the paper records, you will find that women are described as typists or translators or clerical staff.
and that disguises what they were actually doing, and this is because men were on a different pay scale, so the codebreakers were on one pay scale and got differentjob titles from the women, who were on a lower pay scale, but it didn’ tell you anything about the quality of what they were actually doing all day.
what should alan turing’ legacy be?
i’ve just written a book called reflections of alan turing which is trying to getaway from this sort of nostalgic, sepia—tinted views of sort of what he was and what he should stand for.
and he was always looking at the future.
he was sort of like almost science fiction in, you know, thinking of these sort of amazing things like machine learning, which was sort of obviously completely impossible in the late 19405.
but while many women were employed in codebreaking then, the imbalance in numbers between men and women in cybersecurity today is huge.
well, to help put things right, the national cyber security centre’ cyberfirst girls competition is trying to find the next generation of female codebreakers.
it involves solving puzzles to do with coding and logic cryptography, cybersecurity networking.
and it’ really fun.
the competition, like, promotes the idea that girls can code.
here i am today.
it’ officially competition day and i’ very excited.
we’re going to also give the teams a — some top tips.
in the semifinals, we could see the leader board and i remember everyone was rushing to do more challenges.
12— and 13—year—old girls from across the have been competing in this year’ challenge, which has moved online.
you may think that’ where it should be, anyway, but it is a collaborative and creative process.
we need to succeed at our mission to keep the safe, to keep people who live in the safe to work and live online.
and we need all kinds of people to do that, just to represent the society that we are working for, but also to get all of those different perspectives, and girls sometimes bring a different perspective.
and some would argue that women have a real knack for it.
women are good at linguistics, which makes them irreplaceable they are also very attentive to detail and good at pattern recognition and overall, patience, which are requirements for any computer science—related job.
with an abundance of all those qualities, this year’ contenders are certainly feeling the pressure, having battled their way through ethical hacking, cryptography, decoding, logic tasks and much more.
while waiting to find out who wins this year, i spoke to an ex—finalist who’ now studying cybersecurity at university.
and because she is set on a career in the field afterwards, we had to keep her identity under wraps.
i think definitely because it is computing there is more pressure to do well because i got to prove myself because i am a girl.
it was just that initial leap and then, i was hooked.
you see all these women who are very inspirational and you want to live up to them and you don’ want to let all the other women down, and you want to help inspire the young people yourself.
back to the competition, and the moment of truth is upon us.
the winner is highgate school!
i really enjoyed the logic and coding ones, but i also really enjoyed cybersecurity, because it required you to think in different ways and use different methods of hacking into some fake websites.
it really makes you think of how easy it actually is to access other people’ data and how important it is to keep your data safe.
i had to connect a circuit board.
and then once you covered your hand, it would start beeping.
and we figured out that those beeping noises when morse code — so, like, dots and dashes — and wrote read those down and found out what those were.
in the sections, so we — if you ever needed to send, like, a coded message to someone, i learnt a lot of different types of codes.
after the competition, like, a cyber securityjob is now, like, an option for me.
ah, congratulations to the girls at highgate school!
what an inspiring story!
now, one of the few films that i got to see the cinema last year was tenet which, as a massive geek, i absolutely loved.
and i know you saw it twice, which i don’ think i’ve ever done!
yeah, the second time with subtitles, which i really recommend, because it helps you to understand what on earth is going on.
because this is a film where half of the story is going forwards and half the story is going backwards at the same time, in the same scene!
so maybe it’ no surprise that it won the oscar for best visual effects?
yeah, and if you did see it and you wondered how they got cars crashing and building exploding in both directions at same time, well, the answer may surprise you.
inversion?
aim it and pull the trigger.
you’re not shooting the bullet, you’re catching it.
whoa.
doing visual effects on 3 christopher nolan film is — i imagine is different from the majority of big budget hollywood films with a lot of visual effects in because his approach is very much about finding ways to film practical elements.
wherever possible, we wanted to find ways of filming real components and mixing it up a little bit so that they felt very real and grounded in the real world, but still had that sort of odd, kind of — it wasn’tjust a case of filming forwards things and reversing them — there was more than that, more interesting and more complicated.
a really a good example is, you know, where we have cars pulling away quickly and they’re an inverted car, you would expect the wheels to spin or throw some dust or gravel out backwards.
what we did for those, we found a way of dragging a car backwards while its wheels were spinning forwards, so it threw dirt out backwards, but it was going in the wrong direction.
so when then we inverted the whole thing, so the car pulled away, sucking dust in to the back into the wheels, so that was a really good example of the sort of approach where we find a practical, real—world event and then just sort of turn it’ on its head a little bit so it felt real but wrong.
you want to crash a plane?
but not from the air — don’ be so dramatic!
well, how big a plane?
that part is a little dramatic.
the plane crashing into a building — talking to people since the film came out, everyone assumes that that is largely , or must be — components of that must be .
but in reality, that was actually achieved as a practical event where we used a full—size, real plane and built a set and towed the plane into the set and the — all of the pyro explosions and everything is in the shot for real.
you know, there were visual effects involved in that we had to clean out the tow ropes and we added jet blasts to the engines and trees to be blown around but really, the vast majority of the chunk of that shot was in camera and so, it is kind of turning it on its head again a little bit in that people assume that it is but it isn’, or that some, you know, major components of it were .
the end scene in the film obviously contains a lot of big explosion events, and there’ combinations of forwards and backwards explosions at the same time and obviously, you can’ train an explosion to be backwards, so we had to add one half of that shot.
so whenever there is a combination of two things, one of them has been added.
so we did — we certainly did that a lot for the sequence where there’ a minefield that people and trucks were running up and down the hill with mines going off, and we used a combination of practical shot, filmed elements, but also explosions which had to, incidentally, match exactly the practical ones, because they were right next to each other.
another major event in the end battle scene where a building is simultaneously blown up by an inverted group of people and a normal group of people, so it is simultaneously exploding and imploding.
so, we built two large — or they were one—third scale — ten—storey buildings, two matching buildings, and we filmed each of them from a matching camera angle and we blew one up at the top and one at the bottom.
and then we could reverse the film and composite the two together — reverse one of the films and composite the two together — so this building had this sort of simultaneous exploding and imploding event.
this reversing in the flow of time — doesn’ us being here now mean it never happened?
as ever, you can find us on the right order on social click.
i’ll tell you what, i’ll leave him to it.
thanks for watching and we’ll see you soon!
hello there.
the weather is set to change a hit this weekend as the wind direction changes.
at the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy showers again during thursday.
certainly a dramatic day on wednesday, lots of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
a lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got a cold start.
may be a frosty start in places on thursday morning.
not as cold in the southwest where there is more cloud moving in.
that’ going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that will run its way along the south coast through the english channel for a while.
but could be a bit snowy to start with in scotland.
snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers will move across scotland into northern england.
fewer showers for northern ireland, while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast corner of england for a while, there should be fewer showers through the midlands, wales and southern england.
temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
as we head into the evening we will see those showers continuing to move their way southwards, fading away for most inland areas overnight.
that means temperatures are going to fall away.
it’ going to be another cold night.
there is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold by friday morning.
plenty of sunshine to start the day.
we will see the cloud developing, and a few showers breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers with hail confined to eastern scotland and some eastern parts of england, turning drier further west.
temperatures should be a little bit higher on friday, but still no better than 1a, maybe 15 degrees.
now into the weekend, the changes i promised.
we’ve got another area of low pressure.
that is going to strengthen the wind and these weather fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
looks like it’ going to be a southerly wind that brings that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air, especially during the second half of the weekend.
wet weather, though, i think for england and wales on saturday and for a while in northern ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into scotland where it’ going to be a cold day here.
temperatures across england and wales away from the north should get up to or 15 degrees.
maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
we should be turning more showery, i think, during sunday and with that warmer air across most areas, 19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
it cools on monday, but the showers will continue.
” a you will be about on line classes i have in this is news.
our top stories: a monumental moment in the fight against covid — the united states backs removing intellectual property protections for vaccines.
facebook upholds its suspension of donald trump, ruling that the former president broke its rules.
the is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to monitor a planned blockade ofjersey’ main port.
it’ the latest escalation with france over post—brexit fishing rights.
and they kept on coming — the new mum from mali who gave birth to nine babies at once.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe after increased pressure — the biden administration says it supports removing patent protections for covid—19 vaccines.
the move aims to make it easier to ramp up production of vaccines and make them more widely available for poorer countries.
trade representative katherine tie said in a statement: well this was welcomed by the director—general of the world health organization, who said this was "a monumental moment in the fight against —19.
" a vaccine patent waiver makes it harder for vaccine manufacturers to make money out of their products.
shares in a number of the companies tumbled on the news.
the international federation of pharmaceutical manufacturers and associations says the plan is a red herring when it comes to improving the distribution of vaccines.
the decision by the administration is disappointing, but it doesn’ change that it’ a wrong answer to complex problem.
year you are it’ a wrong but simple answer to a complex problem because it disrupts, it distracts from tackling the real challenges, which are trade barriers, including from the , disrupting supply chains.
it prevents the immediate tackling of the bottlenecks in the supply chain, the scarcity of raw materials, where you really need full partnership.
and it also prevents a fast move because what we need now, looking at the dramatic situation in india, is rich countries starting rapidly to share their doses with poor countries.
it is unfair to see that we have countries where 20—year—old healthy young people vaccinated, and most of africa, basically, doesn’ get any vaccine now that india is in such a dramatic situation.
professor george contreras is a professor of law at the university of utah and says while addressing intellectual property rights is important, it’ only one piece of the puzzle.
it’ a really surprising and unprecedented move by the department of state and the government, which has usually been quite protective of intellectual property rights.
what are the implications of it?
you know, as many have said, this is a necessary but not sufficient step to distributing a covid vaccine on a worldwide basis.
intellectual property rights are there, they’re important, but there are a lot of other pieces to the puzzle, including supply and manufacturing, regulatory approval, safety.
breaking news from hong kong where activist joshua wong has sentenced for been sentenced for participating in illegal embly in assembly in july last year.
we ran cross to our ran cross to our correspondent martin yip who is at the rthouse.
courthouse.
the district court here in hong kong has the tencing for four defendants his tiananmen massacre gil, what we know is hua vigil, what we know is joshua has been given ten months in and another well—known young ctivist has been given months.
tiffany yuen got nother our months.
so, another four months.
also, another activist, janelle lau, our got four months in prison.
we don’ know if they are ealing for the sentence but esumably we just have to wait see what is going on in the rtroom.
they have pleaded guilty to the case but hey could heory appealed to the entences.
we are yet to hear that.
but we know that for shua wong, iffany yuen and lester will be sentenced.
of them are under detention the democratic primary case nder national security law subversion.
the focus now be what janelle ung would be whatjanella leung will do with her sentence.
hua ong was already in joshua wong was already in jail.
reminders of the kground to him and what role a he plays ere.
joshua wong is as a major figurehead ong the young people but the young ople, he’ been song young people, he’ been seen as kind of a hope that lead them to renew or sort of reform the democracy ment and also to beijing, movement and also to beijing, they see him as a big evil racter that they want to punish in the harshest terms, as possible, but to an even younger generation of esters, he’ been seen as old school and that is saw rather violent protests back in 2019 against radition law or even artier, back in 2014 with the upy central, what we call the mbrella movement protest.
ecially because the failure he 2040 protest, fighting the universal suffrage.
joshua of the leaders.
it sort of the beginning of the divide kong’ democracy movement from that point.
we will keep you up—to—date with in hong kong there.
facebook says it will continue to stop donald trump from directly using its platforms.
the social media giant’ new oversight board ruled the former president had broken its standards and rules capitol.
but the oversight board told facebook to re—consider whether the ban should be indefinite.
james clayton has more.
trump’ use of social media is almost impossible to disentangle with trumpism itself.
it was his way of communicating directly with americans, bypassing the mainstream media that he so loathed.
but did he also use that platform to radicalise?
were his posts, in part, responsible for these deadly riots?
facebook boss mark zuckerberg thought trump’ posts could lead to further violence and suspended donald trump indefinitely the day after the riots.
twitter went one step further, and banned trump forever.
he’ll never be allowed back onto that platform.
however, facebook asked its decision to be reviewed by its newly formed oversight board, which it claims is independent.
it’ designed to make difficult moderation decisions, and their decision today was complex.
it said that the oversight board has upheld facebook’ decision to suspend trump’ access to post content on facebook and instagram.
however, it’ also said that facebook couldn’ ban trump indefinitely.
the company must reassess this penalty, it said, within six months of the decision.
thejudgment does leave a way back for trump back on facebook, but for now, the door is firmly closed.
and that is a huge problem for donald trump and his hopes of a political return.
in a statement, the former president lashed out, saying: facebook has been essential to trump.
his campaign used it to raise money and micro—target voerts.
he spent more than $200 million in 2020 between his campaign and his on his facebook so it’ notjust an opinion that facebook was an essential part of this political power.
it was actually one of the few places where he was putting his money where his mouth was.
trump yesterday released his own communications platform, but it’ really no replacement for being on twitter or facebook.
at the click of a button, trump could beam himself onto the computers and phones of tens of millions of americans.
that button has now gone, perhaps forever.
james clayton, news.
britain is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to the island ofjersey, in the english channel, to monitor the situation after a row erupted with france over post—brexit fishing rights.
the french government threatened to cut off power supplies to the channel island in a dispute over a new licensing system for french fishing vessels.
butjersey’ government says a more imminent danger is 3 blockade by fishing boats of helier — the island’ main entry point for goods.
our correspondent robert hall reports from the island.
this is where the one of the many boats that have been here hey think by the time they and they think by the time they reach josie there will be 50— mall boats on the 100 small boats on the fishermen say they will protest efully, they got no plans to blockade the port.
they ’ even be fishing.
they will show their presence to how upset and angry they are they didn’ see is coming, they didn’ think they going to have their rights ability to fish in rsey waters impacted by brexit.
been fishing in these aters most of them their whole es.
many of these fishermen more than 50% of their catch more than 5096 of their fish rom josie’ waters.
under brexit deal, still the brexit deal, they still have the right to fish, but now need licenses.
they’ve got they need licenses.
therve got their licenses back and they here are whole load of conditions attached these nses which mean they cannot ish as much as they want to is uch as they need to.
it’ hat they are protesting.
rre re these licenses to be they’re these licenses to be considered and to be able to more freely like they used fish more freely like they used to be able to.
the entire indian delegation to the 7 summit of leading economies in london is self—isolating after two members tested positive for covid—19.
the news came as foreign ministers re—convened for the last day of the talks.
borisjohnson, dropping by the 7 talks this afternoon, determined to show confidence in an international meeting hit by a covid scare, determined to show that face—to—face diplomacy is possible in a pandemic.
i had a very good meeting with secretary blinken.
india’ foreign minister, 3 guest at the talks, has spent the last few days in london meeting counterparts from the united states and south africa, even the home secretary, priti patel.
but then this morning, this.
in a tweet, he said that he was made aware yesterday evening of his exposure to possible covid positive cases.
"as a measure of abundant caution, i decided to conduct my engagements in the virtual mode.
" india has suffered grievously in recent weeks, and it appears two junior officials may have travelled while infected.
the foreign office has imposed tight covid rules at lancaster house and the indian delegation had yet to attend any meetings here, but the cases were picked up by mandatory daily tests.
the foreign secretary said the problem had been managed and it was vital for essential diplomacy to continue.
we’ve done this in a very secure way but we’ve got to get governments together, leaders together and countries together if we’re going to solve what is clearly notjust a global pandemic but a global plan for recovery.
so, today, the indian ministerjoined the meeting in the now traditional way.
officials say the discovery of these two cases shows the effectiveness of the tight regulations they put in place.
but it will surely raise questions about whether it’ too early for face—to—face diplomacy like this and whether future, planned international meetings should go ahead in person as planned.
as it happened, the pandemic was top of today’ agenda.
ministers agreed to produce more vaccines, share them more fairly, but there was no promise to spend more money doing so.
james landale, news.
29 students abducted by gunmen in march from a forestry college in nigeria have been released.
the students were brought by police to a police station in the north—western city of kaduna.
reports say a ransom was paid to the kidnappers.
stay with us on news, still to come: a look at how rangers in south africa are going to extreme measures to tackle the problem of rhino poaching.
i, nelson rolihlahla mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful to the republic of south africa.
after six years of construction and numerous delays, the channel tunnel has been formally opened by the queen and president mitterand.
the tunnel is not yet ready for passengers and freight services to begin.
for centuries, christianity and islam struggled for supremacy.
now the pope’ visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
roger bannister became the first man in the world to run a mile in underfour minutes.
memories of victory as the celebrations reach their climax.
this night is dedicated to everyone who believes in a future of peace and freedom.
you the money this is world news.
the latest headlines: the united states backs an initiative to waive intellectual property protections for coronavirus vaccines.
facebook upholds its suspension of donald trump, ruling that the former president broke its rules.
let’ stay with that story now.
alan rusbridger is a member of facebook’ oversight board, and we asked him no clear decision was made on whether donald trump can ever return to facebook.
i think it was a clear answer.
i think that we said they were both right and wrong, they were right to take the stuff down, they were right to stop him because he was a clear and present danger at a time of great volatility in the united states, but it was wrong then to go on and say, well, you are banned indefinitely because indefinitely is not a word that appears anywhere on facebook’ own rulebook, and it is an arbitrary thing, and so we’ve just gone back and said, you know, "well done forgetting the original decision right, but can you think more carefully about defining what what this period of ban is, and why?
" i’ve been speaking to even greer who’ a digital rights activist and i asked her what she made of the decision made by the facebook oversight board.
i think when we focus on these individual moderation decisions, especially ones about high profile individuals like former president trump, we are missing the point which is that facebook’ business model of harvesting our data and using it to algorithmically amplify and suppress certain content is fundamentally incompatible with democracy.
we can go back and forth all day about whether or not he should have been banned, how long he should be banned for but in the end that is not going to solve that fundamental problem.
we need comprehensive policies to address the harms of big tech.
but given all that you have to make decisions and just wishing them away by saying that we need stronger oversight or whatever, in the here and now, decisions have to be made about whether or not donald trump is allowed back on.
that’ certainly right and i think it makes sense that we’re having this conversation and donald trump is a repugnant human being that has used facebook and other platforms to espouse racism and other harmful ideologies.
and so, i certainly understand the ground swell of outrage and the desire for him to be removed from these platforms but again i think we need to look at the bigger picture because even if we do kick trump off of all of these platforms we still have a real problem on our hands, which is that these companies that are harvesting our data and amplifying some of the worst content on the internet in pursuit of advertising dollars are actually building the foundation that brought us donald trump in the first place.
and so even if we never hear his name again, we’re not to address these concerns that are undermining democracy and human rights and civil rights until we get those policies in place, get that oversight in place of these companies, notjust facebook but all of these surveillance companies — amazon, google and youtube as well.
facebook is saying, this isn’ a perfect answer and they introduced this oversight board in the absence of any government regulation.
they said it is a fairly unprecedented move they took to to get some consistency in these decisions.
they themselves admit it is not perfect but it is better than what is out there at the moment.
what do you make of the oversight board and how it is working?
i think the most important thing that came out of this oversight board decision today is the fact that facebook refused to give the oversight this allegedly independent oversight board — requested information from facebook about how its algorithms operate and whether its algorithms were amplifying donald trump’ racist and harmful content.
facebook refused to give their own oversight board that information.
and again to me that points to the fact that this is not about some partisan bickering back and forth about whether this content should be up or down, this is a broader problem, a problem of this business model and one that can only be addressed through robust anti—trust enforcement, privacy legislation and more.
our thanks to even greerfor us there.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
a court in rome’ sentenced two american tourists to life in prison for the murder of a police officer.
the friends from california had been on holiday in the italian capital injuly 2019 when they were stopped on suspicion of drugs offences.
an undercover officer was stabbed in the altercation.
the men said they had acted in self—defence.
in a growing power struggle within south africa’ governing african national congress, its secretary general, ace macka—shoolay, has refused to comply with his suspension after being charged with corruption.
macka—shoolay denies the charges and called the move unconstitutional.
israel’ president has asked opposition leader yair lapid to form new government after benjamin netanyahu failed to form a coalition.
netanyahu had been unable to secure a majority in the 120—seat parliament.
now, to an extremely rare pregnancy and a possible world record.
a 25—year—old woman from mali has given birth to nine babies at once.
two more than she expected.
the babies were born premature, and weigh less than a kilogram each.
courtney bembridge has the details.
one.
two.
three.
four.
five.
six.
seven.
eight.
and nine.
halima cisse gave birth to five girls and four boys.
the babies are all well and, if there are no complications, the family will set a new world record.
nonuplets are extremely rare and risky.
doctors in mali were worried, so the government intervened and the mother was flown to morocco.
: she was 25 weeks pregnant so we tried to make the pregnancy go longer until she reached 30 weeks.
she gave birth eventually with the help of a cesarean operation.
we were surprised to find nine babies.
nadya suleman came to international attention when she had octuplets in 2009, and she holds the current world record for most babies born in a single birth to survive.
courtney bembridge, news.
one unexpected consequence of the coronavirus pandemic was a dramatic reduction in the poaching of wild rhinos.
the figure fell by around a third last year — the lowest level in nearly a decade.
but as lockdown restrictions ease, that number is creeping up again.
rangers in south africa are going to extreme measures to tackle the problem.
you may find some of the images in tim allman’ report distressing.
by air, and by land, the battle against the poachers rages on.
here at the balule nature reserve they hunt down and sedate a giant rhino.
what they do next may strike you as rather gruesome.
we have decided to de—horn the entire population because of our high level of threat.
we’re going to de—horn every rhino and even rhinos with calves.
de—horning can be controversial, critics say it can leave the animals defenceless.
it is designed to deter poachers.
hunt a rhino for its horn when it has already been removed 7 some say it is a relatively short term fix and the horns do eventually grow back but something needs to be done.
rhino numbers in this area fell by two—thirds between 2008 and 2019.
lockdowns slowed that decline but then the lockdown was eased.
since november, december, last year and into 2021, this landscape, and in particular kruger national park, has been experiencing serious numbers of rhino poaching incidents.
south africa is at the centre of a poaching crisis.
local hunters supplying a lucrative international trade.
this may seem like a cruel solution but the poachers will simply let these rhinos die.
tim allman, news.
you can reach me on twitter — i’ @ lvaughanjones.
hello there.
the weather is set to change a hit this weekend as the wind direction changes.
at the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy showers again during thursday.
certainly a dramatic day on wednesday, lots of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
a lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got a cold start.
may be a frosty start in places on thursday morning.
not as cold in the southwest where there is more cloud moving in.
that’ going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that will run its way along the south coast through the english channel for a while.
but could be a bit snowy to start with in scotland.
snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers will move across scotland into northern england.
fewer showers for northern ireland, while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast corner of england for a while, there should be fewer showers through the midlands, wales and southern england.
temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
as we head into the evening we will see those showers continuing to move their way southwards, fading away for most inland areas overnight.
that means temperatures are going to fall away.
it’ going to be another cold night.
there is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold by friday morning.
plenty of sunshine to start the day.
we will see the cloud developing, and a few showers breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers with hail confined to eastern scotland and some eastern parts of england, turning drier further west.
temperatures should be a little bit higher on friday, but still no better than 1a, maybe 15 degrees.
now into the weekend, the changes i promised.
we’ve got another area of low pressure.
that is going to strengthen the wind and these weather fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
looks like it’ going to be a southerly wind that brings that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air, especially during the second half of the weekend.
wet weather, though, i think for england and wales on saturday and for a while in northern ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into scotland where it’ going to be a cold day here.
temperatures across england and wales away from the north should get up to or 15 degrees.
maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
we should be turning more showery, i think, during sunday and with that warmer air across most areas, 19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
it cools on monday, but the showers will continue.
this is news, the headlines: the will support a plan to remove patent protections on covid vaccines.
the move would make it easier for more companies to produce vaccines, making them more widely available for developing countries.
the world health organization calls it "a monumental moment" in the fight against —19.
your old in hong kong, 24—year—old joshua wong has given a 10— onth been given a 10- month processed for his part in a ormin massacre vigil.
he is one of many activists charged under the city’ sweeping ional security laws.
french britain is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to the island ofjersey — to monitor the situation in the english channel — after the french government threatened to cut off power supplies to the channel island, over disputed post—brexit fishing rights in the lucrative fishing area.
now on news, hardtalk.
welcome to hardtalk, i’ stephen sackur.
month by month, president joe biden is shifting away from trump era foreign policy positions.
but how dramatic will the pivot be?
in the middle east, there are signs of a changed approach to the region’ two oil—rich adversaries, saudi arabia and iran.
more pressure on the saudis, more engagement with tehran.
arabiya english news channel, mohammed alyahya.
have the saudis forfeited america’ unstinting support?
mohammed alyahya in dubai, welcome to hardtalk.
thank you for having me.
it’ a pleasure to have you on the show.
would you accept that life has become much more difficult for saudi arabia under the presidency in washington ofjoe biden than it was under donald trump?
ithink, you know, —saudi relations have always had their ups and downs and, you know, disagreement between the united states and saudi arabia has never reached 100%.
the disagreements that we saw under the obama administration are very similar with the disagreements we’re seeing today, that notjust saudi arabia, but other regional actors have with the biden administration.
namely, it is, you know, appeasing the iranian regime, returning to the flawed nuclear deal and the consequences that it had on the region.
so, you know, as a result of this administration’ middle east policy, saudi arabia does not have it easy.
gulf countries do not have it easy.
but i think the actors in the region that will suffer, i think, the most as a result of the biden administration’ middle east posture, as we see it right now at this time, are countries like iraq and syria and lebanon and yemen, where an empowered iran can cause more destruction, can cultivate its proxies even more, undermine state institutions in those countries even more.
so, you know, the more billions we see going into iran’ pockets and the ’ pockets, the revolutionary guards in iran, the more suffering we will see in the region, concentrated in areas outside the gulf.
yeah, interesting.
i ask you about saudi diplomacy, and you choose to train yourfire on iran.
i guess we might have expected that.
but nonetheless, surely saudi arabia has to learn some lessons and learn them quick.
and one lesson that surely is coming from america right now is that saudi’ war in yemen has been an absolute disaster.
so, is saudi ready to reverse course, reassess?
saudi arabia has already done that, and, you know, i disagree with the characterisation of the war as a saudi war.
it’ fundamentally a civil war in yemen, between the government there, the legitimate government — backed by resolution 2216, and by the united kingdom and the united states — on one hand, and the iranian—backed proxy, the houthi militia.
saudi military operations in yemen are not nearly as frequent as they were in the past.
today, saudi arabia has put a ceasefire agreement, a comprehensive one, on the table right now that the houthis are yet to accept.
and we can see that the iranian—backed militia in that country, ansarullah, the houthis, after the foreign terrorist organisation designation was lifted by the biden administration, did not wait more than one day to march on marib and to consolidate those gains in yemen, and oh rockets into saudi arabia and escalate.
and that was a predictable development after the signals that came from the white house.
i mean, the iranians consolidated their gains in syria, lebanon, iraq, right after the 2015 nuclear deal was signed by president obama.
so it’ not a secret what an empowered and wealthy revolutionary guards and tehran is capable of doing.
well, again they see a similar iran— policy and they’re acting the same way they acted before.
alyahya, the geopolitics of all of this is important, but maybe even more important is the humanitarian aspect.
the world food programme chief, david beasley, says the situation right now in yemen is, quote, "hell, absolutely horrendous.
"there are 16 million yemenis who are deeply food insecure.
"many of that number are facing a very real threat of famine.
" now, the international community wants saudi to end its blockade of key ports to allow humanitarian aid to flow in much quicker and more efficiently.
is saudi arabia ready to do that?
irrespective of talk of a nationwide ceasefire, is saudi ready to lift that blockade?
of course, i mean, saudi arabia is the number one provider of humanitarian aid to yemen, both directly and through united nations organs, and it’ been doing that even before the war started.
and the humanitarian situation before the war was also a dire one, it’ not come as a result saudi arabia forgive me, saudi arabia is still blockading key ports.
it is stopping aid getting to places it needs to be.
will that blockade 7 is your news channel orting the truth about this?
of course it’ reporting the truth about this.
we have people on the ground in yemen.
almost all yemen’ ports are actually open right now.
some airport, there are restrictions on there, and there are some restrictions on hodeidah.
the problem with hodeidah right now is that it’ one of the most important places for the iran—backed houthi militia to take hold of in order to continue its ground offensive.
saudi arabia has repeatedly offered the to take full control of hodeidah, including its port, and that hasn’ led to anywhere that is workable yet.
but again, saudi arabia does have a full—fledged and comprehensive ceasefire agreement on the table right now that includes opening all ports.
that was answered by iran, by its houthis, with a brutal offensive on marib, one of the cities that is not yet under houthi control, but is deeply threatened by the houthis.
and, you know, one thing that’ important to mention that we don’ see nearly enough, especially in western media coverage of the war in yemen, is the humanitarian situation of people that are living under the rule of houthis — in sana’a and taiz and elsewhere.
the reality of the matter is that after ali abdullah saleh, who was not a saint by any means, exited this alliance with the houthis, after they executed him at the behest of iran, we saw no limits to the brutality of the houthis.
we’ve seen systematic rape in theirjails, we’ve seen assassinations ofjournalists, we’ve seen assassinations of civil society members.
i mean, living under houthi areas has been listen, i want to stop you and that’ one of the problems with lifting the foreign terrorist organisation designation.
i want to stop you cos it’ important that this is a question and answer session, and you’re saying very interesting things, and there is no doubt that the humanitarian suffering and the violence is on both sides of the front line in yemen, no doubt about that at all.
but i’ just wondering for you, as a news channel majority owned by the saudi state, whether you report the truth about the scale of saudi bombing of yemen, the impact it’ had on civilians across the country, the unbelievable figures, frankly — more than 20,000 air strikes by the saudi—led coalition since the war began.
human rights watch documenting at least 90, apparently unlawful, saudi—led coalition air strikes.
do you tell the truth about all of this on your saudi—owned channel?
of course, i mean, some of the most detailed and around—the—clock coverage of the yemen war, especially when the majority of the fighting happened, which is not the past year, was covered on arabiya, and representatives of the houthis were on the channel.
representatives of iran were invited as guests on the channel.
you know, if you ask any arabic speaker that does watch arabiya, it’ probably one of the only places to go to understand the conflict, to hear points of views of people from both sides of the conflict, and the geopolitical consequences of that.
the biden administration has ended its support for the saudi—led coalition’ offensive.
it is reviewing all saudi arms sales.
you obviously have close links to the saudi government for all sorts of different reasons, many of them is it your view that the very top leadership in saudi arabia now understands that this war has to be brought to an end very quickly?
well, it’ important to note that this is not saudi arabia’ war.
the reality of the matter is that is a war between the legitimate government in yemen, abdrabbuh mansur resolution 2216, backed by the united kingdom, by france, by the united states, to name just a few countries — and on the other side, an iran—backed houthi militia that has acted and conducted itself in a very criminal fashion, that has weaponised aid.
and as we mentioned, you know, has systematic abuse, torture, rape in its prisons.
so for saudi arabia to withdraw will not solve yemen’ problems.
saudi arabia is in close cooperation today, from what i understand, speaking to officials with the united states, saudi arabia has drew back a lot of its military operations in yemen today.
and just to clarify, what happened today is that the united states has suspended offensive military aid to saudi arabia and yemen.
or military support rather, it’ not aid because and what we’re seeing is that defensive capabilities in saudi arabia are still supported by the americans.
now, the line between defensive and offensive is still a matter of contention, but the reality is that saudi military operations in yemen have come almost to a complete standstill.
yeah.
that sheds light on something more important here.
that’ an interesting fact.
saudi’ stopping yeah.
you allude to it saudi stopping the war is not a panacea to yemen’ problems.
you allude to an interesting fact — that offensive operations have been scaled back.
and i would put it to you that there are clear signs the saudi government, of course led by crown prince mohammed bin salman, is fundamentally changing its message because of the pressure from the united states, not least its message on iran.
if i look backjust a few years, was likening the supreme leader ayatollah khomeini in iran to hitler.
and now we learn that just a few weeks ago, just a few days ago, in fact, saudi officials were having meetings with the iranians, and recently said, quote, "we do not want for iran to be in a difficult situation.
"we want iran to prosper and grow.
" it sounds like the tone is changing.
i mean, i don’ think there’ a real change in what the saudis or other gulf partners in the region hope to see from iran.
i think the descriptions of iran from the past are still accurate.
but, you know, saudi arabia and other gulf countries and arab countries in general would love to see an iran that leverages its strength.
iran is a very rich country, it has 80 million people in its population.
it has ski slopes, it has beautiful areas by the caspian sea.
it has industry, it has a rich heritage, rich history.
iran has every single ingredient to be a leading actor in the region that leads by example, that works towards economic prosperity, that adds value to its neighbours and also receives value from its neighbours.
alyahya, i don’ think we need to be talking too much about iran’ ski slopes.
i think what we need to be realistic about is that despite everything saudi arabia has tried to achieve in diplomatic terms, the is determined to to rejoin the so—called , the agreement on iran’ nuclear programme.
that is very much alive.
saudi arabia doesn’ like it, but is going to have to learn to live with it.
that’ the truth, isn’ it?
of course, of course, and that will be difficult for saudi arabia because an empowered iran is a national security threat for saudi arabia.
it’ also a national security threat for israel and various other arab governments.
but, you know are you saying hang on.
are you saying the americans are idiots, then, that they don’ even understand what’ in their own national security interests?
no, no.
i mean, there have been many policies that have backfired and were poorly constructed and they were drafted by people who are not idiots.
i mean, to call every author of a bad policy an idiot, i think would be a very tediousjob, stephen.
let’ talk about saudi arabia’ broader international reputation.
now, i’ thinking not so much about diplomacy and geopolitics.
i’ thinking about the way people around the world have come to see saudi arabia.
now, you are a very senior saudi journalist.
would you share with me the feeling that the murder, the brutal murder of jamal khashoggi in the consulate in istanbul, which was perpetrated by saudi officials who, according to american intelligence, were operating under orders from the very top, that has done immense and lasting damage to saudi’ reputation, yes?
i would agree, i would agree, and i knewjamal khashoggi, and he was a dear friend, and i think that his murder was a huge shock in saudi arabia before it was outside of saudi arabia, and it’ something that runs against the history of saudi policy and its conduct.
and that’ we saw, you know, the insistence on completing the investigations and trials into the people that were responsible for this, swiftly and thoroughly.
and that’ what the saudis have embarked on.
but the investigations haven’ been completed, have they?
they haven’ gone to the very top because the people who carried the can for this were relatively low—level functionaries and officials.
and, as i say, that intelligence document makes it quite plain that authorisation of this operation, murderous operation, went to the very, very top and clearly involved the crown prince himself.
so the intelligence document was just repeating what any, you know, basic analyst with exposure to saudi arabia would tell you.
of course, the people that were involved were government officials.
they were people that were close to decision making circles.
and that’ what made the crime even more egregious than it is.
so there was nothing really new in that report.
there was certainly nothing that, you know, condemned the crown prince himself.
essentially, there was nothing new in it.
forgive me, but the conclusion that the crown prince approved the operation, the conclusion, as was in the document, the crown prince approved the operation, the murder.
you’re telling me that that’ not significant?
that’ not true.
what the report said was that it was unlikely that the crown prince didn’ know about the operation because of the proximity of the people that were involved in it.
that’ not a conclusion.
that’ an observation that many people have made and many people can make and continue to make, but that’ in no way evidence.
that’ no way a conclusion that would hold up in any court of law.
well, as you’ve pointed out to me, you’re a seniorjournalist.
and not only that, you’re a real friend, were a friend of the late khashoggi.
i’ sure you are much more aware of me of the degree to which jamal khashoggi himself feared that his end would come in this sort of way.
he had told people, i don’ know if he told you personally, but he described in his newspaper column how he had been informed by saudi al-qahtani himself, a very key lieutenant of crown prince .
he’ been told that he was no longer allowed to tweet, not allowed to write, not allowed to talk.
qahtani had said to him, "you cannot do anything any more.
you are done.
" now, you’re a saudi journalist, you’re a friend ofjamal khashoggi, and it sounds to me like you don’ want to accept that this goes to the very top of the state which now owns your channel.
no, it’ not about accepting or not accepting.
i’ not going to sling mud without any shred of evidence, and that’ what we’ve been seeing a lot of throughout this time and the coverage ofjamal khashoggi’ murder.
the reality is jamal khashoggi never told me personally that and any observer that sees the politicisation of jamal’ case would understand that all sorts of leaks, all sorts of hearsay has been peddled and spread in this case.
we saw it with the leaks in turkey, we saw it with the leaks in the united states.
we saw it everywhere.
i mean, this was a political football that didn’ lastjust for one week, two weeks, three weeks.
it lasted for many, many months.
what we can go by is the facts of the case, the realities of the case and the trials that happened, and for see, i’ very interested in the way you, because you are a senior commentator and journalist, as well as running the channel arabiya in english, you characterise saudi arabia as being, if i can put it this way, in tune with a sort of modernising, reforming trend across parts of the arab world.
this is a quote from you.
"young people are much more "in tune with other young people these days "in other parts of the world.
what these young arabs "are rejecting is antiquated, archaic theocratic ideology, "which they’ve been spoon—fed, controlled by groups "like iran’ revolutionary guards.
" that approach no longer works, you say, but i mean, saudi arabia is no reformed, modernised society.
it is still run along deeply authoritarian, ideologically conservative lines, is it not?
no, no, it’ not.
i mean, it was.
that might have been a fair characterisation ten years ago, but if you ask anybody that’ visited saudi arabia ten years ago and visited today, they would tell you that they see two different countries.
the reality is that today young women in saudi arabia have the right to drive.
they have the right to, more importantly than drive, they can travel without the permission of male guardians.
they can attend university and choose their majors without the permission of male guardians.
they can take jobs, choose their careers without the permission of male guardians, and that’ more than what women can do in other gulf countries and other arab countries, certainly more than women can do in iran.
all that happened in lightning speed.
and that’ a reflection, of course, of the government’ will to reform, but also of what i mentioned in the article that you cited — young people are ready for this.
you know, the that saudi society was conservative and wouldn’ accept these changes and had to move slowly was shattered very, very quickly in saudi arabia.
this new saudi arabia you’re alluding to doesn’ seem to match the saudi arabia that i see.
let’ be very specific.
you run have you visited saudi arabia?
when was the last time you visited?
yeah, i actually visited the king abdullah economic city to see this sort of modernisation programme taking flesh.
as it happens, that city doesn’ really seem to have gotten very far, but i’ more interested in basic statistics.
you tell me, as a saudi journalist, how many political prisoners are there in saudi arabia today?
i can’ give you a numberfor that.
not?
because, you know, the issue of political prisoners is an extremely politicised one.
excuse me, you’ve just told me hang on, hang on.
you’vejust told me many, many, many you’ve just told me this is a modernised, reformed saudi arabia where rights are respected, not least of women.
surely in this modern, much more democratised saudi arabia, you, as an investigative journalist, working as a boss of a news channel, could find out how many political prisoners the kingdom holds.
but that’ a loaded question, that’ an extremely loaded question, because many of the people that you would consider political prisoners are in fact not political prisoners, but prisoners who have been tried and convicted of various other crimes.
you know, you can take the example of one gentleman who was tried and convicted recently who was in yemen trying to cooperate and join al-qaeda in that country.
and he was described by the state department as an aid worker.
he ran a twitter account that condemned saudi arabia’ support for the anti— coalition, saying that this will open saudi arabia for attacks and sympathising with .
you know, many people would consider that free speech and consider it freedom of expression for him to go and support al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula.
that’ important to consider that the entire al-qaeda contingent in saudi arabia, almost all of it has moved to yemen.
so, you know the thing is the thing is you can read the amnesty international reports, the human rights watch reports.
you can see that there are still many individuals who have done nothing more than dissent against the government who are locked up.
we know that for a fact.
you may not want to acknowledge it, but we know it for a fact.
when you told me that women have these extraordinary new rights in saudi arabia, the truth is a woman in saudi arabia cannot file a lawsuit on her own today.
they still, women still need permission from a male relative to marry or live on their own.
and those women who disobey their "guardian" can still face arrest.
so i’ just wondering you portray it that’ not true.
women can live on their own without the permission of their guardian.
i never said they couldn’ live on their own without permission.
i just said that those who disobey their guardian can still face arrest.
all of this is true.
i just wonder you as a journalist do not present the truth about what’ happening in saudi arabia today.
is it because you’re owned by the saudi state and you know what happens to journalists who speak out against the leadership in saudi arabia, because your friend was jamal khashoggi?
you know, i think these are very low blows and unbecoming of the , frankly, but the reality of the matter is that there is a long ways to go still in terms of women empowerment in saudi arabia.
there’ still a long ways to go in terms of legal reform in saudi arabia.
many of the problems that we’ve seen have been longstanding.
you know, saudi arabia’ taken baby steps in introducing women’ education in the country over the past years.
today, we’re seeing improvements in women’ rights happening at a much faster rate inside saudi arabia.
you know, the reality of the matter is that it is still a work in progress, and it’ one that is happening at varying rates on several different files.
mohammed alyahya, i’ sorry to cut you off, but we do have to end there.
i thank you very much indeed forjoining me on hardtalk.
thank you.
hello there.
the weather is set to change a hit this weekend as the wind direction changes.
at the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy showers again during thursday.
certainly a dramatic day on wednesday, lots of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
a lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got a cold start.
may be a frosty start in places on thursday morning.
not as cold in the southwest where there is more cloud moving in.
that’ going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that will run its way along the south coast through the english channel for a while.
but could be a bit snowy to start with in scotland.
snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers will move across scotland into northern england.
fewer showers for northern ireland, while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast corner of england for a while, there should be fewer showers through the midlands, wales and southern england.
temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
as we head into the evening we will see those showers continuing to move their way southwards, fading away for most inland areas overnight.
that means temperatures are going to fall away.
it’ going to be another cold night.
there is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold by friday morning.
plenty of sunshine to start the day.
we will see the cloud developing, and a few showers breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers with hail confined to eastern scotland and some eastern parts of england, turning drier further west.
temperatures should be a little bit higher on friday, but still no better than 1a, maybe 15 degrees.
now into the weekend, the changes i promised.
we’ve got another area of low pressure.
that is going to strengthen the wind and these weather fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
looks like it’ going to be a southerly wind that brings that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air, especially during the second half of the weekend.
wet weather, though, i think for england and wales on saturday and for a while in northern ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into scotland where it’ going to be a cold day here.
temperatures across england and wales away from the north should get up to or 15 degrees.
maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
we should be turning more showery, i think, during sunday and with that warmer air across most areas, 19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
it cools on monday, but the showers will continue.
this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
its been called a monumental moment in the fight against covid — the united states backs a move that would let developing countries manufacture their own vaccines.
one of hong kong’ most prominent pro—democracy acivists is sentenced to ten months prison for marking the the anniversary of tiananman squeare last year.
french fishermen head forjersey to protest new rules the is sending two royal navy patrol vessels to monitor the island’ main port.
super thursday — millions of people across britain will cast a ballot today in a mammoth set of elections for local councillors, mayors, scottish parliament, and welsh senned.
and they kept on coming — the new mum from mali who gave birth to nine babies at once.
hello and welcome.
president biden’ administration has announced the will support a waiver of intellectual property rights to allow countries around the world to make their own coronavirus vaccines.
he was responding to pressure on rich countries to share vaccine supplies and technology.
the and the european union have both said they do not support the waiver: yet.
but two of the biggest vaccine manufacturers pfizer and moderna are companies.
their shares fell after the announcement.
courtney bembridge has the details.
there is no doubt coronavirus vaccines are not getting to the tries they are most needed.
nfections are spiralling out ontrol in india and brazil ere vaccination rates remain .
while in the , it is stimated there will at least 300 million doses more the population needs by than the population needs by the end of july.
even as the cination programme extends children.
the question of to close the gap on vaccine and fast is the subject a fierce debate.
one roposal is to waive patents to it easier for other countries to produce existing ines.
the has thrown its vaccines.
the has thrown its support behind the plan saying xtraordinary circumstances of the pandemic call for raordinary measures.
it’ eally surprising and precedented, the move by the epartment of state and the government.
usually they been quite protective intellectual property rights.
orld health organization lso backs the proposal and having support is monumental.
this is why.
if the starts to spread anywhere ncontrolled it would be at isk of tating and developing variants which will come to haunt those who have managed to control the ead.
pharmaceutical companies say lan would do little to get the plan would do little to get doses where they are most ded.
it’ the wrong answer a complex problem, it’ the wrong but plest answer to a complex problem.
it disrupts istraction tackling the and distraction tackling the real challenges which are trade ds, cluding from the , bands, including from the , disrupting supply chains, it ents the immediate tackling of the bottlenecks in supply ns, the scarcity.
the world trade organisation needs all ers to agree before any decisions ran be made.
the and the maintain they block the plan, and talks will as cases continue to go on as rases continue to rise.
there was a reaction on street to the news with wall street to the news with some of the top drug stocks ading in falling quite trading in the falling quite significantly, more details in usiness coverage in about our business coverage in about 25 minutes.
to hong kong, where joshua wong and three fellow activists have been sentenced for participating in an illegal assembly on the ath ofjune last year.
the vigil, held annually to commemorate the 1989 tiananmen square massacre in beijing, was banned last year amid coronavirus restrictions and pro—democracy protests.
we can cross over now to our correspondent martin yip who is at the courthouse.
martin, tell us more about this decision.
the district court in hong kong has here in hong kong hasjust sentenced, around an hour ago, onths in ail to oshua ten months injail to joshua wong, and six months, and four each for other months each for other defendants, so four activists tal.
joshua wong you might member is the key student eader, as well as another udent leader, from the otest back in 2014.
they have so been actively articipating in the protest inst the extradition law amendment bill back in 2019, the way into early last and all the way into earty last year, 2020, so this particular as about the june four case was about the june four tiananmen square crackdown that eld annually in hong kong’ victoria park on the ourth, and last year the of the police force anned the event citing vid—19 emergency laws, they show for the event did show up for the event still, thousands of people were , and they ended up ith 24 being unauthorised assembly.
joshua wong and three others pleaded ty, and so today, they guilty, and so today, they received jail sentences.
joshua has lready been wong has already been imprisoned for a separate case authorised assembly, 13 of unauthorised assembly, 13 one half months for that tence, and we understand the udge has ordered this new ten jail sentence to be erved separately.
so the two tences will not run ogether, this is extending his imprisoned by a further term imprisoned by a further ten months, and is likely that ommemorations of the iananmen square massacre will be deemed illegal this year as well in ly, i understand?
exactly, hat we learned so far is the hong kong ance which organises the alliance which organises the event all the way since 1990, iled this year’ has filed this year’ application to the thorisation that looks after victoria park as well as police who have no objection permit.
the ice are still processing the lication, but people do a do expect his to be banned as ll, while the other partment has a ready said would not process any pplication since the covid—19 emic still going on in pandemic is still going on in hong kong, so it is quite ikely that this year on june fourth there will be as of the fourth there will he seas of candlelight again at toria park marking what appened in beijing in 1989.
you for now, outside the thank you for now, outside the courthouse for us in hong let’ get some of the day’ other news.
anti—government protests in colombia have entered an eighth day, with demonstrators gathering across the country.
at least 2a people, including a police officer, have died since the protests began.
the is urging security forces to refrain from using firearms.
the nationwide rallies were initially against a now—cancelled tax reform bill but have left more than 800 people injured garrett rolfe, the police officer charged with murder of rayshard brooks, has won his appeal over his dismissal from the force.
rolfe who faces life in prison or the death penalty if convicted lost his job after the shooting, but a police oversight board has ruled that his dismissal did not follow due process.
space , the company owned by elon musk which aims to carry people into space, has successfully completed another milestone in its development.
after four previous attempts ended badly, it’ latest prototype has completed a successful high—altitude ascent and landing.
the company was facing added pressure to succeed with wednesday’ flight after announced a version of starship will be used as a lunar lander when the space agency returns humans to the moon.
two royal navy ships have been sent to jersey overnight, over fears of a possible blockade by french boats, in an escalating row overfishing rights.
the french government threatened to cut off power supplies to the channel island in a dispute over a new licensing system for french fishing vessels.
butjersey’ government says a more imminent danger is 3 blockade by fishing boats of helier, the island’ main entry point for goods.
our europe correspondent, jean mackenzie, is in normandy with the latest.
this is one of many small ports that lie in the normandy coast, bout six and about six boats left here this morning but they will be by other boats along joined by other boats along their way and hey think by the time they reachjersey re will be 0— 00 small oats, and the ishermen say they will test peacefully, they have plans to blockade the port, won’ even be fishing, hey just want to show their esence, to show how upset and they are, they didn’ see coming, they didn’ think ere would have their rights eir ability to fish in jersey ters impacted by rexit, hey have been fishing hese waters most of them, whole lives, many of fishermen catch these fishermen catch more than 50% of their fish from sey’ waters.
under the brexit deal, they still have the right to fairshare, but now they licenses, have got their enses back and they say that here re a whole load of nditions attached to these enses, which means they cannot fish as much as they to, or as much as they need to, so it that that that are protesting, they’re re asking licenses to be reconsidered to be able to fish freely like they used to more freely like they used to be able to.
you are with news.
still to come: the world’ oldest person has decided not to carry the torch for the tokyo 2020 olympics.
i, nelson rolihlahla mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful to the republic of south africa.
after six years of construction and numerous delays, the channel tunnel has been formally opened by the queen and president mitterand.
the tunnel is not yet ready for passengers and freight services to begin.
for centuries, christianity and islam struggled for supremacy.
now the pope’ visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
roger bannister became the first man in the world to run a mile in underfour minutes.
memories of victory as the celebrations reach their climax.
this night is dedicated to everyone who believes in a future of peace and freedom.
this is news.
the latest headlines: the united states backs an initiative to waive intellectual property protections for coronavirus vaccines.
facebook upholds its suspension of donald trump, ruling that the former president broke its rules.
in just under two hours, polling stations across great britain will open for a day of elections that’ been nicknamed super thursday.
there’ll be votes for the scottish and welsh parliaments, local governments in england and mayors of more than a dozen cities including london.
almost 50 million people will be eligible to cast a ballot in what is a bumper set of polls including some delayed because of the pandemic.
our political correspondent helen catt reports.
coronavirus has made today’ collections 3 little different.
ling ations have been set polling stations have been set up with safety measures, that cleaning and screens and -way systems.
there will be a an pencil or each voter, you ran bring our own, and you be be asked to wear a face overing inside.
there may also mits on how many people a ran go in at once.
the outbreak he pandemic delayed elections which word due to place last years of this year, there are a bumper set polls across most of the country.
in scotland, voters elect a 129 members of the will elect a 129 members of the scottish parliament.
in wales, 60 ned set up for all 60 senned set up for election.
in england, a006 and uncil seats are up.
there 50 council seats are up.
there are also elections for the 39 and crime commissioner police and crime commissioner is across england and wales, a for hartlepool.
and a new for harﬂapool.
deposit will be open as usual ten ’clock tonight.
anyone self—isolating because ronavirus can nominate of coronavirus can nominate someone else to cast their , and applications for an ergency proxy can be made until .
if you have a ompleted stal vote which did make it to the post , you get handed in at your local lling tion until ten .
when it omes to counting sults, hat will take longer than usual as well.
different unts are taking place over accounts are taking place over several days, from tonight, monday.
helen catt, news.
and we will have full coverage of super thursday for you right on news throughout.
now to an extremely rare pregnanc and a possible world record.
a 25—year—old woman from mali has given birth to nine babies at once.
two more than she expected.
the babies were born premature and weigh less than a kilogram each.
tanya dendrinos has the details.
one.
two.
three.
four.
five.
six.
seven.
eight.
and nine.
halima cisse gave birth to five girls and four boys.
the babies are all well and, if there are no complications, the family will set a new world record.
nonuplets are extremely rare and risky.
doctors in mali were worried, so the government intervened and the mother was flown to morocco.
: she was 25 weeks pregnant so we tried to make the pregnancy go longer until she reached 30 weeks.
she gave birth eventually with the help of a cesarean operation.
we were surprised to find nine babies.
nadya suleman came to international attention when she had octuplets in 2009, and she holds the current world record for most babies born in a single birth to survive.
tanya dendrinos, news.
let’ bring you some breaking news now and the latest data from india’ health ministry has revealed the country registered more than 412,000 new covid—19 cases in the past 2a hours along with 3,980 deaths.
more than 329,000 people were discharged from hospital.
those are the latest numbers coming out from india as they tackle that crisis at the ment.
one unexpected consequence of the coronavirus pandemic was a dramatic reduction in the poaching of wild rhinos.
the figure fell by around a third last year — the lowest level in nearly a decade.
but as lockdown restrictions ease that number is creeping up again.
rangers in south africa are going to extreme measures to tackle the problem.
you may find some of the images in tim allman’ report distressing.
by air, and by land, the battle against the poachers rages on.
here at the balule nature reserve they hunt down and sedate a giant rhino.
what they do next may strike you as rather gruesome.
we have decided to de—horn the entire population because of our high level of threat.
we’re going to de—horn every rhino and even rhinos with calves.
de—horning can be controversial, critics say it can leave the animals defenceless.
it is designed to deter poachers.
hunt a rhino for its horn when it has already been removed?
some say it is a relatively short term fix and the horns do eventually grow back but something needs to be done.
rhino numbers in this area fell by two—thirds between 2008 and 2019.
lockdowns slowed that decline but then the lockdown was eased.
since november, december, last year and into 2021, this landscape, and in particular kruger national park, has been experiencing serious numbers of rhino poaching incidents.
south africa is at the centre of a poaching crisis.
local hunters supplying a lucrative international trade.
this may seem like a cruel solution but the poachers will simply let these rhinos die.
tim allman, news.
time to check on the latest sports news.
hello, i’ tulsen tollett and this is your sports news, where we start with football and chelsea have set up an all english champions league final against manchester city later this month.
the londoners were 2—0 winners on the night over real madrid in their semi—final second leg, handing them a 3—1 aggregate victory as they look to lift the trophy for the first time since 2012.
what’ another energetic performance, full of positive tude, full of hunger.
what pirit to how in moments here we needed to suffer in half and what a reaction cond half.
and to never ave, the heads were never wn, the heads were always up after these big chances hat we missed.
the europa league takes centre stage later on thursday and ole gunnar solskjaer’ manchester united have a great chance to make it to the final in gdansk in poland later this month.
united have a 6—2 advantage over roma going into the second leg of their semi—final in italy on thursday.
the europa league was the last trophy united won when managed byjose mourinho, they beat ajax 2—0 in the final in may 2017.
: we are going to play to win that game.
and that’ the only think we should approach these games, to develop, to test ourselves, to challenge elves.
of course there ourselves.
of course there might be one or two changes in election, because of the mes coming up as well, but we to get into the final.
meanwhile, villarreal will travel to the emirates stadium with a 2—1 advantage over arsenal in the night’ other semi—final.
the former arsenal boss unai emery has highlighted pierre—emerick aubameyang as a danger man in the second leg.
the gabon forward scored a hat—trick in the semi—final against valencia two years ago, when emery was still in charge at the club.
rafael nadal wasn’ in a giving mood as he beat birthday boy carlos alcaraz 6—1, 6—2 in their second round match at the madrid open.
alcaraz was celebrating his 18th birthday playing against the great clay court champion who’ looking for a sixth title at this event.
his spanish compatriot did manage to break the nadal serve in the fourth game of the second set but his dream was short lived going down in straights sets 6—1, 6—2.
could win.
a really enjoy, i really loan from him.
and, yes, this much made me grow i think this much made me grow up.
in the women’ event the world number one ash barty is through to the semi—finals.
she was pushed all the way by petra kvitova but eventually came through in three sets at an event where the australian has never previously progressed beyond the last eight.
it’ expected in the coming hours that wales captain alun wynjones will be named as skipper of the british and irish lions squad to tour south africa.
head coach warren gatland will also announce his 36 man squad that will play three tests against the springboks after six lead—in games starting with a test match againstjapan at murrayfield on 26june.
you can get all the latest sports news at our website — that’ bbc.
com/sport.
but from me, tulsen tollett, and the rest of the team that is your sports news for now.
our thanks to tulsen tollett and the team.
the world’ oldest person has decided not to take part in the torch relay for the tokyo 2020 olympics due to coronavirus concerns.
kane tanaka is 118 years old, and was due to participate in the relay in fukuoka province, but with coronavirus cases surging acrossjapan, she has decided to pull out to avoid the risk of spreading the virus.
danai howard reports.
for kane tanaka at this ent was a lifetime moment was a lifetime achievement.
at 160 in years he was awarded a guinness world records for being the —— 116.
this year, at world -- 116.
this year, at 118, she was due another umental moment.
kane tanaka chosen be one of the rticipants in the torch relay the tokyo 2020 olympics.
ith coronavirus cases are rging in apan she has nnounced she is pulling out of orch relay to avoid spreading the virus stop a tement from her nursing home : the torch relay, which began in march, has been hit hard by the emic.
pandemic.
a people involved in it have so een diagnosed with covid.
ases have been rocketing two months now, spurred by iance.
last variance.
last month japan declared a state of emergency kyo, oscar, and kyoto to curb the number of infections.
set to expire next week, in the worst hit areas there is no sign of a decline ses.
on wednesday, prime nister your igures figure with ministers to discuss ending the state of extending the state of emergency.
having already been poned once, japan has said postponed once, japan has said it is determined for the game ahead.
to go ahead.
: if we take ropriate measures i think “: lic feeling towards the lympics will change.
but held arks away from crowds, this torch relay may be of what’ to come this summer.
danai howard, news.
stay with us we have so much more to come in this programme.
he top business stories.
all the top business stories.
including a look at how panies are getting their orkforce back into the office what the new way of work will look like once we are beyond the pandemic.
the has done over the —— sum of its esearch to look at what own research to look at what peopla are planning, hybrid ing, people are planning, hybrid working, some from home, some office.
we will discuss in the office.
we will discuss that in detail next.
eye will soon.
hello there.
the weather is set to change a hit this weekend as the wind direction changes.
at the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy showers again during thursday.
certainly a dramatic day on wednesday, lots of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
a lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got a cold start.
may be a frosty start in places on thursday morning.
not as cold in the southwest where there is more cloud moving in.
that’ going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that will run its way along the south coast through the english channel for a while.
but could be a bit snowy to start with in scotland.
snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers will move across scotland into northern england.
fewer showers for northern ireland, while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast corner of england for a while, there should be fewer showers through the midlands, wales and southern england.
temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
as we head into the evening we will see those showers continuing to move their way southwards, fading away for most inland areas overnight.
that means temperatures are going to fall away.
it’ going to be another cold night.
there is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold by friday morning.
plenty of sunshine to start the day.
we will see the cloud developing, and a few showers breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers with hail confined to eastern scotland and some eastern parts of england, turning drier further west.
temperatures should be a little bit higher on friday, but still no better than 1a, maybe 15 degrees.
now into the weekend, the changes i promised.
we’ve got another area of low pressure.
that is going to strengthen the wind and these weather fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
looks like it’ going to be a southerly wind that brings that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air, especially during the second half of the weekend.
wet weather, though, i think for england and wales on saturday and for a while in northern ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into scotland where it’ going to be a cold day here.
temperatures across england and wales away from the north should get up to or 15 degrees.
maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
we should be turning more showery, i think, during sunday and with that warmer air across most areas, 19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
it cools on monday, but the showers will continue.
this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the and around the world.
goodbye working from home — hello hybrid working.
no full—time return to the office for millions, as we emerge from the pandemic, according to research.
healthy percentage oi working it’ a healthy percentage of working from home and althy percentage of being in office.
adverse reaction — pharma shares tumble as president biden backs suspending patents on covid vaccines.
ride to recovery — uber reports record bookings in march and april, but losses are still piling up.
plus, moral dilemma — facebook was right and wrong to ban trump.
we hearfrom atop member of its oversight board.
this we start with the future of work as we emerge from the pandemic, because some of the ’ biggest employers have told the they don’ plan to bring staff back to the office full time.
43 out of 50 firms told us they would embrace a mix of home and office working, with staff encouraged to work from home two to three days a week.
another four said they’re keeping the idea of hybrid working under review.
what will it all mean forworkers, companies, and cities?
ben thompson reports.
back backin the office after 1a months at home.
i took on my a in march of 2020.
it was a aptism by andemic.
for onica, who started her new just as the isis began, etting back to her desk is a ome change from the now welcome change from the now familiar distractions of home.
schooling for a 12—year—old a usband who was an with a husband who was an architect and works full—time me also is certainly causing some challenges for us.
in means employers have make some big decisions bout how and where their staff work, making the most of the new lexibility, without stifling teamwork and laboration.
we are never going to go ack to working to used to work.
people working home 3— four days will from home 3- four days will need 20% less space but we will do at if everyone is not do that if everyone is working from home on mondays ridays, so we will have to of manage that quite refully.
as well as the mpact on officers, what about shops and cafe that cater to mmuters?
we rely really eavily on the office trades.
re is locations that have 000 people, only 140 people fame the building, so most the people working from me, once a week are coming, and that makes it difficult.
working from me is not for everyone.
pecially those without access he right technology or reliable internet, or even a place to work.
but does also depend on where in the you live?
is london the apital with its long commutes house prices different to lsewhere, where less time and and is spent on commuting property is more ffordable.
working from home just be of the one enduring hanges brought about his pandemic.
i worry about long-term pact on the the long-term impact on the enterprise, and our culture, aboration, how we train collaboration, how we train peopla, how we develop people, ertising and creative industries is something you from your colleagues and learn from your colleagues and you ran only really do that if re are around them in an office.
fewer officers are built, many existing ones ould be converted to flats, as sinesses and their taff adjuster new normal, our and cities could look ery different.
ben thompson, news in london.
in australia, with the pandemic relatively under control, offices have been open for almost a year.
50 has the hybrid system taken off there?
let’ go to sydney and talk to mark humphery—jenner, associate professor of finance at the university of new south wales.
good to talk to you again.
what is happening in australia?
what norm now?
it’ good to be with you.
at the moment, rid working really is the normal in sydney at the moment.
ple, the australian bureau statistics survey people and und % of people had been found 4196 of peopla had been working a east one day from me in february of 2021.
this up from around 24% about was up from around 2496 about one year ago.
are seeing a gnificant increase and shift ards people working from home, this is not necessarily unpopular.
a majority of people did actually work from home at least for one or two days each week.
seeing, according to the stralian bureau of statistics, around 47% of eopla pected this to people expected this to continue into the future and 8% of people thought work about 896 of peopla thought work from ome would increase in the ure, although admittedly 11% thought it decline, so thought it would decline, so very much hybrid work is what ppening in australia at oment, notwithstanding covid being under control.
this be because of significant tail risk with one covid event stralia responds very so australia responds very severely and quite rapidly one, even one covid towards one, even one covid incident, and this creates a ificant risk for significant risk for businesses, if even one of employees shows up with vid and hence the significant ution, many companies have .
also as well, if we hink long—term, we could be ing another pandemic in years to come, of another ure, so businesses have to eady and prepared for every entuality, presumably, but at ame time, it’ the same time, it’ important as we heard in ben’ report for to be together, to be alongside one another in terms velopment, culture, that ind of thing.
that’ solutely true, so we will see acts on people.
a senior employee who perhaps already hose connections, already nows people at work, already a road smattering of eopla they know, they are ing to be less affected in that spect.
of course they on’ need to go out and build connections.
younger employees will clearly be more cted because they will suffer a lot more from the uction in collaboration, so ould see some negative impacts, the head of organ, said hat he expected people to ack in the workplace in the future, elling us that eally wants people to get back hey ran collaborate and so they can collaborate and continue to do so.
that said, do do like the flexibility, peopla do like the ﬂexibility, so we’re going to happen to see medium between the a happy medium between the ﬂexibility associated with rking from home and the need collaboration, and there will be some sombre balancing at least in the near future as companies to saved by reducing square tre edge while still lancing employees’ desires.
will have to leave it there we appreciate your thoughts this subject, and we would ike to hear you as well, tell us what you think on our ter.
what is your new twitter.
what is your new normal?
are you hybrid working ady?
are you still working olely at home?
how has it pacted you?
we would love to what you are experiencing.
backed a proposal to suspend patents on covid—19 vaccines to improve access for developing countries.
the push at the world trade organisation was led by india and south africa and backed by more than 100 countries, but until now, has been resisted by rich nations where the top drugmakers are based.
from new york, here’ michelle fleury.
a breakthrough at a time of the urgent need, as the pandemic in india and brazil, the joe biden inistration agreed suspend atent protections, this is significant because mid april wealthy untries had secured 87% of 6 of doses spensed around the orld, and the trade presentative put out a tement saying this is a obal health crisis, and the traordinary circumstances for extraordinary easures.
the administration ieves strongly in believes strongly in intellectual property tections, but in service of ing this pandemic, supports waiver of those protections covid—19 vaccines.
he decision was praised, with some ing it a atershed moment.
calling it a watershed moment.
the has been a major hold at the world trade organisation which had been ing for uch a move, but falling for such a move, but with the and the still cking the push to waive atents protections, the angling is not over yet.
accine campaigners, global tice now, said they urge all orld leaders to see the iting on the ball and put eopla ‘ lives and head of rporate profit.
moderna’ re price fell the sharpest, no other product on the arket, it is a reflection of how ortant the covid vaccine to its bottom line.
the trade organisation because my general counsel ‘ ing this week.
gervais williams is head of equities at the investment manager premier miton.
good to see you.
what are your thoughts on this move on the of the to agree to a waiver?
thing it really sets it context of globalisation beginning to demonstrate up till now we have been ite happy to rely on an empty mber of suppliers, and covid highlighted the risks of he outcome of the long stance involved, and often ople find themselves a long down the rest, so what we’re looking at is a nificant change in the attern of the economy and the -term arket trend, so it long-term market trend, so it is highlighting the risks, and move away to we will move away to more local supply with a lot of smaller anies and local politicians companies and oral politicians able to be involved with ressing some of these issues.
do you think this is a that we could see going trend that we could see going forward, or is this a one off, ual circumstance, because of this global pandemic, there to be these sorts of ctions taken on the part of vernments?
i think this is a much much longer term multi- decade trend.
the problem has been distorting market prices and then you see stagnation of productivity and wage growth, and this has led ampant change in to a rampant change in the political agenda and most ticularly what we have seen particularty what we have seen recently is more and more iticians being voted in with ationalistic agenda, and is part of that trend.
when look at specifically rmaceutical companies, and enormous amount of nvestment they have to put to research and development, this is what will be the new rend, what will that mean in of that investment they to put in?
it will obably mean that while we still global majors, we ill start to find that there lot more local suppliers are a lot more oral suppliers who do deals with the majors to oral cal supply into the get local supply into the markets.
good to talk to you, for getting up so early.
uber says it had a record number of ride bookings in march and april — a strong sign of recovery in its core business.
uber saw demand for rides plummet during the pandemic, although its food delivery business made up some of the shortfall.
it’ still losing money though, and took a $600 million hit from a settlement with drivers giving them more employee benefits.
it also faces pressure from the biden administration that has promised more rights for ‘gig economy’ workers.
derrick fung is chief executive of cardify, a market research company that tracks consumer spending.
he’ in toronto.
alert to use.
so, uber, talk us through the outlook for uber use of course if the andmark ruling in the high ourt london is something to by.
good to be back on show, so i would say that her had a great quarter, they leased date on monday, we tracked millions of it and credit cards across, globally, had a great quarter, and and we had a great quarter, and what we saw is that consumers inue to use the service as continue to use the service as well as uber eads, and the gig omy that some of the biden administration has in the short , in the long—term uber has on of ilwind, it had one of its best quarters ever, and almost back to pre— it’ almost back to pre— covered levels, so we are excited to see this mpany continuing to thrive in post covid world.
what you saying is is are saying is uber is definitely here to stay and changes that we will have these changes that we will have to adjust to probably as more tries give benefits to workers who work for companies uber, they can withstand that orm.
definitely here to ay, even as uber of these of employees, these mployers don’ want to be —time employees, so while hey will be short—term head profitability based on the rveys that we run on the platform, % of consumers over the next ple of months will need to use uber more than ore, many of them don’ want use the pool service and are cars with other individuals, but what we’re cing is that as more noticing is that as more consumers travel and book vels, and rideshare as a category will be a big part of ravel experience for them.
certainly is, i’ sure.
ank you for your time, good tensions between australia and its biggest trading partner, china, have escalated after beijing suspended the strategic economic dialogue mechanism between the two countries indefinitely.
mariko oi and our asia business team are looking at this for us.
talk us through the strategic economic dialogue mechanism.
does that mean.
what is what does that mean.
what is suspended indefinitely here?
countries used to have is regular economic meeting, he last meeting under that echanism was in beijing in 17.
so it has been a while.
evertheless this announcement he australian dollar falling quite sharply against dollar because, as you said, china is australia’ est trading partner and todars ’ announcement really that tensions will not shows that tensions will not ease any time soon.
now, the tionship has started to deteriorate.
if you remember in 2018 australia became the first country to ban na’ while away from its 56 network.
there wasn’ even her last year when canberra allad called for an international enquiry into the origins of the —19 pandemic.
so that has rompted a umber of tariffs on stralian experts from weeds, barley, you name it.
affecting a chunk of affecting quite a chunk of australia’ exports to china —— .
hen last month they wheat.
then last month they cancelled two deals between the of victoria and china under beijing’ belt and road iative, which beijing did initiative, which beijing did not respond well to.
then this we heard from australia week we heard from australia saying that a chinese company’ roversial lease on darwin’ oint was under review and uld be scrapped.
tensions ave been high for a while.
is announcement doesn’ xactly come as a surprise, but not forget an australian urnalist, ken lay, used to ork for china state broadcaster, has been ained for over six months amid these htened tensions.
some saw arrest as a possible taliation by beijing.
it does look like the relationship tween the two will improve nytime soon stop thank you much.
mariko oi in ingapore.
stay with us on news.
still to come: your password could be about to expire — for the last time.
i, nelson rolihlahla mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful to the republic of south africa.
after six years of construction and numerous delays, the channel tunnel has been formally opened by the queen and president mitterrand.
the tunnel is not yet ready for passengers and freight services to begin.
for centuries, christianity and islam struggled for supremacy.
now the pope’ visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
roger bannister became the first man in the world to run a mile in underfour minutes.
memories of victory as the celebrations reach their climax.
this night is dedicated to everyone who believes in a future of peace and freedom.
this is world news.
the latest headlines: the united states backs an initiative to waive intellectual property protections for coronavirus vaccines.
one of hong kong’ most prominent pro—democracy activists is sentenced to ten months prison for marking the the anniversary of tiananmen square.
as you’ve been hearing, facebook says it will continue to stop donald trump from directly using its platforms.
the social media giant’ new oversight board ruled the former president had broken its standards and rules but the oversight board told facebook to re—consider whether the ban should be indefinite.
board member alan rusbridger, former editor of the guardian newspaper, explained their decision to rory cellan—jones.
our advice was the more open and be more rigourous, big up.
give the reasons for clear up.
give the reasons for what you are doing and if you to ban him for life that’ want to ban him for life that’ fine, but say why.
if you want pose a shorter burn than tell us what the conditions are hether he has to satisfy certain conditions before he is wed back on.
so it’ allowed back on.
so it’ really, i mean, quite a lot of udgements so far, we have criticised some of the wording ome of the vagueness around some of facebook’ icies and also a certain ack of openness.
but to to be clear, are obliged, nder the way they have already up, to bey your rulings in terms of king terms of taking content down or putting it back up again.
but don’ have to do they don’ have to do everything you say.
for tance, they don’ have to go hrough all this series of iews of the way they behaved uring the run up to 6 ry.
during the up to sjanuary.
that is up to them.
that’ pletely right.
they have to ome back within six months and up with a better way of defining the period of this if it is to be continued.
ban, if it is to be continued.
we thought it was important they should look openly at mselves and look at their part in what happened on 6 uary.
now, hey don’ have to do that, we have said it penly and it might be a bit barrassing for them if they ’.
so what happens at the end of this, does this mean you will actually have to a final decision again on ther or not donald trump is whether or not donald is banned for life from facebook.
people have well, i hope not.
people have said, the oversight board, is ir, is it rying to pass it fair, is it trying to pass of the of the decision, we help with this family back in the this is a decision for you to take, not us.
but the problem is you ’ really got the rules or haven’ really got the mles or the processes or the openness this and to do this and so make the decision, but make it on rules ran explain and which everybody ran understand.
so i hope this shouldn’ come back for a decision.
we shall to us for a decision.
we shall keep an eye on that story.
bill gates predicted the computer password would be obsolete by 200a.
and yet 17 years later we are still protecting our vital data behind a dog’ name or a child’ birthday.
a survey of consumers in the and europe found a fifth of people use the same password for everything — and almost as many use pet names orfamily names.
but with tech such as facial recognition becoming more widespread, could 2021 finally see off the password?
sarah munro is director of biometrics at onfido.
welcome to the programme.
will the password become a thing of ast soon, in your opinion the past soon, in your opinion was alart thanks for having me, .
ithink next year might sally.
i think next year might be a little bit too soon.
most have over 100 accounts with asswords associated with .
in our survey, he said, 4096 of eople for their sswords ight be extinct in five years.
more than half said would they would use biometrics, facial or a fingerprint offered ead.
50 we think people are instead.
so we think people are ready to some extent waiting asswords to disappear but for passwords to disappear but too soon.
i definitely .
when it comes to facial soon.
when it comes to facial recognition how good is the nology now?
there were ssues depending on colour of , age, that kind of thing.
that’ a very good question.
we invest heavily in that area to sure that our technology fair and to make sure we can distinguish ween skin tone again those kinds of ings, that there are lots of rides being made in that ea.
but you know, when you lots of say lots of strides how close are we are we that it is so reliable we can say goodbye to the ssword, you think was password, do you think was yellow eye can only talk about do.
the work we did onfido.
the work we did recently means that the ference in skin tone is negligible stop whether ebody has a darker or a lighter skin tone, we treat the same.
when it comes to sswords hemselves, are you ood at remembering all your swords and having multiple asswords or are you guilty many of us of having only a few?
i have quite a few ferent ones and i think here are some hacks to to mber.
there are things you an and do.
is, ran and do.
one is, firstly, the company you are ing with offers a second factor, are use a password and —time pin, that makes your count as secure.
use things ike sentences, rather than one word because that is harder to remember.
they are you ran do.
you can also things you ran do.
you ran also do things to keep your data .
often you see on social edia business.
don’ answer quizzes, they are honeypots of data for somebody .
you don’ know how the else.
you don’ know how the data is going to be stored, it is going to be used for, and how that date is going protected.
the data becomes somebody else’ so just those uses, that is another way to protect your .
all right.
brilliant top ips there.
sarah munro, thanks eing in the programme.
for being in the programme.
really appreciate it.
thanks aving me.
before we go, for having me.
before we go, financial markets in asia.
is open for the first ime in ive days today it is down slightly.
it was up tier, it had a jump of 1.
8% 96 eartier.
earlier, it had a jump of 1.
8% earlier.
obviously things have nged.
ank you for your company.
i will see you soon.
hello there.
the weather is set to change a hit this weekend as the wind direction changes.
at the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy showers again during thursday.
certainly a dramatic day on wednesday, lots of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
a lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got a cold start.
may be a frosty start in places on thursday morning.
not as cold in the southwest where there is more cloud moving in.
that’ going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that will run its way along the south coast through the english channel for a while.
but could be a bit snowy to start with in scotland.
snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers will move across scotland into northern england.
fewer showers for northern ireland, while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast corner of england for a while, there should be fewer showers through the midlands, wales and southern england.
temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
as we head into the evening we will see those showers continuing to move their way southwards, fading away for most inland areas overnight.
that means temperatures are going to fall away.
it’ going to be another cold night.
there is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold by friday morning.
plenty of sunshine to start the day.
we will see the cloud developing, and a few showers breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers with hail confined to eastern scotland and some eastern parts of england, turning drier further west.
temperatures should be a little bit higher on friday, but still no better than 1a, maybe 15 degrees.
now into the weekend, the changes i promised.
we’ve got another area of low pressure.
that is going to strengthen the wind and these weather fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
looks like it’ going to be a southerly wind that brings that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air, especially during the second half of the weekend.
wet weather, though, i think for england and wales on saturday and for a while in northern ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into scotland where it’ going to be a cold day here.
temperatures across england and wales away from the north should get up to or 15 degrees.
maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
we should be turning more showery, i think, during sunday and with that warmer air across most areas, 19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
it cools on monday, but the showers will continue.
the ’ most iconic crime drama.
jack, how much time have i got?
every series, every episode.
we need to find out from these bodies who attacked them and why.
yeah.
i worked it out.
silent witness from the very beginning: all episodes streaming now, only on iplayer.
linda radlett was not only my favourite cousin but then and for many years, my favourite human being.
0!
my name is ian wright.
you might know me best as a footballer.
in many ways, i’ve been lucky, but growing up, there was a lot of violence at home.
facing up to those memories has made me want to talk to others.
i’ eating my cornﬂakes and the next thing i’ on the ﬂoor.
for him, it was all about these mind games.
i just felt all the time that i was on edge.
i always remember hating him so much.
always used to promise her that i’ going to get us out of it butjust didn’ know how.
we can’ ignore it.
we need to talk.
we believe that many of those killed were not soldiers at all.
i fought for my country.
and i’ proud of what i did.
well, he was here a minute ago.
has anyone seen cheeky monkey?
he’ there!
he’ there!
where?
in the case!
aargh!
end of the pier!
hey!
pack it in, you.
calm down.
this is exactly their level.
hi, folks.
i’mjason manford and this new quiz show is unbeatable.
i’ not showing off here, that’ just what it’ called.
it’ the quiz where we don’tjust want the answer chris evans.
"we want the unbeatable answer.
yeah!
contestants will battle against each other, but who will win big whoo!
"and prove themselves unbeatable?
good morning, welcome to breakfast with sally nugent and ben thompson.
our headlines today: french boats head forjersey in a row overfishing rights — two royal navy ships have been sent to patrol the area.
this is one of many small ports that line the normandy coast.
and about six boats have left from here this morning, but they’re going to be joined by other boats along their way.
and they think by the time they reachjersey, there’ll be 50 to 100 small boats.
up to a0 million people can go to the polls today, on what’ being billed as super thursday.
good morning.
i’ here at somerset house in london, where team olympic and paralympic athletes are gathering to collect their official kit for the tokyo games, with 78 days to go.
meanwhile, in the champions league there’ll be an all english champions league final.
last night chelsea swept aside the real madrid to set up a showdown against manchester city in istanbul later this month.
good morning.
we’ve had some snow showers across scotland and northern england last .
through today the snow level ill rise back into the hills.
for rest he country it is the rest of the country it is sunshine and showers.
we lose the currently moving across the english channel.
details coming up.
good morning.
it’ thursday, the 6th of may.
our top story.
two royal navy ships have been sent tojersey overnight, over fears of a possible blockade by french boats, in an escalating row over fishing rights.
around a hundred fishing vessels are expected to stage a protest today at the island’ main port, helier.
our reporter aruna iyengar has this report.
choppy waters ahead in anglo—french relations.
one of many french fishing boats setting out forjersey this morning.
they are protesting about difficulties in getting licences to fish around the channel islands.
it is the latest skirmish in a deepening post—brexit dispute.
all fishing boats are required to have a licence to fish in jersey’ waters.
to get one, french boat operators must show a history of fishing in the area.
but the french say new additional requirements were added without notice, including new rules about where ships can go, the number of days they can spend at sea and what machinery can be used.
some french fishermen have threatened to blockade the port of helier, though french officials say the protests will be peaceful.
earlier this week, the french maritime minister threatened to cut off the island’ electricity.
france supplies 95% ofjersey’ power through three underwater cables.
it has angered of the public, most certainly, and we’ve seen emergency meetings going on tonight at government level to see what can be done.
but most certainly our advice to ministers is to not capitulate.
downing street says it wants to see tensions de—escalated, but as a precautionary measure it has still sent royal navy patrol boats severn tamar from portsmouth tojersey.
aruna iyengar, news.
the fishing boats taking part in today’ protest left the normandy coast in the early hours of this morning.
our europe correspondentjean mackenzie watched some of them go.
this is one of many small ports that line the normandy coast, and about six boats have left from here this morning.
but they’re going to be joined by other boats along their way.
and they think by the time they reachjersey, there will be 50 to 100 small boats.
now, the fishermen say that they’re going to protest peacefully.
they’ve got no plans to block the port.
they won’ even be fishing.
they just want to show their presence, to show how upset and angry they are.
they didn’ see this coming.
they didn’ think that they were going to have their rights or their ability to fish injersey waters, impacted by brexit.
they have been fishing in these waters, most of them, their whole lives.
many of these fishermen catch more than 50% of their fish from jersey’ waters.
now, under the brexit deal, they still have the right to fish in jersey’ waters.
but now they need licenses.
they have got their licenses back.
and they say that there are a whole load of conditions attached to these licenses, which mean that they cannot fish as much as they want to, or as much as they need to.
so it’ that that they’re protesting.
they are asking for these licenses to be reconsidered, and to be able to fish more freely, like they used to be able to.
jean mackenzie with the latest.
after seven we will take your life helier.
robert hall will be