further south and east, but i1 will feel cold once again, with top temperatures for most of us between 2 to 6 degrees on tuesday.
now, we do hold on to that northerly flow through tuesday night and on into wednesday as well, so more heavy snow showers, the snow really accumulating across parts of scotland.
northern ireland, wales as well seeing some of those showers, of wednesday could make their way through the midlands and into parts of southern england as well, but it’ going to be another cold night with temperatures, particularly in the east, a touch milder towards the west, and through the day on wednesday we’re going to see a few more and with low pressure just moving a i and north-east england, the winds are going to be picking up close to the north-east coast and there could be a bit of wintriness making its way inland, probably rain close to the coast.
you can see where we’re likely for other western areas, but in between these two zones, a lot of dry, settled weather again, some wintry sunshine, temperatures about 4 to 7 degrees by this stage in the week.
now, looking ahead towards thursday, we’ve got a ridge of higher pressure that’ going to be moving in for a time at least.
that should squeeze away perhaps across the far north-east of scotland, but think for much of the , some mist and some fog a but quite a bit of dry, clear, sunny, cold weather developing during the afternoon.
so top temperatures between about 4 to 8 degrees during this stage.
and then further ahead towards friday now.
initially, we start off with the blue colour, the cold air mass with us, but a warmer air mass delt a period of rain, perhaps preceded for a time by some snowfall in the west during the course of friday.
it looks like this front tends to fizzle out as it bumps inte that higher pressure that still holds on towards the south and the east.
so 4 or 5 degrees for most of us in the east, but back into double figures for the likes of plymouth now, that takes us through into the weekend we’re all back into double figures during saturday and sunday.
there will be quite a lot of cloud, the breeze picking up at times and perhaps a bit of rain, especially towards the west, but as we look further ahead now into next week, well, it looks like the jet stream will be pushing its way north to the north of the , building its way in from the south.
it looks like that theme should keep us largely and settled into next week as that high pressure builds.
things will be certainly warming up compared to this cold spell that’ with us at the moment, through the course of next week.
bye-bye.
you upended your entire comfortable life to become a pirate.
1 pirating is not for everyone.
and we’re gonna cause some havoc.
how violent do we expect this to get?
we’re swashbuckling!
we’re looting!
et’ who knew there was so much to learn about pirating?
one appears to be a heavy-set woman in a silk dressing gown.
everybody, hide!
whichever way turn, there’ a trap.
your job is to deliver the heir.
will chase her all the way back to vienna.
history is not kind to losers.
what sort of a husband are you?
i’ thinking in particular countries in the middle east and parts of africa.
this is an excellent question.
but there is distinct difference between north america, asia on one side, where this is more visible, in other words, food prices are lower, and sub-saharan africa, europe, where this is not yet happening.
and if the deal that was struck on exporting ukrainian grain breaks down, for those that are most dependent on importing to north africa, it’ going to be very, very difficult.
would move the attention today to fertilisers, production and therefore food prices in 2023.
i 1 remain very high.
production of ammonia in the european union, for example, "2 all of this is connected, of course, to the impact of russia’ war on gas prices and gas availability.
but on a more positive note, what we do see is a stronger impetus for policymakers to quickly shift gear in other words, we learned our lesson from the pandemic expect the unexpected.
scan the horizon for what may come.
take early action.
one other thing we know the war in ukraine has done is it’ caused a global fragmentation broadly, kristalina, between those western countries who have imposed sanctions and others like china and india and many gulf states you have 190 countries as members.
does this fragmentation concern you about the ability it is our job to keep this 190 members together for the sake of macroeconomic and financial stability.
and so far, we have seen a remarkable resilience among our membership to act decisively, where the fund has to step up.
and my job is to relentlessly work with the membership to recognise one simple thing.
together we are much stronger than we are drifting apart.
and to bring forward the evidence of the benefits of global cooperation.
look, over the last 30 years, because of us working together, because of the peace dividend from the end of the cold war, the world economy tripled.
emerging markets in developing economies are the biggest they quadrupled and even advanced economies doubled.
we are all wealthier.
so when we think about how we work together, the role of trade collaboration, we have to remember that if we fail, we all would be poorer and the world would be less secure.
and kristalina, we know you’re going to the world economic kristalina, do you think anything useful will come out of this gathering?
am optimistic.
i think that just getting together, private sector, public sector and talking about the incredible challenges we are faced with would help us to come up and we know that when we put our minds and our forces together, it is a good outcome that we reap off from it.
remember in 2020, when the world came together to diagnose what the covid crisis was and then stepped up to support businesses and households?
how that helped us to avoid what could have been a great depression.
defining the problems correctly, we can have solutions to these problems.
so my message to davos is strength in unity.
what are the bright spots?
mean, any glimmers of light?
do you do you see in 20237 there are bright spots on the economic horizon, for sure.
you look at a country like india that has dramatically benefited from digitalisation of its economy.
covid put digital in india - quite an impressive growth and very good performance we see the concentration in africa on diversifying to future shocks.
and if were to take one big message, that notion of resilience to shocks is penetrating strongly in the business community and among policy makers.
yes, we have our work cut out for us, but at least we know that we have to have policies that build buffers, build resilience for the shocks to come, because they will.
well, on that point, kristalina georgieva, 23 of the , always appreciate your time.
thanks for joining me and i’ll talk you soon.
thank you, my friend.
you know, the world of second-hand clothing has traditionally been - well, it’ been for charity shops.
now, the hunt for a designer bargain is moving online, and for big bucks.
my next guest says that 23 million people use his site to buy and sell secend-hand luxury clothes and accessories.
so, can your clothes increase in value, like a painting?
well, sat down and caught up with the big boss of vestiaire collective, maximilian bittner.
thanks for your time.
and max, let’ start with this.
look, as we know, mean, for the global economy, so i’ just wondering, from your perspective, are you seeing a change in in the way people are using your site?
you know, think we’re really at the moment at a somewhat perfect storm in a negative sense that we see hoth the financial and economic crisis unfolding and at the same time, seeing the sustainability challenges that the planet is facing, you know, colliding at the same time.
and we’re in this intersection between sustainability, luxury and tech.
hnm-mm.
if you think about it from a seller perspective, this is a period where they might face, you know, personal uncertainty, financial uncertainty.
you know, let’ be a bit honest, you know, people, just because it’ a difficult period, will not stop being vain, will not stop being on social media.
they still want to look good and they want to continue consuming these wonderful products that we buy and sell on the platform.
but they can get it on our platform at a much cheaper price than they would get it first hand, so, you know, in many ways, you know, our model is somewhat built for this kind of a period of disruption.
million pieces listed on your platform.
what is it that people should be buying if they want their piece to rise as an investment, almost?
yeah,
and you should think about it as investment, we have 30,000 new items coming onto the platform every day.
30,000 new items.
and the way think about what buy first hand or second hand is facto looking at it, what has the highest likelihood to resell at a good price?
and the more luxurious you go or the more hot you go or sexy you go, depending on on the brand and whatever market cycle we’re in, the more likely you are able to sell it at the same, maybe even higher, or just at a smaller discount
so, if you think about the hot brands today, you know, dior absolutely is hot.
so, dior is reselling you almost need to not think luxury clothing
but you need to think luxury and that’, you know, you’re very quickly in the hermes bag, chanel bag or the main, you know, known watch brands that we can all think of, whether it’ but, sorry, are you talking about certain products that would resell higher than the original purchase point?
i mean, if you think about a birkin bag, it’ probably selling at two times the original purchase.
two times the price?
two times, four times, because, you know, the luxury industry has constrained as business model and made itself as attractive as it is a the availability of the products.
so, if you want to buy a birkin bag today and you go to hermes, they probably tell you to come back two years later to get it.
you need to build a relationship with them over same with the most famous and exclusive watch brands.
and if you think about vestiaire, you can go and buy these products today.
what’ the most expensive item 1 you’ve sold on the platform?
in the summer of last year, we sold hermes birkin bag for 158,000 euros.
sorry, 158,000 euros?
birkin bag faubourg, of which there’ four different 87/-1
and you have collectors who specifically were looking for these bags, which are almost impossible to get 158,000 euros it was sold for.
would you have known the original purchase price?
i’ not 100% sure, but would expect it to be about 15,000 20,000 to buy, and they sold it for 158,0007 it’ a pretty good investment.
considering most other investments at the moment, yes.
before move on, can you give me any other examples of what you’ve seen consumers make money on - buying - buying on your site?
think you have incredibly savvy micro-entrepreneurs who buy and sell on vestiaire in some sort of ways using global arbitrage.
you think about the - historically, luxury goods are 20% more expensive than in europe.
that’ always been the case.
but in the last 6-10 weeks, months, with the inflation unfolding, american interest rates going up faster, obviously the euro got much weaker, as is the dollar.
so we had a huge amount of american buyers, arbitrage being european prices as being much cheaper.
and sellers, despite buyers not having to pay shipping fees, not having to pay import tariffs, you’re a business, obviously.
how do you make your money?
so, we take a 15% cut, on average, plus a 3% payment on the platform.
how do you police the authenticity of the goods 1 , this is the core and the heart of our business, how we’ve to ebay, 12, 13 years ago we’ve built so much expertise through the authenticators that we have in our five global authentication hubs.
so real people in these five locations ?
physically.
so, every time you buy a product on vestiaire, " want this product "to be physically authenticated”.
for any product that is north of 1,000 euros or £1,000, we automatically and then, we have it checked by these experts.
and you know, the nice story like telling is when we started off ten-plus years ago, we’ve hired these experts from auction houses.
the only two authenticators we’ve lost over the last years by auction houses from us.
1 because the only way you can get better as an authenticator by touching as many products, you know, to practice your skill, to keep your skill up to date.
max, let me ask you this - the is now in somewhat three years into brexit.
i’ just wondering what impact did that have or pessibly still having on your business?
i like explaining vestiaire as literally a microcosm of how terrible brexit has been for both europe and the .
perspective before brexit, in the , only around 20-25% before brexit, in the , of products being bought by english buyers were bought the rest would come from europe.
and the logic behind that is that was part of the bigger european the bigger supply and demand.
and with brexit, overnight, when brexit happened, a lot of focus was on the import tariffs.
on every single product being bought and sold in europe - a mark-up of up to 20%.
so, for every buyer, every european product being sold was 20% more expensive and vice versa.
so literally overnight, all the products became 20% more expensive.
the complexity of the customs and the extra time to have those products pass through customs and so, it had a huge impact 20%, 30% literally overnight.
we’ve recovered now, but our business has completely been transformed from a - historically being part of europe business, 25%, only being bought from sellers - to now 75%, 80% being to business.
the impact on buyers and sellers suffering from not being part of the bigger supply and demand market.
but for us as a business, the complexity of shipping the products.
but the main thing was that we used to have our products authenticated outside of paris, so we had to build a new logistics operation, a new authentication
i here in the ?
so, south-west of london, and had to rebuild our presence european unien any more.
max, let me end on this.
on the 29th of december last year, the queen of british fashion, dame vivienne westwood, iconic fashion how does the death of a designer impact the value of their designs?
1 important to highlight how tragic this is.
i mean, just to think about it, we have our main management boardroom where spend most of my meetings and it’ actually called vivienne westwood.
no, really?
so, it’ really our main meeting room in paris on the third floor, it’ called vivienne westwood.
so spend most of my time.
"i’ll see you in vivienne westwood_ "
so for us, it’ very meaningful because she’ in many ways been the pioneer of - of thinking sustainable around the way you consume and thinking sustainable about the whole industry and so, it’ very tragic for us.
inspired the founders to build the business that it is today.
you know, again, if something like this happens, we do see spikes in interest.
you know, these you mean - sorry, if a designer does pass away, you’ll see asplkein?
we’ve had, you know, sadly, think last year, and every time something like this happens, we do see spikes in search for these products.
well, on that point, maximilian bittner, a real thanks for your time, mate.
thanks so much for having me.
111918 well, that’ it for this week.
hope you enjoyed the show.
don’ forget, you can keep up with the latest on our global tweet me, i’ll tweet you back.
you can get me @bbcaaron.
thanks for watching.
i’ll see you soon.
hello again.
i’ sure you’ agree, it’ been a very bitter start with some snowy scenes around as well - that was overlooking skiddaw, in cumbria earlier on monday.
in force, the majority across stretches of the severn, the river avon, and for groundwater snow showers across northern and western areas over the next few hours, leading actually with water still seeping wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost, temperatures minus three minus seven widely.
well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy heading into tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous actually underfoot and under-tyre first thing in the morning.
i as low as minus 10 in scotland, freezing cold start showers piling in through the day i - so, really, it’ northern and western areas of scotland across northern ireland, the north-west of both england and wales will be prone to seeing further accumulations of snow.
modest hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
and after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day, even in the sunshine - which many of us will have a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much above freezing.
it will feel pretty bitter.
another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
could see rather more in the way of showers just clipping the east coast of england, and some heavier showers work across northern ireland into parts of wales and south-west england - a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in, in cardiff and plymouth - 0 signs that temperatures by thursday, after a frosty and cold start again, but after, again, a freezing cold start to the day, temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe eight towards plymouth.
otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
if you really don’ like the cold you’ll have to wait till the weekend before we get something a lot milder, as south-westerly winds return across the country.
with that, there’ll of rain around as well.
but eventually, temperatures widely welcome to news.
our top stories: no survivors, but sunday’ fatal plane crash in nepal raises a raft of questions.
the pilot allegedly didn’ report any problems on the approach.
hundreds of police officers are continuing their work here.
they’ve given up hope on finding any survivors, they’re trying to find clues to work out how this tragedy happened.
a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation, wagner, has claimed asylum in norway i i the mercenary group.
police in romania say they’re widening their investigation into the social media influencer andrew tate who’ facing charges of human trafficking and rape.
andy murray will be on court a a8 novak djokovic starts his bid for the championship later on tuesday.
the italian movie icon gina lollobrigida has died at the age of 95.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
again in seuth asia.
-- we begin.
rescuers in nepal have recovered two more bodies from the site of sunday’ plane crash.
they say they don’ expect to find any survivors.
72 people from at least nine countries were on board a british man, ryan calum crighton, is one of the latest the plane was on an internal flight from the capital kathmandu to the tourist town of pokhara when it crashed just before landing.
our south asia correspondent rajini vaidyanathan scattered across the riverbank, fragments of flight 691.
a & seats mangled close by.
like pieces of a broken toy, so, you saw the plane come down from the sky?
yeah, yes.
people living near the gorge, like indraprasad sapkota, say they are thankful the plane did not land on their houses close by.
: looked at the it was shaking.
to me, it looked like one of the propellers was not working.
are continuing their work here.
on finding any survivors, but now, as they pick through the wreckage, they are trying to find clues to work out how this tragedy happened.
which they hope will shed more light on what happened.
the mountain terrain and unpredictable weather can be tricky to navigate.
outdated aircraft and weak regulation have also been blamed for previous accidents.
this footage appears to show the flight’ last moments.
it came down just before landing at pokhara airport.
the pilot asked to change runways on approach.
21-year-old nira chhantyal, a regular flyer with yeti airlines, was onboard the fateful flight.
a folk singer, she was on her way to perform at a festival.
she was your friend?
tonight, her friends say they are still waiting for her body to be released.
: she was a very talented artist, and used to sing folk songs.
i to describe the loss.
as armed police guard the hospital, families wait cutside.
lriy still wants closure.
rajini vaidyanathan, news, pokhara.
a former commander with 1% wagner group, which russia uses to carry out some of its fighting in ukraine, has deserted and claimed asylum in norway.
andrey medvedev, who’ 26, crossed the border into norway last friday, where he was detained by border guards.
our news reporter stephanie prentice is here.
what more do we know?
we do not have new reports confirming edey dev cross into norway that he made it across duress according to a russian human rights group.
say he was under re, was they say he was under fire, was being chased by dogs.
he was taken to oslo.
was quickly taken to oslo.
he was 0 quickly taken to oslo.
he was charged with an illegal ssing and given a lawyer that crossing and given a lawyer 0 would represent him, and that would represent him, and he lawyer has been speaking to him now.
: we don’ go on um for war criminals of asylum for war criminals of this as an important assessment view must be analysed very refully.
this is information rrect?
his is something that assessed for everyone who eeks asylum in ay stop but seeks asylum in norway stop but obviously in this case it will be assessed particularly i be assessed particularly and oughly.
he went on to say thoroughly.
he went on to say to medvedev did bring evidence man rights abuses in of human rights abuses in ukraine with him and that he is ing to share that evidence ith people investigating in coming weeks.
this reminds , who is wagoner group and what us, who is the wagoner group us, who is the wagoner group and what is their involvement he war in ukraine.
are an independent polymeric hairy.
have existed in a shadowy pacity.
they work alongside russian government and we know as the russian government
and we i as a conflict in do know as a conflict in ukraine has escalated they have on a bigger role there.
18 ecent estimates of taken on a bigger role there.
¢ recent estimates out of the -\ may be as many as 10% of 8 say may be as many as 10% of forces currently on the ground 01 raine could be from in ukraine could be from the wagoner group.
a lawyer from medvedey says as part of andre medvedev says as part of that he was a commander that group he was a commander and witnessed things that ade him with the war crimes people in the group being 0 cuted by an nternal police executed by an internal police force.
we have heard from ounder of the group.
he fas alas founder of the group.
he firmed medvedev was a a1 confirmed medvedev was a member.
he disputed the details have heard so far
and but we have heard so far and labelled him a highly dangerous vidual.
ephanie, thank the government says it’ll block a law passed in scotland that makes it easier for people to change their legal gender, saying it will conflict with -wide equality laws.
it’ the first time the government in westminster has blocked a bill passed in scotland, and the move’ been branded & & on the scottish parliament first minister, who says they will appeal.
the attorney-general’ office in brazil has filed an indictment against 39 people for their alleged involvement in coup activities related to the storming of brazil’ senate building.
the indictment says they were among a core group of conspirators who tried to abolish the democratic order.
the former president, jair bolsonaro, denies instigating thousands of iranians living in europe have demonstrated outside the parliament, demanding that iran’ revolutionary guard listed as a terrorist group.
they accuse the guards of playing a key role in suppressing anti-government protests that have occurred acroess iran since the death in custody please save our expanding in two and retired.
they have zed ars to tate’ seized cars to tate’’ compound and rated seven more the 36-year-old british-american citizen has of an investigation into allegations of human trafficking and rape, aleng with his brother.
both men deny all the allegations made against them.
lucy williamson sent this report from bucharest.
weeks after police came for their owner, they returned for his cars.
the power of a ferrari paralysed in the grip 1 its secrets are now being scrutinised by investigators.
this fleet of luxury cars, the toys of a successful businessman or the proceeds of a trafficking ring?
compound and describes himself as a close friend everybody comes now and talk make a lot of statements in front ria of the police about how bad is andrew tate.
you doubt all the women, but you never doubt andrew?
because they are young and stupid.
i 3 if you’re living in the western world, this is probably 40% the move to romania in 2017 in part for what he saw approach to sexual assault claims.
he and his brother tristan are being held in detention for 30 days while police investigate whether they set up a trafficking operation and forced women to work online in adult chat rooms.
they are also investigating an allegation of rape.
both men deny the charges.
of them being aggressive.
police have as potential victims, but last week, two of them publicly denied = by the tate brothers.
: i’ve never been frightened.
if had been, wouldn’ have been stupid enough to stay in that house.
have a tattoo on my left arm that says ‘tate girl’, which got out of respect for them.
andrew tate’ reputation hangs on this case, but remania’ does, as well.
its message - that trafficking claims will be investigated, no matter how rich or famous you are.
lucy williamson, news, bucharest.
stay with us on news.
still to come: italy’ most wanted mafia boss is finally under arrest after 30 years on the run.
donald trump is now the 45th president of the united states.
on the steps of capitol hill in washington.
demonstrators were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
anti-apartheid campaigners say 1 throughout the tour.
klaus altmann is being held on a fraud charge in bolivia.
the west germans want to extradite him for crimes committed in wartime france.
there, he was the gestapo chief klaus barbie.
millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot - no survivors, but sunday’ fatal plane crash in nepal raises a raft of questions.
the pilot allegedly didn’ report any problems on the approach.
a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation, wagner, has claimed asylum in norway i i the mercenary group.
it’ the second day of the australian open biggest stars have been eagerly awaiting, none more to the competition for the first time since being against covid-19.
we can turn now to the who 3 joining us from melbourne.
talk now first of all let us talk now first of all -1 let us talk now first of all about andy murray.
he is due on arter of an from now.
14 quarter of an hour from now.
he is due encore very shortly rod laver arena, andy murray faces italy’ matteo berrettini in his first round, game.
was a day of first game.
it was a day of tai- 8 first game.
it was a day of excitement for the yesterday.
raducanu made it to the emma raducanu made it to the second round, she won her first despite that ankle sprain.
we also saw game despite that ankle sprain.
i game despite that ankle sprain.
we also saw jake draper put really good fight against the ven though he ended up losing, he through to the cond round him being the fending champion.
we are also ecting onstable or later on oday, same court, she is cing at in check.
she is facing that in check.
she is hoping this will facing that in check.
she is 1 facing that in check.
she is hoping this will be a good ning for the 2023 season or 3 - i opening for the 2023 season for her.
she came really close with imbledon her.
she came really close with imbledon and finals season, the wimbledon and finals i a-1a the wimbledon and finals last season, and she is hoping she could pick up a that she could pick up a title 3
nthe australian open.
a bit isappeintment for of a disappointment for australian fans, pecially nick 70 rgios fans.
he was due lay today but he pulled out sterday due a knee injury, ying he was devastated to iss his home tournament.
as tioned, the turn of novak mentioned, the return of novak djokovic.
she was kicked out of ralia last time.
much nticipation about the serbian yer returning?
all eyes are ing to be the rod laver arena.
going to be on the rod laver - - going to be on the rod laver arena.
a lot going to be on the rod laver - going to be on the rod laver arena.
a lot of action, but tonight this is where ovak djokovic is going to make first ppearance, by his his first appearance, by his irst match his first appearance, by his first match of the australian 1 2023.
he will face spain’ berto.
in his first return fter hat drama of last year, being detained, appearing court and him being detained, appearing and then challenging in court and then challenging ets tralian government in the australian government in court the australian government in slaa the australian government in court and deported just before ame.
the unvaccinated serhian star plit opinion here australia about what appened to him.
he thought he nfairly treated.
happened to him.
he thought he 1102 was unfairly treated.
any people thought he should have followed the rules.
that was last year.
this year we have i been speaking to tennis fans in melbourne park and they are saying here in melbourne park and they are saying they are happy to back.
greater see are saying they are happy to see him back.
greater see him back.
you have to let the players play.
it might have bits overreacting at the i me but now is ere
so was the point of ?
he is here.
13" very happy.
he should never not been.
really excited.
ally excited he is here this .
last year we were waiting see what was going to happen ore
we booked tickets really excited is here and could come to him.
we’'ll we could come to see him.
we’'ll find out what kind of reception ceives when walks out he receives when he walks out qa1ne he receives when he walks out onto the court, but judging 8 he warm shear and from the warm shear and applause that he received when me out onto applause that he received when he came out onto the rod laver arena on friday for an ibition match with nick kyrgios, exhibition match with nick 3 ios, here’ hoping for similar ne.
he says
that while events of last similar one.
he says that while 1 the events of last year will 3 tay with them, he is willing ove on and eyeing that 10th title, a record extension in ourne park, and the melbourne park, and the all-important 22nd men’ title, slam title, record currently held by rafi nadal.
’ keep you any longer.
we won’ keep you any longer.
have tennis to watch.
tough but someone has to do it.
aimaa khalil in melbourne, ank you very much.
one of the world’ most wanted men, a godfather of the sicilian mafia, matteo messina denaro, has been arrested by police in italy.
he’ considered the boss of the much-feared cosa nostra criminal organisation =il the italian prime minister has hailed his capture as a major blow organised crime.
our security correspondent, frank gardner, reports.
caught at last - italy’ most wanted mafia fugitive, matteo messina denaro, had been on the run for 30 years.
local residents in palermo thanked the police.
they had tracked him down = 1 where he was being treated for cancer.
for italy, this is huge.
prime minister giorgia meloni flew down to congratulate those who helped catch him.
"it’ a day of celebration,” she says.
i : irl denaro was convicted in absentia for the murders of two anti-mafia the following year, he was implicated in deadly he once boasted he could fill a small cemetery so has it taken so long to find him?
«
= to digitally age them in order to guess what he would look like today.
now they have caught him, they have immediately biggest mafia catch.
between the mafia and parts of the state and the political class.
a collective sigh of relief.
a notorious fugitive who seemed untraceable will now be facing justice.
frank gardner, news.
british presenter and newspaper columnist jeremy clarkson says he’’ written to the duke and duchess of sussex, harry and meghan, to apologise over a newspaper column in which he said he "hated" meghan.
our culture editor, katie razzall, told us more.
if you remember, there was outrage because he said he wanted to see her paraded naked through the streets and that he wanted excrement thrown at her.
more than 25,000 people complained to the press regulator - it is investigating.
so today, we had a much more fulsome apology.
six pages on instagram in which he reveals that on christmas day he reached out to the duke and duchess to say sorry.
far from accepting the apology and in an interview since, prince harry has suggested the column proved clarkson today writes he abhors violence against women, he is not sexist.
he also says that amazon and were incandescent of course, he is a popular presenter and there is a report plans to part company with clarkson next year, once the shows, clarkson’ farm the grand tour, commissioned from him, have aired.
my sources do dispute 18 but amazon have said the duke and duchess of sussex have issued a statement in response.
they say, "while a new public apology has been issued today "by clarkson, what remains to be addressed "long-standing pattern of writing articles that spread "and misogyny.
" entertainment journalist and host of the podcast lauren interviews.
she joins us now from new york.
thanks to being with us.
good to see you.
what thanks to being with us.
good 1 thanks to being with us.
good to see you.
what you make eremy’ pology?
yes, thanks or having me.
do you are think emy woke up that morning and 0 adla jeremy woke up that morning and read the article and jeremy woke up that morning and 1 jeremy woke up that morning and read the article and said let at this woman it me beat this woman it submission?
don’ think at was his plan.
completely was his plan.
it got completely of hand.
he got very ta1 out of hand.
he got very confident in out of hand.
he got very i a confident in the fact that the media was coming down on meghan arry and the media was oming own on harry because of book so thought let me pile this on here.
we’re in ciety now, whether we like it not, it is a work culture.
eing this gative towards 1 0 being this negative towards a 01 a being this negative towards women should not be part of , it should be in general, women take a lot of crap, you will, use my language.
we take a lot of this.
on’ 3 we take a lot of this.
we don’
need this piled on by some nion riter for the sun, opinion writer for the sun, someone like jeremy rkson.
14 someone like jeremy clarkson.
do not think that he woke this on purpose but think as completely inappropriate his apology was even worse.
as very clear to me initial tweets that he wrote, he he did not really put any thought into it.
he saw all the he was getting and said aybe ’ll do something about is.
and that he had there was ours that amazon this.
and that he had there was - i this.
and that he had there was rumours that amazon would cut with , they’ already ties with him, they’ already ncelled a press conference to nowledge, this is what variety reported and aid let make this a little bit let me make this a little bit re serious and to seven nstagram post.
either way, , that his comments were off.
to me, that’ i’ll, that his comments were i 0
i’ll, that his comments were off.
to me, that’ you are a ard.
what comments on!
coward.
what your comments on!
jeremy clarkson is no stranger ntroversy.
as this is to controversy.
as this is laela 4 to controversy.
as this is dominant teacup or will it sink areer?
no, unfortunately, on’ think his career?
no, unfortunately, eghaill don’ think it’ll sink his career because he is a career because he is a man.
i’ ome feminist over hearsay not some feminist over hearsay mandala with everything, no, 1 think this is the way the world orks.
people forget about this in a weeks, hate and in a few weeks, hate to -\ it, us in the , meghan not very popular.
people , ’, this as completely disqusting.
was 014 this was completely disqusting.
it was ridiculous, out of hand, .
4
but hink meghan was not .
but i think meghan was 1 not as not there is sweetheart that will say i’ done with guy.
quy.
after that, that this guy.
after that, that was 3 rid me.
this guy.
after that, that was me.
he will move on and everyone ill forget a few months.
lauren conlin, thank you ery much.
thanks for having and our apologies if you i are offended by some of the guage there.
the italian actress gina lollobrigida has died at the age of 95.
she was one of the biggest film stars in the world in later life she forged a successful career as a photographer and sculptor, snapping fidel castro wendy urquhart looks a you came back inte my life like a wolf in snake’ clothing!
and she was often described a1 she grew up in the mountain village of subiaco - her dad, giovanni, who was a furniture maker, and her mother, giuseppina.
when the family moved to rome after world war il, gina took singing and acting lessons, and was soon starring in italian films.
she married milko skofic in 1949, but when she was spotted by hollywood talent scouts, howard hughes took and whisked her off to america.
he suggested that she divorce milko before she signed aldg- - 50 she went back to italy.
gina became a household name in the 1950 after starring in her first english-language film, beat the devil, opposite humphrey bogart.
a raft of great hollywood roles followed, including trapeze, the hunchback of notre dame.
am less afraid of you now.
solomon and sheba, and women of straw.
she courted controversy when she made a documentary about fidel castroe in 1975, between the two dogged the actress for years.
when lolla finally bid farewell to the silver screen, she turned her talents to photography and sculpture, and exhibitions of her work were held in paris, moscow, and donated the entire $2.
9 million to stem cell therapy.
gina lollobrigida, who’ died at the age of 95.
there i1 much more all those tories there is much more on all those stories on the news ebsite.
you can 1 website.
you can go stories on the news website.
you can go to taa website.
you can go to website.
you can go to bbc.
com/news or you can nload bbc.
com/news or you can nload the news app.
that’ it from us here download the news app.
- i london.
londen.
once very i lendon.
once very much
your mpany.
from all of us, we preciate you watching and we see you next time.
bye-bye hello again.
i’ sure you’ agree, it’ been a very bitter start with some snowy scenes around as well - that was overlooking skiddaw, in cumbria earlier on monday.
in force, the majority across stretches of the severn, the river avon, and for groundwater snow showers across northern and western areas over the next few hours, leading actually with water still seeping wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost, temperatures minus three minus seven widely.
well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy heading into tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous actually underfoot and under-tyre first thing in the morning.
i as low as minus 10 in scotland, freezing cold start - showers piling in through the day
i - so, really, it’ northern and western areas of scotland across northern ireland, the north-west of both england and wales will be prone to seeing further accumulations of snow.
modest hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
and after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day, even in the sunshine - which many of us will have a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much above freezing.
it will feel pretty bitter.
more of that to come on wednesday as well.
another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
could see rather more in the way of showers just clipping the east coast of england, and some heavier showers work across northern ireland into parts of wales and south-west england - a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in, in cardiff and plymouth - 0 signs that temperatures by thursday, after a frosty and cold start again, but after, again, a freezing cold start to the day, temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe eight towards plymouth.
otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
if you really don’ like the cold you’ll have to wait till the weekend before we get something a lot milder, as south-westerly winds return across the country.
with that, there’ll of rain around as well.
but eventually, temperatures widely rescuers in the bowl have called off this search for any ivors.
the pilot did not 3ol survivors.
the pilot did not 0 port any problems when coming to land.
72 people were onboard the yeti airlines flight and 70 of them are known to have perished.
a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation, wagner, has claimed asylum in norway i i the mercenary group.
andrey medvedev allegedly fled it’ thought to be the first time a member of the group has defected to the west.
police in romania say they’re expanding their investigation into the social media influencer andrew tate.
they’ve seized a fleet of luxury cars from tate’ compound in bucharest.
he and his brother are facing charges of human trafficking and rape.
they both deny the allegations.
now on news, let’ get 2025 started in style.
welcome to las vegas, where there’ lights, sounds and a whole lotta shakin’ going on.
uh, not sure this is what they meant, though.
did that make you feel better?
feel everything.
consumer electronics show, spread throughout the las vegas convention center and surrounding hotels.
overlooking part of the show.
yeah, only part, though, because this place is big.
very big.
to give you an idea of how huge, i’ll tell you what, should we give them a whistlestop tour?
i’ll go that way, you go that way, all of the halls have pretty spectacular stands in, this is the north hall and i’ getting health care vibes from this place.
here at the venetian expo is my favourite bit - eureka park - where some start-ups get small stands to set out their big ideas.
the west hall is shiny and new, and now we’re in the central hall to out some haptic gloves that mean, when you touch things in virtual reality, you can feel them.
here, shake my hands.
hello ?
you’re tickling me!
am!
have a little tickle.
do you fancy a jenga battle?
sure, not?
all right.
you could feel the blocks as you pick them up!
that is really incredible.
and you could drop them on your hand and feeloch!
as grip this book over here, can actually feel resistance.
i’ being stopped, that there is a solid thing between my hands!
it’ the air pressure that’ used in there, so you can feel every little a
i
oh, my fingers are double jointed!
we’ve forgotten to do the jenga.
this is much more fun, actually.
oh, we have.
let’ move this out the way and play the game.
cripr a0 that’ actually a bit tricky.
tell you what tell you what do when lose, is that.
oh, no.
i so, the use cases for this are suggested to be, first of all, training, so you can train people to use equipment and they get a aar - also, design - you could design a new car, for example, and run your fingers rgn0 before it actually exists.
big leap forward for haptics, would you say?
yeah, would.
big difference from anything i’ve used in the past.
getting back up towards its pre-pandemic size.
the question, of course, is whether these hig expos have permanently changed as a result of covid.
and the person who is responsible for bringing the beast that is to heel is gary shapiro.
thank you for that unique intreduction, and thank you for coming.
it was our pleasure.
obviously, 2021, it didn’ happen in the reels.
this feels kind of like it’ getting back to normal now.
is that how you see it?
after three years of the pandemic, think this feels phenomenal, and the excitement, the crowds.
every company here is talking about efficiency, sustainability and leaving a better world for our kids and grandkids through technology.
carbon-emitting devices?
well, when you frame the question that way, don’ know what the answer is, but i’ll tell you what we do need, is we need solutions to fundamental human problems and things like that, and that the product the other good news , you talk of more expensive products.
i’ happy to say consumer technologies in this industry actually fighting inflatien.
laptops are cheaper.
and is that?
because the chips are getting better, they’re using less energy, they’re getting more compact.
there are two countries that have the world’ attention you’ve got china with a covid explosion, and you’ve got russia with its invasion of ukraine.
are there many chinese or russian companies here?
i spent a lot of time this morning at the ukrainian pavilion talking to ukrainians there, = i3 we are supporting them, and there is not one russian company exhibiting.
is that a decision that you’ve taken?
it’ a decision we’ve made as an organisation that we’re not allowing russian exhibitors.
in times of the chinese which you raised, we have one-third of the number of chinese we had in 2020.
gary, thanks for having us back.
thanks for seeing us.
thank you!
appreciate that.
one of the big themes in 2023, as it was in 2022, ‘21 and ‘20, is virtual reality.
and there are a couple of big, new headsets on the block
oh, i’ve been hit by some sort of putting on a headset to experience a virtual world isn’'t anything new in gaming.
gigia really mainstream, companies which make them need to tempt a lot of people to buy one to use in their everyday lives.
first up, tried the meta quest pro.
it’ been on the market for a couple of months and it costs almost £1,500.
meta won’ tell us how many they’ve sold.
what want to do is to get these floating buildings, which for me, are here and here, and put them down.
now i’ve got just one selected.
there we go, right.
this is fiddly.
what is your expectation with - in terms of how long it would take somebody am doing terribly badly?
no, it’ a more complex app that we have.
except what’ looking back at me, unless my appearance has changed very dramatically in the last few minutes, and whatever do with my face, she does.
so if goahhh she is doing that!
can wink at her, she’ got a much better instagram pout than have, welcome back!
thank you very much.
you’re welcome.
it’ a little more it’ smaller, this room.
on long car journeys?
the taiwanese company is hoping to tempt people it costs around 900 euros.
you need a bit of kit a yearly subscription, and a headset, of course.
so, i’ short-sighted.
do need to wear my glasses?
no worries.
so if you’re short-sighted, we can dial in with the glasses for .
but is it worth the money when you can currently only play ten games on it?
basically, i am a flying robot in the sky.
within this screen.
and when we stop at lights, the robot also stops, that wasn’ very friendly.
the whole environment around you
oh, is it?
we know where the streets are and can put this in game.
so, for example, you know there is a right-turn road, but just place asteroids left and right, and all of a sudden, you move through an asteroid, evade, and you think, "how does the game know this?
" this is how we leverage this.
the newest headset, unveiled at the tech show in las vegas just last week, was the vive eli and was one of the first journalists to get my head in it.
all right, let’ have a go.
what do do?
this headset is also pricey, coming in at almost £1,300.
i mean, think, you know, that someone like picasso would be quite proud of that masterpiece.
and there is lots of speculation that apple launches some kind of mixed reality glasses, a much-needed iphone moment for the whole thing.
but as ever, these devices are currently all let down by battery life, and even the most expensive headsets need to be charged every two hours or it’ game over.
with product launches aplenty, saw the big players hitting the headlines as usual.
lenovo teamed up with motorola to unveil its thinkphone, a smartphone that with thinkpad laptops.
lenovo says the two devices will have unparalleled functionality together.
sony used its keynote speech announce a playstation 5 controller for disabled gamers.
sony says it’ a highly customisable kit of different buttons, triggers and sticks that allow players to create a setup that suits their needs.
we’re really excited to see the impacts of the controller on helping to make access to gaming available to many more people.
wikipedia’ operator has denied claims that the saudi government infiltrated its team two international human rights groups have said that saudi officials altered top youtuber logan paul has apologised to fans who lost money after investing in his game, he’ encouraged people to buy collectables for what he called a really fun game that makes you money.
but more than a year after its launch, no game has materialised.
i’ve come out here to test an automatic car inspection app called raven.
it uses to assess any damage so if you’re returning a rental car, buying a car or got an insurance claim, it can do some of the work for you.
let me show you how it works.
you start your scan like this you zoom in and it should identify what the damage is.
dent on left front door - if keep moving around, i’ll take a closer look at the tyres.
you need to make sure that you have the whole car in shot.
it also takes some photos, so when you’ve finished, it’ll send you some snapshots, known as the beauty shots, to this side, in amongst all of the screens, there are plenty of home appliances too.
but have you wondered how they find their way about?
well, many of the modern ones use something called simultaneous location and mapping.
modern, domestic and industrial robots are not just bump and go, you know.
the need to build up a map of where they live to make sure each spring cleaning that means they might forget the occasional nook and cranny.
one common way to scan your surroundings is lidar, which uses a spinning laser to everything around you.
but lidar has its shortcomings.
is if you want high can be thousands of dollars.
so that’ not going to cut it for commercial products at all in the consumer space.
but then the low cost ones, which you see on many of the consumer products out there, just are very they degrade over time and they also capture a tiny amount of spatial information compared to the amount of information you capture with a camera.
but using very low cost processes and silicon.
this vacuum robot is running new software developed by slamcoere, which builds up a map using vision this allows the software to more intelligently work out not just how far it is from i is and whether it’ likely to stay there.
when it knows where it is, it needs to know what are the obstacles in its way, & it going to crash if it tries to go through a certain space?
the next level of spatial intelligence is knowing how the world aroeund you is shaped just from a geometry point of view, so knowing what’ occupied space and what’ not.
once the software’ labelled everything, it can do different things with the information.
for example, if it’ committing the layout of your flat to memory, it might want to remove objects it knows aren’ permanent, like books, other stuff that’ strewn around, or even people don’ worry about the look of this particular vacuum bot.
at the moment, it’ wearing a low cost stereo camera on its head, but the plan @ integrated into vacuum cleaners, drones, and other autonomous devices the point here is that a few low cost peripherals are all devices like this would need to collect enough data to feed owen’ software, which is the real breakthrough here.
a really small, tight, neural network lightweight enough to be stored in the device that can label everything and work out how to respond to different types of objects.
one of the big benefits of a robot or a machine knowing the objects it’ encountering is it may choose to modify its behaviour depending on the type of object that is.
so, for example, a drone may see a person and want to keep a safety risk there.
but if it’ going to get through a door or somewhere a bit more narrower where there’ only inanimate objects around, then it can have a much smaller safety margin to be able to make it through.
plenty of ways, then, for a new way of navigating the world to help you to clean up.
: honestly, this is the first time i’ve ever now, at , healthcare often takes centrestage.
but the covid pandemic is really proven the importance of innovation in the area.
or generally even heard of, but pfizer and moderna’ groundbreaking and effective formulations played a major back to normality.
unlike conventional vaccines that contain a spiked protein, messenger instructs your irt a novel idea for dealing with viruses for something that has been researched for a while for treating cancer.
and a few weeks ago, in a collaboration with merck, moderna announced positive results of a phase trial from its personalised - i’ve been talking to the of moderna, stephane bancel, and asked him what he thinks 4 think as we move away from chemotherapy and into immunotherapy and personalised treatment, think we will start to see less side effects of what we saw with chemo, which was very drastic, chemo was going with a a big hammer on everything and very hard for cancer patients.
what we know today which we didn’ know 20 years from now it’ a mutation in our 4 % you have, so what we do then is we make a product for one human being, so we build a robot to make product for one human being at a time.
it takes us around 60 days, having been by the time we launch, it will be around 30 days, from the biopsy like a covid vaccine, getting in your arm, the medicine that is made just for you, for your cancer, designed based on the sequence then is it one vaccine, is it a series of vaccines?
how will the process work?
it’ a good question.
a 44% reduction in recurrence or death, compared to the best drugs available today in the or the , with all technology.
i intramuscular, so just but what we’ve shown 00 might be enough.
so we still are going to do a phase study with nine, to make sure we keep that good data, but then we do a lot of studies to see can we shrink it, to possibly go to only precision medicine is obviously the dream, but whenever i’ve like we’re at the very of collecting the kind of data that can make a huge difference in the future, but right now it’ quite challenging to make a difference with it, isn’ it?
yes, but think thati’ very excited about this.
we know this study is real, it was powered, 150 people, and the statistical value, the value of a study is very, and what other cancers are you hoping to be think, you know, the lung is the next obvious big one.
kidney, breast cancer.
going to be to use that capital to a lot of things at the same time.
people are dying.
don’'t want to one thing after the other, all at the same time.
thank you very much, really, really interesting.
help disable people.
paul carter has toured the show who is created away to help people with low vision see the world differently.
she’ visually impaired and navigating her first .
navigate the world better.
have a rare disease called albinism, which basically means that my body doesn’ create enough pigment or melanin, which is my hair, skin and eyes are the colour that they are.
in addition to that, it affects the development as a result of that, have really an uncorrectable impairment where no amount of glasses or lasik or really any current treatments can aid the problems that have.
and what found growing up really was no assistive technology that was appropriate for someone like me who had a vision impairment that couldn be corrected.
but i still, despite that, have trouble sometimes during normal everyday tasks, like reading the posters the app makes it easier for people with low vision to see things around them.
it uses customisable smartphone camera filters that users can change to suit their own unique visual impairment.
because have an impairment, it’ really easy to fall "well, know what’ best for these people.
"i know what they need or what they want.
”
our rebokeh app spent about a year in beta with about 100 beta users, where our sole goal was to solicit feedback from people with vision impairment, optometrists, ophthalmologists.
and over the course of that year we added or adjusted more than ten different features.
how might the app be useful for looking at something like this?
yeah,
so can totally show you.
so this is actually really hard for me to differentiate, especially because there’'s so much going on right here.
there’ just a lot of images.
so what we can do is actually point it up, and with one finger - it’ meant to be one-handed - so with just one so let’ pick one to look at, maybe this picture of a computer and whatnot.
what we can do is we can actually add some contrast
oh, wow.
to make things a little bit brighter.
so this particular screen has a lot of green on it.
so there’ a whole lot that we can kind of do to.
but to kind of make certain colours or certain features pop out a little bit, you know, now i’ kind of understanding a whole lot of chaotic kind of images.
in a way, it’ quite a simple process, but can imagine it’ quite liberating just being able to instantly be able point your phone at something and see something for a lot of people, irl between being able to read a menu at, you know, starbucks or mcdonald’ when it’ up in the back a i 8 and, you know, if you’re by yourself, sometimes that’ totally an independence issue.
for iphone and ipad, but rebecca also has plans to make rebokeh a community for visually impaired people.
there’ about 25 million people with some type of moderate, uncorrectable vision impairment.
cto i 1 able to also showcase and bring awareness to that population, to give those people a space to come and gather and say, we have our own very unique set of life experiences and needs and challenges and wants, and to give them an opportunity to come together with people more similar to them to talk about those things is really what we ultimately want rebokeh to grow into.
see, is full of big, shiny, colourful tech companies but it’ also full of brilliant human stories like that one as well.
and that’ all we’ve got time for from vegas, yeah, don’ we?
not?
mare from here next week.
thanks for watching, see you then.
hello again.
i’ sure you’ agree, it’ been a very bitter start with some snowy scenes around as well - that was overlooking skiddaw, in cumbria earlier on monday.
in force, the majority across stretches of the severn, the river avon, and for groundwater snow showers across northern and western areas over the next few hours, leading actually with water still seeping wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost, temperatures minus three minus seven widely.
well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy heading into tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous actually underfoot and under-tyre first thing in the morning.
freezing cold start - showers piling in through the day i - so, really, it’ northern and western areas of scotland across northern ireland, the north-west of both england and wales will be prone to seeing further accumulations of snow.
modest hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
and after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day, even in the sunshine - which many of us will have a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much above freezing.
it will feel pretty bitter.
more of that to come on wednesday as well.
another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
could see rather more in the way of showers just clipping the east coast of england, and some heavier showers work across northern ireland into parts of wales and south-west england - a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in, in cardiff and plymouth - 0 signs that temperatures by thursday, after a frosty and cold start again, but after, again, a freezing cold start to the day, temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe eight towards plymouth.
otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
if you really don’ like the cold you’ll have to wait till the weekend before we get something a lot milder, as south-westerly winds return across the country.
with that, there’ll of rain around as well.
but eventually, temperatures widely welcome to news.
our top stories: no survivors, but sunday’ fatal plane crash in nepal raises a raft of questions.
the pilot allegedly didn’ report any problems on the approach.
hundreds of police officers are continuing their work here.
they’ve given up hope on finding any survivors, but now, as they pick through the wreckage, they’re trying to find clues as to how this tragedy happened.
a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation the wagner group has claimed asylum in norway
i i the mercenary group.
duke and duchess of sussex for jeremy clarkson, about meghan in a newspaper column.
andy murray will be on court a a8 novak djokovic starts his bid for the championship later on tuesday.
the italian movie icon gina lollobrigida has died at the age of 95.
hello, hello, and welcome to the programme.
we begin in south have recovered two more bodies from the site of sunday’ plane crash.
they say they don’ expect to find any survivors.
72 people from at least nine countries were on hoard a british man, ryan calum crighton, is one of the latest kathmandu, to the tourist town of pokhara when it crashed just before landing.
our south asia correspondent rajini vaidyanathan scattered across the riverbank, fragments of flight 691.
windows still intact.
seats mangled close by.
like pieces of a broken toy, so, you saw the plane come down from the sky?
yeah, yes.
people living near the gorge, like indraprasad sapkota, say they are thankful the plane did not land on their houses close by.
: looked at the it was shaking.
to me, it looked like one of the propellers was not working.
are continuing their work here.
on finding any survivors, but now, as they pick through the wreckage, they are trying to find clues to work out how this tragedy happened.
which they hope will shed more light on what happened.
the mountain terrain and unpredictable weather can be tricky to navigate.
outdated aircraft and weak regulation have also been blamed for previous accidents.
this footage appears to show the flight’ last moments.
it came down just before landing at pokhara airport.
the pilot asked to change runways on approach.
21-year-old nira chhantyal, a regular flyer with yeti airlines, was onboard the fateful flight.
a folk singer, she was on her way to perform at a festival.
she was your friend?
tonight, her friends say they are still waiting for her body to be released.
: she was a very talented artist and used to sing folk songs.
i to describe the loss.
as armed police guard the hospital, families wait cutside.
lriy still wants closure.
rajini vaidyanathan, news, pokhara.
a former commander with 1% wagner group, which russia uses to carry out some of its fighting in ukraine, has deserted and claimed asylum in norway.
andrey medvedev, who’ 26, crossed the border into norway last friday, where he was detained by border guards.
our news reporter stephanie prentice is here.
rich, we do now have numerous sources confirming gr1 andrey medvedev did cross into norway and that he made it human rights group.
i it gave an account of a journey = duress, someone who under duress, someone who had to run down a river away from ire, there were dogs chasing him, and he made his hrough a fence found a way through a fence and found a makeshift border town.
we know taken oslo, charged with illegal entry into norway as given a lawyer to represent .
that lawyer has speaking about what may pen next.
we can take a 3 uick listen.
@ a very important assessment and everything must be analysed very carefully.
who is he?
where’ he from?
is this is information correct, etc.
this is something that is assessed for everyone who seeks asylum in norway, but obviously, in this case it will be assessed particularly thoroughly.
he went on to say that medvedey has evidence of he went on to say that a a medvedev has evidence of human i ights abuses in ukraine and eged war crimes, and that is intention is hare that evidence with groups estigating those crimes in coming weeks.
just remind what more do we know about this mercenary organisation a group and what is their i a1 velvement in wagner group and what is their i a ment in the conflict in involvement in the conflict in ukraine?
many there was would heard of the group, but have heard of the group, but they existed in a much more dowy capacity.
they are an dependent militia and they ster russian troops in aai bolster russian troops in various territories including ine.
recently there have ukraine.
recently there have presence in ukraine has i 11 presence in ukraine has increased.
some sources say 10% of increased.
some sources say a 10% of forces on the ground there right now could to that group.
that lawyer that was all that sent medvedev has said we present medvedev has said we - present medvedev has said we -- he witnessed war present medvedev has said we -- he witnessed war crimes eded him to leave the group, a 1 needed him to leave the group, as well as seeing them as egedly being executed for ayihl allegedly being executed for trying to defect as well.
the of the group has spoken sound of the group has spoken out, and said medvedev did work he group.
he has said is fyuns a8 for the group.
he has said his account is not for the group.
he has said his ane 018 a i for the group.
he has said his account is not true of what he aid so far and labelled highly dangerous ndividual.
stephanie, thank columnist jeremy clarkson says he has written to the duke and duchess of sussex to apologise over a newspaper column in which he said he "hated" meghan.
has since been taken offline by the british newspaper, the sun.
our culture and media editor katie razzall told us more about what he said, and the repercussions.
if you remember, there was outrage because he said he wanted to see her paraded naked through the streets and that he wanted excrement thrown at her.
more than 25,000 people complained to the press regulator - it is investigating.
so today, we had a much more fulsome apology.
six pages on instagram in which he reveals that on christmas day he reached out to the duke and duchess to say sorry.
prince harry has suggested the column proved clarkson today writes, he abhors violence against women, he is not sexist.
of course, he is a popular presenter tel in variety today that amazon, the streamer, plans to part company with clarkson next year, once the shows, clarkson’ farm the grand tour, commissioned from him, have aired.
my sources do dispute the variety story, but amazon have said the duke and duchess of sussex about jeremy clarkson’’ apology, and it seems they may not have fully forgiven him.
benjamin linsay is news editor with the digital entertainment news site the wrap.
he has been covering 18 and joins us from los angeles.
good to see you.
tell us what " of coverage is this etting the ?
yes, really started picking up und christmas time of 2022, really through the lens of - media relations, his meaning jeremy clarkson of se, his media relations in he , obviously he is a gure in the international gramming on amazon ime and use saw he report and variety ay that claims that once the mmission ‘ errors are commission ’'s errors are 2 in 2024 they through in 2024 they will no longer be working with rkson.
similar to your reporting and my correspondence amazon have said they with amazon they have said they are not commenting on the 018 ter, but it really is interesting to see how all iyl play out and the = consequences that might play out and the consequences that the media brand like clarkson, he a1 firebrand like clarkson, he really could be facing some conseguences or this major consequences for this one.
talk about him as a media brand.
you are there in the and of the free, land of lail- 8 land of the free, the land of the first amendment.
want land of the free, the land of at a the first amendment.
want do people make of persenalities jeremy larkson?
yes, me personally, will speak to my xperience with just absorbing own experience with just own experience with just absorbing the presence of han markle and prince harry.
has always been a meghan markle and prince harry.
i
i meghan markle and prince harry.
it has always been a bit before ling me to see folks in huddling to me to see folks in he media llike clarkson eak with such vitriol of chael and harry.
can % nderstand may an over saturation, they have a understand may an over saturation, they have a new lix netflix the release of the books.
obviously you have ser ties with royal closer ties with the royal family and the dramatic settle family and the dramatic settle on within there, but am yet anything that meghan markle in particular has done serve kind of the public 4 re to deserve kind of the public violent rhetoric that people clarkson ave shared.
that as heen like clarkson have shared.
that 3 like clarkson have shared.
that has been my main take away from for sure.
what do you this for sure.
what do you make of the response from harry and
an?
of the respense frem harry and meghan?
they were pretty tical meghan?
they were pretty 114 meghan?
they were pretty critical it is fair to say.
i think it is a tle ittle befuddled ink that this was i ritten in aste or didn’ 4 get a second pair of eyes .
he forgot to draw the line ame of thrones in his book 3 in as explicit a way had hoped to.
but at the end of day, he was still sharing and of echoing from things the past that he violence, the past that he said violence, misogyny and think that ple are just, the court of public pinion has less tience for a kind of tolerating that kind of speech.
remy clarkson is no stranger to controversy.
the on he went to amazon on the first place is reason he went to amazon on the a - reason he went to amazon on the first place is because of out with first place is because of all out with the .
this received cord numbers out with the .
this received numbers of complaints to britain’ mass regulator.
do you think this is the final in the coffin you think this is the final i nail in the coffin for his media career?
can’ say if it final nail in the coffin, the final nail in the 0 111 0 4 the final nail in the coffin, but the final nail in the 11 0 11514 the final nail in the coffin, but i think he will thinking twice before he 1a thinking twice before he continues on the firebrand path he as built his that he has built his reputation on.
benjamin, thank much more detail about this on our website, including @ eta
what clarkson said which caused so much offense, and the details of what he says in his apology.
just log on to bbc.
com/news or go via the app.
the attorney-general’ office in brazil has filed an indictment against 39 people for their alleged involvement in coup activities, related to the storming of brazil’ senate building.
they haven’ yet been named sofia bettiza reports.
he was nowhere to - he was nowhere to be seen for i he was nowhere to be seen for the past week.
but brazil’ president bolsenaro former president bolsonaro finally broke his silence.
: regret what happened on the eighth of uary.
it is unbelievable.
unfortunately ple understood hat politics is got to know political powers and started to value the political powers and started to value freedom.
he started to value freedom.
he was filmed in florida ome of his supporters.
he was ensive, but admitted the istakes by his mistakes made by his government.
: never stopped llowing the constitutional nciples.
there are some holes course.
you slip up.
who esn’?
lipping up is who doesn’'t?
slipping up is quite the nderstatement.
hese diehard supporters ashed their way into the preme court, congress and the esidential lace, they burn furniture, destroyed valuable ork and caused millions of ele artwork and caused millions of dollars in damages.
thousands have been arrested.
and of them have been arrested.
and now brazil’ attorney general’ has filed an now brazil’ attorney general’ a1 ts1 4 office has filed an indictment against 39 people.
the satl-te14 against 39 people.
the ita - against 39 people.
the indictment does not name any viduals.
but it says that they ere among a core group of spirators who use violence threat to to abolish afelelgs1 and threat to to abolish the democratic order in brazil.
is a serious allegation in country that still remembers it1 " = liy tge he legacy a country that still remembers the legacy of military rule, only nded in 1985.
and which only ended in 1985.
and with many officials being estigated by the supreme rt, including bolsonaro himself, more arrests are ely sofia bettiza, news.
stay with us on news.
still to come: novak djokovic is getting ready to compete in the australian open a year after being banned donald trump is now the 45th president of the united states.
he was sworn in before several hundred thousand people on the steps of capitol hill in washington.
demonstrators were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
anti-apartheid campaigners say 1 throughout the tour.
klaus altmann is being held on a fraud charge in bolivia.
the west germans want to extradite him for crimes committed in wartime france.
there, he was the gestapo chief klaus barbie.
millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot - raises a raft of questions.
on the approach.
a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation, wagner, has claimed asylum in norway i i the mercenary group.
police in romania say they’re expanding their investigation into the social media influencer andrew tate.
they’ve seized a fleet of luxury cars from tate’ compound in bucharest, the 36-year-old british-american citizen has of an investigation into allegations of human trafficking and rape - aleng with his brother.
both men deny all the allegations made against them.
weeks after police came for their owner, they returned for his cars.
the power of a ferrari paralysed in the grip 1 its secrets are now being scrutinised by investigators.
this fleet of luxury cars, the toys of a successful businessman or the proceeds of a trafficking ring?
compound and describes himself as a close friend everybody comes now and talk make a lot of statements in front ria of the police about how bad is andrew tate.
you doubt all the women, but you never doubt andrew?
because they are young and stupid.
i 3 if you’re living in the western world, this is probably 40% the move to romania in 2017 in part for what he saw approach to sexual assault claims.
he and his brother tristan are being held in detention for 30 days while police investigate whether they set up a trafficking operation and forced women to work online in adult chat rooms.
they are also investigating an allegation of rape.
both men deny the charges.
of them being aggressive.
police have as potential victims, but last week, two of them publicly denied = by the tate brothers.
: i’ve never been frightened.
if had been, wouldn’ have been stupid enough to stay in that house.
have a tattoo on my left arm that says ‘tate girl’, which got out of respect for them.
andrew tate’ reputation hangs on this case, its message - that trafficking claims will be investigated, no matter how rich or famous you are.
lucy williamson, news, bucharest.
let’ bring you some breaking news from florida.
at least eight people - at a martin luther king day celebration in fort pierce critical condition.
four other people were injured in the chaos following the gunfire, according i people had gathered at llous elise park for a car show and family fun day.
we will bring you much more on that story as it comes to celebrate the life and legacy of the civil rights campaigner, martin luther king.
doctor king, who would have been 94 on sunday, famous ‘ have a dream’ speech.
that challenged americans to judge each other not by the colour of their skin, but by the content it’ the second day of the australian open in melbourne, and the day that fans of some of tennis’ biggest stars have been eagerly awaiting.
none more so than fans of novak djokovic, who’ returning to the competition for the first time since being deported from australia because he wasn’ vaccinated against covid-19.
our correspondent shaimaa khalil is in melbourne and she gave me this update.
- a lot of action, but really later tonight this is where play his first match of the australian open 2023.
he will be facing spain’ roberto carballes baena, in his first return after that drama of last year, him being detained, appearing in court - or challenging the australian government in court - and then deported just before the game.
the unvaccinated serbian star split opinion here in australia about what happened to him.
he thought he was unfairly treated.
that was last year.
this year we have been speaking to tennis fans here in melbourne park and they are saying a 8 you’ve got to let the best players play.
it might have been bits overreacted at the time but now he is here
so what was %144
you know, he is here.
very happy.
yeah, reckon too.
really excited.
last year we were kind of waiting to see what was going to happen before we booked tickets, = over to see him.
we’ll find out what kind of reception he receives when he walks out onto the court, but judging from that warm cheer and applause that he received when he came on friday for an exhibition match with nick kyrgios, he’ hoping for a similar one.
he’ eyeing that 10th title - grand slam title that is - a record that is currently held by rafael nadal.
official data says that the country’ population at the end of december was 1.
41175 billion people - down by 85 million people from the previous year.
the birth rate was the lowest with just 6.
77 births per 1,000 people.
than the death rate, which was 7.
37 deaths per 1,000 people.
the death rate was the highest since 1976 and was higher in 2022 than it was in 2021 no reason has been given but the number of deaths coincides with outbreaks of covid-19 - an illness which china has blamed for relatively few deaths.
the italian actress, gina lollobrigida has died at the age of 95.
she was one of the biggest film stars in the world wendy urquhart looks a you came back inte my life like a wolf in snake’ clothing!
and she was often described a1 she grew up in the mountain village of subiaco - her dad, giovanni, who was a furniture maker, and her mother, giuseppina.
when the family moved to rome after world war il, gina took singing and acting lessons, and was soon starring in italian films.
she married milko skofic in 1949, but when she was spotted by hollywood talent scouts, howard hughes took and whisked her off to america.
he suggested that she divorce milko before she signed aldg- - 50 she went back to italy.
gina became a household name in the 1950 after starring in her first english-language film, beat the devil, opposite humphrey bogart.
a raft of great hollywood roles followed, including trapeze, the hunchback of notre dame.
am less afraid of you now.
solomon and sheba, and women of straw.
she courted controversy when she made a documentary about fidel castroe in 1975, between the two dogged the actress for years.
when lolla finally bid farewell to the silver screen, she turned her talents to photography and sculpture, and exhibitions of her work were held in paris, moscow, and donated the entire $2.
9 million to stem cell therapy.
the italian actress, gina lollobrigida, who’ died at the age of 95.
that’ it from us for now.
you can reach me on twitter - i’ @richpreston lie1 @0 thank you for watching and see you next time.
hello again.
i’ sure you’ agree, it’ been a very bitter start with some snowy scenes around as well - that was overlooking skiddaw, in cumbria earlier on monday.
in force, the majority across stretches of the severn, the river avon, and for groundwater snow showers across northern and western areas over the next few hours, leading actually with water still seeping wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost, temperatures minus three minus seven widely.
well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy heading into tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous actually underfoot and under-tyre first thing in the morning.
i as low as minus 10 in scotland, freezing cold start - further snow showers piling in through the day across northwestern areas.
so, really, it’ northern and western areas of scotland across northern ireland, the north-west of both england and wales will be prone to seeing further accumulations of snow.
modest hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
and after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day, even in the sunshine - which many of us will have a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much above freezing.
it will feel pretty bitter.
more of that to come on wednesday as well.
another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
could see rather more in the way of showers just clipping the east coast of england, and some heavier showers work across northern ireland into parts of wales and south-west england - a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in, in cardiff and plymouth - 0 signs that temperatures by thursday, after a frosty and cold start again, but after, again, a freezing cold start to the day, temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe eight towards plymouth.
otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
if you really don’ like the cold you’ll have to wait till the weekend before we get something a lot milder, as south-westerly winds return across the country.
with that, there’ll of rain around as well.
but eventually, temperatures widely have called off the search for any survivors of sunday’ plane crash.
the pilot allegedly did not report any proeblems when coming in to land.
72 people were onboard the yeti airlines flight.
all are believed to have been killed.
a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation, wagner, has claimed asylum in norway i i the mercenary group.
andrey medvedev allegedly fled a member of the group has defected to the west.
the duke and duchess of sussex have rebuffed jeremy clarkson’ written apology over a column for the sun newspaper those are our latest stories good morning.
global questions: sri lanka - rising global civil unrest.
welcome to global questions with me, zeinab badawi, from the heart of sri lanka’ capital, colombe.
the presidential office, and today, its pristine exterior is well guarded.
but six months ago, angry antigovernment protesters stormed this building, as well as the presidential palace, forcing the president to flee the country.
they were angry at just how desperate their economic situation had become, and they blamed government corruption and mismanagement for it.
sri lanka is saddled with heavy debt, soaring inflation and impossibly high food and fuel costs.
and it’ become something i world leaders are looking to see whether sri lanka can overcome its worst economic crisis for more than 70 years, and whether its experience marks a growing trend welcome to the magnificent national museum here in celembo, which charts the history of this beautiful island, as it marks 75 years of independence from britain, and we’ve got a top panel here from sri lanka who are going to be answering questions from our local audience.
for this edition of global questions.
until very recently, he was minister of finance, and hence played a leading role in international negotiations for an economic bailout.
at the end of last year, he held high-level talks in washington about the economic and political crisis.
harini amarasuriya is a member of parliament for the national people’ opposition party.
she’ a former lecturer i 18 = of the government.
and dushni weerakoon is one of sri lanka’ leading economists.
she was a member of the board i 4 and is a consultant to various bodies such as the world bank, she’ also executive director of the institute of policy studies of sri lanka.
and remember, you too can join the conversation.
so let’ go to our first one from ranmini ariawanshe.
ranmini.
to more civil unrest?
foreign minister ali sabry.
hoped that had a ready-made answer for that, you don’ have internationally, prices have gone up, rupee has depreciated, particularly the energy, petroleum, coal, 35% of what we are relying on for our electricity, grain and all those things, but what we are trying to do 95% of the inflation which was in june-july had come down to 70 or 60%, that the food and the general inflation has also come down from 85% to 50.
but the only way out is to increase the export, reduce the import, preserve the dollars and repurposed it for import of important items, which is necessary for day-to-day movement.
lal and ranmini’ second part of her question was - could it lead to more civil unrest?
are we going to see millions of people out on the streets again?
hopefully, don’ see that, but feel that there is a little bit of progress, think you will agree with me, compared to what - as this initial visual shows, we have - we don’ have the full queues any longer, and that also been because we introduced a code, as a result of which, the 40% of the demand has been so the answer is no, you’re not going to see people on the streets again?
i’ optimistic that we could get out of it.
let’ see what a member of the opposition thinks.
well, think there’ a more that needs to happen before we can be guaranteed that people will not get on the streets because the key problems that led to the crisis minister sabry talked about the full crisis, but what we are seeing now - the lack of queues - is not because there’ a sufficient supply of fuel, has been restricted.
so this cannot go on indeterminately, there has to be some resolution for this, and also, what see is that this is a political crisis.
when people got on the streets last year, people were demanding a change in the political culture.
they were demanding a change in the political system.
well, they saw off the president, didn’ they?
mean, rajapaksa yes, that’ part one went to singapore and resigned by -mail from there.
that’ part one.
they got rid of someone they didn’ like.
but have we replaced the person we didn’ like that we have chosen?
dushni weerakoon, your response to that question?
well, think sri lanka is - i mean, we are through the worst of the crisis, but i think that a1 not out of the woods yet.
and recessionary conditions drag on, their livelihoods and their basic sort of living standards 7rg two to three years.
and think it’ quite right that this is not only an economic crisis, it is also a political crisis - loss of faith in governance and our political institutions.
so there has to be some sense of momentum, that the problems have been recognised and some changes are coming.
otherwise, what would happen?
otherwise think a sense into a repeat of what we saw.
thank you very much indeed.
let’ go to our ancka abeyrathne, your guestion, please.
which is the leading reason be curbed to ensure sound policies and governance?
ooh, anoka’ sticking out her head there, isn’ she?
so, we know about all the external factors that have gone on, but anoka’ question is that the internal factors, principally corruption, is the culprit.
let’ go to you first, harini.
yeah, think that’ the key issue.
if you look at the protests last year, one of the key demands of people was "give our stolen money back” and all those who were responsible for corruption accountable.
so, addressing ogidw: but that requires a political change, a political reform, and that’ the point made earlier as well - if we see this purely in terms this is a political crisis, and the decisions and choices that politicians have made led to this crisis, and those politicians have to be held accountable for the decisions they made and the consequences and the suffering so unless that accountability is taken care of, i think we will never be able to really resolve this crisis , just - everybody here in the audience in sri lanka is aware of what’ been going on, but just give a quick couple of lines to our audience what do you mean exactly?
well, during the protests last year, one of the key demands of the people, of the protesters was "give our stolen money back” - that was one of the big slogans.
yeah, sure.
that led - that was from the idea that people had that the economic crisis that they were experiencing yeah, but mean, a are you talking about misappropriated funds misappropriation economic mismanagement __backhanders.
excessive privileges that people in power enjoy, and this has been going on for a very long time.
this has been going on for years, and that’ think it’ also important to recognise that this is not just about covid or the last three years.
this is something that is systemic.
all right.
ali sabry.
yeah,
corruption is another emblematic problem, but then we have, by the 21st amendment, the independent councils, 2 of developing that, and then by that, and also, the anticorruption law will come into the place.
but corruption is one of the key demand, and very popular one, we have an extra-large size aty of 1.
6 million people, which works out to 16:1, 86% of our last year’ revenue went only for payment of salaries, you can’ run a country like that.
our of 70% of our entirety of the budget this year went for loan payment and loan interest repayments, so it’ easy to say that the corruption alone, it’ just one point, there are massive reforms which are necessary but it is a factor?
a a it’ one amongst a few, but what tangible actions 8 113 are being implemented to ensure that you have that accountability of funds in the country?
we are looking at an anticorruption law in the style of hong kong to give further power to the independent so that more prosecutions can take place.
harini wants to say something to you, ali sabry.
yes.
as we’ve understood, it’ systemic here, right, and it’ not just a case of it’ about holding people accountable.
this government has been in power for three years already.
three years now?
2.
5, three years.
where is the accountability?
what has really happened even when they’ve been 4 and what about i of corruption going on.
the minister also spoke - you also spoke about the blow to the public sector.
who is responsible for that?
who hired those people?
we’re going to come to that.
but they like what harini is saying but, anyway, let’ see what dushni has to say.
dushni, your response to the question about corruption.
tend to agree with what the minister said to the extent that corruption is one of the sort of, of accountability and weakening of institutions that we’ve had, and places in place, but i think one of the biggest areas or reforms that people are demanding is actually in the political leadership, oi tggiod has not sprung on us overnight, and the economic crisis did not spring up overnight either.
this has been successive governments over the last few decades where we have persistently seen institutions being weakening.
so there’ no quick fix.
now, i’ going to take the next two guestions together 1 4 something that’ related.
so let’ go first with thanuki goonesinghe.
how important does the panel will be in the coming months to support those most affected by the cost-of-living crisis?
0 4 = to maheesha weerasinghe.
a nutritious meal for children and the general population as a whole has been absent for a long time.
what are the immediate steps that have been taken that would be successful even in the long run?
dushni, mean, one is about sort of emergency welfare for people who are in a desperate situation right now.
mean, people are sort of choosing about whether they should eat, which child should go to school, mean, you know, it really is a dire situation, well, think - there has not been a disruption to sri lanka’ welfare schemes related to schoolchildren.
there is a free midday meal, the issue is that we’ve had significant high food inflation in this country, running at over 90%.
so whatever midday meals were being provided by the government, you are not able to provide that same meal now, because the cost =1 given the fact that we are in an ecenomic crisis and the government needs to cut back on expenditures means there isn’ that amount of funding there to top up what we should have topped so i think all of this means we are relying on multilateral funding, but in the long term, we need to get all of the programmes, all of that tightened up so that budgetary support comes to scale these , harini amarasuriya, mean, the united nations is really sounding the alarm bells, you know, they’re saying that half of the population in sri lanka could really fall into poverty.
with targeting, and with effectiveness of existing welfare programmes.
that is also due to heavy politicisation of welfare programmes where governments that come in to power tend so that has become a major ete minister sabry, your response to the question?
one of the conditions of the programme is also to roll over a social protection net to see the most vulnerable there
and, of course, the midday meal more than 3 million families have been covered.
i 1 a - there are some people who have already been graduated from this project, but still getting it, there are some who have been i there is a new programme, which is going on, along with the world bank, in order to identify that and upgrade that so that you - i mean, people are really very hungry right now, and the government is, it seems, virtually on the verge of bankruptcy.
mean, even the president said a few months ago, president wickremesinghe, that trying to find $1 million was a bit of a challenge.
of course,
but if you look at it, about 700 million worth of dollar worth of funding came in from the multilateral agencies, and larger part of it, about $350 million, were directed towards the social security net, and that is how we have been met.
of course, we all tend to agree there is no two word about it, we are not out of the woods, people are suffering, but if you look at the march and the may, people were told that we will starve in september, starve in october.
that had not happened because a lot of funding was put in to fertilise that
yeah,
but it might happen - it might happen, right?
it might happen.
it has happened.
there are people going hungry as we speak, so it’ not as if we are ocut of the woods.
mean, we do get of course we are not out of the woods.
reports from schools of children fainting during a school assembly because they go to school hungry.
it’ also not just about filling your stomach.
it’ about nutrition, and that’ the real issues, whether they are getting nutritious food, whether they’re having access sleaisl so there really needs to be some emergency response, and that needs to happen.
and you don’ see that?
not enough, not on the scale that is required.
thank you for that.
let’ go to our next question.
talal rafi, your question, please.
sri lanka has one of the largest public sectors in the world - around 1.
6 million people for a population of 22 million, and according to a minister, 86% of government revenue goes to paying salaries and pensions.
so this is definitely unsustainable.
so how can we reduce this?
ali sabry, mean, if you include the defence forces, the army in sri lanka is huge and, you know, as the question has just said, we’ve seen various figures between 70% and 80% of national spending goes inte paying salaries.
that’ insupportable, isn’ it?
right now, it had come down to 65% because the revenue has gone up because of the , but still very high.
but the problem is some of my friends in the party goes into the university, drag down the people to the street, not get them to study, and they once they come back, they are not employable.
when they are not employable, you force them to get they organise themselves unemployed graduate union, they want to fix the public sector, public sector so these are challenges, but this is not a time to point fingers at each other.
all of us have to be blamed on this.
because 1971, the price in 1988-'90 uprising, they are trying to say that they’re a paragon of virtue.
no, that’ not the case!
my party is also responsible, all the parties are responsible for what we have today, we all must be honest to admit that and deal with it.
think that’ a really callous response to the situation that we are in right now.
choose to get on the streets.
they’re getting on the streets problems.
i think it’ a very glib answer to say that it’ the education sector that’ to blame for the poor economy in this country.
the economy is the response that - the economy needs the economy needs to be resilient enough to absorb those who are coming out government, including the president, ranil wickremesinghe, was quite happy to see students on the streets before he became president of this country, and now, students have become enemy number one.
he has to remember how he got to the position that he is.
he’ an unelected president and he got to that position so, now to blame students for what is happening is really a situation that led people to the streets.
just remind people - ranil wickremesinghe was prime minister at the time, when gotabaya rajapaksa left office in july.
he then became president, and a lot of people in sri lanka believe he obviously does not but how does this relate to the question that was asked by talal about how you can reduce the bloated size of the public sector?
exactly.
it has to be - sorry, harini, please, go ahead.
no, we are polite.
she’ my colleague!
the public sector certainly weour position is the public sector needs to be strengthened oesn’ mean expansion or bloating, and if you look at the public sector has been bloated and if you look at in which sectors it’ been bloated, it’ in areas, in resources where it’ people who are really unproductive, who’ve been chucked into the public sector.
there are lots of vacancies in areas that actually need i’ve got to bring - dushni, you’ve got to break up dushni, your response?
mean, think sri lanka has i a1 4 far too large.
there is no dispute about that.
the reason it’ grown in size is also political because each government that comes in has - they come under pressure to absorb more and more people into the public sector.
some of it is unemployed graduates, but a larger chunk of it is also politicians providing employment that they control.
111918 now, yes, so that’ the problem.
we’re running out of time, so let’ go to our next question.
your question, please.
on which countries sri lanka should look at aligning cost-of-living crisis, given sri lanka’ current precarious financial predicament, as well as for future growth and sustainability?
i think if you look at long-term economic better aligned to the asian region because asia has been identified as a centre of growth for the next two to three decades.
most of our investment is coming from asia, most of the technology transfer is coming from asia, most of our imports are coming 8
but we need to diversify our export base, find new markets, and think for us, finding new markets will also be mostly in the asian region.
so that’ my short answer.
very quick answer to that one.
mean, china, india, japan - big countries that give a lot of money to sri lanka.
agree with dushni with everybody, but then asia, this is the century of asia for at least the next two, three decades, so we have india is growing, you have to partner with them, integrate with them, and have that opportunity so as far as china is concerned, we need to look at it, how to export more than now we are importing.
very quickly on china, harini - maybe you could address this.
a lot of people are unhappy about the fact that china builds these infrastructure projects, but at hugely up and they buy the family jewels, like the port.
well, think that’ part of the earlier issue we spoke about of corruption.
but actually, the biggest problem with indebtedness not really china.
it’ the international sovereign bonds, which have been - which we borrowed on private - privately.
so that’ the real problem, not so much the bilateral loans 111918 3344 your question, please.
thank you, zeinab.
a lot of sri lankans are migrating and are now on the verge of migrating.
as much as it does help generate foreign exchange to the country, in the long run, we are losing top talent and prospective entrepreneurs.
also, start-ups and many other various skills that could lift the country to a much better state imaginable.
i 1013 and retain young talent?
go into reforms and policies, but it is a sad state of affairs - more than 300,000 people left the country last year - that’ the highest figure ever.
very quickly, dushni.
i mean, we are losing talent = 1 to because sri lanka is a rapidly ageing demography, we need our young people, and the only way that we can keep them back is to give them a sense of some material, systemic change that’ going to come to the country on the political front, as well as on the economic if we don’ have the confidence, they’ll keep leaving.
harini?
people are leaving because they’ve lost hope and they don’ think that they can build a future in this country, and that needs to change.
people have to have hope, people have to have confidence that they can carve a life out for themselves in this country, and for that, there needs to be political change.
minister ali sabry - final point.
yeah, feel there has to be deep economic reform, as well as structural and political reforms, because although we say that there’ a lot of people are gone, yes, 312,000, but even in 2014, 304,000 people left, they will go a so what the alternative is is to provide an epportunity that we can retain them and there is opportunity for them.
but even in india, in the early '80, people started to go.
now they have come back and they have started coming back.
i’ hopeful, if we all work together without this partisan approach, we can rebuild our country.
foreign minister ali sabry, harini amarasuriya, opposition , and economist dushni weerakoon, thank you very much indeed.
edition of global questions on whether sri lanka is managing to put a lid on the political discentent, which was triggered by that economic crisis.
and hope we’ve also discussed some of the lessons learned for other countries beset by similar problems.
remember - we are the programme that brings you the trend lines hehind the headlines.
from me, zeinab badawi, from here in colombo, thank you to you, whatever you’re watching or listening to this programme.
for me and the rest of the global questions team, goodbye.
hello again.
well, it’ been a pretty bitter start to the new working week, and we’ve got more over the next few days.
pile in across nerthern that will lead to some icy stretches, but,as well, after the weather’ been so wet recently, we’re seeing some you can imagine with the widespread frost heading into tuesday morning, we’re looking at probably quite extensive and dangerous ice - both under-tyre and underfoot as we head into tuesday morning.
now, those snow showers a i northern and western scotland, for northern ireland, the northwest of both england and wales, after that really cold start, even though most areas through the day, temperatures won’ get much above freezing.
cold weather to come over the next few days - you have to wait until the weekend before the weather turns a lot milder, with temperatures inte double figures.
our top stories: no survivors, but sunday’ fatal plane crash in nepal raises a raft of questions.
the pilot allegedly didn’ report any problems on the approach.
hundreds of police officers are continuing their work here.
they’ve given up hope on finding any survivors, they’re trying to find clues to work out how this tragedy happened.
a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation, wagner, has claimed asylum in norway i i the mercenary group.
duke and duchess of sussex for jeremy clarkson, who apologised in writing for comments he made about meghan in a newspaper column.
police in romania say they’re widening their investigation into the social media influencer andrew tate who’ facing charges of human trafficking and rape.
andy murray will be on court shortly at the australian open novak djokovic starts his bid for the championship later on tuesday.
you you walk back into my life tributes pour in for art
i gina lollobrigida who’ died at the age of 95.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
we begin in south asia.
rescuers in nepal have recovered two more bodies from the site of sunday’ plane crash.
they say they don’ expect to find any survivors.
ton a were on board yeti airlines flight 691.
a british man, ryan calum crighton, is one of the latest kathmandu, to the tourist town of pokhara when it crashed just before landing.
our south asia correspondent rajini vaidyanathan sent this report scattered across the riverbank, fragments of flight 691.
windows still intact.
seats mangled close by.
like pieces of a broken toy, so, you saw the plane come down from the sky?
yeah, yes.
people living near the gorge, like indraprasad sapkota, say they are thankful the plane did not land on their houses close by.
: looked at the it was shaking.
to me, it looked like one of the propellers was not working.
are continuing their work here.
on finding any survivors, but now, as they pick through the wreckage, they are trying to find clues to work out how this tragedy happened.
which they hope will shed more light on what happened.
the mountain terrain and unpredictable weather can be tricky to navigate.
outdated aircraft and weak regulation have also been blamed for previous accidents.
this footage appears to show the flight’ last moments.
it came down just before landing at pokhara airport.
the pilot asked to change runways on approach.
21-year-old nira chhantyal, a regular flyer with yeti airlines, was onboard the fateful flight.
a folk singer, she was on her way to perform at a festival.
she was your friend?
tonight, her friends say they are still waiting for her body to be released.
: she was a very talented artist and used to sing folk songs.
i to describe the loss.
as armed police guard the hospital, families wait cutside.
lriy still wants closure.
rajini vaidyanathan, news, pokhara.
a former commander with 1% wagner group, which russia uses to carry out some of its fighting in ukraine, ela i asylum in norway.
andrey medvedev, who’ 26, crossed the border into norway last friday, where he was detained by border quards.
oing-olead0 stephanie prentice has more.
we do now have numerous reports confirming that andrey medvedev did cross from russia into norway and that was in a bid to leave the wagner group.
his most detailed account came from the human rights group.
was being chased by dogs.
he made it through a metal fence and he was quickly when there, he was charged with an illegal crossing we can take a quick listen.
@ a very important assessment and everything must be analysed very carefully.
who is he?
where’ he from?
is this is information correct, etc.
this is something that is assessed for everyone who seeks asylum in norway, but obviously, in this case it will be assessed particularly thoroughly.
he went on to say that medvedev did bring evidences of human rights abuses in ukraine with him, and alleged war crimes, and that he’ willing to share that evidence with people investigating human rights abuses in the coming weeks.
stephanie, just remind us - who are the wagner group and what’ their invelvement in the war in ukraine?
many viewers will have heard of he group, but even until cently, they existed in a 1ile1 recently, they existed in a more shadowy capacity.
much more shadowy capacity.
57 are an independent militia they bolster russian troops kraine.
their presence in raine has increased.
some ources say ukraine has increased.
some i i ukraine has increased.
some sources say around 10% of ces on he ground right now feti0!
forces on the ground right now could belong to that group.
lawyer we saw
that that lawyer we saw that 6 that lawyer we saw that represents medvedev, said he esses human rights abuses, war crimes and witnesses human rights abuses, -1 4 war crimes and that is what - war crimes and that is what caused him to war crimes and that is what him to need to caused him to need to leave the group, as well as seeing bers executed for trying to fect 3 a1 members executed for trying to defect as well.
the sound of he group defect as well.
the sound of group has spoken out unusually and said medvedev did for the group and said his work for the group and said his account work for the group and said his fyuns a4 work for the group and said his aei- a work for the group and said his account is not true of what he = 10 account is not true of what he said so far, and has labelled highly dangerous him a highly dangerous individual.
at least eight people - at a martin luther king day celebration in fort pierce.
it’ on florida’ east coast, one person is in a critical condition.
the government says it’ll block a law passed in scotland that makes it easier for people to change their legal gender, saying it will conflict with -wide equality laws.
it’ the first time the government in westminster has blocked a bill passed in scotland, and the move’ been branded a full-frontal attack on the scottish they will appeal.
thousands of iranians living in europe have demonstrated outside the parliament, demanding that iran’ revolutionary guard is listed as a terrorist group.
they accuse the guards of playing a key role in suppressing antigovernment protests that have occurred elug i since the death in custody metropolitan police has been revealed as one of britain’ most prolific sex offenders tlia 1 of rapes and sexual offences over a period of almost 20 years.
48-year-old david carrick pleaded quilty to 49 offences against 12 women, including 24 counts of rape.
the force has apologised after it emerged he had come to the attention of police over nine alleged incidents.
let us go to seouth merica now.
the attorney-general’ office in brazil has filed an indictment against 39 people for their alleged involvement 1 related to the storming of brazil’ senate building.
they haven’ yet been named sofia bettiza reports.
but brazil’ former president, jair bolsonaro, finally broke his silence.
: regret what happened on january 8.
it 1 unbelievable.
unfortunately, people learned, understood what politics is, got to know the political powers and started to value he was filmed in florida by seme of his supporters.
he was defensive, but admitted that mistakes were made by his government.
: never stopped following there are some holes of course.
you slip up.
who doesn’?
is quite the understatement.
when these diehard supporters smashed their way into the supreme court, congress and the presidential palace, they burned furniture, destroyed valuable artwork and caused millions of dollars in damages.
filed an indictment against 39 people.
the indictment does not name any individuals, but it says that they were among a core group to to abolish the democratic order in brazil.
that is a serious allegation in a country that still remembers the legacy and with many officials being investigated 1 the supreme court, including bolsonare himself, sofia bettiza, news.
stay with us on news.
novak djokovic is getting ready to compete in the australian open a year after being banned due to covid.
donald trump is now the 45th president of the united states.
he was sworn in before several hundred thousand people on the steps of capitol hill in washington.
demonstrators were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
anti-apartheid campaigners say 1 throughout the tour.
klaus altmann is being held on a fraud charge in bolivia.
the west germans want to extradite him for crimes committed in wartime france.
there, he was the gestapo chief klaus barbie.
millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot - this is world news.
no survivors but sunday’ fatal plane crash in nepal raises a raft of questions.
on the approach.
a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation, wagner, has claimed asylum in norway i i the mercenary group.
police in romania say they’re expanding their investigation into the social media influencer andrew tate.
they’ve seized a fleet of luxury cars from tate’ compound in bucharest, and raided seven more properties.
the 36-year-old british-american citizen has of an investigation into allegations of human trafficking and rape - aleng with his brother.
both men deny all the allegations made against them.
weeks after police came for their owner, they returned for his cars.
the power of a ferrari paralysed in the grip of a dowdy police truck.
its secrets are now being scrutinised by investigators.
this fleet of luxury cars, the toys of a successful businessman or the proceeds of a trafficking ring?
bogdan stancu was in charge of security at the tate compound and describes himself 11 ial and make a lot of statements in front of the media and in front of the police about how bad is andrew tate.
you doubt all the women, but you never doubt andrew?
because they are young and stupid.
i 3 moved remania in an online video, andrew tate said he moved to roemania in 2017 in part for what he saw as its more lenient approach to sexual assault claims.
he and his brother tristan are being held in detention for 30 days while police investigate whether they set up a trafficking operation and forced women to work online in adult chat rooms.
they are also investigating an allegation of rape.
both men deny the charges.
of them being aggressive.
police have identified six women as potential victims, but last week, two of them publicly denied = by the tate brothers.
: i’ve a if had been, wouldn’ have been stupid enough to stay in that house.
i have a tattoo on my left arm that says ‘tate girl’, which got out of respect for them.
andrew tate’ reputation hangs on this case, its message - that trafficking claims will be investigated, no matter how rich or famous you are.
lucy williamson, news, bucharest.
columnist, jeremy clarksen, says he has written to the duke and duchess of sussex to apologise over a newspaper column in which he said he "hated" meghan.
the article, published last year, has since been taken offline by the british newspaper, the sun.
our culture and media editor, katie razzall told us more about what he said - and the repercussions.
if you remember, there was outrage because he said he wanted to see her paraded naked through the streets and that he wanted excrement thrown at her.
more than 25,000 people complained to the press regulator - it is investigating.
so today, we had a much more fulsome apology.
six pages on instagram in which he reveals that on christmas day he reached out to the duke and duchess to say sorry.
prince harry has suggested the column proved clarkson today writes, he abhors violence against women, he is not sexist.
of course, he is a popular presenter tel in variety today that amazon, the streamer, plans to part company with clarkson next year, once the shows, clarkson’ farm the grand tour, commissioned from him, have aired.
my sources do dispute the variety story, but amazon have said the duke and duchess of sussex about jeremy clarkson’ apology and it seems they may not have fully forgiven him.
thom geier is an award winning journalist who runs the website - at entertainment weekly and the wrap, and joins us now from new york.
i 8114 what kind of conversation are people having about this in the ell, jeremy clarkson is ?
well, jeremy clarkson is quite the famous beloved
i not quite the famous beloved figure in the that he is in 1 .
and does not have the the .
and does not have the the .
and does not have the kind of track record here which was uch a big deal when is was such a big deal when amazon spent a small fortune to him ver after the whole bring him over after the whole i up in 2015 with top gear dust-up in 2015 with top gear and jeremy clarkson assaulting the producers and jeremy clarkson assaulting =1 one of the producers of that
i how and getting fired from at show.
show and getting fired from a\ show.
at that peint, top ¥4 that show.
at that point, top gear was airing on america is a ind of a which is a kind of a low-light 1 cable station cable station here.
so it was as a opportunity to kind of huge opportunity to kind of expand his audience, expand his , get a kind of brand, get a kind of nationwide, worldwide audience.
’ ler that the show what’ scler that the show has really taken off.
theground is not one -- grand tour not of not one of the top performing shows for amazon .
since 2019 they prime.
since 2019 they haven’ produced a full season.
they uced just five episodes the i last three years.
as you tioned earlier, have about our mentioned earlier, have about nit mentioned earlier, have about four more to burn off mentioned earlier, have about four more to burn off over the a3 4 two years.
so this is next two years.
so this is a kind of, maybe a rationale for ing of the ways in terms of the latest dust-up with the exes.
_ think is is a sussexes.
think this is a 0 time coming.
think they overspent, as of overspent, as many of the eamers did in overspent, as many of the amers did in the late 2010 to get top content.
and they found is that it’ been what they found is that it’ worth the price.
we’ve eard not been worth the price.
we’ve eard a fair bit from harry and han recently and one of the consistent messages from them, they’ve had complaints bout the way they’ve been eated, all they wanted is treated, is all they wanted is an apology.
and clarkson has ogised and yet they still 4 don’ seem ppy.
hat’ our your don’ seem happy.
what’ your take on that?
well, think , you know, it’ one thing , to have a kind of to be, to have a kind of one-off mistake and to logise fulsomely for that.
when i apologise fulsomely for that.
but when there is a pattern of nces, as there seems to be the case here, certainly here are others who have nsistently railed consistently railed against there are others who have consistently railed against the in the as well -- in the past as well -- sussexes in the past 0 sussexes in the past as well, ties harder to buy sincerity that apology.
it’ in mind, the in states are more popular han they are in the .
jeremy rkson is a ess-known and clarkson is a less-known and ess-trusted figure.
one of the arry said he was isapoeinted in the fact he the royal family didn’ out in support of him his wife, meghan.
do you think that’ to change?
the likely to change?
the royal 4 3 8 1 experts know better but it doesn’ seem like they’re fering a of support to offering a lot of support to sussexes at the moment.
and is going to think truggle to get the family to rally areund him on this 4 rally areund him on this occasion.
thank you occasion.
thank you very much oining us.
appreciate it.
it’ the second day of the australian open biggest stars have been eagerly awaiting, none more so than fans of novak djokovic who’ returning to the competition for the first time since being against covid-19.
our correspondent shaimaa khalil is in melbourne, and she gave me this update.
- a lot of action, but really later tonight this is where play his first match of the australian open 2023.
he will be facing spain’ roberto carballes baena, in his first return after that drama of last year, him being detained, appearing in court - or challenging the australian government in court - and then deported just before the game.
the unvaccinated serbian star split opinion here in australia about what happened to him.
he thought he was unfairly treated.
that was last year.
this year we have been speaking to tennis fans here in melbourne park and they are saying a 8 you’ve got to let the best players play.
now he is here so what was %144
you know, he is here.
very happy.
yeah, reckon too.
really excited.
last year we were kind of waiting to see what was going to happen before we booked tickets, = over to see him.
we’ll find out what kind of reception he receives when he walks out onto the court, but judging from that warm cheer and applause that he received when he came on friday for an exhibition match with nick kyrgios, he’ hoping for a similar one.
he’ eyeing that 10th title - grand slam title that is - a record that is currently held by rafael nadal.
you can follow all the action on the sport website.
the italian actress gina lollobrigida has died at the age of 95.
she was one of the biggest film stars in the world wendy urquhart looks a you came back inte my life like a wolf in snake’ clothing!
and she was often described a1 she grew up in the mountain village of subiaco - her dad, giovanni, who was a furniture maker, and her mother, giuseppina.
when the family moved to rome after world war il, gina took singing and acting lessons, and was soon starring in italian films.
she married milko skofic in 1949, but when she was spotted by hollywood talent scouts, howard hughes took and whisked her off to america.
he suggested that she divorce milko before she signed aldg- - 50 she went back to italy.
gina became a household name in the 1950 after starring in her first english-language film, beat the devil, opposite humphrey bogart.
a raft of great hollywood roles followed, including trapeze, the hunchback of notre dame.
am less afraid of you now.
solomon and sheba, and women of straw.
she courted controversy when she made a documentary about fidel castroe in 1975, between the two dogged the actress for years.
when lolla finally bid farewell to the silver screen, she turned her talents to photography and sculpture, and exhibitions of her work were held in paris, moscow, and donated the entire $2.
9 million to stem cell therapy.
the italian actress gina lollobrigida who’ died at the age of 95.
there’ much more on all those stories there’ much more on all those stories on the news ebsite.
or you can download news app.
can reach the news app.
you can reach i .
i’ on twitter.
please do in touch.
thank you very uch risld get in touch.
thank you very much for your company.
see you time.
goodbye.
hello again.
i’ sure you’ agree, it’ been a very bitter start with some snowy scenes around as well - that was overlooking skiddaw, in cumbria earlier on monday.
in force, the majority across stretches of the severn, the river avon, and for groundwater snow showers across northern and western areas over the next few hours, leading actually with water still seeping wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost, temperatures minus three minus seven widely.
well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy heading into tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous actually underfoot and under-tyre first thing in the morning.
and, with temperatures down as low as -10 in scotland, freezing cold start - showers piling in through the day
i - so, really, it’ northern and western areas of scotland across northern ireland, the northwest of both england and wales will be prone to seeing further accumulations of snow.
modest hills could see another 5-10cm in places.
and after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day, even in the sunshine - which many of us will have a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much above freezing.
it will feel pretty bitter.
more of that to come on wednesday as well.
another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
could see rather more in the way of showers just clipping the east coast of england, and some heavier showers work across northern ireland into parts of wales and southwest england - a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in, climbing to about 7 in cardiff and plymouth - 0 signs that temperatures by thursday, after a frosty and cold start again, 3 dglu eta
but after, again, a freezing cold start to the day, temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe 8 towards plymouth.
otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
if you really don’ like the cold weather, well, you’ll have to wait till the weekend before we get something a lot milder, as southwesterly winds return across the country.
with that, there’ll be a lot more in the way of cloud heading into the weekend with a hit of rain around as well.
but eventually, temperatures widely rescuers in nepal have called off the search for any survivors of sunday’ plane crash.
the pilot allegedly did not report any problems when coming 72 people were onboard the yeti airlines flight.
all are believed to have been killed.
a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation, wagner, has claimed asylum in norway, i i the mercenary group.
andrey medvedeyv allegedly fled after witnessing war crimes in ukraine.
it’ thought to be the first time a member of the group has the duke and duchess of sussex have rebuffed jeremy clarkson’ written apology over a column for the sun newspaper, presenter’'s comments were not now on news, it’ time for hardtalk.
welcome to hardtalk, 018 this place is home to the world trade organization, the institution whose purpose is to maximise free and fair international trade, on the assumption that globalisation is good.
so what happens when many governments and people around the world question that premise?
well, my guest today of the , ngozi okonjo-iweala.
weaponisation of trade?
thank you, stephen.
now, you are one of the world’’ key advocates of ever freer trade, more globalisation.
job when the political tide across the world is running against you?
the ’ purpose, the world trade organization, is its purpose is to enhance living standards, to help create employment and to support sustainable 0 1 there could be nothing more worthy than that.
so, it’ supposed to deliver for people.
and that’ what want people i - nobody could quarrel with those objectives and that sentiment, but the truth is you are a membership organisation with 160-plus members.
you have, clearly, key members, like the united states and china, and you can only a of trust, of co-operation, of a desire for common objectives, and look around the world today, that doesn a3 well, you’re absolutely right that the geopolitical tensions are there and getting worse, and we have to manage them.
and i’ll come back to this point, because this is one organisation where we have actually successfully tried to manage these tensions, even though the trust, but let me say something.
you talked about globalisation and it is true that many people sn0 for globalisation, well, let’ say that perhaps globalisation as we knew it before, that brand of globalisation may be over, but that does not mean that a new type of globalisation, which shall call re-globalisation, cannot we should remember that the globalisation we had before brought more than 1 billion people out of poverty so, we should look at what were the good aspects of that, what was, what were the bad?
know people were left behind.
we need now the type of globalisation that will bring those who were not included.
poor, poorer countries should i within rich countries.
globalisation, or re-globalisation, should serve people.
the fact is what we see happening is the emergence of rival economic and trading blocs, one largely made up of the rich, democratic countries, led by the united states, another representing those powers like russia, china and some other nations who clearly see the united states-led bloc as a rival.
acknowledge to you that geopolitical tensions are there, we cannot deny that, and may be getting worse.
but that undermines what this place, the , is all about.
let me put it this way, that when you have those tensions, it’ precisely having multilateralism, multilateral organisations like the , that’ what you need.
do you need it?
because there are some problems in the world that you cannot solve by breaking into blocs.
you have glebal common goods.
you have issues like climate change.
you cannot solve them when you fragment.
pandemic, you cannot solve it.
you can see it, it’ evident.
and let me say this but the pandemic surely taught us that the complex trading relationships that the has helped build over the last few decades, they break down, whether it’ because of a pandemic and everything that came with it in terms of restrictions on travel and trade, or whether it be a1 51 whatever the cause, the fact a 18" well, let me let me disagree with you slightly, stephen.
you say they break down.
are vulnerabilities in the way our global supply chains are built, and the pandemic and the war in ukraine pointed out those vulnerabilities.
there’ too much concentration of manufacturing of certain products in parts of the world.
so, we do need to look at that and say, "how do but want to tell you this.
to the problem in the pandemic.
if it was not for trade, you wouldn’ have been able to get face masks, masks, pharmaceuticals from one part where they were being where they were needed.
i’ not saying trade is dead.
i’ simply saying your concept of truly global trade may think of what the treasury secretary janet yellen said, just a few months ago.
she said that the future for the may well be all about what she calls friend shoring.
that is, building trade ties amongst trusted partners i for example, relying heavily on imports from china.
quote, "establish truly resilient supply chains.
”
now, are you a fan of friend shoring or i’ a fan of resilient supply chains.
but what we are advocating is this is a prime opportunity to use the globalisation concept to deconcentrate supply chains and build them in countries that were not part of the global value a say is, who is a friend?
that is the point.
a friend today might not be a friend tomorrow, so how do you define friend?
and we’ve seen examples of that.
1 something else, stephen.
among our members, we talked about trust.
of geopolitical tension, can tell you the has been the one, one of the few, if not the only organisation, where you had commitments, agreements made in june russia, all around the table.
people do not believe that.
we actually signed legally binding agreements on sustainability.
want to talk about those, sustainability, fisheries.
so, want to give, want to give members one very important development a was a ruling coming out of the on the united states and its tariffs on a0 you declared that they were illegitimate.
the united states, as understand it, has simply because they say this is a case of national security trumping trade policy.
what’ your response?
my response is as follows.
security is.
- 01 that ruling was made by the panel, and that is we have this dispute settlement system.
usually, when a country does not get a ruling that favours it, you know, the is not the only member that has before made comments when they get an adverse ruling.
so that does not mean that the or the dispute beg to differ.
what it shows is that perhaps the most powerful economy in the world now feels free to entirely ignore what comes the .
i’ going to quote there the chief trade negotiator, when she heard of the decision from you, from the , she said, "this body is unelected, not accountable.
”
she said the , quote, "is walking on very thin ice.
”
the united states is the biggest user of the ’ dispute settlement system.
since the system was put in place.
and they’ve been pleased with the rulings they got from many of them.
they also have the largest number of cases brought against them, 157.
so, if the place is not given some satisfaction, are members still using it?
so, look, it is normal, it is normal that when a ruling comes, you know, it may not please the member.
that does not mean that the or the systems, you know, they actually do.
if the world didn’ have the , it would really be problematic, because then it would be might and power.
you know, there would be trade would be a free for all.
and that is it was made in the first place.
secondly, if the world fragments into separate trading blocs, we’ve actually done work here at the that shows it to be extremely costly for the world.
yeah, think your calculations - nalz trading blocs emerge, it could cost the world roughly 5% of global .
that’ an extraordinary figure.
the problem you’ve got right now is that the mechanisms that exist here at the to and enforce fair trade policy and they’re paralysed chiefly because the united states has for years now refused to allow the appointment of new judges tojof 15\ and without those judges, the appeals body cannot work.
and without the appeals body, you, as the arbiter of global atl properly function.
how are you going to get out of this problem?
stephen, disagree, i you what is happening.
it is true that our two-tier dispute settlement system has irl that is the appellate body - the second tier - that is paralysed because judges have however, the panel level is working and, as we speak, we have about 20 or so ongoing panel proceedings at the moment
so, it’ not quite right that the system is not working.
but want to share with you that some countries have also decided to use an alternative system.
actually, some of some members have come together to create an interim arbitration system which can handle an appeal, and some of them are using that.
there are others who have also accepted the judgments.
but, look, you are right.
we need to reform the system.
we need to restore the entire system.
there’ something but it’ easy to say - how are you going to do it?
think you’ve said in the past oh, have good news.
that, "we’re going to fix this by 2024.
"
well, we’re already in 2023 and there’ no sign of it being fixed.
absolutely not.
it’ actually good news.
there’ been an agreement that we will fix it in 20 iyl so that’ what we’re going to do.
want to share with you that the united states 1 to trying to see, how i’ impatient to get the reforms done, but is there value to your organisation?
1 everyone recognises that is 164 members we are the only multilateral organisation so far where members came together and made agreements, up ten agreements, some of them legally-binding, united states, china - everyone round the table.
so.
bit about china.
in the words of the australian government, "china is increasingly testing the global "trade rules and norms by engaging in practices "that "that are utterly inconsistent there are some people around the world who think you’re are you?
would say not.
that is absolutely not correct.
what would say so, how come china hasn’ opened up its services sector?
how come china is still accused by many countries of dumping its products in their markets?
how come china doesn’ come tee labour and the impact that’ having on its trading policies?
you could do much more to get china to front up on these issues.
some of the agreements and rules were made prior to the time that china came a member in 2001 of this organisation.
let’ take the subsidies and countervailing measures agreement - that was made in 1995, at the time that now things have changed substantially.
so, china so, is it time for you, the , to get tougher what it is time to do is for the members to say to themselves if they are not happy with some of the earlier and the world is changing and evolving - those agreements should be re-looked at, they should be, you know, re-examined.
it’ not that, when you make an agreement, it’ set in stone forever, because the world is changing rapidly.
so, what we should be doing is saying, "how do we need "to look at these agreements?
"how do they need to change to reflect "the changes so that’ what i - and, actually, there is an emerging movement now in referm of the .
that’ what the reform process is, to reform those things that are not working as well, because they were negotiated right has to be climate change and decarbonisation, and the role that international trade maybe can play in a decarbonisation agenda.
you have said, quote, "greening trade is urgent.
”
well, it’ a nice phrase, but how do you "green” trade?
well, never use nice phrases unless mean them, stephen.
and what mean to say is that people typically think of trade as part of the problem.
and, yes, to some extent it is, of course - the logistics of trade.
of course, logistics, shipping the way some products are transportation, packaging yes, the way some products are traded and so on.
but trade is also squarely part of the solution.
= world, you cannot green the world, you cannot cut carbon emissions unless you have trade.
how do you diffuse the technology that you need for greening and get it from one point to the other?
what about an agreement on environmental goods and services that will enable faster adoption of the new technologies?
right
but if may say so, here is where it gets complicated.
you will be well aware that joe biden’ administration has just pushed through an inflation reduction act in things like tax breaks for electric vehicles, in the united states with components that come from the , canada and mexico.
those are the vehicles that 8 they’re saying that this approach is essentially another form of protectionism under the disquise of going green.
they say it breaches at least nine different what do you say?
south korea, others who feel that the inflation reduction act, in their opinion, breaches rules, they have to address, have a dialogue with the united states.
it’ not that, each time, you have to build a case.
i think we’ve been using the formal system too much.
now, what we are encouraging then is, if this is what you feel, rather than come to the panel, have a dialogue, within the dispute settlement mechanism.
but, madam director-general to find a solution, and that’ what they’re actually doing.
the is talking to the , south korea is talking 111 through that mechanism, they can find solutions.
the is responding with its own proposals for a quote-unquote "green tariff" on imports.
they’re calling it a "carbon border adjustment mechanism”.
and that means that goods that are imported with a high carbon emission content are going to face significant new taxes.
and in the developing world, they’re saying, again, you say that trade, greening trade, is urgent and you’re going to have to decide, in the end, what comes first - your green agenda or your free trade agenda?
well, the two are not opposed.
so, let me just tell you but as i’ve just told you, they can be.
let me say that the ’ carbon a = it’ not quite a response to what the is doing with the inflation reduction act.
it’ a policy that they’re using to and help them get many countries are taking different approaches.
the is taking one approach - you mentioned it, the - others are doing other approaches.
the is using regulations.
if you quantify that, they all come to a price.
i the systems are too fragmented.
right now, we have 70 fragmented different systems of pricing carbon, and that is developing countries are complaining and saying it could be they are seeing it as protectionist, they’re seeing it as too complicated.
will have a difficult time managing that.
therefore, what we are advocating, and working on now a global carbon pricing mechanism, and we’re actually doing it with the , the world bank and the .
let’ stick with this theme, then, of what the developing world expects and wants from you in your tenure significant that you are from nigeria.
you said, on taking the job, "the ordinary person "on the street in my village in nigeria needs to "know "we have to do important and good things for them.
”
what are you doing for them?
i am from the developing world, very proud to be.
in this job, i’ the head of a multilateral organisation, and our job at the secretariat is to support all cur members.
that doesn’ take away from what said, that, if people in a developing country like mine, in my village, do not know what the is about, there’ a problem.
so, we need to bring people back into the so that when we talk about it, people will know, "oh, "it’ all about supporting my living standards "and enhancing the way live.
” basic things they need - particularly in many countries in the developing world, which have suffered from food price inflation because of a food supply crisis, which has been exacerbated by the russia-ukraine war - they need to know, in the most basic trade terms, how you can help them get ready access a our members came together and agreed that things part of the solutien, not the problem.
absolutely no export restrictions on food, humanitarian supplies, so that the world food programme can purchase, get access easily and be able feeding who are hungry secondly, they agreed in a declaration that they’ll keep restrictions on food down, and we were at about 78 restrictions.
it’ down to 56 now.
so, members are actually making the effort.
you could not imagine how helpful this is to keeping world prices less volatile and making it more affordable.
it perfect?
we want us to phase out as many restrictions as we possibly can, so it’ a net contribution to making food cheaper i have to end with this very simple question.
do you ever wish you hadn’ taken this job, given the geopolitics that you have to live with today, given the fact that multilateral institutions, from the united nations itself to the , are hamstrung by this mistrust, ¥, it makes your job impossible.
well, feel it’ a privilege to do this job.
so, actually jump out of bed every morning, wanting go to work.
want end on this note.
the organisation is not hamstrung.
the organisation just delivered the most amazing success by having agreements such as the fisheries subsidies agreement to make our oceans i sustainable so that poor people can have access, to stop illegal fishing, to stop unreported fishing.
we just got this after two decades of trying to negotiate it.
we got it seven months ago, in june.
so, how can you say we are hamstrung?
we are practically the only organisation delivering on multilateralism.
so, you cannot say that - we’ve had a huge success.
we must build on that a1 need to be reformed.
but i’ very proud of what our members have done.
actually working, in spite of tensions, but, ngozi okonjo-iweala, thank you very much indeed for being on hardtalk.
111918 thank you, stephen.
hello again.
i’ sure you’ agree, it’ been a very bitter start with some snowy scenes around as well - that was overlooking skiddaw, in cumbria earlier on monday.
in force, the majority across stretches of the severn, the river avon, and for groundwater snow showers across northern and western areas over the next few hours, leading actually with water still seeping wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost, temperatures minus three minus seven widely.
well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy heading into tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous actually underfoot and under-tyre first thing in the morning.
i as low as minus 10 in scotland, freezing cold start - showers piling in through the day
i - so, really, it’ northern and western areas of scotland across northern ireland, the north-west of both england and wales will be prone to seeing further accumulations of snow.
modest hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
and after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day, even in the sunshine - which many of us will have a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much above freezing.
it will feel pretty bitter.
more of that to come on wednesday as well.
another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
could see rather more in the way of showers just clipping the east coast of england, and some heavier showers work across northern ireland into parts of wales and south-west england - a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in, in cardiff and plymouth - 0 signs that temperatures by thursday, after a frosty and cold start again, but after, again, a freezing cold start to the day, temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe eight towards plymouth.
otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
if you really don’ like the cold you’ll have to wait till the weekend before we get something a lot milder, as south-westerly winds return across the country.
with that, there’ll of rain around as well.
but eventually, temperatures widely i’ sally bundock, with the latest headlines a constitutional showdown in the , as british prime minister rishi sunak says he’ll block the gender recognition bill, passed by the i britain’ andy murray and italy’ matteo berrettini a former commander in the russian paramilitary organisation, wagner, has claimed asylum in norway, i i the mercenary group.
a royal rebuff from the duke and duchess of sussex for jeremy clarkson, who apologised in writing for comments he made about meghan in a newspaper column.
scotland’ first minister, nicola sturgeon, has condemned a very warm welcome to the programme.
scotland’ first minister, nicola sturgeon, has condemned the government for blocking a piece of legislation passed in holyrood, saying i = & on its parliament.
people to change gender.
but the scottish secretary, alister jack, said allowing the bill to proceed would have a significant impact on equality laws across great britain.
here’ our political editor, chris mason.
this is the ceremonial mace.
it represents the scottish parliament’ authority.
we are seeing it here at the opening of its sixth session the year before last.
and next, the crown of scotland, a symbol of royal authority.
but power is shared in the , & all the laws that are passed here are checked to make sure they don’ contradict with laws for the whole of the .
if they do, they can be stopped, but that is a power that has nil never, that is, until tonight.
alister jack, said: and the gender recognition reform scotland bill is passed.
this was the moment just before christmas changing the law - a moment of triumph for some, disappointment for others.
this was legislation long in the making, resignations, rows, rebellions.
so what did it hope to achieve?
the process of legally changing gender faster.
younger people would also have been able to apply - i 1 from 18 to 16 - and it would have been easier because the requirement for medical reports to back up an application would have been dropped.
the plan was days away from becoming law.
that isn’ going to happen - for now, at least.
think it will be using trans people, already one of the most vulnerable, stigmatised as a political weapon, and think that will be unconscionable and indefensible and really quite disgraceful.
labour say the and scottish governments need to get round the table and find a solution to this.
but it looks like it 0 chris mason, news, in edinburgh.
now let’ take you to australia it’ day two at the australian open in melbourne, but the scorching heat halted outdoor matches, = 1 ¢ put to their ultimate test.
former world number one andy murray sweating it out against italian matteo a - the woman’ second seed is an action later and novak djokovic urt today as well.
so it really packed agenda.
live .
to melbourne now, where we can speak to our australia correspondent shaimaa khalil.
a really great day for the i ennis fans today, extremely as we mentioned, let’ hot, as we mentioned, let’ start novak djokovic.
huge anticipation, as far as he’ erned.
this is big concerned.
this is the big moment for novak djokovic.
the ian tennis star has been in ustralia serbian tennis star has been in ieri serbian tennis star has been in australia for about three weeks he has orally won now.
he has orally won the adelaide international, but all are going to be on the rob eyes are going to be on the rob lever arena eyes are going to be on the rob tals eyes are going to be on the rob lever arena behind me when he in a few hours.
he is plays in a few hours.
he is facing his spanish opponent, , forgot his name, sorry, forgot his name, ould know, roberto tobias vanaken in should know, roberto tobias
i should know, roberto tobias vanaken in a few hours, and it reat deal of interest about how novak djokovic is to be going to be received later, judging from how he was eived in that warm up match, i he exhibition match, he played nick ygios on friday, with nick krygios on friday, hopefully it’ going to be , hopefully he is going to \ fine, hopefully he is going to be warmly welcomed.
the serbian had split opinion here last year he was detained and hen deported before last ustralian open.
this time nd, we’ve last australian open.
this time last australian open.
this time round, we’ve spoken to tennis here in melbourne park and tell us they are fans here in melbourne park and a ir0 fans here in melbourne park and they tell us they are happy to back.
great to him see him back.
great to see him back we have let the best players play.
it might been a best players play.
it might 4 have been a bit over reactive 1 the time, now he’'s here, he point of all at the time, now he’ here, so 1 at the time, now he’ here, so the point of all that, you ?
easier.
they’re very appy.
should never have been.
reckon .
were not been.
reckon too.
were really excited that he is this ear.
last we were kind of waiting to see what going to happen before we ked tickets or anything so really excited here and really excited he is here and we could come over to see him.
there saying that they so fans there saying that they ant to move on, they are here for the tennis and they want 2 of the world’ biggest niera one of the world’ biggest tennis stars to play in the tralian open.
the man himself, the world number five djokovic has said while the events of last novak djokovic has said while 1 the events of last year will always stay with him, they will hard to forget, he is be very hard to forget, he is lse moving on.
he is looking also moving on.
he is looking for that record extending 10th at the australian open.
he is still the king of melbourne park, but melbourne park, but also that important 22nd grand slam, yot all-important 22nd grand slam, a record currently held by rafa , the defending champion at melbourne park.
let’ about andy murray.
he is ourt right now
and he’ doing rather well, isn’ he?
fill us in.
is, he is.
just fillus in.
he is, he is.
they are on their third now.
he is facing matteo rettini.
he is up 2-0.
they llgel berrettini.
he is up 2-0.
they - looking quite good actually.
he has heen hitting aggressively, as been looking quite calm.
normally does look very, very lm, andy murray, and he actually been in control of match.
the expectation is will hopefully whizz through first round he will hopefully whizz through he will hopefully whizz through the first round and into the 4 the first round and into the second round the first round and into the be open.
good to talk to you.
we hall get more later from the tralian open, but just to -\ say andy urray currently up = two sets, say andy murray currently up two sets, 6-3, 6-3, and 2-1 up as two sets, 6-3, 6-3, and 2-1up in the third set.
a former commander with 1% wagner group, which russia uses to carry out some of its fighting in ukraine, ela i asylum in norway.
andrey medvedev, who’ 26, crossed the border into norway last friday, where he was detained by border quards.
our news reporter stephanie prentice is here.
this is extremely interesting, isn’ it, because of course it about what information all about what infermation he may disclose, etc.
what’ on.
we now do have going on.
we now do have numerous sources confirming andrey medvedev did cross that andrey medvedev did cross tee i8 that andrey medvedev did cross from norway into russia, that was part of a bid to ect from he wagner defect from the wagner paramilitary group.
the most tla1 detailed account we have comes tee i8 detailed account we have comes from a russian human rights .
it claims it was a a =1 group.
it claims it was a journey under extreme duress, : down the river through he ran down the river through he snow, pursued by dogs and fire, he made it through a into a border
i i he was fence into a border camp, and he was taken to oslo and 0 rged with illegal entry into he country.
he was given a yer, and that lawyer has een speaking out what been speaking out about what iyl happen to him next, and we can take a :
we 4 we can take a : we don’ grant asylum to war minal so it is clear this is ery important assessment and carefully because i 3 he, very carefully because of who i , where is he from, itis nformation he, where is he from, it i ae: he, where is he from, it information correct etc?
this mething that is assessed everyone who seeks asylum in rway
but obviously in this it will be assessed articularly thoroughly.
that yer said he had brought vidence human rights abuses him into the country, is intention was to with him into the country, his a intention was to share them with groups in ukraine at the moment.
give us more information moment.
give us more ormation about the so-called agner roup, this ercenary organisation.
many of our anisation -- our viewers will be used to the name of the wagner group but it existed in dowy capacity.
it bolsters russian forces in numerous tories and as the war has territories and as the war has gone on in ukraine, their sence andrey medvedev was a ite high anking to ind in quite high ranking to mind in that group, he alleges he saw : rights abuses as well as human rights abuses as well as war crimes and even people hin the group war crimes and even people grg0 war crimes and even people within the group being executed to leave.
he says that what caused if they to leave.
he says if they to leave.
he says that is what caused him to .
the group’, has denied this, he he did work for hem this, he says he did work for 1 them but said what he was saying wasn’ true and called saying wasn’ true and they =1 saying wasn’ true and they called him a very dangerous vidual.
thank you very much apologised to the duke and duchess of sussex for an article he wrote, in which he stated he "hated” meghan, and was dreaming of the day she’ be paraded through the streets naked.
the broadcaster said he was "profoundly sorry” and called his language "disgraceful”.
meghan and prince harry responded to the apology saying the column hadn’ been an isolated incident, but rather it was part our culture editor, katie razzall told us more.
if you remember, there was outrage because he said he wanted to see her paraded naked through the streets and that he wanted excrement thrown at her.
more than 25,000 people complained to the press regulator - it is investigating.
so today, we had a much more fulsome apology.
six pages on instagram, in which he reveals at, on christmas day he reached out to the duke and duchess to say sorry.
prince harry has suggested the column proved clarkson today writes, he abhors violence against women, he is not sexist.
of course, he is a popular presenter tel in variety today that amazon, the streamer, plans to part company with clarkson next year, once the shows, clarkson’ farm the grand tour, commissioned from him, have aired.
my sources do dispute the variety story, but amazon have said and senior writer with variety magazine.
she broke the story that amazon prime is likely to cancel jeremy clarkson’’ shows, once they go to air.
she joins us now from london.
do tell us more, then, about you are hearing from amazon.
basically what i’ ing is that well-placed hearing is that well-placed urces suggest effectively at once this round sources suggest effectively that once this round of shows effectively involving jeremy kson go to air that we clarkson go to air that we are oing to any more not going to see any more of the presenter on the streaming 13 ice was top keep in mind we have service was top keep in mind we another couple of years have another couple of years here with clarkson starring and ining,
the remaining four pisodes of the grand tour and seasons of clarkson’ from 4 beyond hat don’ know if if any re new hows will be commissioned, as understand.
a really bold statement it is a really bold statement tee i8 it is a really bold statement from amazon, and think it is interesting way for a very interesting way for them to ctively sort of to effectively sort of park waves with clarkson, albeit in that gradually him a way that gradually gets him
i the service.
prince harry and meghan?
ould say that when the column published, amazon’ ence was published, amazon’ silence was deafening.
obviously, we rom , hey ultimately had from , they ultimately made a statement through kevin lygo addressing the broadcasting press guild in ain, 8 but amazon britain, but amazon really stayed quiet and they declining to comment, but imately hind the scenes, of i course jeremy clarkson of hinted at this in statement, which he is saying are ncandescent over hat has happened.
but behind he scenes this is %1\ eally not a good look for a mpany.
think six, seven ars ago hen they came to to years ago when they came in to rescue the original top team, rescue the original top gear rescue the original top gear team, it was still not for to come in, and given what them to come in, and given what had transpired with , a1\ certainly eyebrows were raised, ety a even at that time with amazon coming in but even at that time with amazon &1 even at that time with amazon coming in but fast forward to the culture, it is very ailetlid now and the culture, it is very difficult to now and the culture, it is very ailatil re difficult to reconcile the company that takes bullying ously and has seriously and has these internal policies continuing to with someone who has written his article, the most plained bout article in a ¥ei & complained about article in britain to the media requlator.
re this revious incident with there this previous incident grg0 the , figured has with the , figured has een difficult for them to uare that away think square that away and think that \ effectively what has to this decision.
if amazon oes go ahead with at you’re hearing and remove itself from my jeremy clarkson’ shows, they ftey emoved from amazon prime, big a loss is that for azon?
how big a loss is that for i nierahxdal how big a loss is that for amazon?
think it’ huge.
when rand tour premiered, that eee a1 the grand tour premiered, that was one of their mainstream -- he grand our premiered, the the grand tour premiered, 3
i i it was more than the man in the the grand tour premiered, it was more than the man in the castle, it has continued be a really big unscripted roposition for them and we seen the different spin ffs, ith all the different offs, with all of the different hree presenters.
think offs, with all of the different ql1 offs, with all of the different three presenters.
think it is big loss, and since this a very big loss, and since this 301% broke, you have certainly seen the huge following that kson and his sort of gang clarkson and his sort of gang really has for that, a lot of saying i’ coming up, that’ it for and amazon.
so 3 ill be very interesting.
a he thing it will be very interesting.
the thing that would say ever the thing that would say i as 14 the thing that would say however is that clearly there ill a ouple of years now is still a couple of years now to go with him still very much service with on the service with his commissioned programmes, and so ves them enough time it gives them enough time to the next clarkson, if you ll.
executive editor, nternational and indeed.
executive editor, a1 tional and senior writer with variety magazine.
stay with us on news, still to come: 18 the italian movie icon, gina lollobrigida who’ died at the age of 95.
donald trump is now the 45th president of the united states.
he was sworn in before several hundred thousand people on the steps of capitol hill in washington.
demonstrators were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
anti-apartheid campaigners say 1 throughout the tour.
klaus altmann is being held on a fraud charge in bolivia.
the west germans want to extradite him for crimes committed in wartime france.
there, he was the gestapo chief klaus barbie.
millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot - this is news, a constitutional showdown in the as british prime minister rishi sunak says he’ll block the gender recognition bill passed by the i britain’ andy murray and italy’ matteo berrettini the italian actress, gina lollabrigida has died at the age of 95.
she was one of the biggest film stars in the world in later life she forged a successful career as a photographer and sculptor, snapping fidel castro wendy urquhart looks a you came back inte my life like a wolf in snake’ clothing!
and she was often described a1 she grew up in the mountain village of subiaco - her dad, giovanni, who was a furniture maker, and her mother, giuseppina.
when the family moved to rome after world war il, gina took singing and acting lessons, and was soon starring in italian films.
she married milko skofic in 1949, but when she was spotted by hollywood talent scouts, howard hughes took and whisked her off to america.
he suggested that she divorce milko before she signed aldg- - 50 she went back to italy.
gina became a household name in the 1950 after starring in her first english-language film, beat the devil, opposite humphrey bogart.
a raft of great hollywood roles followed, including trapeze, the hunchback of notre dame.
am less afraid of you now.
solomon and sheba, and women of straw.
she courted controversy when she made a documentary about fidel castroe in 1975, between the two dogged the actress for years.
when lolla finally bid farewell to the silver screen, she turned her talents to photography and sculpture, and exhibitions of her work were held in paris, moscow, and donated the entire $2.
9 million to stem cell therapy.
the italian actress, gina lollobrigida who’ died at the age of 95.
let’ return to the australian open.
novak djokovic takes to today for the first time in this pen but andy murray is ying right ow.
joining me now is tennis journalist tanya dendrinos.
lovely to see you.
there is so 1ile1 lovely to see you.
there is so ani a1 lovely to see you.
there is so much excitement about this open novak djokovic back.
what with novak djokovic back.
what are people saying about his rn?
everybody is so excited to see him make a return to the is court at melbourne park.
3 year did not end the way he was expecting.
he wants it a number 10 win at the open and year he was a 3 ensationally deported from the when arrived because country when he arrived because of australia’ country when he arrived because of australia’ strict border i laula rules.
he was unvaccinated for covid-19 rules.
he was unvaccinated for id-19 and that saw him out and covid-19 and that saw him out i - and out of the tournament entirely.
he wants to make it 10 this year and number 10 this year and if he does make it ten australian wins open wins he also takes his otal career grand open wins he also takes his career grand slam wins to total career grand slam wins to and total career grand slam wins to hat will equal rafael and that will equal rafael nadal historic feet.
there is of xcitement saw plenty of excitement and we saw dle oric numbers on day one.
historic numbers on day one.
everyone will be there behind andy murray is playing at moment and doing rather and that is good for the moment and doing rather 1 well and that is good for the a a ish people watching.
it is british people watching.
it is extremely hot.
talk us through 1 ogistics.
it is really hot melbourne and temperatures climbed into high 30 have climbed into the high 30 today and that forced play to ken off ome of be taken off some of the outdoor be taken off some of the 0la be taken off some of the outdoor courts.
thankfully for ybody watching murray everybody watching the murray match that is not the case.
is nder way match that is not the case.
match that is not the case.
madge is under way and he has med out hard.
he is stormed out hard.
he is unseated in the tournament so ould expect him to have unseated in the tournament
so : you would expect him to have a araitatite you would expect him to have a difficult challenge ahead into the tournament and coming into the tournament and he is showing that out iie3 court.
he took the first set 63 and the second court.
he took the first set 63 i
and then the second 63.
if he old on and then the second 63.
if he and then the second 63.
if he can hold on here whether he it in can hold on here whether he does it in three or four it be a huge upset in round .
and will be a huge upset in round
i - and for the women, who is one.
and for the women, who is playing today, who are we ping an eye on?
we need to a ook at keeping an eye on?
we need to a & take a look at all of the women’ matches on take a look at all of the take a look at all of the women’ matches on court.
am briefed on the women’ at not briefed on the women’’ at the moment so may throw that ack to you.
that one back to you.
know that emma a radacanu through.
and made it look llike may that made it look like she may 4 lay because of an injury.
not play because of an injury.
she got through and that is news isn’ it?
but good news isn’ it?
but everybody today will be ching novak djokovic.
they 1 ertainly will be.
and great for emma adacanu.
to be playing in the next round and ade some stunning wins she made some stunning wins last year so am sure all ritain last year so am sure all of & tain will be backing her.
reat to you.
and we are eeping a close on all of keeping a close eye on all of he action keeping a close eye on all of ladle keeping a close eye on all of the action in the third -0 the action in the third set now.
andy murray is down 3- but does have the four but he does have the first two now if you’re watching in the where were you 40 years ago today?
because on 17th january 1983 the launched a new era of early morning news programming when breakfast time this may bring back memories.
was ten years old at the the show was revolutionary - it mixed hard news with showbiz gossip, keep-fit exercises and i & even the dress was different - the men wore jumpers rather than a traditional suit and tie.
on breakfast from six ’clock, the team are marking the anniversary so all that with sally nugent and jon kay in about that is when one switches to breakfast.
next here with still have half-an-hour gether we have all the in its stories and we i will look at i & top is in its stories and we will look at the latest news from hina to show the coming from china to show the coming from china to show the world’ second biggest economy slowing in terms of sloan in is slowing in terms of growth.
what does that mean for lobal economy for the rest the global economy for the rest of us?
we will analyse that .
ill see you a hello again.
i’ sure you’ agree, it’ been a very bitter start with some snowy scenes around as well - that was overlooking skiddaw, in cumbria earlier on monday.
in force, the majority across stretches of the severn, the river avon, and for groundwater snow showers across northern and western areas over the next few hours, leading actually with water still seeping wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost, temperatures minus three minus seven widely.
well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy heading into tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous actually underfoot and under-tyre first thing in the morning.
i as low as minus 10 in scotland, freezing cold start - showers piling in through the day
i - so, really, it’ northern and western areas of scotland across northern ireland, the north-west of both england and wales will be prone to seeing further accumulations of snow.
modest hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
and after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day, even in the sunshine - which many of us will have a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much above freezing.
it will feel pretty bitter.
more of that to come on wednesday as well.
another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
could see rather more in the way of showers just clipping the east coast of england, and some heavier showers work across northern ireland into parts of wales and south-west england - a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in, in cardiff and plymouth - 0 signs that temperatures by thursday, after a frosty and cold start again, but after, again, a freezing cold start to the day, temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe eight towards plymouth.
otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
if you really don’ like the cold you’ll have to wait till the weekend before we get something a lot milder, as south-westerly winds return across the country.
with that, there’ll of rain around as well.
but eventually, temperatures widely this is news with the latest business headlines for viewers in the china’ population shrinks for the first time in 60 years as its economic growth slows.
we get an expert view on the outlook for the factory of the world.
the battle to keep skilled workers - the latest jobless and we find out what are the latest cunsumer trends that will shape we begin in china where we’ve just had a slew of data that shows how deep the impact of both the pandemic and its demographics is having on society and the economy.
data from the national bureau of statistics shows china’ economy grew by 2.
9% year-on-year for the last three that beat expectations - reuters expected the economy to grow by just 1.
8%.
official target of 5.
5%.
excluding the year covid hit in 2020, this is china’ worst showing in nearly 50 years.
also today, the news that china’ population has shrunk for the first time in more than 60-years - a change that is expected to have deep economic, social and political implications for china.
a tell us more.
that’ right.
the big figure that we’ve gotten is china’ population is still one.
today is china’ population is still one.
four billion.
it sounds like a lot but the bers are sounds like a lot
but the i bers are there were about 850,000 fewer chinese people at of 2022, the end of 2022, compared to he same time last year.
the on this problematic is they’re seen not just as one -term blip, but something a trend.
many population 3 8 of a trend.
many population experts think this is going to usher a period of likely usher in a period of decline in china’'s opulation bers.
and decline in china’ population i rs.
and the reason for numbers.
and the reason for this being problematic is what demographic decline.
’ a problem where without a birthday rate and without a numbers in order to replace population, the question is ere is the labour the population, the question is a4 the population, the question is where is the labour force?
who ing to be ble to make the is going to be able to make the goods to und the ageing mographic that china is going face in the coming years?
’re also hearing for example india now is predicted to ertake china as the world’
a i 148 overtake china as the world’’
most populous country by he of this year.
most populous country by the i 1 most populous country by the end of this year.
as part of data today we’ve seen for xample china logged its ghest death rate last year 1976.
really basically what this is meaning is this - surge in covid cases is current surge in covid cases is likely current surge in covid cases is 1 likely to further exacerbate this preblem.
and therefore re unlikely to a see a boost when it we’re unlikely to see a boost 1 comes to that side we’re unlikely to see a boost when it comes to that side of things, when it comes to na’ population.
we have seen the birth china’ population.
we have a declining.
for every 1,000 le, for a i people, for example, there’ one birth less each almost one birth less each year.
china, with the legacy come about as a result 10 that’ come about as a result of the one-child policy, that 4 eversed back in 2015 but it’ been was reversed back in 2015 but so hard once it’ been so hard once the 1 it’ been so hard once the rainis in motion in order to ect this, sally.
that’ correct this, sally.
that’ one big roblems for china’ of the big problems for china’ economy going forward.
thank much, katie.
cheers.
good to talk to you.
at do you make then of the ews bout the demographics to gin with, as katie outlined?
ing forward this is not good ws, is it, or china in terms of future growth?
think is has heen much predicted.
wever, the reality is there’ gative rowth in population it will question how much a can continue to and it will question how much i tala i engine of growth for the china can continue to be the engine of growth for the global omy.
so that starker lsrr8 economy.
so that starker statistic is very much a lity check.
we’ve been very i 01 ried about china mainly because of the covid related mpact but certainly these -pandemic structural issues 4 come back to the fore.
talk us through what those ues are?
yeah.
there are many issues of course that dated the pandemic.
and of course one of those in asian lations, declining populations, declining productivity.
another, of se, is debt sustainability.
1 cal governments have been much worried about the i ustainable revenue, particularly those sustainable revenue, particularly those who are ant on land ales.
another ssue that has really been worrying markets in particular about china is that the property sector is very much ngine of the engine of growth in china.
we had that property sector slow down, we obviously hat down impact on had that slow down impact on the china economy generally.
in i 882 the china economy generally.
in terms of the property sector, there was a lot said.
we a1 rtainly reported extensively he collapse of evergrande, he huge property conglomerate that kind the huge property conglomerate a i the huge property conglomerate and that kind of flagged up, ’ it, just how fragile the ector is.
what’ being done that?
he contagion effect about that?
the contagion i ect has been the fear.
not i\ pockets of developers and uch they can survive, but how much they can survive, but how ainable their debt, how sustainable their debt, particularly on the financial 1 , will particularly on the financial tet3 particularly on the financial sector, will bring greater for the wider economy.
ow, we impacts for the wider economy.
impacts for the wider economy.
now, we have had very much a icy - a eries policy - series policy - !
sued in the last month or so lift unding, the availability of to lift funding, the availability of bank lending ther forms availability of bank lending i ther forms of financing and other forms of financing or these developers.
and, mber wo, also help for ortgage borrowers.
so for yers and home buyers to help to buy property market again.
so a them to buy property market again.
so a healthy growth in 8 roperty sector is starting ezl to resurface.
and that to resurface.
and we think that ould at should at least see the i perty sector bottom out already.
we’ve mentioned of 3% for already.
now we’ve mentioned 1 already.
now we’ve mentioned growth of 3% for the year.
way 5.
5% which of course below 5.
5% which of course is he government’ target.
the government’ target.
we hea the government’ target.
we know that wouldn’ be reached use of the problem € because of the problem with 0 covid.
there’ zero lockdown policies.
covid.
there’ zero lockdown 101 cies.
but the outlook, what = a1 policies.
but the outlook, what will the communist party do forward to stimulate that ind of growth again?
now now ooyl kind of growth again?
we know growth is once again back as ocus for growth is once again back as i the focus for 2023.
now this 334 a set of 4 was better than many had feared.
of course, we the final months of last year was deeply painful, ticularly given very strict ockdowns and controls particularly given very strict me ataat lockdowns and controls were still in place.
however, that lifting of restrictions, ad ter than many had anticipated, very much think some hope that early gives some hope that very early
i on in the first quarter of this we’ll see some recovery in ctivity and many hope a nsumption-led recovery and ’ what’ been outlook, a consumption-driven, timent-driven recovery at st.
however, sentiment has ally been outpacing undamentals.
what mean by is that we have not seen nough data yet to show at activity is starting to pick roduction cla 13 4 up, production is starting activity is starting to pick up, production is starting to .
up.
of course, we are pick up.
of course, we are having to face a slowing down rest of the global economy.
hank you.
good to to you.
chief china a1 conomist at standard in some sectors are fighting to keep their skilled workers.
and they are expected to show that unemployment remains at the record low level of 3.
7% while employment is expected to see another increase.
i where workers can job hop as firms struggle to find talent.
gareth vale is operations director of manpower group .
good morning to you, gareth.
you’ve just done a quite broad within the market survey within the jobs market 3 nthe to sort of survey within the jobs market in the to sort of outline what’ ahead in the to sort of outline in the to sort of outline what’ ahead this year.
what your findings?
yeah.
manpower group’ survey found is a calling in the jobs there is a calling in the jobs market there is still intent to market but there is still rich market but there is still intent to hire across pretty le1 very sector and tr0 ’ much every sector and every on in the .
there’ a war 4 for talent out region in the .
there’ a war lent out there.
and for talent out there.
and organisations organisations are having to creatively, ins of not ust a -in terms of not just retention, but attraction.
many nesses have got this leaky businesses have got this leaky 18 ket analogy where they’re putting lots and lots of people top and losing too many in the top and losing too many 1 bottom.
so at the bottom.
so think organisations are having to in training, in evelopment.
they’re thinking how they can development.
they’re thinking a about how they can better about how they can better connect with their employees ugh their purpose connect with their employees through their purpose and through their vision.
some nisations are thinking 0 organisations are thinking about how they can better tect heir workers protect their workers as well through longer-term notice ods.
and salary is a big i point there as ll.
it needs competitive and eds to to be competitive and needs to compete against the market.
of living of course is very much the minds of most ple and wages is important.
what you’re but what you’re saying is in sectors where there is a ¥ real fight for talent is not about wages, is it?
here’ lots of other tors that there’ lots of other factors
ela i retain talent?
no.
that will retain talent?
no.
ine absolutely you’re absolutely right.
so pay’ not keeping pace with ation, which is putting pressure on households.
and for the only way to get a payrise in line inflation to actually leave their ganisation.
but think here’ organisation.
but i think ’ mane other factors that are driving ekers at the are driving jobseekers at the i oment.
think they’re looking more flexibility.
people rough covid used to working in different patterns.
erent locations and different locations and 4 ferent hours.
different hours.
think career ression is obviously i1 critical.
as say, businesses nvesting more training are investing more in training and development.
think the kind of values-driven 12 whole kind of values-driven iece - getting businesses nnected to purpose - is agisre1 connected to purpose - is critical again.
and just in of support.
seo, know, terms of support.
so, you know, that could be technology, it be having the right could be having the right 3 ocesses in place, but it ould having the right upport support when could be having the right support when things don’ go so as well.
i’ thinking well as well.
i’ thinking around well as well.
i’ thinking hda well as well.
i’ thinking around mental health and porting around mental health and i supporting employers when they’re struggling.
those are of the key factors obseekers are looking for.
thank you very much, gareth.
we 1 ciate that.
when we get appreciate that.
when we get numbers, in terms of employment the numbers, in terms of the numbers, in terms of unemployment numbers for the ’ll update you.
last time , we’ll update you.
last time , we’ll update you.
last time the numbers came out, there was a big difference between quite a big difference between he pay of those in the private public sector.
so we’ll if hat is a and public sector.
so we’ll see i als 0-tel and public sector.
so we’ll see the boss of the bank of england is warning there is still a "hangover effect” from the financial instability seen during the prime ministership of andrew bailey told the cost of government borrowing, which soared after the mini-budget, had normalised but international investors are still wary about lending money to the government.
joining me now is jane foley, head of strateqy at rabobank good morning, jane.
lovely to see you.
good morning.
so not rised to hear is warning surprised to hear this warning coming rom andrew bailey.
he got a grilling by politicians erday, didn’ he?
where he evealed there’ still a of ncern out there internationally?
say say that.
course, if we look at interest that.
of course, if we look at a rae the interest rate on these government the interest rate on these ernment debts, what we see interest ates have come wn.
that basically means that estors aren’ demanding the ort of premiums that they were the liz trus debacle in 101 the debt market.
there’ lots at concerns for potential buyers of government debt, icularly in a country like he .
particularly in a country like the .
that’ because the government is selling from its nce sheet an awful lot of balance sheet an awful lot of 101 balance sheet an awful lot of i ana
i balance sheet an awful lot of the debt it accrued when it was quantitative easing.
doing quantitative easing.
there’ an awful lot of supply.
the fact we have a there’ an awful lot of supply.
i there’ an awful lot of supply.
plus the fact we have a lot of here’ a lot of supply from at oo.
while we’re through perhaps the hump, if like, in 4 nterest rates that we had he autumn, in interest rates that we had rgol 4 14 in interest rates that we had - in the autumn, that there’ still a lot of concerns.
but, now, because we’re through hat hump, what we have seen is of fixed-rate mortgage a lot of fixed-rate mortgage deals have come lower over i last couple of months and that urse is better news for of course is better news for many people out there today.
the bank of england is continuing with the meetings.
we’ll see meetings.
we’ll see what happens at the next one.
expected rates will it’ expected rates will tinue to go up for a while, sn’ , jane?
talk us through what that means for national investors ?
because that’ tractive, isn’ it?
because that’ attractive, i dieareies because that’ attractive, isn’ it?
talk us through the of the pound at moment?
that is value of the pound at the moment?
that is attractive and ank of england is widely the bank of england is widely the bank of england is widely expected to put up terest rates by half lta 01 rates by half of one percentage in february and perhaps point in february and perhaps again later on into the nter and the spring.
that has an impact on variable rate gages but fixed rate ortgages, which are looking at erest rates, will not worry i i about that.
it should be a interest rates, will not worry about that.
it should be a bit attractive when short-term nterest ates go up.
the ank of england was finding it ilatlid of england was finding it difficult to attract too a1 re difficult to attract toe many investors into sterling that’ because of the outlook he economy.
may have for the economy.
we may have ided recession into the end of last year here in the but is very likely that we’re ing to hit recession his i ar.
growth does look bad.
the amentals are very sour.
and hat’ something that is still pening the ok look for the pound.
—- he a4 i @id for the pound.
-- the outlook for the pound.
-- the outlook for the pound.
thank you.
stay with us on news.
out what are the latest consumer trends that will shape donald trump is now the 45th president of the united states.
he was sworn in before several hundred thousand people on the steps of capitol hill in washington.
demonstrators were attacked with tear gas and set upon by police dogs.
anti-apartheid campaigners say 1 throughout the tour.
klaus altmann is being held on a fraud charge in bolivia.
the west germans want to extradite him for crimes committed in wartime france.
there, he was the gestapo chief klaus barbie.
millions came to bathe as close as possible to this spot - a constitutional showdown in he is the british prime nister says - minister says he will block ender recognition passed the by the scottish gender recognition bill passed by the scottish parliament.
and ain’ andy murray is battling it out on centre court on the second the australian open.
russia’ president, vladimir putin, is weaponising food, and the impact of that is being felt around the world, the boss of one of the world’ biggest fertiliser companies has warned.
speaking to the ’ economics editor faisal islam the boss of yara international, svein tore holsether, said the world needs to reduce its dependency on russia, after the shock to the global supply and cost vladimir putin has weaponised 0 nergy and they are weaponising as well.
for me once, food as well.
for me once, 12 1 food as well.
for me once, food as well.
for me once, shame on you, twice, shame on with energy we are built twetle me and with energy we are built on infrastructure in europe on russian gas and we see the consequences the cost of that right now.
with food ertiliser.
half of the world’ food oduction depends fertiliser and world’ food production depends hi rtiliser and if we see on fertiliser and if we see ignificant disruptions that is erful weapon.
and you think russia a powerful weapon.
and you a powerful weapon.
and you think russia is using it for raged?
of course.
and we leveraged?
of course.
and we saw that early in the war both nctions the threat saw that early in the war both i on sanctions and the threat to withhold and that is a ferent reality than in the decade.
so we cannot go ack to that again.
and what uld a1 his mean for back to that again.
and what icrtearie could this mean for food supplies in europe and the eloping world?
these are bal markets so the impact is eing felt everywhere russia the world’ rgest exporter of fertiliser so it have global implications we see some of that on he disruption already and there is for russian disruption already and there is a1 1 a need for russian fertiliser 3 europe to maintain global production in europe to maintain global 101 in europe to maintain global food production but my message i that we also to here is that we also need to think here is that we also need to 2 4 here is that we also need to think of the next phase to 1 think of the next phase to reduce and avoid the dependency ssia ecause when it on russia because when it is being used as a weapon in wall nnot go being used as a weapon in wall 1 4 being used as a weapon in wall we cannot go back to how it to be.
he is now at the world economic forum etals - -fs
-1 and we will hear more as the week progresses.
now, he invented a gadget in his garage that is now being used by millions of people in their homes jamie siminoff is the entrepreneur who developed the ring wireless doorbell that works with your phone.
his business advice might surprise you.
my advice is to not take advice.
we are all unique in this journey.
creating a business is a fingerprint.
it is our own like a fingerprint.
it is our and unique to who we are.
take advice own and unigue to who we are.
vwil own and unigue to who we are.
we take advice and we take what ens to someone else with a 4 lga i3 different set of circumstances and apply different set of circumstances different set of circumstances and apply it to our business.
never overlap directly.
i think the mistake that repreneurs make is that they that and apply it directly their journey and what they trying to accomplish this 4 what you should do which is from it and learn is what you should do which is
irl -1
riat
1
learn from it and learn from everyone else, read books and the information so that can then adjust the information so that 1 adjust the information so that you can then use that to make est decision you can then use that to make a 018 the best decision for your unigue unique journey and where you ant to go to on your mission your business and what you to achieve.
when you on your business and what you want to achieve.
when you do that that is when you can have iggest success in the best come.
some tips there.
outcome.
some top tips there.
*fyed outcome.
some top tips there.
a0 part of our ceos secrets it may be the age of artificial intelligence, but people still seek out a human connection when it comes to parting with their money.
the global consumer trends report out today from euromonitor international says that people and machines will have to work together i consumers will expect.
online shopping is also undergoing a people led revolution, general browsing and researching products online is in decline, with many consumers shifting to social media sites such as tiktok and instagram for trends and user generated recommendations.
joining me now is alison angus, head of practice innovation a a1 a welcome to the programme.
i ell us more.
admit am a echnophobe so always seek .
10 the human.
but what technophobe so always seek i out the human.
but what are we doing?
there are a number of and i think, firstly, we things and i think, firstly, we have what things
and i think, firstly, we have what the trend calls ntrol and scroll.
we have had nough mindlessly enough of mindlessly browsing and searching to find what we want and are ching to find what we a really want and we are wasting a lot of time and not being ductive.
so we are looking to usiness to us get to business to help us get right to the point and where we to be.
this mes back to need to be.
this comes back to your comment on artificial lligence.
companies are intelligence.
companies are investing in as a priority use with that are able because with that they are able to tailor what consumers want can right to the so they can get right to the i int.
in a recent survey carried out amongst industry essionals over 40% said that their companies investing more in those technology solutions such as because consumers technology solutions such as .
because consumers wanted.
as you say is that just to save us of time and that is a lot of time and that is reen time, isn’ it, which we all a bit fed up with post andemic.
just want to get he point quickly.
but the chis rtant point is to the point quickly.
but the a 1 important point is that you ant to know that whatever important point is that you want to know that whatever you are researching is authentic, the advice of the recommendations of the reviews.
lutely.
must absolutely.
it must be a 4 1a absolutely.
it must be authentic and we are looking hat human interaction as for that human interaction as well, the emotional eraction.
want technology speed and for speed and convenience, we ant the for speed and convenience, we 1 a8 01 for speed and convenience, we want the authenticity but we 1 human interaction.
also want human interaction.
companies need to balance that technology with that in use of technology with that in person element.
and so where viral technology come into is thing?
we talk about nting human interaction and everyone is really yet everyone is really investing in the meta- verse, ’ they?
investing in the meta- verse, investing in the meta- verse, aren’ they?
and other beings he meta- verse.
aren’'t they?
and other beings a- verse.
so our in the meta- verse.
so our companies, when it comes to umer behaviour and buying selling, seriously nvesting in that as well?
there are ings here.
we have a trend alled young and disruptive, is all about generation , were hit hard by the pandemic pandemic at a crucial stage of life and they all their life and they are all about online and platforms like ok and they are looking for thentic interaction tiktok and they are looking for tedl a tiktok
and they are looking for authentic interaction on those forms.
= platforms.
traditienal ertising will not cut it for em.
they want online teraction.
you them.
they want online a vet atale them.
they want online interaction.
you mention the - verse and we are meta- verse and we are seeing gaming going mainstream nning all age groups and consumer types.
it is the new ekl ial media platform and a i chance for usinesses to leveraged rket for sales, leveraged or market for sales, where they can reach consumers.
hat gaming is all about and that gaming is all about he meta- verse as ll.
so the meta- verse as well.
so consumers for everything in life are going their life are going online, particularly young particularly young consumers.
resting to talk to you, thank you.
find it all scinating.
hat brings to a ose this programme.
just to ntion, andy urray is up in by mention, andy murray is up in the fourth set in the match rently at the fourth set in the match .
currently at the australian open.
2-1 up and to set up so 1 far.
if you are watching on one, join them for their cial celebration of 40 years first .
will back of first .
will be back 1 of first .
will be back here on world news, stay hello again.
i’ sure you’ agree, it’ been a very bitter start with some snowy scenes around as well - that was overlooking skiddaw, in cumbria earlier on monday.
in force, the majority across stretches of the severn, the river avon, and for groundwater snow showers across northern and western areas over the next few hours, leading actually with water still seeping wet spell of weather and a widespread sharp frost, temperatures minus three minus seven widely.
well, you can imagine the roads are going to turn very icy heading into tuesday morning, so could be quite dangerous actually underfoot and under-tyre first thing in the morning.
i as low as minus 10 in scotland, freezing cold start - showers piling in through the day
i - so, really, it’ northern and western areas of scotland across northern ireland, the north-west of both england and wales will be prone to seeing further accumulations of snow.
modest hills could see another 5-10 centimetres in places.
and after that cold, frosty, icy start to the day, even in the sunshine - which many of us will have a lot of - well, temperatures will struggle to get much above freezing.
it will feel pretty bitter.
more of that to come on wednesday as well.
another cold, frosty, icy start to the day.
could see rather more in the way of showers just clipping the east coast of england, and some heavier showers work across northern ireland into parts of wales and south-west england - a bit of rain, a bit of sleet, a bit of hill snow mixed in, in cardiff and plymouth - 0 signs that temperatures by thursday, after a frosty and cold start again, but after, again, a freezing cold start to the day, temperatures climb this time to reach highs of maybe eight towards plymouth.
otherwise, about 3-6 pretty widely.
if you really don’ like the cold you’ll have to wait till the weekend before we get something a lot milder, as south-westerly winds return across the country.
with that, there’ll of rain around as well.
but eventually, temperatures widely did you know that sounds is now available on your smart speaker?
all you have to do is say "open sounds" and if you want to listen to some music, listen to a podcast, or listen to live radio, just say "play"
and then the thing you want to play.
so, for example, - then anthems will play.
easy.
you upended your entire comfortable life to become a pirate.
1 pirating is not for everyone.
and we’re gonna cause some havoc.
how violent do we expect this to get?
we’re swashbuckling!
we’re looting!
et’ who knew there was so much to learn about pirating?
one appears to be a heavy-set woman in a silk dressing gown.
everybody, hide!
hello?
i’ just in a warehouse!
we are back, and our challenges are bigger than ever.
i’ going to change the rest of my life today.
can we transform these families’ homes without breaking the bank and restore joy to their lives oh!
wow.
all in just seven days?
what did you do with it?
love it.
join stacey and team for to understand how this movement emerged, you need to go back to the beginning.
turns out we are an enterprise.
but we have to address what is going on around us.
it was difficult for women to find their place.
it’ cool to entertain, when you got power, then comes responsibility.
what you going to do with it?
your category is good morning, welcome to breakfast with sally nugent e' our headlines today.
and domestic abuse claims, after a serving constable admitted teachers in england and wales are set to strike over seven days in february and march, in a dispute over pay.
a row erupts between the and scottish governments, after westminster announced plans to block the gender recognition reform bill passed by holyreod last month.
rising prices are still racing ahead of wages.
as inflation continues to leave us worse off, we speak with the businesses struggling with rising costs and recruitment.
how andy’ conjured some of that old murray magic in his opening match of the australian open.
good morning.
once again it is a cold and frosty a% rt.
the risk of ice on untreated ces.
but for many it will be with inter sunshine.
however, ere is snow in the forecast.
tell you where later.
people people say, television in the uinihhve people say, television in the morning?
that’ disqusting.
squsting idea!
what appening disgusting idea!
what is happening in this country?
people even used but we’re still here - 40 years later!
we’re celebrating a special birthday on the programme this morning, and will be taking a few trips down memory lane.
good morning.
it’ tuesday, the 17th january.
the metropolitan police force is investigating a thousand allegations of abuse involving around 800 of its officers.
i = & pleaded guilty to 49 offences, of a serving police officer.
met police commissioner sir mark rowley apologised to carrick’ victims, frances read reports.
no justice, no peace!
they say change is necessary.
for them, promises from the met police that no stone will go unturned, not enough.
the force is now investigating 1000 sexual and domestic abuse claims and every one of the met’ 45,000 officers and staff are having their records checked against the national database.
it comes after david carrick, a serving police officer for two decades, admitted 249 offences.
he was able to commit multiple rapes and sexual assaults, unnoticed by the force.
yesterday, the met commissioner apologised to carrick’ victims.
not only have we let than the women in this case, the survivors who’ve courageously come forward, completely recognise that is going to be the reaction of many women across london, indeed more widely.
all can say is, i’ sorry.
i’ sorry that we let you down.
before he joined the met he was a suspected to offences involving a former partner.
the following year he passed the met’ vetting procedure.
between 2002 and 2009, he was i involving women, including harassment and domestic viclence.
diplomatic protection squad.
seven years later, he was a a harassment complaint.
he got through his police vetting again.
in 2019, he faced another allegation of domestic violence.
then, in 2021, there was a rape complaint made against him.
yet he was allowed to carry on working, with only restricted duties.
which is so troubling.
there will be other people like david carrick who have been allowed to continue with their abusive behaviour, allowed to rape women whilst they are serving officers.
they are not being dealt with properly, they are not being dealt with quickly, and they are not being taken out of the police service where they have so much power.
and in my view, there are solutions, but to do that, the met, especially the met, have to admit they’ve got a problem.
when do we want it?
in 2021, the murder of sarah everard at the hands