People don’t believe me when | say this...
TONGUE FLICKS OUT ..we all come from iguanas.
You, me... TONGUE FLICKS OUT
AR LIl
The evidence Is...
Don’t learn off randoms, revise with BBC Bitesize,
the site that follows -l lasatliflas 0
So, If it’s on your test paper, R R R
Get off my cha...
# Bitesize! #
They will go and see a blown up building,
or they’ll go carry a weapon and they’ll do something
for a month and then they’ll go home.
That fizzles out after a while.
The attack which nearly killed him happened
Ul leRETIGTIT =N IR o T
city of Zaporizhzhia.
We had been on a four—day operation but we pushed
We knew there were three tanks in the area.
We pushed so far forwardq, that it was what we call
a come on, where they moved out of the way, waiting
for us to come in and then they came in and give us
everything they had.
Before we knew it there were rounds coming down
and it was just boom, boom, boom.
He tried to shelter in a half—dug trench
with a Ukrainian fighter alongside.
And every time a round would R R T YT
to the left, he would lean to the right
and try and grab each other’s helmets and get as low
as we could and it was only a matter of time and one
of the rounds just sort of landed between our legs
and blew upwards.
| crawled out and then that is when the Russians
opened up the small arm fire and took out my left arm.
What was going through your mind?
| was positive that REIRILGRONG [ [Y
| just thought, | am going to suffer for an hour
It 1s not like the British Army where we have got some
helicopters come and pick us up, we’ve got no morphine,
It doesn’t work like that out here.
It i1s old school, Second World War stuff.
But their commander managed to get Sharif out alive.
He finally got a Kozak vehicle to cross open ground under tank
fire, picked us up and drove us away.
An hour and 20 minutes | am still gasping for air with two
punctured lungs, and | saw my hand hanging off.
The right shoulder was splat open, the top of the right arm
was shot and the bone’s been destroyed, the forearm has been
blown apart, it has been ripped out and
the wrist is been taken apart.
My stomach was torn open and put back together.
What was it like recovering in that hospital?
You are awake for these surgeries most of the time.
It 1s time to continue the journey.
Sharif’s Ukrainian fiance is coming as well and there
1s little time to lose.
He’s to be transferred to a safe hospital in Bristol
where surgeons are going to try and save hand.
If he stays in Ukraine he is going to lose his hand.
Fighters aren’t the only ones risking their lives
Ewan and Craig have been travelling to some of the worst
hit areas.
We have been bringing people back across the border.
| couldn’t have sat at home and watched what was happening
Sl R I RO R actually take part.
How do you fund this?
A lot of personal money has gone into this and
ultimately we rely on donations.
The team have organized a medical repatriation flight
back to Bristol.
Despite life—changing injuries, Sharif is still holding
on to a determination to return to the front line.
| am going back.
You still want to go back?
There is nothing else in this N d R R e ens)
than to be there with my boys.
You nearly died.
If it means that much to you then you’re not
going to start something and not finish it.
It 1S an honour.
But there will be some road to recovery.
This i1s the last leg of the journey and then
he Is nearly home.
They are bringing Aden and they’re getting us back.
You are going to be ISl
Of course, but | see him very soon.
| hope. Ready?
Pack your things. Thank you so much.
You have no idea.
It Is straight to the hospital for me, so, not a lot
of Bristol that | will be seeing it for a while.
After nine months in the conflict, he is back
on British soil
His a story of survival has 1T IR R YA D))
of the newspapers who have given him the nickname,
Rambo.
The call for volunteers to enlist in the Ukrainian
military came from the president himself at the start
of the nvasion.
"To the citizens of the world,” he said,
"come and fight side—by—side with Ukraine."
In what he called the beginning of a war against Europe.
| can understand why Ukraine has been welcoming volunteers
who have combat experience to help take on the Russian army.
But what about those who do not?
These guys are getting together for the first time
since being on the front lines and they have agreed to share
a few war stories with me from months in the trenches.
Why did you go?
| have seen what was going on in the news.
They are firing on civilians here.
This Is just like terrorists what they are doing.
You did not have any military experience beforehand?
100% civilian. No military experience.
| tried to join the military when | was younger,
but | could not get in but | could put all my heart
and soul In joining.
| saw a Facebook advertisement, it was all in Ukrainian
but | translated it.
If you know how to handle a gun, contact us,
so | gave them a ring.
Told them that I’d been in the guard,
like cadet experience.
BGOSR TGl il but they said we’ll give
you a month’s training and we’ll send you out
into the front line in the Kharkiv district.
After travelling across Ukraine, they joined
a battalion with other British and international volunteers
NELML R RO
Oh, damn, we got RO VA o)
They met James, aged 21, who’d quit the British Army to go.
They needed help so | knew | could fight, that was
what | was trained to do so that’s why | got
up and went.
And Tim, who spent time in Afghanistan.
This i1s where we sleep.
And they began filming their experiences
along the way.
They issued a rifle about the time we get
a volunteer contract, here’s where you’re going.
All we knew was dig a hole, watch.
Did you feel up to 1t?
| did wonder, what have | got myself
into here but it did T N a0
As they learned to become soldiers, it was eye—opening
even for those with experience.
In the British Army | have never come under tank fire,
it i1s not something that happens in the British Army.
We have the tanks, we have the helicopters,
we have the fast air and things like that.
Here, 1t is all against you.
It was not long before they were involved
In intense fighting.
Once you get the first flyover, you watch videos of fire fights
then when you are there, and the rounds do go out,
my training kicked in.
The first time ever | experienced combat
| was in a school
We got hit by multiple missiles and the intel we got,
five tanks approaching and we all got out.
| remember there was a mud hill and as | looked up,
a tank came straight through the bushes and straight for me.
We heard on the radio, one tank destroyed,
two tanks are destroyed, three tanks destroyed.
That split—second | didn’t know if | was coming out
of that situation.
| thought | was going to get killed right here,
right now.
It was James’s first experience of many coming
under fire from Russian tanks.
This round missing him by inches.
Everyone OK?
It has landed right next to me.
| can’t hear nothing.
| can’t hear a thing.
As the Ukrainian frontlines pushed forward, the group
were involved in many operations to recapture ground,
often encountering abandoned Russian positions along
the way.
So the Russians were there yesterday.
Ukrainian military, myself and my teams pushed
the Russians out.
Civilians are happy.
Much of the fighting involved R R R a1
We were 600 metres from Russians at all times.
Our treeline was their treeline and a field in—between.
Sound travels further and you could hear them talking.
Life in the trenches was a constant game of cat
and mouse with the enemy.
So we went on this attack on Independence Day,
the whole of the Ukrainian frontline pushed forward.
| remember just going up the back of the tree line
and five prisoners was there.
What have we got here?
A couple of Russian prisoners.
How does that work?
IS AN G AR TR L[ ]
Quite sad to see.
They were either really young or really old.
They didn’t want to be there.
It was strange.
Il it feel real
Did you feel sorry for them? Yeah, | empathised.
My biggest fear out there were actually getting captured.
Five Russian prisoners, s e e
MRV
There was a high chance they could have killed some
of my very good friends, these guys we had captured.
They weren’t crying.
They were probably laughing about it.
They only cried when they’ve been caught.
"I’m a conscript. "I never meant to do it
"I got sent here."
Ukrainian authorities send blanket text messages
to Russian soldiers’ phones, telling them surrender
and they won’t be harmed.
How do you treat them?
We just hand them over to the Ukrainian authorities.
Did you speak to them?
Yeah, | said a few words to them.
| said a few words in his ear.
| wanted to give them something to remember.
We’ve got to get out.
As the months go by, it’s clear the risks become routine.
You can accept that any secong, any moment, anything,
and this moment could be the worst you have or the last
moment the guy next to you has or two trenches down the line.
In August, a British volunteer from Norfolk joined the unit.
We were close, always close, looked up to him
as an older brother.
He could light up a room, he really could.
Craig Mackintosh was a landscape gardener.
Hello, darling. Hello, darling.
He was funny, he would always do some crazy thing
to make us laugh.
We was really close growing up.
he always wanted to go in the army ever since
He would have all his toy soldiers.
He always played with them.
But when he travelled to Ukraine, his family
had little warning.
| didn’t find out until the day before he was going,
he said not ORI IR 11872
And, yeah, that’s the first I’ve heard about it.
What was your reaction? | was gutted.
Did you ever try to talk him out of it?
Even on the way to the airport, like, just, yeah, anything
to get him to come home, but he had his heart set on it.
Initially | was very angry.
It didn’t make sense to me.
| thought at first, why would you leave everyone
and not tell anyone, and then | thought, wow,
what a courageous thing to do.
What | remember about Craig, we called him Pikey,
his call sign were Pikey, he loved it.
He’d found his place there, you know, he were happy.
But the group were about to undertake one of their most
dangerous operations.
I might message him on a Tuesday and | would hear
from him on Thursday or maybe Friday.
One day | text him and never got nothing back.
We were just on this big counteroffensive and this
was the actual last firefight we got into that day.
We were In Russian territory, the Russians did not know
we were In their territory.
One of our friends, an Australian friend,
he was digging a trench, so | just was sat on the edge
You know you get the feeling someone’s behind you?
| looked behind me, surely enough there was someone there.
He was only ten metres away from me, looking all confused,
like that, like, "What are these guys doing here?
They’re our guys?”
He thought you were Russian?
Yeah, he thought we were.
That’s when | seen his face change.
| seen he was planning something.
He had time to see VYV 1o |
He had eye contact with me, he had eye contact with Jed,
everyone behind us.
| was getting screamed at behind, "Make sure it’s not
friendly, make sure IR LG
So at this point | was....
"Put your gun down, put your gun down!"
Dropped to the floor, but he raised his gun,
so | shot him six times.
But the Russian soldier had already fired his own shot.
| just remember looking and shouting back "Jed’s down!"
And "Jed’s dead."
And | heard behind me, "Craig’s dead."
It was 25 August that | found out that he had been shot.
It crushed me.
After that firefight, | looked down, and to be
honest, | cried, | cried.
Not because | was scared, but just seeing it up close
and personal, you are talking with someone, having a laugh
someone In the life is just gone.
Just gone within a click of the fingers.
The police came to my Dad’s and they told us.
| didn’t think he was going to go on the frontline.
(eilelo R amdslTsL Q=1 was going to happen.
| thought he was going to be helping, but away
| think most people die of cancer or common illness,
not being shot out at war.
| don’t know, | just didn’t believe it, it
didn’t feel real.
Friends and family said their final goodbyes.
It was heartbreaking.
But he got the send off that he deserved.
Like he said, no—one else would understand,
he has got to do it for his own reasons and that’s
Same as a lot of people.
They feel like they can make a big difference,
T R G
He was happy and you’ve got to be happy for him.
Your brother’s a hero, but, yeah, still won’t bring
him back, though.
It’s hard and my children miss him.
Pikey and Jed, we’re not going forget them.
Jed, Pikey, Ninja - | think about them every
day, every day.
They will always be remembered by me as very good people.
They were.
Do you think the British volunteers out there actually
make a difference to the overall war effort?
Yeah, big time as well.
Like the Ukrainians see us and it makes them feel
like they are not alone.
I’m proud of what I’ve achieved, I’m proud of the guys
that we were out there with, we did a lot of good,
we took a lot of ground.
It’s impossible to know the exact number of British
volunteers in Ukraine as there’s now a number
of battalions that accept soldiers from abroad,
but Ukraine’s International Legion says there continues
to be a steady stream of volunteers willing to join
the fight and that the UK is still one of the most
represented countries LIl
| would never tell anyone to go out and do what I’ve done.
| believe I’ve saved a few lives and I’m a better person
for what I’ve done.
A lot of people who have sat watching it on the news
and saying "I’d go if VGG R G EYCR G
| had a good job. | had me own house.
Give it all up.
Some people would say RO T4
People call us crazy, people call us crazy.
James Dee In Leeds, about to go back to Ukraine.
We’re ready for It.
Slava Ukraini!
Slava Ukraini!
What is it about it that draws people back?
| think it’s the brotherhood. Civilians don’t understand it.
I’ve got a purpose in life out there, I’m happy,
I’ve got my friends, and I’ve got a purpose.
I’m connected up to machines and I’m in very,
very good hands.
s 1t worth 1t?
| would do it all again now, even though my outcome.
It’s probably the fact that | was doing something that
He found what he’d always been searching for.
In the photos I’ve seen, he looks like he was happy.
| wish we could have kept him here.
It’s not that we love killing or we love bloodshed,
it’s because in those situations humanity really
does shine through.
this weekend since the transition. Starting to develop
transition. Starting to develop more
transition. Starting to develop TR 4 [\
transition. Starting to develop more southerly wind, pushing
more southerly wind, pushing TG s
more southerly wind, pushing milder error across the
more southerly wind, pushing G n o R I 4
more southerly wind, pushing milder error across the UK but
milder error across the UK but also some moister errors well,
also some moister errors well, )
also some moister errors well, ]
also some moister errors well, - e
also some moister errors well, so a lot of cloud through
so a lot of cloud through Sunday, also some drizzle for a
Sunday, also some drizzle for a 18]
Sunday, also some drizzle for a time through the morning. That
time through the morning. That il
time through the morning. That will tend to
time through the morning. That IR R N o = o0 an]
time through the morning. That IR R o - oo na - elolntdlnl=e|
time through the morning. That will tend to become confined to
will tend to become confined to the coast through the day.
the coast through the day. Could see some mist and fog
Could see some mist and fog across eastern coastal counties
across eastern coastal counties i oa]
across eastern coastal counties which were clear, allowing
which were clear, allowing 1013 InT)
which were clear, allowing a1t Ia IR o)
which were clear, allowing sunshine to develop and some of
sunshine to develop and some of that will push its way further
that will push its way further ATeimde]
that will push its way further north and west. When we get the
north and west. When we get the sunshine, temperatures up to
sunshine, temperatures up to around 16 or 17 Celsius on
around 16 or 17 Celsius on I [EYY
around 16 or 17 Celsius on Sunday afternoon. On into
Sunday afternoon. On into Monday, we are still underneath
Monday, we are still underneath this area
Monday, we are still underneath DRI
Monday, we are still underneath this area of high pressure.
this area of high pressure. This is the
this area of high pressure. IR G ]
this area of high pressure. IR G ERE R (]
this area of high pressure. This is the setup for the week
This 1s the setup for the week ahead, although
This 1s the setup for the week L ARG T [ RV
This Is the setup for the week ahead, although we do start to
ahead, although we do start to T
ahead, although we do start to see more
ahead, although we do start to RN
ahead, although we do start to A RN A
ahead, although we do start to see more of an easterly wind
see more of an easterly wind settling and as that does, it
settling and as that does, it il
settling and as that does, it will bring something cooler to
will bring something cooler to Y144
will bring something cooler to east facing coasts but it’s
east facing coasts but it’s I3\
east facing coasts but it’s mostly dry, spells of sunshine
mostly dry, spells of sunshine and away from eastern coasts,
and away from eastern coasts, {3 g o]
and away from eastern coasts, L O]
and away from eastern coasts, feeling a little warmer. Cloud
feeling a little warmer. Cloud around on Monday, which will
around on Monday, which will SO0nN
around on Monday, which will soon break across eastern areas
soon break across eastern areas and most
soon break across eastern areas EYale st Sl 111
soon break across eastern areas and most will see some spells
and most will see some spells i
and most will see some spells SR )
and most will see some spells of sunshine through the David
of sunshine through the David some
of sunshine through the David some western coasts in Northern
some western coasts in Northern Ireland, perhaps hanging onto
Ireland, perhaps hanging onto the cloud, maybe with a bit of
the cloud, maybe with a bit of drizzle at times. Temperatures
drizzle at times. Temperatures IS
drizzle at times. Temperatures quite widely in
drizzle at times. Temperatures IR VARG
drizzle at times. Temperatures quite widely in the mid—teens,
quite widely in the mid—teens, the
quite widely in the mid—teens, RIS
quite widely in the mid—teens, R e d
quite widely in the mid—teens, R S R )
quite widely in the mid—teens, the rest of the sunshine and
the rest of the sunshine and away from eastern coasts,
away from eastern coasts, temperatures could have gone up
temperatures could have gone up to around 16
temperatures could have gone up ol R 0l o] s
temperatures could have gone up to around 16 or 17. As we head
to around 16 or 17. As we head into Tuesday, high pressure
into Tuesday, high pressure still the dominant feature, but
still the dominant feature, but Ao Ao
still the dominant feature, but o]
still the dominant feature, but notice the isobars start to
notice the isobars start to come close together so we start
come close together so we start 100
come close together so we start (R[]}
come close together so we start (R [ GY IE)
come close together so we start to develop a stronger easterly
to develop a stronger easterly Yl
to develop a stronger easterly I RIS
to develop a stronger easterly wind. Coastal counties, eastern
wind. Coastal counties, eastern S
wind. Coastal counties, eastern coastal counties will feel
coastal counties will feel o G
coastal counties will feel cooler, more cloud pushing
cooler, more cloud pushing across southern counties of
across southern counties of England, but for many, dry day,
England, but for many, dry day, [ 0)s}
England, but for many, dry day, good spells of sunshine, warm
good spells of sunshine, warm in the sunshine away from
In the sunshine away from eastern coasts
In the sunshine away from IS g e 1o I8
In the sunshine away from eastern coasts but most will
eastern coasts but most will have a dry day as well. Little
have a dry day as well. Little change really as we head into
change really as we head into Wednesday. If anything, wins
Wednesday. If anything, wins oY=Yoto 0 0]:)
Wednesday. If anything, wins become stronger on Wednesday.
become stronger on Wednesday. Sitting on the edge of that
Sitting on the edge of that area of high pressure. Once
area of high pressure. Once again, a
area of high pressure. Once LEIL AR 1L
area of high pressure. Once again, a fair amount of cloud
again, a fair amount of cloud across
again, a fair amount of cloud YR I e 1 = e
again, a fair amount of cloud across southern counties stop
across southern counties stop 0]
across southern counties stop sunshine developing for many
sunshine developing for many through the David notice the
through the David notice the (el
through the David notice the LGN
through the David notice the IO R
through the David notice the strength of the wind on
strength of the wind on Wednesday, quite a keen
Wednesday, quite a keen R
Wednesday, quite a keen easterly wind blowing so
easterly wind blowing so Y10
easterly wind blowing so despite some sunshine along
despite some sunshine along eastern
despite some sunshine along R R R
despite some sunshine along eastern coasts, it will be
eastern coasts, it will be {3 g o]
eastern coasts, it will be CE LR
eastern coasts, it will be feeling on the cool side,
feeling on the cool side, perhaps 12 or 13 year,
NGRS R perhaps 12 or 13 year, away
perhaps 12 or 13 year, away from
perhaps 12 or 13 year, away eI -]
perhaps 12 or 13 year, away from eastern coasts,
from eastern coasts, temperatures again in the
temperatures again in the I T 0
temperatures again in the mid—teens but not seeing the
mid—teens but not seeing the 16th and 17th we saw earlier in
16th and 17th we saw earlier Iin the
16th and 17th we saw earlier Iin R T4
16th and 17th we saw earlier Iin the week and
16th and 17th we saw earlier In the week and were given the
the week and were given the (el
the week and were given the LGN
the week and were given the IO R
the week and were given the strength of the wind stop we
strength of the wind stop we still keep that stronger
still keep that stronger windows we
still keep that stronger eTale) ol M|
still keep that stronger windows we head into Thursday.
windows we head into Thursday. Mainly dry, good deal sunshine
Mainly dry, good deal sunshine but
Mainly dry, good deal sunshine s
Mainly dry, good deal sunshine but that noticeable easterly
but that noticeable easterly R YL
but that noticeable easterly breeze taking the edge of
breeze taking the edge of temperatures
breeze taking the edge of WS E O T
breeze taking the edge of temperatures but on Thursday at
temperatures but on Thursday at )
temperatures but on Thursday at the moment, a fine day, good
the moment, a fine day, good deal
the moment, a fine day, good Y|
the moment, a fine day, good deal of sunshine but we could
deal of sunshine but we could N 1as
deal of sunshine but we could start to see showers pushing
start to see showers pushing Taine)
start to see showers pushing into stub parts of East Anglia
into stub parts of East Anglia and
Into stub parts of East Anglia and south—east England and
and south—east England and those temperatures will
those temperatures will typically be between 12 and 14
typically be between 12 and 14 e
typically be between 12 and 14 or 156
typically be between 12 and 14 or 15 Celsius. Further on from
or 15 Celsius. Further on from LT
or 15 Celsius. Further on from there, as this high pressure
there, as this high pressure o a a1
there, as this high pressure continues to drift away a bit
continues to drift away a bit haaEe
continues to drift away a bit further, we start to see areas
further, we start to see areas of
further, we start to see areas YRl
further, we start to see areas of low pressure developing us
of low pressure developing us o ain 1
of low pressure developing us o Ye1n ez 1106/
of low pressure developing us Central and southern parts of
Central and southern parts of England and we could start to
England and we could start to T
England and we could start to 0 81
England and we could start to RN R 0y ey
England and we could start to see some showers developing as
see some showers developing as Y
see some showers developing as we head through the weekend and
we head through the weekend and ey 0]
we head through the weekend and into the early part of the
into the early part of the AL
into the early part of the following week but for many,
following week but for many, where we’ve
following week but for many, N R R T
following week but for many, where we’ve seen a fair amount
where we’ve seen a fair amount i
where we’ve seen a fair amount e
where we’ve seen a fair amount of rain recently and things
of rain recently and things have been on the cool side, for
have been on the cool side, for the
have been on the cool side, for R T4
have been on the cool side, for R V& |
have been on the cool side, for the week ahead and further
the week ahead and further ahead into the forecast, things
ahead into the forecast, things )
ahead into the forecast, things are looking mainly dry and a
are looking mainly dry and a little bit warmer. Goodbye.
Live from Washington, this is BBC News.
At least 27 people killed, including aid workers,
In clashes between Sudan’s army and a paramilitary force.
More than 100 animal rights protesters arrested
after storming the ground at the Grand National horse race.
And Minneapolis becomes the first US major city
to allow broadcast of the Muslim call to prayer over
speakers five times a day, all year round.
Hello, I’m Helena Humpbhrey.
Good to have you with us.
We start in Sudan, where heavy fighting between two rival
factions of the military has left at least 27 people dead
including three UN staff.
Earlier, gunfire and explosions rocked the capital, Khartoum.
The Sudanese military has RSP LR N =
Inside amid clashes at the presidential palace
and the city’s airport.
What you’re seeing here was recorded earlier
at Khartoum International Airport, where at least two
people were reportedly killed.
Footage there shows large plumes of smoke and fighter
Jets flying low overhead, and there was this video
from inside the Khartoum airport showing passengers
taking cover on the floor.
Major airlines have reportedly suspended flights.
This Is the skyline across Khartoum.
Exact death tolls are yet to be confirmed.
A journalist from the Washington Post newspaper
reported 30 people dead and nearly 400 injured,
citing the United Nations.
Victims include three United Nations aid workers
who were Killed in the crossfire at a military base.
We want to show you what happened earlier
on Sudanese state TV.
The newsreader briefly appeared, talking about
clashes, but lsten carefully and you can hear gunshots
In the background.
As you see, the picture then froze, and a short while later
the broadcast suddenly cuts off.
These clashes erupted after tensions over a proposed
transition to civilian rule.
Let’s remind ourselves of the political situation in
Sudan.
Sudan has been run by the military since a coup
in October 2021.
The fighting Is between army units loyal to the de facto
leader, General Abdel Fattah al—Burhan, and the RSF,
commanded by Sudan’s deputy leader, Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo.
The two sides are in a dispute over who governs the country.
Violence is also being reported in several other cities
across the country.
The Reuters news agency is reporting eyewitness
accounts of Sudanese army air strikes in the city of
Omdurman.
The target is a base belonging to the RSF paramilitary group
north—east of the capital, Khartoum.
Both sides have issued conficting claims of control
over key installations, from airports to the presidential
palace.
In a post on Facebook, the Sudanese army has labelled
the RSF a rebel militia NI RO I -l
negotiations or talks until the dissolution
of the group.
Earlier | spoke with the director of Africa programs
at the US Institute of Peace, Susan Stigant, who was actually
In Sudan two weeks ago.
Could you
Could you tell that tensions N e}
Could you tell that tensions were running high?
Yes, | was there the week before last.
At that point it was clear that the tensions
were Incredibly high.
There was a mobilisation of heavy weaponry, reports
]I 1[e]p) of additional forces.
And it was clear In the political negotiations that
were going on, in an effort to form a new civilian
government to end the coup of October 2021, that the parties
were coming down to the really difficult issues,
and particularly the question of the structure
of decision—making and power and control,
and the relationship between General Burhan
as the head of the Sudan armed forces and General Hemedti
as the head of the Rapid Support Forces.
But the fear and concern and tensions were absolutely
palpable at that point.
So those tensions, as you described there,
were palpable — the feeling that we were starting to come
to what appears to be, at least, a pivotal moment.
But perhaps for people who might not be entirely
familiar with the political situation in Sudan, just
briefly explain to us what is going on here.
In the time leading up to today, there have been talks
and negotiations taking place to really move
to a new civiian—led gl
This resulted in a draft political framework agreement
before the end of 2022.
And the discussions continued on really five core issues that
were the most difficult to resolve — questions
of justice and transitional justice, questions of peace,
questions of what happens in the eastern part of Sudan,
questions about what happens with those who were responsible
for crimes and those who were part of the former
Bashir regime, and then this incredibly difficult question
about security reform.
And so there have been intensive discussions taking
place, and | think much of the focus has really been
pushing to try to get to that agreement that could bridge
ST I SR gL for Sudan, if you will.
And so what we saw over the last 24 hours, | think,
Is the clearest and | think in many ways quite tragic
evidence that those who are holding the power,
those who are holding the power of the gun,
are not comfortable.
And as much as we believe and we say that violence
will not resolve the issue, those people who have
the authority over coercive force right now, they believe
that they are strengthening their positions for the future
through the use of violence.
So Susan, you talk there about people with the authority
In Sudan.
But | wonder, then, what does all of this mean for people’s
everyday lives in the country?
Yes, | mean, two weeks ago people were certainly feeling
the impact of the economic crisis.
Inflation had hit over 150%, and that economic crisis has
really been building since the October 2021 coup.
And today in Khartoum, and in other urban areas
across the country, people are living in the middle
of active fighting.
| think there are concerns about people getting access
to basic services, and there are real safety
concerns for individuals.
And when you think about a time four years ago
when the Sudanese people really came together,
men and women, young and olg, from all across the country
to mobilise in a peaceful way against an authoritarian
regime, who put themselves at risk, who have really
sacrificed in hundreds of instances their lives —
being In the midst of a fight between security and military,
| think, i1s really shocking for many Sudanese and for many
of us who watch the country closely.
And talking about the country, but also the region,
Susan, as well, we’re hearing that fighting is spreading out
of the capital.
We’ve also heard that neighbouring Chad has
What do you think are the risks of potential spread here?
Do you think that we expect any engagement from surrounding
oo 11 a LN By
The neighbourhood where Sudan is located — | mean,
you’ve mentioned Chad, South Sudan, Central African
Republic.
These are countries that are all facing their own
Q1R AL and where the relationships
between different groups across the countries
are fragile and tenuous.
And so | think an incredibly — you know, the first—order
message right now is to end the violence, and | don’t think
that can be said too much, too loudly or at too high
a level at the moment.
| think a second—order message is to say to the neighbouring
countries, step back.
Ensure that you are not engaging in any way
414 could have helped to perpetuate
the violence that is taking
place, and in fact take a step forward to try to encourage
those who are fighting to put the weapons down and to return
to some sort of sensible political framework
and political negotiation that could hopefully deliver
a new government and a more peaceful situation for
the Sudanese people.
Susan, do you think that that possibility is still there
at this moment?
Is the window still open for the violence to be ended?
Well, | think the escalation and the speed of the escalation
of violence, the rhetoric IS R R R s
and the spread of the violence is incredibly concerning.
And we know that there are always openings and windows,
and so | think coherence among international partners,
space for the Sudanese who are still courageously
and with the greatest determination trying to find
ways to bridge and deliver the message that a pathway
towards a democratic, peaceful Sudan does not include
the use of violence in a civil war.
Susan, you work for the US Institute of Peace.
| just want to ask you briefly about the role of the United
We’ve heard from the secretary of state, Antony Blinken,
today calling for an immediate end to violence and calling
this a fragile situation
as the country looks to transition back to civilian
-y
Do you think that there are any indications that the US might
seek to mediate in some way?
The United States has been actively involved in supporting
the ongoing political - the negotiations that
were taking place prior to today.
| fully anticipate that the US 1 WV IS
Its diplomatic support.
Hopefully that includes engagement at the highest
levels of the United States government, and | anticipate
that that will be done in close partnership with leaders
from the region, with the African Union,
with the United Nations, with the United Kingdom,
with the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia.
| think these are all countries that have influence
and interest In seeing a stable Sudan and countries that
CICRE LN A ] Do lg 1l in reaching some of the people
who are actually the ones who are creating the situation
on the ground right now.
In India, a former politician and
In India, a former politician Tl 11
In India, a former politician e I 0 0 dal-) s
In India, a former politician and his brother have been shot
and his brother have been shot YTl
and his brother have been shot dead on live TV. They were
dead on live TV. They were taking questions from a
taking questions from a journalist moments before they
Journalist moments before they I )
Journalist moments before they were shot. He
journalist moments before they were shot. He was
journalist moments before they R R e 2]
journalist moments before they were shot. He was under police
were shot. He was under police Yoo la s
were shot. He was under police escort facing murder and
escort facing murder and assault charges and last month
assault charges and last month the Supreme Court declined to
the Supreme Court declined to hear his position in which he
hear his position in which he alleged there was a threat to
alleged there was a threat to 1S
alleged there was a threat to TR
alleged there was a threat to AR i nn]
alleged there was a threat to NIRRT R i s
alleged there was a threat to his life from the police.
To the UK, and 118 people have been have been arrested
at the Grand National, one of the most prestigious
ARSI RO il
They were arrested on suspicion of criminal damage and public
nuisance offences in relation to disruption.
A large number of police had been deployed to the ground
after animal rights activists had warned they would try
to disrupt the race.
Officers went onto the course to remove the protesters.
The start of the race was delayed for 14 minutes
whilst the group were cleared, but it did eventually go ahead
and was won by Corach Rambler, ridden by the jockey Derek Fox.
Our correspondent Sharon Barbour was at Aintree
Racecourse.
Well, it’s been a really tense day here at Aintree,
a day of high drama.
It began with the protesters Animal Rising, which all week
had threatened to disrupt that most important of races
in the racing calendar, the Grand National,
which was due to start at 5:15pm.
Everybody said that they couldn’t possibly.
There were so many police here surrounding the racecourse,
The protesters arrived.
They began their rally, they began a protest.
They sat down on the ground and when we spoke to them.
They were determined, they said, to disrupt the race,
but still it wasn’t believed that it was possible.
Well, they did.
The race was stopped for around 15 minutes as they got
AR
Nine Animal Rising protesters were arrested.
A little bit about that organisation — it was
until a few days ago Animal Extinction.
It was a sister organisation to Rebellion Extinction.
We don’t know how many were here, but certainly
they got onto the track.
They managed somehow to get through security and disrupted
a race that is so important not only here in Liverpool,
where the income is around £60 TR RO R G
but right around the world.
500 million, the Jockey Club say, watch the race
in 140 countries.
So certainly, even though the race got under way,
for the activists it was R WSS ML T o}
what they say are issues around animal welfare.
Certainly there are going to be a lot of questions not only
about security and what they can do to now protect that
race, but also questions about what they can do,
perhaps, about the safety of the horses taking part.
Back to you.
Staying in the UK, and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak
Is to ban the construction of new smart motorways,
which use technology to requlate speed and traffic
flow on the country’s WSO
14 planned smart motorways, including 11 that are already
paused, will be removed from Government road building plans.
The BBC’s Panorama programme in 2020 investigated smart
motorways, revealing 38 people have been killed on them over
a space of five years.
It led to the Government reviewing the smart motorway
network.
Here Is a snippet from the documentary by Richard
Tl
We put in a freedom of information request for one
NI IO VAT
One warning sign was out of action for nearly a year
There was also a 20—fold rise in near misses —
72 In the five years with the hard shoulder,
1,485 In the five years without.
Earlier | spoke to our political correspondent
Damian Grammaticas and asked him how smart motorways work
and what prompted the Government decision.
Yeah, so the way these work is that in order
to try to improve the flow of traffic on the motorways
and keep traffic moving, what the Government has done
here over recent years Is bring in these sort of measures.
Now, some are simply electronic boards that advise you,
they change the speed limit and try to keep traffic moving.
The one that is most controversial is a scheme that
exists already on quite a number of motorways
where the hard shoulder — so the edge of the motorway,
what would not be used in traditional motorways,
LI [ R LT T o X T QT T if you had a problem —
that had been converted on some motorways into an extra lane
for permanent moving traffic.
Now, the idea was that it’s monitored by cameras.
There are these billboards.
If you had trouble or a problem, you were told
to stay in your car.
The traffic would be directed to slow down and go around you.
Now, part of the problem was that there were accidents
happening there, and as that Panorama programme revealed,
there had been some 30—plus deaths on some of those
motorways In recent years.
So this had led to a safety review, a pause in the
development of new areas of smart motorway.
And what we now get is this announcement that the projects
that have been paused, so 14 of them have been paused
or planned, will not go ahead.
Two projects which are nearing completion will actually
now be done.
But crucially, | think it’s important to say the ones that
are already in place will stay.
They will continue, with some safety upgrades,
so those will not change.
So Damian, is this actually the end, then,
of smart motorways?
And can the Government do this?
No, by any means it’s not the end.
So smart motorways cover already something like 10%
of the motorway network, IR RS R RGN €
so the ones that are in place will stay in place.
What the Government has done L EYATR VA E L
for the sort of timeframe you can look into, up
to the end of the decade, all road building plans -
and smart motorways are part of that — they’re now
being removed from those plans.
Nothing before the end of the decade, and it
will continue to look at how users view this.
But it’s worth saying, too, this is not just about safety.
A large part of this is about cost — inflating
prices for the work to convert motorways into smart ones.
The bill for the project upcoming is put at about
£1 billion, so that’s £1 billion worth of savings
the Government is making.
So there’s a cost saving it can make here, as well as,
It says, listening to or responding to public
concerns about safety.
Our political correspondent Damian Grammaticas breaking
that down for us.
Damian, thank you.
In England, coordinated strike action involving doctors
and nurses isn’t being ruled out, according to the union
the British Medical Association, as their pay
dispute continues.
NHS leaders say the further planned walkouts by nurses
In England pose serious risks.
Simon Jones reports.
Preparing for more (ISR
Members of the Royal College of Nursing will strike again
over the May Day Bank Holiday in England.
For the first time, it will involve those working
In emergency departments, intensive care units
and cancer care.
Hospital bosses are concerned.
That will present an unprecedented level of action
that we haven’t yet seen from nursing staff
and therefore the challenges with that, you know,
the organisation and all of the work that will go
into managing and mitigating that, will be enormous.
The pay deal on the table would amend a 5% rise for this
year plus a one—off payment for last year.
Jessica Collins, a paediatric nurse from Cambridgeshire,
voted against the deal.
I TS R [ o E Y restoration we asked for.
In fact, it’s nowhere near and | think there is a lot
of disappointment in the unions for trying to encourage us
to accept it.
Clint Cooper, a nurse in Yorkshire, was in favour
Absolutely gutted.
| understand why my colleagues have rejected it,
but | stand by my word.
| will not leave my patients.
This morning, junior doctors returned to work after four
days of strike action.
They’re asking for a 35% pay rise and their union has not
ruled out co—ordinating strike action with nurses in future.
It’s difficult to hypothesise but all options are very much
on the table and involve easing health secretaries called
to prevent any further strike action.
The Royal College of Nursing responded that it is in close
contact with the BMA NSRRI N
planned co—ordinated action.
The government says the 5% pay offer made to nurses
Is fair generous.
It has been accepted by another union, Unison.
Ministers say that what the best for patients and staff.
Malcolm spent the night in A&E at Saint Thomas’s Hospital
In London after falling and breaking a finger.
| don’t think they should be allowed to go on strike.
Because it’s an important job.
Hospital bosses say the NHS needs a period of stability.
Instead, it’s facing more disruption.
Simon Jones, BBC News.
To the US state of Minnesota, where the state’s largest
populated city, Minneapolis, has become
the first US major city to allow broadcast of the Muslim
call to prayer, Adhan, to be heard over speakers five
times a day, all year—round.
The state has had a large East African immigrant
community since the 1990s, which led to the emergence
of groups including the state’s Council on American—=Islamic
Relations, which strives to ensure Muslims in Minnesota
enjoy the same protections as all Americans.
Joining me now Is the executive director of the Council
on American—Islamic relations’ Minnesota chapter,
Jaylani Hussein who is in Minneapolis.
Jaylani, thank you for joining the program.
What did restrictions on the call to prayer look
like before and why the change now?
Thank you for having me. It is a
Thank you for having me. It is a symbol
Thank you for having me. It is Sl LN
Thank you for having me. It is a symbol of really is lime and
a symbol of really is lime and T3
a symbol of really is lime and is a continuation
a symbol of really i1s lime and is a continuation of what
I1s a continuation of what other ETids]
I1s a continuation of what other faith traditions
iIs a continuation of what other faith traditions do so for
faith traditions do so for Muslims across the world,
Muslims across the world, TN
Muslims across the world, wherever they
Muslims across the world, O RO
Muslims across the world, wherever they are, it’s
Muslims across the world, ROV ISR [
wherever they are, it’s the first sign that you probably
first sign that you probably know that they are Muslims
know that they are Muslims e
know that they are Muslims R
know that they are Muslims because the call to prayer
because the call to prayer comes
because the call to prayer e i
because the call to prayer comes out. Just like most
comes out. Just like most people
comes out. Just like most L] RO |
comes out. Just like most people would know that
comes out. Just lke most people would know that in a
people would know that in a church, there are bells going
church, there are bells going 30
church, there are bells going on Sunday or on holidays, so it
on Sunday or on holidays, so it truly
on Sunday or on holidays, so it T VA
on Sunday or on holidays, so it (T VAT
on Sunday or on holidays, so it truly is a symbol and most
truly is a symbol and most mosques across
truly 1s a symbol and most mosques across the world
truly i1s a symbol and most mosques across the world have
truly 1s a symbol and most mosques across the world have a
mosques across the world have a =
mosques across the world have a call to
mosques across the world have a o | (RGN
mosques across the world have a call to prayer and
call to prayer and unfortunately in America, we
unfortunately in America, we haven’t had that opportunity to
haven’t had that opportunity to T
haven’t had that opportunity to RS
haven’t had that opportunity to see this being practised widely
see this being practised widely or even practised at
see this being practised widely VU G R
see this being practised widely or even practised at all. And
or even practised at all. And )
or even practised at all. And N B TS
or even practised at all. And me Natalie L and —— and
me Natalie L and —— and Minneapolis is now historic and
Minneapolis is now historic and Y
Minneapolis is now historic and DL
Minneapolis is now historic and we hope that many
Minneapolis Is now historic and R R G E O E VA S
Minneapolis is now historic and we hope that many cities across
we hope that many cities across the country who have many
the country who have many mosques across America can also
mosques across America can also do
mosques across America can also R
mosques across America can also do that and
mosques across America can also R sl
mosques across America can also do that and | think it’s
mosques across America can also ORI R RO @ |
do that and | think it’s a freedom of religion
do that and I think it’s a freedom of religion issue but
freedom of religion issue but EY )
freedom of religion issue but O]
freedom of religion issue but RS
freedom of religion issue but also a sign of inclusion, that
also a sign of inclusion, that [T
also a sign of inclusion, that Muslims are actually part and
Muslims are actually part and parcel of
Muslims are actually part and Ll Rl I
Muslims are actually part and parcel of our communities. So
parcel of our communities. So what did restrictions look like
what did restrictions look like before and how did this change
before and how did this change come
before and how did this change IR A
before and how did this change come about, and why now? Well,
come about, and why now? Well, the state
come about, and why now? Well, R
come about, and why now? Well, the state of Masivesi Dakuwaqga
the state of Masivesi Dakuwaqa ladIE VY]
the state of Masivesi Dakuwaqa actually had the policy that
actually had the policy that Y
actually had the policy that NN
actually had the policy that ensured —— the state of
ensured —— the state of Masivesi Dakuwaga actually had
Masivesi Dakuwaga actually had the policy that
Masivesi Dakuwaqa actually had the policy that there would be
the policy that there would be no constitutional
the policy that there would be AT e a LAkt id o IR A1 ERd o o 1S
the policy that there would be no constitutional violations of
no constitutional violations of the practice of religion, so
the practice of religion, so there
the practice of religion, so e R e
the practice of religion, so there were ordinances which
there were ordinances which o111\
there were ordinances which specifically had no such thing
specifically had no such thing from 7pm until 10pm and we live
from 7pm until 10pm and we live s
from 7pm until 10pm and we live in the
from 7pm until 10pm and we live TR e el anar= an]
from 7pm until 10pm and we live in the northern part of the
In the northern part of the country here, so our prayers
country here, so our prayers move pretty gradually
move pretty gradually throughout the year so
throughout the year so I\
throughout the year so technically at least three
technically at least three prayers would be allowed
prayers would be allowed throughout the year so what we
throughout the year so what we worked with, bodies who worked
worked with, bodies who worked with our
worked with, bodies who worked AR N1 aR e a e
worked with, bodies who worked i Mo Tl aRe ad o= )n)
worked with, bodies who worked with our office on one of our
with our office on one of our local mosques —— mosques there,
local mosques —— mosques there, and we
local mosques —— mosques there, ENLR R e
local mosques —— mosques there, LR R L
local mosques —— mosques there, and we were able to change that
and we were able to change that e el
and we were able to change that e e eI no]
and we were able to change that ordinance to make sure that it
ordinance to make sure that it Y- Ys
ordinance to make sure that it Y - R s
ordinance to make sure that it VI Yo R o T )
ordinance to make sure that it allowed for the call to prayer
allowed for the call to prayer and really allowed for any
and really allowed for any other type of practice of
other type of practice of N
other type of practice of I R
other type of practice of religion that maybe limited by
religion that maybe limited by a1
religion that maybe limited by 1o )
religion that maybe limited by that noise audience of 7am to
that noise audience of 7am to 1)
that noise audience of 7am to ten p.m. How is this being
ten p.m. How is this being received in
ten p.m. How is this being Y- )
ten p.m. How is this being received in the city, in the
received In the city, in the community? It’s incredible. |
community? It’s incredible. | received from our organisation,
received from our organisation, )
received from our organisation, RS
received from our organisation, R
received from our organisation, so far an incredible amount of
so far an incredible amount of support. Even in this process
support. Even in this process i
support. Even in this process of requesting this, it
support. Even In this process of requesting this, it was
of requesting this, it was truly an interfaith effort. We
truly an interfaith effort. We had community members from all
had community members from all ETids]
had community members from all faith traditions who came to
faith traditions who came to support
faith traditions who came to 1o ] Lo g R 413
faith traditions who came to support this effort and for the
support this effort and for the [T
support this effort and for the Muslim community, this is a
Muslim community, this is a tremendous joy. | had a member
tremendous joy. | had a member i
tremendous joy. | had a member of our community who is a
of our community who is a A el ale
of our community who is a Yol a ae
of our community who Is a descendant of slaves, she
of our community who iIs a descendant of slaves, she told
descendant of slaves, she told )
descendant of slaves, she told A
descendant of slaves, she told MR e
descendant of slaves, she told me she never thought she would
me she never thought she would V. d
me she never thought she would AV - 1 8
me she never thought she would ever hear the call of prayer in
ever hear the call of prayer in X0 el
ever hear the call of prayer in America and it’s
ever hear the call of prayer In America and it’s something
ever hear the call of prayer in America and it’s something that
America and it’s something that TS
America and it’s something that obviously we have a right to do
obviously we have a right to do )
obviously we have a right to do RS
obviously we have a right to do RO
obviously we have a right to do so this is incredible. | talked
so this Is incredible. | talked 100
so this Is incredible. | talked R eI
so this iIs incredible. | talked to families and individuals
so this i1s incredible. | talked to families and individuals who
to families and individuals who said this
to families and individuals who IR IR
to families and individuals who said this is the one thing that
sald this is the one thing that their children
said this is the one thing that their children never get to
their children never get to O
their children never get to experience and for many of our
experience and for many of our L[] Y016
experience and for many of our neighbours and our community
neighbours and our community members were not Muslim, they
members were not Muslim, they )
members were not Muslim, they are extremely welcoming and so
are extremely welcoming and so tremendous support and
tremendous support and oL an = a0
tremendous support and o i e a1 = e 1o
tremendous support and excitement and |
tremendous support and i o e e IR aTla]d
tremendous support and I NN ROV ® s
tremendous support and N R ROV ® RN
excitement and | think we have 4
excitement and | think we have ]
excitement and | think we have I W I L]
excitement and | think we have set a precedent here for other
set a precedent here for other i
set a precedent here for other cities. Thank you very much for
cities. Thank you very much for joining us.
Stay with us here on BBC News.
Most of us got to see some sunshine on Saturday.
| suspect that Sunday will be a slightly cloudier affair.
That cloud rolling its way in from the west.
That saidq, If you do get some sunshine, it
will feel relatively warm.
But those cloudier conditions, courtesy of this frontal system
ST R CRYZ VA LR () the west, even bringing some
splashes of rain.
High pressure still holding firm just about, so we’re
looking at mainly dry weather and where we are closest
to the centre of the high across parts eastern England,
a sunny but rather chilly start with some early fog patches.
Further west, though, a lot of cloud, spots
Through the afternoon, Northern Ireland could well
brighten up but that could spawn some pretty sharp
showers.
North—east Scotland, spells of sunshine, lifting
of sunshine, lifting
temperatures here to around 17 degrees.
Generally values between 12 and 16 degrees.
As we move through Sunday night, we keep some quite large
areas of cloud.
The cloud will break in places but if you do see clear spells
for any length of time, they could fill in with some
patches of mist and fog.
And If it stays cloudy where you are, it will remain
relatively mild
but in the clearer spots, temperatures could drop
relatively close to freezing.
So still on Monday, still this patchwork of clear spells
and cloudy areas.
It could well be that we see quite a lot of cloud
rolling its way in from the North Sea and that,
coupled with a bit of a breeze from the North Sea, will make
it feel really rather chilly for some of our eastern coasts.
So temperatures in Hull, for example, around 13 degrees,
same sort of temperature for Aberdeen but further west,
Glasgow, 17 degrees, in some spots up
to 18 and as as we head deeper
into the week, this area of high pressure stays with us,
meaning it will be largely dry but with this high building
to the north—east of us, this easterly wind will tend
to strengthen a little.
So that breeze, quite noticeable coming
in off the chilly North Sea will make it feel rather cool
for some of these eastern coasts.
We could see more cloud in the south developing
Some spells of sunshine elsewhere.
Once again, the highest temperatures likely to be
g ISR N el and west of the UK.
And that is a theme that will continue as we head deeper
into the week.
Always a little bit chilly the further east you are.
Could turn quite cloudy around the middle parts of the week.
But there will always be some spells of sunshine
and generally warmest in the west.
VOICE—OVER: This is BBC News.
We’ll have the headlines and all the main news stories
for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
ARGUMENT DONE BY ENO BARONY PLAYS.
# High spirits so they can’t kill it.
# God’s plan, no man...
Hiplife, to us, i1s what peanut RN ek
This is what actually defines us as Ghanaians.
Every Ghanaian everywhere is representing Ghana
with hiplife.
| would not even have fathomed being a musician
If hiplife didn’t happen.
The story of hiplife is important to tell...
# | don’t walk around in the Philippines.
# with the Philistines.
# M dot, In any vicinity, | fulfil a dream.
# No, I’m not a rapper, I’m an ideas company...
To understand the rising global influence of African music,
you have to understand the story of hiplife...
KEEP YOUR EYES ON THE ROAD BY REGGIE ROCKSTONE PLAYS.
When | did what | did, | tagged it.
So, when a dude put a piece of meat between two bread,
and he called it a burger, he named it.
| named it ‘hiplife’.
# But that’s all the boy really wanna hear...
Hiplife music is a conversation between Ghana’s past...
..and its present.
MIND YOUR BUSINESS BY ENO BARONI| PLAYS.
This i1s the story of a music genre that birthed
a global movement.
But before hiplife, there was ‘highlife’.
From Ghana’s independence in 1957 through to the 1970s,
highlife was the nation’s soundtrack.
Back in the what we call 'the colonial days,’
they were using all these instruments for military
You know, people were marching and things like that...
The colonial masters in their bow ties, they thought
that that was a "high" form of life and they called it
W[l 110 (=3
Highlife isn’t originally from Ghana.
Highlife was brought to Ghana by soldiers from the West
LGS
Ghanaian rhythms were pushed into the highlife.
We take what is happening outside and we bring our own.
Ah, one, two, three, four!
STiid
| am the originator.
That’s what | say, Gyedu—Blay Ambolley is the tree.
Those that came later, they are the branches.
STiid
Because when we were children, we didn’t have money
to buy congas.
So, we started using our mouth for rhythms...
The country in the world that has the richest tradition
of orators and linguists is Ghana.
LR e R R O R (1 cannot speak to anybody.
He can — he can only speak through a linguist.
The linguist is the rapper, but it was me who added rhythm.
For the next two decades, highlife artists infused global
beats like reggae, jazz, funk and disco into the genre.
In 1992, after 11 years of military rule, Ghana had
a new constitution and democratic freedom.
Young Ghanaians flooded the cultural capital,
Accra.
American hip—hop dominated the newly liberated airwaves.
A young music producer, Panji Anoff, tapped
into the scene.
| recorded a demo for almost every single rap group
| could find in Accra at the time, free of charge.
LRI A L SRV T T to work with is my childhood
friend, Reggie Rockstone.
My name Is Reggie Rockstone, the hiplife originator.
# Now whoop it up, turn it out.
# Whoop it up, bring it in.
# Turn it out, whoop it up, hey!
ABRAHAM: Reggie is always hype, all the time.
And when he speaks, it’s like he’s rapping.
| mean, he’s...
Literally, his language is like poetry.
# Woke up outta bed this morning.
# Crack a dawning...
# | grew up in Colindale, UK, Brixton, Crackney —
they call it Hackney.
| grew up Iin Brooklyn, New York, Flatbush.
Coming back home to Ghana.
# Yeah, this is Reggie Rockstone...
When | got off that plane, the smell, the sunshine,
the love, right up to we started this movement called
hiplife.
Things took off when Reggie met D) Rab in Accra.
| met Reggie Rockstone in a nightclub called
Miracle Mirage and he was rapping on the mic...
Rab was an African—American who came to Ghana to stay
for a long period and helped develop this
sound that became hiplife.
..and | introduced myself and Reggie had the short locks
at the time and he was with another rap artist called
Freddie Funkstone.
| thought | was listening to rappers from Brooklyn.
So, Immediately, | got up out of the table.
| said, "Look, | don’t have any discs, but | can make beats".
We left the club, like, 4:00 in the morning,
we got to the recording studio at like 10:00 or 11:00
In the morning.
Then, like, a few hours later, everything started clicking.
Rab was very much like Reggie as well — two peas in a pod.
Unfortunately, he passed away.
But yeah, Rab was Reggie’'s partner in music for
ER Ol IRdT Y
The two Ghanaians, raised in the West, mixed hip—hop
QAR LIS and hiplife was born.
| looked like the folks that they had seen on MTV.
| had the short dreads, the wife beater, the Tims,
the camouflage.
But then, when | rapped, it was in Twi.
And that, that just blew everybody’s mind.
Twi being one of the biggest local languages, it was unique
In a sense that nobody had attempted to put rap together
in that context before.
# On and on for the hiplife.
# Check, check it out...
Pops would always say, "Listen, Reggie," you know,
"all your rap?
"Bibbidy, bibbidy...
"People ain’t got time to listen to all of them lyrics.
"We need something to catch them — a hook, a chorus."
And he was right.
Because at the time, not long before | came,
Naughty By Nature had blown up with hip—hop -
llHey’ holl — and my father always
used to say how African that was — call and response.
Now "tsoo bol," | can say that anywhere in Ghana
and | get a response.
# Tsoo bol.
# Yeah.
# Tsoo bol...
"Tsoo bol" actually is the heave—ho.
Any time we have to move something heavy, it’s that
sound, and this tells you how powerful sound is.
# Tsoo bol...
Reggie Rockstone quickly became Ghana’s first superstar.
People in the place!
You know what I’m sayin’?
It was so easy for Africa to embrace hip—hop -
It comes from us.
Everything about hip—hop is African, right down
to the boogey, right down to the swag — everything.
It’s only because of that big, bad boat ride called slavery
Is how we got divided.
| got an uncle that look just like Puff Daddy.
# Yo, sometimes | sit back and try to reminisce...
Panafest ‘94 — a pan—African cultural festival aimed
at bringing Africans around the globe together —
would catapult hiplife.
| felt Panafest was, in many ways, the perfect
opportunity for hiplife to go beyond Accra.
All of a sudden, it changed.
It’s like, hold on a second - W IR B E VRS LG [
For the next two decades, hiplife acts dominated
West African airwaves, reclaiming hip—hop as African.
There were some huge, huge sales made by hiplife
artists like Tic Tac or Obrafour or Kenya.
For the very first time, they became the songs that
you’d hear in the bars, the clubs — everywhere.
Then, when | came to this country, | shot the very first
hiplfe videos, which was Reggie
Rockstone’s Tsoo Bol and Talking Drums’ Aden.
# Because he’s LR R N
# Once had a Afro, but not some cornrow...
| had wasted a lot of money taking Talking Drums to America
and thinking that in 1995, America was ready for a Burna
=T0)VA
# Know my name Is Shabba.
They were rapping but they were wearing these batakaris.
30 years ago, they were considered to be very
primitive, traditional clothes.
But | went to Atlantic in 1995 with Talking Drums.
| shouldn’t have done, 'cos | met record executive
executives who couldn’t even conceive that there was hip—hop
in Africa, so it took till 2020 for an American label
like Atlantic to sign Burna Boy.
# Like say tomorrow no dey.
# Like say tomorrow no dey...
By the late 2010s, Afrobeats out of Nigeria —
a hybrid of highlife and global beats -
had knocked hiplife off its pedestal.
Afrobeats became the catch—all for West African pop.
# You want a Mr Right, NN LT YA
Hiplife is dead because the driving force of the music
Is the younger people, and the younger people do not
identify with hiplife.
I’d be a fool to sit on BBC and say hiplife is dead.
No, hiplife is not dead.
Ghana and Nigeria — [ RO LEAE Gl
from jollof rice to football - dispute whether Afrobeats
was born out of hiplife.
| get embarrassed when | see these unnecessary Ghanaian
resentment towards Nigerians '‘cos of their success.
It’s not a good look.
# | don’t deserve all your awesome.
# But truthfully, truthfully...
We benefit from Nigerian success, as Nigerians do
benefit from Ghanaian success.
# Simple ABC for your delight.
# Mmm, sake off.
Some young people now don’t realise the collaborations
and work that has been going on between Ghanaian
and Nigerian artists for the last 30, 40,
50, 60, 70 years.
# Palm wine for lunch and dinner for breakfast...
Nobody will understand the importance of hiplife
until Afrobeat is the biggest music in the world.
We are almost there already.
But without hiplife, there would be no Afrobeats.
Ghana had established that sound before Nigerians really
got into the stride of things.
# Like say tomorrow no dey...
For them, ‘99 was like a watershed moment for them
and, ‘99, Ghanaians already had megastar hiplife artists.
If you were to take the music that they were doing
and compare it with what was happening in Ghana,
what you will find is that it was more like the pre—hiplife
American imitation sort of music, and it didn’t
have an identity.
But as time went on, they fused in the Pidgin,
the local language, just like hiplife did.
Nigeria carried the torch but Ghana lit the torch.
We dropped the soap.
We should have stood by that brand.
Because our cousins next door did the same thing
with Afrobeat and they did not budge, and here we are today.
Let’s be clear, first and foremost — Afrobeats is not
e[ F 1o AT Ghanaian and Nigerian.
# Like Cabernet Sauvignon.
# Strangers wondering what we on...
The originators of hiplife were a bit too precious
about what it should be, so as new versions sonically
were happening, you could hear people saying, "Oh, this Jamba.
"This Azonto I1s watered down, it’s not real.”
This thing, there is always the idea of real.
You have to evolve or perish is what any music form
has to understand.
Those that were gatekeeping in hiplife were refusing
to acknowledge the evolution.
# Up and down them streets, yeah.
And a thing must evolve.
The thing must evolve.
For it to survive, the thing must evolve.
# Sh—=sh-shut up and bend over...
# Sh—=sh-shut up and bend over...
Now, a new generation of artists raised on hiplife
are writing its next chapter.
KiDi and Kuami Eugene are the fresh faces selling out
international shows and captivating a global audience.
| learned almost everything | knew from the streets.
How to survive with no money in your pocket.
There are a lot of songs made by hiplife artists that
actually motivated me, kept pushing me to go.
| could see people making ends meet from doing music,
which is hiplife music.
And | knew | had a space in there.
# Vibe.
# By fire.
# My vibe...
Afrobeat, it’s making people enough money.
And 1t has the public eye.
# My vibe...
Even though we have artists doing Afrobeat, it doesn’t
tell our story.
Hiplife is what tells our story.
And | think it wouldn’t be fair for us to lose such a thing.
L E IR ERTITN R G T part of our heritage.
Hiplife is the illustration of the culture of Ghana.
# I’m so tired | don’t know what to do.
# Dreams, dream, dreams.
SRRSOV what I’d hear locally
from my legends, with R&B, what 1I’d hear from the West.
When you’re cooking, you throw in this and then
in about five minutes, you throw in this, that’s
what happened to the hiplife genre.
So when it came, it was in its pure state,
like, you know...
# Keep your eyes on the road...
Like, it came In its original form but, with time,
certain artists took something out of it,
added something else and it became like, oh,
yeah, hiplife has changed now.
# My baby, you be wonderful.
# You give me loving wey | never know’oo.
# My baby, you be miracle.
# You give me loving wey | never know...
Reggie Rockstone — a name that will forever be
remembered In Ghanaian music history — also came and said,
"OK, "this i1s what we’re doing.
"You know, our fathers are having fun with this.
"What can | bring?
"What can | spice it up with, to give it a little different
"flavour from what our people know?"
Aol what birthed hiplife.
# Girl, your love is spiritual.
# Oh, my God, oh.
# Girl, your love dey be.
# | want to shower you kisses.
# To live all over you.
# When you give me chance...
And we had now hiplife and we got highlife,
we had two things now.
Now, the question is where do we go from here?
# Some honey.
# Buy some Prada, Gucci TRV LI G DN 1y [
# My momma needs a house.
# My brother needs some shoes.
# | had to get the family right before | lost my granny.
# I’m from the ghettos of Ashaiman...
In a male—dominated industry, rapper Eno Barony is changing
the face of hiplife.
| think the existence of people like Eno Barony is the breaking
of the glass—ceiling moment.
| remember the first time | was on the radio station
with her, she out—rapped me.
| was like, "My goodness — who is this one?"
All | remember was just being shocked when she started
rapping.
| was shocked.
| just wanted to listen to her.
My name Eno means ‘mother’ in my native language,
Twi.
That’s the name my dad gave to me.
And somehow, some way, divine intervention,
I’m like the mother of rap in Ghana.
Mzbel shot to fame in 2007 with a ground—breaking hiplife
album, 16 Years.
Every girl | knew at that time was dressing like Mzbel.
# Face off Yi w’ani | be the 15 girl wey you want...
When | came into the music scene, | never saw
) r L)
Most of the girls | was seeing were, let me say, skinnier.
People were talking about my image so much -
"Why are you like this?
"Why are you not going to look like this and stuff?”
O IRE
It was bothering me.
When | accepted myself as who | am, | did a song
called Heavy Load and | realised, "Oh, so | have fans
who are just "like me and are looking up to me,
the way | dress, "everything | do".
The truth about why there are not many women involved
In hiplife and in the music space is that the space,
unfortunately, iIs still quite sexist, you know?
It’s difficult for women, you know, to operate in these
spaces, whether even it’s as simple as midnight sessions
In the studio.
Every successful music scene in the world has a lot
R IR
So, iIf we want to succeed...
..bring the gal dem.
So, If you see a woman doing anything male—dominated,
you don’t doubt it.
One of the oldest African proverbs, which is Sankofa —
there’s something beautiful in the past.
If you think you can’t go forward without it,
go back, pick it up, and take it with you into the future.
That i1s where we are now.
In @ moment in Ghanaian music TR R RO N L
what that brilliant culture called hiplife that birthed
a lot of what’s happening now, to really reimagine it and see
how we move forward...
# Sista, sista, damn | miss ya.
# 1I’m gone till November, I’ll be back to getcha...
We had a Sankofa moment with hiplife.
# Can | count on you too?
# I’m begging you.
# Let me fly free and make some revenue.
# If | chop, you go chop some too.
# 12 months pregnant, this idea is long overdue...
Hiplife’s place in the future of global music may come down
to who it lets In, what it holds on to,
N R I e NN
# When you dey scratch my back.
# If you dey fix my itch.
# It’s all love Symbiosis dey benefit.
# Do for each other, dem no go fit...
Perhaps the only question is what do we choose to evolve?
Do we choose to evolve what is closest to us?
Or do we choose to evolve the elements that are
foreign to us?
Who are you?
You are Ghanaian.
So just be Ghanaian.
Right now, if | go to the UK, and | play any African music —
It doesn’t matter what it 1s — TR BN e N ig o - F e
As long as they know it’s an African artist,
It’s coming from South Africa, it’s coming from Senegal,
it’s coming from Kenya, it’s coming from Nigeria,
they’ll just call it Afrobeats.
That’s the problem.
The problem isn’t the fact that hiplife has lost its ID.
Hiplife hasn’t lost his ID locally.
It is how the international audience is viewing hiplife.
Hiplife is still giving birth to artists day
In, day out.
I IS it won’t bear fruit.
We have...
Our heritage’s been BN
And it is something we can’t let go of, cos it’s part
and parcel of us.
| want hiplife to be that good story that lifted black folks
in Africa and all over the world, gave young
people a voice.
My generation, it gave us a voice from Africa.
Initially, it was just in Accra, then it was Ghana,
AR RIS Vi e}
Now, it’s global, through Nigeria and Ghana.
We have artists featuring with Beyonce, featuring
with Justin Bieber.
Ultimately, | believe as a musical genre, it gave
a generation a voice and continues to do that.
And this voice has and is slowly changing the perception
of this continent.
Hiplife i1s identity to us...
# | bathe In faith, not based with snakes.
# A basic case of me and fake no dey relate...
ldentity Is very important.
If you lose that identity there, then you don’t know
where you belong to.
The mother is highlife but rap is Africa.
Africa, Africa.
# Weather forecast a bit nippy, | heard.
# Beggars can’t choose but be picky instead.
# 9 to 5 blues kick me, I’m dead.
A LT R R Ty how | fit see ahead.
# Weather forecast a bit nippy, | heard.
# Beggars can’t choose but be picky instead.
# 9 to 5 blues kick me, I’m dead.
# Up early no sleep E be someway bi.
# Boys abre all week E be someway bi.
# Price of living no be cheap E be someway bi.
# But thank God it’s Friday Me be gye m’ani.
# Someway bi, e be someway bi #
After what’s been a fairly wet and cool week for a large
swathe of the UK, this weekend sees a transition to something
drier and warmer underneath this area of high pressure.
This is the big picture, if you like, for Sunday.
We start to develop more of a southerly wind and that
will be pushing milder air across the UK but also some
moister air as well, so we’re going to see a lot
of cloud through Sunday, also some drizzle for a time
through the morning.
That will tend to become confined to the coasts
through the day.
Could see some mist and fog along some eastern coastal
counties
at first which will soon clear, allowing sunshine to develop
and some
of that will push its way further north and west.
When we get the sunshine, temperatures up to around 16
or 17 Celsius on Sunday afternoon.
On into Monday, and we are SR R
of high pressure.
In fact, this is the set—up for the week ahead,
although we do start
to see more of an easterly wind settling in and as that does,
it will bring something cooler for east—facing coasts
but for many,
mostly dry, spells of sunshine and away from eastern coasts,
feeling a little warmer.
Still a fair amount of cloud around on Monday,
across eastern areas and most will see some spells
of sunshine through the day and some western coasts
and Northern Ireland, perhaps hanging onto the cloud,
maybe with a bit of drizzle at times.
In the sunshine, temperatures quite widely in the mid—teens,
In the best
of the sunshine and away from eastern coasts,
temperatures could get up up to around 16 or 17 again.
As we head into Tuesday, high pressure still the dominant
feature, keeping Atlantic fronts at bay, but notice
the isobars start to come close together
so we start to develop a stronger easterly wind.
Once again, some coastal counties, eastern coastal
cooler, more cloud pushing across southern counties
of England, and perhaps Wlaes too, but for many,
dry day, good spells
of sunshine, warm in the sunshine away from eastern
coasts but most will have a dry day as well.
Little change really as we head into Wednesday.
If anything, the winds become a bit stronger on Wednesday.
We are sitting on the edge of that area of high pressure.
Once again, a fair amount of cloud across some southern
counties and parts of Wales, sunshine developing for many
through the day but notice the strength of the wind
on Wednesday, quite a keen easterly wind blowing
so despite some sunshine along eastern coasts,
it will be feeling on the cool side, perhaps 12 or 13 Celsius
Y SHITE )
Away from eastern coasts, temperatures again
in the mid—teens but not seeing NI N RV
earlier in the week.
And we keep the strength
of the wind, we still keep that stronger windows
we head into Thursday.
Mainly dry, good deal of sunshine but that noticeable
easterly
breeze taking the edge of temperatures but on Thursday
at the moment, a fine day, good deal of sunshine
but we could start to see some showers pushing into parts
of East Anglia and south—east England as well and those
temperatures
will typically be between 12 and 14 or 15 Celsius.
So further on from there, as this high pressure continues
to drift away a little bit further, we start to see areas
LSS [0 o]y s} across central and southern
parts of England
and here we could start to see some showers developing
as we head
through the weekend and into the early part
of the following week but | think, for many,
where we’ve seen
a fair amount of rain recently and things have been
on the cool side, for the week ahead and then further ahead
into the forecast, things are looking mainly dry
and a little bit bit warmer.
Bye—bye.
# Sh—=sh-shut up and bend over...
# Sh—=sh-shut up and bend over...
Live from Washington.
This 1s BBC News.
At least 27 people killed, including aid workers,
In clashes between Sudan’s army and a paramilitary force.
More than 100 animal rights protesters arrested
after storming the ground at the Grand National Horse race.
And Minneapolis becomes the first major US city
to allow broadcast of the Muslim call to prayer over
speakers five times a day, all year round.
I’m Helena Humpbhrey.
I’m Helena Humphrey. Good to BV
I’m Helena Humphrey. Good to have you with us.
We start in Sudan, where heavy fighting between two rival
factions of the military has left at least 27 people dead,
including three UN staff.
Earlier, gunfire and explosions rocked the capital, Khartoum.
The Sudanese military has RSP LR N =
Inside amid clashes at the presidential palace
and the city’s airport.
What you’re seeing here was recorded earlier
at Khartoum International Airport, where at least two
people were reportedly killed.
Footage there shows large plumes of smoke and fighter
jets flying low overhead.
And there was this video from inside the Khartoum
airport, showing passengers taking cover on the floor.
Major airlines have reportedly suspended flights.
This Is the skyline across Khartoum.
Exact death tolls are yet to be confirmed.
A journalist from the Washington Post newspaper
reported 30 people dead and nearly 400 injured,
citing the United Nations.
Victims include three United Nations aid workers,
who were Killed in the crossfire at a military base.
We want to show you what happened earlier
on Sudanese state TV.
The newsreader briefly appeared talking about clashes,
but lsten carefully and you can hear gunshots
In the background.
DISTANT GUN
You see the picture then froze and a short while later,
the broadcast suddenly cuts off.
These clashes erupted after tensions over a proposed
transition to civilian rule.
Let’s remind ourselves of the political situation
In Sudan.
Sudan has been run by the military since a coup
in October 2021.
The fighting Is between army units loyal to the de facto
leader General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan and the RSF,
commanded by Sudan’s deputy leader Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo.
The two sides are in a dispute over who governs the country.
Violence is also being reported in several other cities
across the country.
The Reuters news agency is reporting eyewitness
accounts of Sudanese army air strikes
In the city of Omdurman.
The target is a base belonging to the RSF paramilitary group,
north—east of the capital Khartoum.
Both sides have issued conflicting claims of control
over key installations,
from airports to the presidential palace.
In a post on Facebook,
the Sudanese army has labelled the RSF a "rebel militia”
and said, there "will be no negotiations or talks
"until the dissolution” RGO
Earlier, | spoke with the director of Africa Programs
IR GRS T (S of Peace Susan Stigant,
who was actually in Sudan two weeks ago.
Could you tell that tensions were running high?
Yes, | was there a week before last and
at that point, it was clear that the tensions
were Incredibly high.
There was a mobilisation of heavy weaponry, reports
]I 1[e]p) of additional forces
and it was clear in that the political negotiations
that were going on in an effort to form a new civilian
government to end the coup of October 2021, that the parties
were coming down to the really difficult issues
and particularly, the question of the structure
of decision—making and power and control,
and the relationship between General Burhan
as the head of the Sudan armed forces and General Hemedti as
the head of the Rapid Support [T IR
But the fear and concern and tensions were absolutely
palpable at that point.
So those tensions, as you describe there,
were palpable — the feeling that we were starting to come
to what appears to be, at least, a pivotal moment.
But perhaps for people who might not be entirely
familiar with the political situation in Sudan, just
briefly explain to us what is going on here.
In the time leading up to today, there have been talks
and negotiations taking place to really move
to that — a new civilian—led government.
This resulted in a draft political framework agreement
before the end of 2022
and the discussions continued on, really, five core issues
that were the most difficult to resolve —
questions of justice R e 1A
justice, questions of peace,
questions of what happens in the eastern part of Sudan,
questions about what happens with those who are responsible
for crimes and those who are part of the former
Bashir regime and then, this incredibly difficult
question about security sector reform.
And so, there have been intensive discussions taking
place and | think much of the focus has really been
pushing to try to get to that agreement that could bridge
ST I SR gL for Sudan, if you will.
And so, what we saw over the last 24 hours, | think,
Is the clearest and, | think, in many ways quite tragic
evidence that those who are holding the power,
those who are holding the power of the gun,
are not comfortable.
And as much as we believe and we say that violence
will not resolve the issue, those people who have
the authority over coercive force right now, they believe
that they are strengthening their positions for the future
through the use of violence.
So, Susan, you talked there about people with the authority
in Sudan but | wonder, then, what does
all of this mean for people’s everyday lives in the country?
Yes, | mean, two weeks ago, people were certainly feeling
the impact of the economic crisis.
Inflation had hit over 150% and that economic crisis has
really been building since the October 2021 coup.
LY TR Lo VT T Ta (]l and in other urban areas
across the country, people are living in the middle
of active fighting.
| think there are concerns about people getting access
to basic services and there are real safety
concerns for individuals.
And when you think about a time four years ago
when the Sudanese people really came together,
men and women, young and olg, from all across the country
to mobilise in a peaceful way against an authoritarian
regime, who put themselves at risk, who have really
sacrificed, in hundreds of instances, their lives
being In the midst of a fight between security and military,
| think, i1s really shocking for many Sudanese and for many
of us who watch the country closely.
And talking about the country but also the region,
Susan, as well, | mean, we’re hearing that fighting
RS I [ Ts Il G R
We’ve also heard that neighbouring Chad has
What do you think are the risks of potential spread here
and do you think that we expect any engagement from surrounding
oo 11 a LN By
The neighbourhood where Sudan is located — | mean,
you’ve mentioned Chad, South Sudan, Central African
Republic, Ethiopia.
These are countries that are all facing their own
Q1R AL and where the relationships
between different groups across the countries
are fragile and tenuous.
And so, | think, an incredibly — you know, the first—order
message right now is to end the violence, and | don’t think
that can be said too much, too loudly or at too high
a level at the moment.
| think a second—order message is to say to the neighbouring
countries step back.
AT IRYTRETN [0 engaging in any way that
could helped to perpetuate the violence that’s taking
place andg, in fact, take a step forward to try to encourage
those who are fighting to put the weapons down and to return
to some sort of sensible political framework
and political negotiation that could hopefully deliver
a new government and a more peaceful situation for
the Sudanese people.
Susan, do you think that that possibility is still there
at this moment?
Is the window still open for the violence to be ended?
Well, | think the escalation and the speed of the escalation
of violence, the rhetoric IS R R R s
and the spread of the violence is incredibly concerning.
And we know that there are always openings and windows
and so, | think coherence among international partners,
space for the Sudanese — who are still courageously
and with the greatest determination trying to find
ways to bridge and deliver the message that a pathway
towards a democratic, peaceful Sudan does not include
the use of violence in a civil war.
Susan, you work for the US Institute of Peace.
| just want to ask you briefly about the role of the United
We’ve heard from the Secretary QS LR R L
today, calling for an immediate end to violence, also calling
this "a fragile situation” as the country looks
to transition back to civilian rule.
Do you think that there are any indications that the US might
seek to mediate in some way?
The United States has been actively involved in supporting
the ongoing political - the negotiations that
were taking place prior to today.
| fully anticipate that the US 1 WV IS
Its diplomatic support.
Hopefully, that includes engagement at the highest
levels of the United States government.
And | anticipate that that will be done in close
partnership with leaders from the region,
with the African Union,
with the United Nations, with the United Kingdom,
with the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia.
| think these are all countries that have influence
and interest In seeing a stable Sudan and countries that
CICRE LN A ] Do lg 1l in reaching some of the people
who are actually the ones who are creating the situation
on the ground right now.
Susan Stigant, director of Africa programs at the US
Institute of Peace, who has recently returned
Susan, thanks for your insights.
Thank you.
We want to bring you some breaking news from Mexico.
Six adults and a child have been shot dead at a water
park in Cortazar.
Local authorities say gunmen stormed the park.
The statement from officials did not provide any insight
LI R Tl 114101 2 IO NR R N a o ¢
In India, a former politician and his brother have been shot
Atig Ahmed, who’s pictured here on the right with his brother
Ashraf Ahmed, were taking questions from a journalist
moments before they were shot.
Atig Ahmed was under police escort facing murder
and assault charges.
Last month, the Supreme Court declined to hear his petition,
in which he alleged there was a threat to his life
from the police.
To the UK, and 118 people have been have been arrested
at the Grand National — one of the most prestigious
ARSI RO il
They were arrested on suspicion of criminal damage and public
nuisance offences in relation to disruption.
A large number of police had been deployed to the ground
after animal rights activists had warned they would try
to disrupt the race.
Officers went onto the course to remove the protesters.
The start of the race was delayed for 14 minutes
whilst the group were cleared, but it did eventually go ahead
and was won by Corach Rambler ridden by the jockey Derek Fox.
Our correspondent Sharon Barbour was at Aintree
Racecourse.
Well, it’s been a really tense day here at Aintree,
a day of high drama.
It began with the protesters Animal Rising which,
all week, had threatened to disrupt that
most important of races in the racing calendar,
the Grand National,
which was due to start at 5:15pm.
Everybody said that they couldn’t possibly.
There were so many police here surrounding the racecourse,
The protesters arrived.
They began their rally, they began a protest.
They sat down on the ground and we spoke to them.
They were determined, they said, to disrupt the race,
but still, it wasn’t believed that it was possible.
Well, they did.
The race was stopped for around 15 minutes as they got
AR
Nine Animal Rising protesters were arrested.
A little bit about that organisation — it was,
until a few days ago, Animal Extinction.
It was a sister organisation to Rebellion Extinction.
We don’t know how many were here but certainly,
they got onto the track.
They managed somehow to get through security and disrupted
a race that’s so important not only here in Liverpool,
where the income is around £60 TR RO R G
but right around the world.
500 million, the Jockey Club say, watch the race
in 140 countries.
So, certainly, even though the race got underway,
for the activists, it was a success in raising
for the activists, it was a success in raising
what they say are issues around animal welfare.
Certainly, there are going to be a lot of questions not
only about security and what they
can do to now protect that race but also questions
about what they can do, perhaps, about the safety
of the horses taking part.
Back to you.
IYp
An update on our top story with regards to the clashes we have
regards to the clashes we have been
regards to the clashes we have RG]
regards to the clashes we have been thing today in Sudan and
been thing today in Sudan and according to
been thing today in Sudan and TG [T RO T
been thing today in Sudan and according to the update we now
according to the update we now R0 )
according to the update we now know according to the doctor’s
know according to the doctor’s a1
know according to the doctor’s Central committee in Sudan,
kKnow according to the doctor’s Central committee in Sudan, 56
Central committee in Sudan, 56 have been killed in violence.
have been killed in violence. We
have been killed in violence. we have
have been killed in violence. We have a
have been killed in violence. Y - N -l laslol)s
have been killed in violence. We have a number of 595 people
We have a number of 595 people o 0 lael=Ys)
We have a number of 595 people wounded and you remember we
wounded and you remember we SN
wounded and you remember we have seen clashes and violence
have seen clashes and violence in the capital Khartoum as well
In the capital Khartoum as well E1S
In the capital Khartoum as well as spreading across the
as spreading across the country. Just those updated
country. Just those updated = P
country. Just those updated numbers, 56 people killed.
Staying in the UK, and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak
Is to ban the construction of new smart motorways
which use technology to requlate speed and traffic
flow on the country’s WSO
14 planned smart motorways - including 11 that are already
paused — will be removed from government road building plans.
The BBC’s Panorama programme in 2020 investigated smart
motorways, revealing 38 people have been killed on them over
a space of five years.
That led to the government reviewing the smart motorway
network.
Here’s a snippet from the documentary by Richard
Tl
We put in a freedom of information request for one
NI IO VAT
One warning sign was out TR o]s]
for nearly a year — 336 days.
There was also a 20—fold rise in near misses —
72 In the five years with the hard shoulder,
1,485 In the five years without.
Earlier, | spoke to our political correspondent,
Damian Grammaticas, and asked him how smart
motorways work
and what prompted the government decision.
Yeah, so the way these work is that in order
to try to improve the flow of traffic on the motorways
and keep traffic moving, what the Government has done
here over recent years Is bring in these sort of measures.
Now, some are simply electronic boards that advise you,
they change the speed limit and try to keep traffic moving.
The one that is most controversial is a scheme that
exists already on quite a number of motorways
where the hard shoulder — so the edge of the motorway,
what would not be used in traditional motorways,
LI [ R LT T o X T QT T if you had a problem —
that had been converted on some motorways into an extra lane
for permanent moving traffic.
Now, the idea was that it’s monitored by cameras.
There are these billboards.
If you had trouble or a problem, you were told
to stay in your car.
The traffic would be directed to slow down and go around you.
Now, part of the problem was that there were accidents
happening there, and as that Panorama programme revealed,
there had been some 30—plus deaths on some of those
motorways In recent years.
So this had led to a safety review, a pause in the
development of new areas of smart motorway.
And what we now get is this announcement that the projects
that have been paused, so 14 of them have been paused
or planned, will not go ahead.
Two projects which are nearing completion will actually
now be done.
But crucially, | think it’s important to say the ones that
are already in place will stay.
They will continue, with some safety upgrades,
so those will not change.
So Damian, is this actually the end, then,
of smart motorways?
And can the Government do this?
No, by any means it’s not the end.
So at the minute smart motorways cover already
something like 10% of the motorway network,
some 400 miles here in the UK,
so the ones that are in place will stay in place.
What the Government has done L EYATR VA E L
for the sort of time frame you can look into,
up to the end of the decade, all road building plans —
and smart motorways are part of that — they’re now
being removed from those plans.
Nothing before the end of the decade, and it
will continue to look at how users view this.
But it’s worth saying, too, this is not just about safety.
A large part of this is about cost — inflating
prices for the work to convert motorways into smart ones.
The bill for the project upcoming is put at about
so that’s £1 billion Wl N W TS
the Government is making.
So there’s a cost saving it can make here, as well as,
It says, listening to or responding to public
concerns about safety.
Our political correspondent, Damian Grammaticas, breaking
that down for us.
Damian, thank you.
Tens of thousands of people el anl0 1 n = -]
Tens of thousands of people demonstrated in Tel Aviv,
demonstrated in Tel Aviy, demonstrating reforms that give
demonstrating reforms that give the government decisive control
the government decisive control a1
the government decisive control that appoints judges. Critics
that appoints judges. Critics say it will hurt democracy.
say It will hurt democracy. Opponents
say It will hurt democracy. oL I I
say It will hurt democracy. Opponents of nuclear power have
Opponents of nuclear power have been celebrating
Opponents of nuclear power have R EE ]
Opponents of nuclear power have been celebrating in Germany as
been celebrating in Germany as 1
been celebrating in Germany as it shuts down
been celebrating in Germany as TR Lo Lo R o))
been celebrating in Germany as it shuts down three nuclear
It shuts down three nuclear plants, believe placed a
it shuts down three nuclear plants, believe placed a quick
plants, believe placed a quick Tal-Y g
plants, believe placed a quick nuclear power after the 2011
nuclear power after the 2011 O ]
nuclear power after the 2011 Fukushima power disaster.
nuclear power after the 201 Fukushima power disaster. A
Fukushima power disaster. A survey show
Fukushima power disaster. A VAL AN
Fukushima power disaster. A survey show most Germans oppose
survey show most Germans oppose i)
survey show most Germans oppose IR ST
survey show most Germans oppose the closures as they see
the closures as they see nuclear power cleaner than
nuclear power cleaner than fossil
nuclear power cleaner than AR
nuclear power cleaner than fossil fuels. Hundreds of
fossil fuels. Hundreds of Prisoners of
fossil fuels. Hundreds of T el e A 18
fossil fuels. Hundreds of Prisoners of War have been
Prisoners of War have been freed
Prisoners of War have been B
Prisoners of War have been e BN
Prisoners of War have been BN R oo e
Prisoners of War have been freed in a second day a
freed In a second day a [
freed In a second day a prisoner exchanges between
prisoner exchanges between warring factions in Yemen. Some
warring factions in Yemen. Some =TT
warring factions in Yemen. Some ST R )
warring factions in Yemen. Some detainees were released
detainees were released according to the international
according to the international community of
according to the international Il il )
according to the international community of the Red Cross in
community of the Red Cross In an
community of the Red Cross In OGN
community of the Red Cross In an operation that involved
an operation that involved e
an operation that involved flights criss—crossing Yemen
flights criss—crossing Yemen and Saudi
flights criss—crossing Yemen NI N1 T
To the US state of Minnesota,
where the state’s largest populated city,
Minneapolis, has become the first US major city to
allow broadcast of the Muslim call to prayer, Adhan,
to be heard over speakers five times a day, all year—round.
Earlier, | spoke with Jaylani Hussein, the executive
director of Minnesota’s Council on American—Islamic Relations,
the state’s leading Muslim civil rights and legal advocacy
organization.
o1
Can you explain what is the
C:IRITR SR R LI R [ call to prayer and
Can you explain what is the call to prayer and white is so
call to prayer and white Is so Tna]s T =1l
call to prayer and white Is so important to be heard over the
iImportant to be heard over the speakers.
Thank you for having me.
It’s a symbol of really Islam and it’s a continuation
of what other faith traditions do and so for Muslims
across the world, wherever they are, you see that that’s
GRS [ [ R 1 you probably know that they’re
Muslims living because that call to prayer comes out.
Just like most people would know that there a church
nearby If bells are going off on Sunday or on other
holidays, so, it truly is a symbol of Islam and most
mosques across the world have the call to prayer
and, unfortunately in America, we haven’t had that opportunity
to see this being practised widely or even practised
And so this step in Minneapolis is not only historic
and we hope that many cities across the country who have
many mosques across America can I N R E - s 1T @i
only it’s a freedom of religion issue but it’s really also
making sure signs of inclusion, that Muslims are actually part
and parcel of our communities.
So what did restrictions look like before and how did this
change come about, and why now?
Well, the state of Minnesota actually had the policy that
made sure that there wouldn’t be any violation
of consitutionally protected practice of freedom
of religion, so the city of Minneapolis had a noise
ordinance that specifically had allowed noise only
from from 7am until 10pm and we live in the northern
part of the country here, SO our prayers move pretty
gradually throughout the year so technically only three
prayers would be allowed throughout the year
and so what we worked with, councilwoman Aisha Chughtai,
who worked with our office, and one of our local mosques
there, Dar Al—Hijrah, and we were able to change that
noise ordinance to make sure that it did allow for the call
to prayer and really allow for any other type of practice
of religion that may be limited by that noise ordinance
from 7am to 10pm.
And how has this been received in the city,
In the community?
I’ve received from our organisation, and just
from what we’ve seen so far, an incredible amount of support
and even In this process of requesting this,
It was truly an interfaith effort.
We had our community members from all faith traditions that
came in support of this effort and for the Muslim community,
this Is a tremendous VARG
| had a member of our community who is a descendant of slaves,
and never thought, she told me she never thought she would
ever hear the call of prayer in America and it’s something
that obviously we have a right to do, so this is incredible.
| talked to families and individuals who said this
R T TR R F ] their children never get
to experience and for many of our neighbours
and our community members who are not Muslim,
they are extremely welcoming and so tremendous support
and excitement and | think we have set a precedent
R e
SpaceX plans to carry out its first test flight
on Monday of Starship, the most powerful rocket ever
built, designed to send astronauts to the moon
and eventually beyond.
Starship is set to launch on Monday at 7:00am,
local time.
The spacecraft consists O - RGCU R CRE S
L1 carries crew and cargo
and the first—stage super heavy booster rocket.
Starship generates 17 million pounds of thrust,
more than double that of the Saturn V rockets used
to send Apollo astronauts to the moon.
Just reminding of the latest [ig0 00
Just reminding of the latest from Sudan. The doctors central
from Sudan. The doctors central ool lnnlin )
from Sudan. The doctors central committee telling us that 56
committee telling us that 56 people have been killed, 595
people have been killed, 595 people injured after heavy
people injured after heavy fighting between rival military
fighting between rival military ETudlo 18l
fighting between rival military TR L i e
fighting between rival military factions with the UN Secretary
factions with the UN Secretary a1
factions with the UN Secretary General calling for an
General calling for an immediate ceasefire. Fighting
Immediate ceasefire. Fighting has continued deep into the
has continued deep into the night with government
night with government EYIeSn el - s
night with government airstrikes reported
night with government SIS QL E R (g Koy
night with government airstrikes reported on RFDS
airstrikes reported on RFDS IO LR e o=
airstrikes reported on RFDS positions in cities while the
positions in cities while the Air Force had
LI T R TR T R [ I T - =Y e s
positions in cities while the Air Force had earlier warned
Air Force had earlier warned civilians to stay inside.
Stay with us here on BBC News.
Thank you for your company. Goodbye for now.
Most of us got to see some sunshine on Saturday.
| suspect that Sunday will be a slightly cloudier affair.
That cloud rolling its way in from the west.
That saidq, If you do get some sunshine, it
will feel relatively warm.
But those cloudier conditions, courtesy of this frontal system
ST R CRYZ VA LR () the west, even bringing some
splashes of rain.
High pressure still holding firm just about, so we’re
looking at mainly dry weather and where we are closest
to the centre of the high across parts eastern England,
a sunny but rather chilly start with some early fog patches.
Further west, though, a lot of cloud, spots
Through the afternoon, Northern Ireland could well
brighten up but that could spawn some pretty sharp
showers.
North—east Scotland, also seeing some spells
of sunshine, lifting
temperatures here to around 17 degrees.
Generally values between 12 and 16 degrees.
As we move through Sunday night, we keep some quite large
areas of cloud.
The cloud will break in places but if you do see clear spells
for any length of time, they could fill in with some
patches of mist and fog.
And If it stays cloudy where you are, it will remain
relatively mild
but in the clearer spots, temperatures could drop
relatively close to freezing.
Into Monday, still this patchwork of clear spells
and cloudy areas.
It could well be that we see quite a lot of cloud
rolling its way in from the North Sea and that,
coupled with a bit of a breeze from the North Sea, will make
it feel really rather chilly for some of our eastern coasts.
So temperatures in Hull, for example, around 13 degrees,
same sort of temperature for Aberdeen but further west,
Glasgow, 17 degrees,
In some spots up to 18 and as as we head deeper
into the week, this area of high pressure stays with us,
meaning it will be largely dry
but with this high building to the north—east of us,
this easterly wind will tend to strengthen a little.
So that breeze, quite noticeable coming
in off the chilly North Sea will make it feel rather cool
for some of these eastern coasts.
We could see more cloud in the south developing
on Tuesday, maybe even giving rise to the odd shower.
Some spells of sunshine elsewhere.
Once again, the highest temperatures likely to be
g ISR N el and west of the UK.
And that is a theme that will continue as we head deeper
into the week.
Always a little bit chilly the further east you are.
Could turn quite cloudy around the middle parts of the week.
But there will always be some spells of sunshine
and generally warmest in the west.
VOICE—OVER: This is BBC News.
We’ll have the headlines and all the main news stories
for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
Northern Ireland, a small place of only 2 million people,
once again capturing the attention of the world.
Presidents and prime ministers past and present have been
getting into the province to join in celebrations
for a political agreement signed here 25 years ago.
SYTToToTo gl oo QR d Tl o LYo o] of Northern Ireland,
protecting the peace, preserving the Belfast Good
Friday Agreement is a priority.
It’s regarded as the day that helped and decades of violence
here during the 1970s, '80s and ‘90s.
Reactions to it being signed were largely positive.
For the generation to come, it il
For the generation to come, it will be fantastic, one
For the generation to come, it IR = T [ 1 1
For the generation to come, it will be fantastic, one of the
will be fantastic, one of the greatest things in our history,
greatest things in our history, anyway.
Some were not convinced.
| don’t think we will ever see peace.
It’ll take something different.
| have come to Dromore, a town in County Down,
roughly 20 minutes outside of Belfast,
and is home to around 6000 0] ] N
It’s also where | grew up and went to school.
| was born in 1998, the year the Good Friday Agreement
was signed here in Northern Ireland.
It means | grew up after The Troubles ended and didn’t
have to worry as much as maybe my parents did,
for example, about getting caught up
In the conflict happening here.
Me and others like me born after it was signed are known
as ‘peace babies’ and I’m keen to find out where they think
Northern Ireland could be in the next 25 years.
Just across from where | am now is my old school,
Dromore High.
There’s me!
| left here in 2017, but it’s where | was first
taught about the Good Friday Agreement.
I’m meeting some students who are in their last years
The classrooms they study are the ones | used to sit in.
The five of us sitting here right now were born
in Northern Ireland after the Good Friday Agreement
was signed, so we are peace babies.
What does that term mean to you, that term?
| haven’t heard much about it but | suppose it’s something
| take for granted.
When | have been talking to my parents about The Troubles,
Mum was saying the other day, she just brought up a story
about how she had to go to an army checkpoint.
| really did not think that that would’ve happened
In her time.
| just — really, it took me by surprise,
| was not thinking about It.
It doesn’t mean much because we are very ignorant
into the pain and suffering that our parents or
grandparents went through.
As a generation, we will ISR
| mean, I’m glad | have peace.
| would not like to lived the life that my
parents said they had to live.
When | say the term ‘Troubles,’ what you think of straight
away?
Derry Girls.
Are you a big fan?
Big fan.
Even the army getting on board the bus, and they’re acting
like it’s a normal thing.
Everyone remained seated.
Derry Girls 1s a TV series set during The Troubles
in the 1990s and was filmed in Derry.
What’s going on?
It looks at the conflict to the lens of five teenagers
and aired on Channel 4 for the first time in 2018.
It’s been praised by many in Northern lreland
for showing what it was like to grow up during the violence.
It’s been popular locally, as well as around the world.
If you were to imagine getting the bus to school and the army
stopped i1t and got on, would with that be normal for you?
| certainly wouldn’t be as unfazed as they were in the
unfazed as they were in the A
unfazed as they were in the show. But yeah, | guess that’s
show. But yeah, | guess that’s what it
show. But yeah, | guess that’s IR 1
show. But yeah, | guess that’s what it was back then.
Like, we never worry about violence.
We don’t get on a school bus and fear of our lives like
people did.
]
| think It 1s very
| think it I1s very separate
(RO ARG E] 1 from us than it
| think it Is very separate from us than it is for them.
It does just seem completely different world is what they
are describing, compared to what we have now.
Do you think Northern Ireland will exist in 25 years?
To be quite honest, if there is even the smallest
sliver of a possibility that, if a United Ireland happened,
just this unrest and hatred RO S [
would be put down, it would be so much better to live
In a society where you don’t have to live in constant fear
of saying you’re from the wrong side when you’re
Iy} the wrong place.
Is that something that you think still exist,
like, do you fear to say whether you are a Catholic
or Protestant in certain areas?
Like, I’ve heard of friends of mine going to certain places
L R WL IR L g [T Catholic when they’re
when they are Catholic, because they felt they would be
under threat if they said otherwise, just because people
in the environment they were in, and | think
it 1s still a thing that people do still feel under threat
INn certain areas.
I’ve never been afraid to say I’m Protestant.
LGSO A G OLR that’s what | believe.
And I’m never been afraiq, because what are they going
to do about 1t?
SRR LGy 1 all about appreciating someone
else is different from you S RO CERE L R R U E)Y
be different from you but that doesn’t mean you can’t
be friends, that doesn’t mean you can’t work beside them,
that doesn’t mean you can’t train
beside them, because the reality of Northern Ireland
IS everywhere you go, you are going to be
with someone who’s a different religion than you, who has
different ideas from you and that’s
what you have to accept and move on from.
Do you think people in the Republic of Ireland
and in England, Scotland and Wales know enough
about Northern Ireland and the complexities of what it
can mean to live here?
| don’t think any other country, other than us living
here right now, N e g3 1a 0
the complexities of being a citizen in this country,
but they are taught everything about what either side stood
for, what they fought for.
They have never experienced what it is like to live
in a country where you probably will fear to say what
you believe In.
Luckily, I’ve also never had to experience that
because | was born well after the Good Friday
eIt o
The Good Friday Agreement, or the Belfast Agreement,
was a deal to help bring an end to 30 years of The Troubles
iIn Northern Ireland.
It involves Northern Ireland’s political parties,
R T the British and Irish
governments.
Negotiations took several years and ended on Good Friday,
the 10th of April, 1998 — eight months before | was born.
The agreement focused on areas such as culture and civil
rights, as well as justice and policing.
The deal caused controversy, too, as it meant prisoners
in jail R s el e Y
to The Troubles were released early.
Politicians agreed three main areas.
The first thing they agreed was to set up a parliament
This would be the Northern Ireland Assembly.
Secondly, they set up a council to develop cooperation on areas
like farming and health that would benefit both
Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
LRGeS T o was a British—=Irish council
to promote the relationship between Britain and Ireland.
Also In the deal was dual British and Irish citizenship
for those who wanted 1t, a return to peacetime security
arrangements, and the removal of security installations.
All illegal paramilitary groups also had to destroy
their weapons.
| hereby give notice...
A referendum was held on both IR RGN g ]
with the agreement being accepted by an overall
majority.
I’m now on my way to Dublin, crossing the border
into the Republic of Ireland.
It’s about a 2—hour drive and I’m on my way to speak
to some of the relatives of re one of the people
responsible for giving so many hope back in 1998.
We in the STLP concluded many years ago that we couldn’t lay
the basis for agreement against a background
of violence or disorder.
That 1s why we entered into the process of dialogue,
to do everything in our power to bring peace to our streets.
Ollie, explain to me who your granddad is.
Ah, well, my granddad is John Hume.
He was a politician in Northern Ireland.
He worked during The Troubles and worked during the peace
process and on the Good Friday Agreement, and he sort
of helped bring the two sides together.
Well, | guess how | knew him, he was always in the house
In Donegal and he’d always be sat in the —
there’s, like, an armchair in the sitting room and he’d
always be sat there and he’d always have the crossword out.
He loved Petit Filous.
The yoghurts?
Yeah, the yoghurts, yeah!
| think my granny had to hide all, like, the chocolates
and sweets and yoghurts and basically
anything with sugar in it ‘cos he’d hunt them down!
You’d go in, he’d be in his armchair and he’d have
fallen asleep watching the TV.
And If you go to change the channel he’d be, like,
"| was watching that!"
Yeah, and he’d always ask for his dessert
before his dinner — | always remember that.
Before his dinner?
S s
And he was just — | don’t think | really realised,
cos | was quite young, | don’t think | really realised
how important he really was to the country until he died
and he was on the news for, like, five days straight.
| was, like, "oh, my God!"
Like, | have no idea because he was really just ‘granddad’.
What do you know about the Good Friday Agreement as well?
| guess | know what it meant and that kind of what it —
like sort of the ideas it brought in to Northern Ireland
about peace and everyone getting along and all that
e I
But, yeah...
How important do you think it is?
| think it’s really important, yeah, definitely.
Well, it kind of cements the fact that people don’t just
want to keep on fighting in this day.
They want change, and people were looking for change,
and, like, | think IR IR F ]
If people wanted it then, it’s a thing that we should
stand by now.
How do you feel about what your granddad did 25 years ago?
| honestly think it’s pretty good because I’d be in school
and I’d be, like, just in history or whatever,
and you would be looking through the textbook
and there would just be, like, photographs of him and talking
about him, and it’s, like, wow, he really
did something important.
What’s the legacy like for you, Ollie?
Some of my friends were over here the other day and they saw
the photo with Bill Clinton and the Nobel Prize,
and they think it’s crazy.
Like, some of them were sending photos of it to their parents.
And they were saying, "0Oh, is this not weird,
"having it in your house?"
To me, it’s just my granddad.
100 miles back up the road is Belfast, Northern Ireland’s
capital city.
During The Troubles, it was the scene of many brutal
attacks and killings but also, is where some talks were held
and the Good Friday Agreement signed.
Today, it’s a modern city, attracting tourists from all
over the world who want to learn about its past
and the peace process.
But in some areas of the city, like here in West Belfast,
where walls that separate the two sides of the community
tower over houses — and, in some cases, run
through people’s back gardens — peace isn’t
something that’s a certainty.
Just two years ago, riots broke out by the peace line at Lanark
Way.
Police officers were attacked, petrol bombs thrown and a bus
was set on fire.
Police said paramilitary organisations were likely
to have been involved.
It’s a different picture to where | am now —
the Lyric Theatre across the city — where I’ve come
to meet some young actors rehearsing for their next big
production.
But all loyal Catholics have my protection.
All the ancient fathers baptised the very young.
Baptism in the Scriptures is for adults who come to Jesus
by their free will.
Hello, guys!
ALL: Hiya!
Sorry for interrupting.
Aaron, you’re telling me you’re from the Shankill area,
Ballysillan.
I IR E1 | suppose, is quite famous,
known for being, like, a unionist loyalist area.
Well, tell me a bit about what it’s like growing up there.
| was always quite insulated from, like, the sort
of conflict, | guess — like, my parents
kind of kept it out.
Like, | didn’t really even know Catholics were a thing
until | was about 10.
And | remember my dad trying to explain it to me and just
not having a clue about what he talking about.
Those areas are quite underfunded or deprived
IN some areas.
| think they’ve been left behind a bit in some
of the regeneration that’s gone on post the Good Friday
eIt o
Would you describe peace as fragile in, you know,
maybe the area that you grew up in?
| think especially the last couple of years, especially
| think post—Brexit has sort of started to put
an awful lot - | don’t know if was a couple
of months or a year ago, | can’t remember, there
was all that trouble in Lanark Way and there
was a bus stolen and everything else, and | remember
TN TR E YT Te ) and the — the riot or whatever
you want to call it, there was the old boys
at the back sending the young lads at the front forward,
do you know what | mean?
So, | think especially over the last couple of years,
| think there’s a perception among a lot of people in sort
of the areas I’m from that the peace hasn’t
necessarily benefited them.
So, where could the next 25 years, then, take Northern
Ireland’s creative and arts industries?
We have a burgeoning film and TV industry here.
Like, across the world, it’s almost synonymous now
with Northern lreland.
The last five years, you couldn’t open a finance
magazine or a tech magazine that didn’t tell you the place
to open a start—up because of the — whatever,
the low land rates or whatever, is Belfast.
It’s a tech hub of Europe, etc, etc, etc.
None of that would have been possible pre the Good Friday
Agreement because none of — nobody would’ve wanted to come
here and set up a business where somebody could
just blow It to pieces.
It’s — it’s not a good business decision.
Like, it’s simply not.
And that’s why the Good Friday Agreement is so important
because you can interpret it in so many different ways
as well, in terms of a historical document,
a cultural document but it’s also an economic
document in that it has helped us gain some semblance of peace
here and a ceasefire which has allowed places
to open businesses and, ultimately, do better
for our country.
So, how does your immediate family and your friends
and that react whenever you told them you wanted
to pursue a career Iin the arts?
My immediate family were all very supportive cos they used
to come see my shows and stuff when | was a kid,
and they were all very supportive of it, but,
I mean, | worked for 1.5 years in the Shankill,
and a couple of years back there, and sometimes people
would ask, "What are you up to?"
and you tell them and they’d kind of be like, "Oh, what?
What’s that?"
And | think in some, like, loyalist communities,
the arts Is seen as quite a feminine thing because
there’s sort of a more traditional style of
masculinity in places like that.
What more can be done?
| think policy changes.
People need to start voting based on actual policy
and not just...
I’m going to vote for the most unionist people | can,
I’m going to vote for the most nationalist people | can to get
the most unionist people out or to get the most nationalist
people out, cos that is not constructive for anyone,
cos then it’s just always Sinn Fein DUP, and nothing’s
changing because everyone’is too scared.
We just need to make It...
Like, obviously, | don’t...
el RV - R
Like, | am just a 19—year—old girl, but they need to...
They need to find some other way to structure it.
We’ve come to Londonderry, or ‘Derry’, Northern Ireland’s
second city, with a population of about 110,000 people.
We’re on Peace Bridge right now, and peace is something
we’ve talked a lot about, but I’m now keen to hear
what other issues are on young people’s minds here.
My first stop iIs the Guildhall to meet Bethany who works
for a women’s organisation, and in her spare time,
supports those having abortions.
It’s really hard for me to approach the 25th
anniversary with this celebratory tone.
| mean, there are a lot of issues to address
within the north right now - we’re in a cost—of—living
crisis, we’re in a healthcare crisis, people here still don’t
have full access to abortion, as was promised when
decriminalisation came in in 2019.
| really think we have to look at all those social justice
Issues, so we have to look at, you know, proper healthcare
institutions, you know, we also have the worst NHS
waiting lists across the UK, - -V R R & e a1zl
health crisis here, you know, we’ve lost more lives
to suicide than we did in The Troubles, we need
to look at, you know, diversity, the changing
demographics, you know, ending violence against women
and girls, champion relationships and sex
education, doing that work on the ground to make sure that
everyone here can not only survive, but thrive and live
healthy, fulfilled lives.
| mean, surely that’s what peace is all about.
So, those changes that you’ve said you’d like to see happen —
how do they happen?
| mean, | think it’s difficult when you’re in a place that has
just complete political stalemate.
We need a democratic voice here.
So | think, you know, people are starting to look
at amending the agreement.
You know, | think we need some sort of political voice here.
Whether that’s done through Stormont or other
means, and | think it’s natural for people to start looking
at alternatives when it comes to things like that as well.
Just outside the Guildhall and across the street
Is the Peace Flame Garden, and it’s where | meet Donall
Like the rest of the UK, people are struggling financially.
Like, the price of gas has gone up, the price of petrol bounces
around, people are struggling to make ends meet.
Like, for example, I’m on a salary, like, | make
a full-time wage in my job as a union officer,
but | still pick up shifts on the side at my local,
| still pull pints on the weekend.
Part of that is because | enjoy it, but part of that,
as well, trying to make ends meet, trying to cover my rent.
What would your hopes be for where Northern lreland
could be in, say, maybe 25 years’ time?
I’d love for us to be in a position where we have
a political system that represents our entire society,
something that builds on the framework that was laid
out by the Good Friday Agreement 25 years ago
to a point where we have a fair system where everybody feels
they’re represented and where everybody’s
views are represented.
It’s going to take a lot of work to get there.
| don’t think we’re there yet, | think we’re on the road
there, but what we have now, our current powersharing system
has some wrinkles that really need to be
ironed out desperately.
The final person I’m meeting on my tour of Derry is student
Elie—)o at one of the city’s newest tourist hot spots,
the Derry Girls mural.
So, Ellie—)o, you are a real—life Derry girl.
We’ve got obviously the TV Derry Girls there,
but you are a true born and bred Derry girl.
Yeah, born in Derry, love it.
What other issues are young people in Northern Ireland
concerned about at the minute?
We have no opportunity here.
We have a cap on the numbers of students who can attend our
local universities, which | think is just abysmal.
That we would actually rather them to go somewhere else.
And they don’t come I G A R
So I’m seeing my friends leave year after year,
and | think, in general, how do we build a sense
of community from that?
If we already have our own internal issues,
we keep leaving.
Who’s going to be left to rebuild things here?
Northern Ireland’s been without an executive now
I RS
It’s not the first time this has happened.
What impact does that have on you and your friends
and other young people?
I’m only 18 years of age.
| actually don’t really know a functional Stormont.
We only had it there for about two, three years
before it actually broke down once again.
| think when | actually look at politics, what political
leadership have | seen, what actual politics have
| seen?
And it’s all been very disappointing.
Like, | actually don’t understand.
Where do you think Northern Ireland could get
to in the next 25 years?
John Hume and other peace builders were once
TRl
John Hume and those peace builders at their peak wasn’t
in my lifetime, so we do have that new opportunity.
| think politicians need to realise that.
Nobody is looking for another John Hume, but | want somebody
of that magnitude that can build people together and kind
of create a movement that can better us all,
and that’s something in the next 25 years
we could aim for.
But just days after speaking to Bethany, Donall and Ellie—)o
in Derry, and 25 years to the day since the agreement
was signed, these were the scenes in the city.
People hiding their faces took part in an illegal republican
parade, which soon turned violent, with petrol bombs
being thrown at a police van.
Tensions are flaring up again with Republican and Loyalist
paramilitary groups, not just in Derry.
But for the young people I’ve been speaking to,
there’s still positivity, optimism and hope around
their future on what the next 25 years could bring.
After what’s been a fairly wet and cool week for a large
swathe of the UK, this weekend sees a transition to something
drier and warmer underneath this area of high pressure.
This is the big picture, if you like, for Sunday.
We start to develop more of a southerly wind and that
will be pushing milder air across the UK but also some
moister air as well, so we’re going to see a lot
of cloud through Sunday, also some drizzle for a time
through the morning.
That will tend to become confined to the coasts
through the day.
Could see some mist and fog along some eastern coastal
counties at first which will soon clear, allowing sunshine
to develop and some of that will push its way further
north and west.
When we get the sunshine, temperatures up to around 16
or 17 Celsius on Sunday afternoon.
On into Monday, and we are SR R
of high pressure.
In fact, this is the set—up for the week ahead,
although we do start to see more of an easterly wind
settling in and as that does, it will bring something cooler
for east—facing coasts but for many, mostly dry,
spells of sunshine and away from eastern coasts,
feeling a little warmer too.
Still a fair amount of cloud around on Monday,
which will soon break across eastern areas and most
will see some spells of sunshine through the day
and some western coasts and Northern Ireland,
perhaps hanging onto the cloud, maybe with a bit of drizzle
at times.
In the sunshine, temperatures quite widely in the mid—teens,
In the best of the sunshine and away from eastern coasts,
temperatures could get up up to around 16 or 17 again.
As we head into Tuesday, high pressure still the dominant
feature, keeping Atlantic fronts at bay, but notice
the isobars start to come close together so we start to develop
a stronger easterly wind.
Once again, some coastal counties, eastern coastal
counties, will feel cooler, more cloud pushing across
southern counties of England, and perhaps Wales too,
but for many, dry day, good spells of sunshine,
warm in the sunshine away from eastern coasts but most
will have a dry day as well.
Little change really as we head into Wednesday.
If anything, the winds become a bit stronger on Wednesday.
We are sitting on the edge of that area of high pressure.
Once again, a fair amount of cloud across some southern
counties and parts of Wales, sunshine developing for many
through the day but notice the strength of the wind
on Wednesday, quite a keen easterly wind blowing
so despite some sunshine along eastern coasts,
it will be feeling on the cool side, perhaps 12 or 13
Y SHITE )
Away from eastern coasts, temperatures again in
the mid—teens but not seeing the 16s and 17s we saw earlier
TR e
And we keep the strength of the wind, we still keep that
stronger windows we head into Thursday.
Mainly dry, good deal of sunshine but that noticeable
easterly breeze taking the edge of temperatures but on Thursday
at the moment, a fine day, good deal of sunshine
but we could start to see some showers pushing into parts
of East Anglia and south—east England as well and those
temperatures will typically be between 12 and 14 or 15
SIS
So further on from there, as this high pressure continues
to drift away a little bit further, we start to see areas
of low pressure developing across central and southern
parts of England and here N RS R B 0]
showers developing as we head through the weekend
and into the early part of the following week
but | think, for many, where we’ve seen a fair amount
of rain recently and things have been on the cool side,
for the week ahead and then further ahead
into the forecast, things are looking mainly dry
and a little bit bit warmer.
Bye—bye.
Live from London, this is BBC News.
The UN Secretary—General calls for an immediate ceasefire
In Sudan after at least 56 people were killed in clashes
between rival military factions.
China reduces its self—imposed no—fly zone to the north
of Taiwan, shutting down its airspace for 27 minutes
as Taiwan launches a rocket after days of military drills
In the region.
A sacred, ancient symbol of Scotland’s monarchy known
as the Stone of Destiny will make the journey
from Edinburgh Castle to Westminster Abbey
for the King’s coronation.
Hello, I’m Luxmy Gopal.
Welcome to the programme.
A power struggle between Sudan’s army and a notorious
paramilitary force has rocked the country with at least 56
dead and almost 600 Injured.
Among the dead were three UN workers who were shot
after the two sides exchanged TG RO = A 1Y)
The United Nations Secretary—General has condemned
the fighting amid fears it will derail the transition
to civiian rule.
Both the army and its opponents, the Rapid Support
Forces, claimed they had control of the airport
and other key sites in Khartoum, where fighting
continued overnight.
The foreign ministers of Saudi Arabia, the UAE
and the United States - who’ve been backing
the civilian transition process — have issued a joint statement
calling for a halt to military escalation and a return
to the framework agreement.
Violence was reported around the country with eyewitness
accounts of Sudanese army air strikes
In the city of Omdurman.
The target is a base belonging to the RSF paramilitary group,
north—east of the capital Khartoum.
Zeinab Salih Is a journalist based in Khartoum.
She has more on what’s been happening.
We’ve been hearing heavy G
We’ve been hearing heavy IR
We’ve been hearing heavy gunfire all around the city, in
gunfire all around the city, In the western part of the city
gunfire all around the city, in the western part of the city in
the western part of the city In and
the western part of the city In B lale P
the western part of the city In and remand. We saw military
and remand. We saw military jets
and remand. We saw military R iVILT
and remand. We saw military RN RO
and remand. We saw military R L R TS
and remand. We saw military jets flying over us, heading to
Jets flying over us, heading to the
Jets flying over us, heading to e T e
Jets flying over us, heading to the southern part of the city.
the southern part of the city. YIS
the southern part of the city. WY R R
the southern part of the city. What we’ve understood is they
What we’ve understood is they are
What we’ve understood is they IR [N
What we’ve understood is they IR L R )
What we’ve understood is they IR L R Rl
What we’ve understood is they SR IO RO ]
What we’ve understood is they are going to hit a military
are going to hit a military base for the RFS or the Rapid
base for the RFS or the Rapid Support Forces so it’s been
Support Forces so it’s been like these clashes over between
like these clashes over between the
like these clashes over between A
like these clashes over between the RFS and Saddam armed forces
the RFS and Saddam armed forces Y1 7
the RFS and Saddam armed forces —= sedan. It
the RFS and Saddam armed forces . Y E T LS = =Y
the RFS and Saddam armed forces —— sadan. It started at
the RFS and Saddam armed forces Y RS e - B e e
the RFS and Saddam armed forces —— sadan. It started at 9am in
—— sedan. It started at 9am In the
—— sedan. It started at 9am In e il
—— sedan. It started at 9am In the southern part of Khartoum
the southern part of Khartoum and
the southern part of Khartoum EYse R dal-e ]
the southern part of Khartoum and then quickly spread towards
and then quickly spread towards A1 Yoo
and then quickly spread towards strategic places like the
strategic places like the international airport, all of
international airport, all of otz ne]
international airport, all of them are
international airport, all of e e - 0
international airport, all of them are in Khartoum city.
This 1s a moment from state TV in Sudan.
The newsreader briefly appears, talking about the clashes.
But listen carefully and you can hear gunshots
In the background.
DISTANT GUN
As you see, the picture then froze and a short while later,
the broadcast suddenly cuts off.
Let’s get the very latest from the BBC’s Emmanuel Igunza.
What’s the outcome of the fighting from the latest
fighting from the latest fighting? We have seen the
fighting? We have seen the 1)
fighting? We have seen the eI Rl 1k
fighting? We have seen the death toll rising very sharply
death toll rising very sharply A
death toll rising very sharply now, more than 50 people
now, more than 50 people oo a1alannl-e|
now, more than 50 people confirmed to have
now, more than 50 people o TRV =)
confirmed to have died AL RGOS
confirmed to have died following the clashes that
following the clashes that happened yesterday. The
happened yesterday. The situation remains very
situation remains very confusing, especially about
confusing, especially about [T
confusing, especially about just who controls what
just who controls what following these claims and
following these claims and r il e el
following these claims and counterclaims that have been
counterclaims that have been made by the Sudanese army and
made by the Sudanese army and also
made by the Sudanese army and )
made by the Sudanese army and also the Rapid Support Forces,
also the Rapid Support Forces, both
also the Rapid Support Forces, Yo s 00
also the Rapid Support Forces, both claim to be in control of
both claim to be in control of the main airport in the capital
the main airport in the capital and other airports across the
and other airports across the country. Also, the presidential
country. Also, the presidential E] Bl
country. Also, the presidential palace and the chief’s
palace and the chief’s residents, they have been
residents, they have been giving contradictory statements
giving contradictory statements but
giving contradictory statements oY AR e
giving contradictory statements but then again, the de facto
but then again, the de facto leader of Sudan Albira home has
leader of Sudan Albira home has seen that he is going to feed
seen that he is going to feed )
seen that he is going to feed me could
seen that he is going to feed M N R0 1R T
seen that he is going to feed me could foresee that
seen that he is going to feed e R I - R E R
seen that he is going to feed me could foresee that the RFS
me could foresee that the RFS T3
me could foresee that the RFS is disbanded and will not
Is disbanded and will not NN [AAE
Is disbanded and will not NN RN
1s disbanded and will not negotiate with them but
Is disbanded and will not negotiate with them but his
negotiate with them but his second—=in—command who
negotiate with them but his e R e B
second—in—command who Is fighting
second—in—command who Is il Ll R
second—in—command who Is fighting for power
second—in—command who is fighting for power with him
fighting for power with him Dagalo has seen the leader of
Dagalo has seen the leader of Sudan is a criminal ——
Sudan is a criminal —— al=Burhan. So
Sudan is a criminal —-— al—=Burhan. So these
Sudan is a criminal —— al—Burhan. So these make
Sudan is a criminal —— al—=Burhan. So these make it
al—Burhan. So these make it difficult to see how they will
difficult to see how they will be any escalation and we expect
be any escalation and we expect the conflicts
be any escalation and we expect e a1 illa R i
be any escalation and we expect the conflicts will go on for
the conflicts will go on for some time despite the
some time despite the international pressure coming
International pressure coming in for them to cease the
in for them to cease the fighting and come to the
fighting and come to the negotiation table to continue
negotiation table to continue the
negotiation table to continue R
negotiation table to continue the talks that have stalled.
the talks that have stalled. 11T
the talks that have stalled. The focus is very
the talks that have stalled. IR U R R A i ey
the talks that have stalled. The focus is very much on
The focus is very much on Khartoum but
The focus Is very much on Khartoum but the fighting is
Khartoum but the fighting is across
Khartoum but the fighting is YR I o)
Khartoum but the fighting is across the country, isn’t it?
across the country, isn’t it? IS0
across the country, isn’t it? How has this spilt
across the country, i1sn’t it? How has this spilt over
How has this spilt over elsewhere? What is the impact
elsewhere? What Is the impact TR )
elsewhere? What Is the impact outside of the
elsewhere? What is the impact outside of the capital? This
outside of the capital? This has been the concern for many
has been the concern for many people
has been the concern for many ) R E L
has been the concern for many people that the fighting did
people that the fighting did N 1as
people that the fighting did start in
people that the fighting did S la R
people that the fighting did start in the capital and it was
start in the capital and it was G
start in the capital and it was mainly in the
start in the capital and 1t was mainly in the residential areas
mainly in the residential areas I
mainly in the residential areas JIEGZIGT A
mainly in the residential areas but overnight, we heard reports
but overnight, we heard reports a1
but overnight, we heard reports I
but overnight, we heard reports that it has spread to other
that it has spread to other parts in the northern city of
parts in the northern city of Mara weight where the Rapid
Mara weight where the Rapid Support Forces have had a very
Support Forces have had a very big stronghold, they have been
big stronghold, they have been ongoing fighting there, there
ongoing fighting there, there )
ongoing fighting there, there are claims of controls, one of
are claims of controls, one of the
are claims of controls, one of R
are claims of controls, one of the vital places in the
the vital places in the AT imnar= g
the vital places in the ([ 0 R AIR
the vital places in the O R A G )
the vital places in the northern city there but also in
northern city there but also in the Duffill region, it’s
northern city there but also In the Duffill region, it’s a
the Duffill region, it’s a region that has known so many
region that has known so many e
region that has known so many years of conflict and we
years of conflict and we understand fighting has been
understand fighting has been ongoing
understand fighting has been L RGE
understand fighting has been ongoing there and with no signs
ongoing there and with no signs il El =
ongoing there and with no signs of parties seemingly wanting to
of parties seemingly wanting to have negotiations to end the
have negotiations to end the o a1 diTas
have negotiations to end the conflict but also return the
conflict but also return the country
conflict but also return the o111 d gV Vo)
conflict but also return the country to civilian rule ——
country to civilian rule —- northern
country to civilian rule —- e i 1K 14
country to civilian rule —- SO
country to civilian rule —— northern city of Meroe. It will
northern city of Meroe. It will seem that
northern city of Meroe. It will RO E R 1
northern city of Meroe. It will seem that this will continue to
seem that this will continue to escalate. We’ve heard from the
escalate. We’ve heard from the NS
escalate. We’ve heard from the pressure internationally to try
pressure internationally to try 100
pressure internationally to try to lead towards deescalating
to lead towards deescalating this
to lead towards deescalating a1 01
to lead towards deescalating T T 3
to lead towards deescalating this but is there any response
this but Is there any response from
this but Is there any response dgo s loTe s
this but Is there any response from both parties to
this but is there any response from both parties to that
from both parties to that LIS A
from both parties to that request, to
from both parties to that (LTS AR R E
from both parties to that request, to that emerging from
request, to that emerging from the international parties? So
the international parties? So =l
the international parties? So far, we have not heard from
far, we have not heard from both the military leaders on
both the military leaders on T A= s
both the military leaders on Y Tl R o)
both the military leaders on TSR
both the military leaders on whether there will be
both the military leaders on SO RO R RS
both the military leaders on whether there will be talks to
whether there will be talks to end
whether there will be talks to s R
whether there will be talks to end the fighting. We know the
end the fighting. We know the African union and UN
African union and UN particularly have said they are
particularly have said they are L
particularly have said they are willing to mediate. There are
willing to mediate. There are other local leaders from Sudan
other local leaders from Sudan IR
other local leaders from Sudan itself, those
other local leaders from Sudan IR ARG R L)
other local leaders from Sudan itself, those who are within
itself, those who are within the civilian factions which
the civilian factions which SN
the civilian factions which have been negotiating with the
have been negotiating with the army to
have been negotiating with the =R R
have been negotiating with the army to try and bring the
army to try and bring the country
army to try and bring the o111 d gV Vo)
army to try and bring the country to civilian rule and
country to civilian rule and they’ve said they want to talk
they’ve said they want to talk 100
they’ve said they want to talk R
they’ve said they want to talk to these two leaders to try to
to these two leaders to try to de—escalate and try to bring
de—escalate and try to bring otz ne]
de—escalate and try to bring them back to the
de—escalate and try to bring NN N GO R R0 )
de—escalate and try to bring them back to the table before
them back to the table before before the
them back to the table before IS - e innn=ls
them back to the table before before the former prime
before the former prime Tl =g
before the former prime minister was ousted —-—
before the former prime minister was ousted —— the
minister was ousted —— the o lannls
minister was ousted —— the IS
minister was ousted —— the former premise was out of the
former premise was out of the 2021 and al—=Burhan
former premise was out of the 2021 and al—Burhan says he is
2021 and al—Burhan says he is 1 E]e]9)%
2021 and al—Burhan says he is happy to mediate but so far
2021 and al—Burhan says he Is happy to mediate but so far we
happy to mediate but so far we BV
happy to mediate but so far we have not heard from the leaders
have not heard from the leaders T A= s
have not heard from the leaders whether they will be agreeing
whether they will be agreeing 100
whether they will be agreeing R
whether they will be agreeing to these offers or mediation to
to these offers or mediation to stop
to these offers or mediation to 0 R[]
to these offers or mediation to (RGNl [l d]y o]
to these offers or mediation to stop the fighting and continue
stop the fighting and continue the
stop the fighting and continue R GRS
stop the fighting and continue the talks for civilian rule.
the talks for civilian rule. Thank you for bringing us the
Thank you for bringing us the latest.
Emmanuel Igunza.
Let’s get some analysis of what’s happening.
Jonas Horner is an expert on Sudan and formerly
at International Crisis Group.
Thank you for joining us. Our correspondent mentioned the
correspondent mentioned the pleas for de—escalation from
pleas for de—escalation from the international community
the international community SN
the international community have so far fallen on deaf ears
have so far fallen on deaf ears )
have so far fallen on deaf ears so what can we expect to happen
so what can we expect to happen Y4 W4
so what can we expect to happen I AR TR
so what can we expect to happen next? Where do
so what can we expect to happen AR DR R
so what can we expect to happen next? Where do we go from here,
next? Where do we go from here, if
next? Where do we go from here, 11
next? Where do we go from here, T R
next? Where do we go from here, AR ORIl
next? Where do we go from here, AR GRS
next? Where do we go from here, if, at the first hurdle, there
If, at the first hurdle, there T3
If, at the first hurdle, there is not much
If, at the first hurdle, there LRGP
iIf, at the first hurdle, there ORGP X
iIf, at the first hurdle, there is not much hope of both
iIf, at the first hurdle, there is not much hope of both
Is not much hope of both parties listening to right,
IS not much hope of both parties listening to right, |
parties listening to right, | a1 ¢
parties listening to right, | think both parties are
think both parties are currently locked into the
currently locked into the prospect of a military win here
prospect of a military win here and
prospect of a military win here EYaTo Moo
prospect of a military win here and one of
prospect of a military win here YA B e AR 0]
prospect of a military win here L R I S
prospect of a military win here and one of them is likely to be
and one of them is likely to be P
and one of them is likely to be UOL AR
and one of them is likely to be wrong. And, of course, you have
wrong. And, of course, you have the Sudanese population and
the Sudanese population and N1
the Sudanese population and AL
the Sudanese population and economy and all
the Sudanese population and VAL LG
the Sudanese population and economy and all of the
economy and all of the o 01 a1
economy and all of the countries infrastructure swept
countries infrastructure swept up
countries infrastructure swept 1Tl
countries infrastructure swept I BRI
countries infrastructure swept up in this very damaging fight
up in this very damaging fight —— country’s.
up in this very damaging fight bl 1A |
up in this very damaging fight —— country’s. | think the focus
—— country’s. | think the focus i
—— country’s. | think the focus AR )
—— country’s. | think the focus of the international community
of the international community X1\
of the international community really should be to engage with
really should be to engage with {aT )
really should be to engage with T A o)
really should be to engage with these two leaders to point out
these two leaders to point out how they are perhaps
how they are perhaps disqualifying themselves from
disqualifying themselves from ANy
disqualifying themselves from future leadership in the
future leadership in the country
WL TR EETe LT oM e[ country through their
future leadership in the country through their actions.
country through their actions. 03
country through their actions. It would be great to see the
It would be great to see the Arab
It would be great to see the NCLRCEEL I
It would be great to see the N R CE L TN
It would be great to see the YR CE L T A
It would be great to see the Arab league meet, | believe
Arab league meet, | believe Y%
Arab league meet, | believe they will meet today, Egypt
Arab league meet, | believe they will meet today, Eqypt and
they will meet today, Egypt and 1M
they will meet today, Egypt and Saudi Arabia have called for
Saudi Arabia have called for the meeting, but
Saudi Arabia have called for N EE AT A
Saudi Arabia have called for the meeting, but | think the
the meeting, but | think the other important, pressing need
other important, pressing need 18
other important, pressing need R
other important, pressing need Rt
other important, pressing need for the international community
for the international community to
for the international community DRG]
for the international community to take action on is really to
to take action on is really to =] L
to take action on is really to appeal to
to take action on is really to =] | R R 1]
to take action on is really to appeal to tribal and ethnic
appeal to tribal and ethnic O]
appeal to tribal and ethnic T IR g 4o Y
appeal to tribal and ethnic groups further down the line to
groups further down the line to a[o14
groups further down the line to [ eIy
groups further down the line to (O e[ 1o ] o]
groups further down the line to not get caught up in this to
not get caught up In this to turn
not get caught up In this to At
not get caught up In this to turn it into a
not get caught up in this to turn it into a civil war.
turn it into a civil war. Currently, this is a
turn 1t into a civil war. Currently, this is a battle
Currently, this Is a battle between
Currently, this is a battle ORI
Currently, this is a battle between the two sides
Currently, this is a battle I UEOERA ORI [
between the two sides of sedan’s military but you would
sedan’'s military but you would T
sedan’'s military but you would see a very different
sedan’s military but you would see a very different and much
see a very different and much more worrying and nationalised
more worrying and nationalised and
more worrying and nationalised A= dale 1o
more worrying and nationalised and ethnic sized conflict were
and ethnic sized conflict were other
and ethnic sized conflict were I G0
and ethnic sized conflict were G e (T IR i geTn}
and ethnic sized conflict were A VG O IT ER i T R 1)
and ethnic sized conflict were other groups from the states,
other groups from the states, from
other groups from the states, 1o Il
other groups from the states, from the periphery to join one
from the periphery to join one 3T
from the periphery to join one side of
from the periphery to join one N )
from the periphery to join one RN
from the periphery to join one LR R R A AL
from the periphery to join one side of the other. How easy
side of the other. How easy would
side of the other. How easy 1l
side of the other. How easy would it be for them not to get
would it be for them not to get caught up in his power
caught up in his power struggle, given
caught up In his power struggle, given that this is
struggle, given that this is spilling way beyond the
spilling way beyond the capital?
spilling way beyond the LG VAT
spilling way beyond the capital? Yes, well, my
capital? Yes, well, my understanding is it’s really
understanding is it’s really [T
understanding is it’s really TSR
understanding is it’s really just the rapid supports of
just the rapid supports of forces and Sydney support
forces and Sydney support o ge- s
forces and Sydney support R LR e
forces and Sydney support forces were doing the fighting.
forces were doing the fighting. 10
forces were doing the fighting. The worry is sedan is full of
The worry Is sedan is full of malicious at an ethnic or
malicious at an ethnic or a1
malicious at an ethnic or tribal level or
malicious at an ethnic or S GRS R o
malicious at an ethnic or tribal level or what is
malicious at an ethnic or SRR IR W IR
malicious at an ethnic or tribal level or what is to be
tribal level or what is to be the popular
tribal level or what Is to be the popular defence forces
the popular defence forces i oa]
the popular defence forces which is a large group that
which is a large group that SN
which is a large group that have fealty to
which Is a large group that have fealty to Islamist
which is a large group that have fealty to Islamist groups
have fealty to Islamist groups and
have fealty to Islamist groups =L lo Tl e[|
have fealty to Islamist groups G C LTl
have fealty to Islamist groups and bringing them in with
NG CTL G ML R expand things
and bringing them in with expand things dramatically and
expand things dramatically and |
expand things dramatically and (1814
expand things dramatically and | think was,
expand things dramatically and RIS
expand things dramatically and RO R AR R
expand things dramatically and | think was, it would be
expand things dramatically and (RO VR LR R L1 G o N
expand things dramatically and | think was, it would be a much
| think was, it would be a much uglier
| think was, 1t would be a much uglier version
| think was, it would be a much uglier version of the war.
uglier version of the war. W
uglier version of the war. Currently you can speak about
Currently you can speak about s
Currently you can speak about it in terms of it being an
it in terms of it being an T o
it in terms of it being an intra— military conflict
It in terms of it being an intra— military conflict but |
intra— military conflict but | a1 ¢
intra— military conflict but | el &)
intra— military conflict but | R 4
intra— military conflict but | think the next hurdle, the next
think the next hurdle, the next thing to avoid, really, is to
thing to avoid, really, Is to make this less ugly and
make this less ugly and WL
make this less ugly and personal and social, you know,
personal and social, you know, a1
personal and social, you know, that would be far harder to put
that would be far harder to put a stop
that would be far harder to put SO RN
that would be far harder to put SR RO
that would be far harder to put SR R W0
that would be far harder to put a stop in and put a stop
that would be far harder to put RO I A RS R (o
a stop in and put a stop to. Just briefly, give us the
Just briefly, give us the context. What has prompted this
context. What has prompted this escalation? | think it’s hard
escalation? | think it’s hard 100
escalation? | think it’s hard to overestimate just how
to overestimate just how existential this all is for
existential this all is for both
existential this all is for ORI R
existential this all is for IR R ]
existential this all is for both sides, the principles of
both sides, the principles of al=Burhan who
both sides, the principles of al—=Burhan who is
both sides, the principles of al=Burhan who is head of
both sides, the principles of al—=Burhan who is head of the
al—Burhan who is head of the armed forces and Delgado who
al—Burhan who Is head of the armed forces and Delgado who is
armed forces and Delgado who is -1
armed forces and Delgado who is head of the Rapid
head of the Rapid Support Forces. But also we are talking
Forces. But also we are talking oY 014
Forces. But also we are talking about deep—-rooted
Forces. But also we are talking about deep—rooted issues within
about deep—rooted issues within Sudanese society. The armed
Sudanese society. The armed o ge- s
Sudanese society. The armed T N
Sudanese society. The armed forces have on the whole
forces have on the whole (Y I =D
forces have on the whole represented the centre of the
represented the centre of the country where they are composed
country where they are composed i
country where they are composed o i
country where they are composed of a large subsection of
of a large subsection of Sudanese society that commanded
Sudanese society that commanded Y
Sudanese society that commanded )
Sudanese society that commanded by a large section of Islamist
by a large section of Islamist who
by a large section of Islamist YR e
by a large section of Islamist who were formally with the
who were formally with the Vel
who were formally with the ousted Bashir
who were formally with the ousted Rashir and
who were formally with the ousted Bashir and they
ousted Bashir and they represent
ousted Bashir and they EIEENIR G
ousted Bashir and they represent the centre. On the
represent the centre. On the other side, you have the Rapid
other side, you have the Rapid Support Forces who are really a
Support Forces who are really a construction of the peripheries
construction of the peripheries who have been marginalised
who have been marginalised throughout sedan’s history
throughout sedan’s history XTaTo)
throughout sedan’s history since 1956 independence, so in
since 1956 independence, so In the
since 1956 independence, so In R e G
since 1956 independence, so In the wake of Vescio’s removal
the wake of Vescio’s removal about
the wake of Vescio’s removal E o Te TR o 018
the wake of Vescio’s removal about four ago is the battle
about four ago is the battle 18
about four ago is the battle o aReelningel}
about four ago is the battle for control of
about four ago Is the battle o uRee ange e AN 0
about four ago Is the battle TRk I ARSI
for control of Sudan —-— Sudan’s.. These
for control of Sudan —- Sudan’s.. These groups
Sudan’s.. These groups represent
Sudan’s.. These groups represent large
Sudan’s.. These groups represent large constituencies
represent large constituencies within the country
represent large constituencies G RO R =1 [
represent large constituencies within the country and for them
within the country and for them personally and collectively, it
personally and collectively, it T3
personally and collectively, it T 1]
personally and collectively, it is an existential battle. Both
Is an existential battle. Both S
Is an existential battle. Both AL
Is an existential battle. Both Il TR 1A\
Is an existential battle. Both sides are currently claiming to
sides are currently claiming to have control over the airport
have control over the airport and
have control over the airport EYalaBRoinsl-] s
have control over the airport and other strategic locations.
and other strategic locations. 0]
and other strategic locations. Of course, it’s very hard
Of course, it’s very hard to have an
Of course, Iit’s very hard to have an accurate picture of
have an accurate picture of what is going on but from what
what is going on but from what you understand, do
what Is going on but from what you understand, do you think
you understand, do you think T To )
you understand, do you think it’s more likely that one side
It’s more likely that one side or
It’s more likely that one side R AT
It’s more likely that one side IR e - I nal-] s
it’s more likely that one side or the other realistically has
or the other realistically has oo la1ngell
or the other realistically has oo la1nge B ls]
or the other realistically has o a1t B
or the other realistically has control in the situation? There
control in the situation? There has been an ongoing debate
has been an ongoing debate within Sudan, | came out of
within Sudan, | came out of there
within Sudan, | came out of RV A
within Sudan, | came out of L R VA T
within Sudan, | came out of R AT ]
within Sudan, | came out of there myself, but an ongoing
there myself, but an ongoing Al o)
there myself, but an ongoing IR E
there myself, but an ongoing debate for years about which of
debate for years about which of the
debate for years about which of R R
debate for years about which of the forces is in fact stronger,
the forces Is In fact stronger, T ar-s
the forces Is In fact stronger, LTI IO LR
the forces is In fact stronger, better positioned, because the
better positioned, because the threat of this conflict has
threat of this conflict has been held over the country’s
been held over the country’s transitions and is basically
transitions and is basically the
transitions and is basically RN TB
transitions and is basically the beginning. It’s hard to
the beginning. It’s hard to T2
the beginning. It’s hard to say. There is no real
say. There is no real conclusion
say. There is no real o ool l3le o o]0
say. There is no real S R R
say. There is no real conclusion on this. What |
conclusion on this. What | would say is
conclusion on this. What | TG I VAR 1)
conclusion on this. What | would say is the Rapid Support
would say Is the Rapid Support | R s
would say Is the Rapid Support Forces have historically been
Forces have historically been T nr-s
Forces have historically been better equipped at fighting in
better equipped at fighting In the countryside and peripheries
the countryside and peripheries and in many ways and the
and in many ways and the Sudanese armed forces have
Sudanese armed forces have oG
Sudanese armed forces have greater capacity in urban areas
greater capacity in urban areas and
greater capacity in urban areas TR
greater capacity in urban areas and that could be how this
and that could be how this ultimately falls whether the
ultimately falls whether the Sudanese armed forces are
Sudanese armed forces are sitting in urban areas and the
sitting In urban areas and the Rapid Support Forces attacking
Rapid Support Forces attacking otz ne]
Rapid Support Forces attacking them from urban centres. Sorry,
them from urban centres. Sorry, from rural areas. So, we are
from rural areas. So, we are about to see exactly how this
about to see exactly how this ENE
about to see exactly how this pans out. The last thing |
pans out. The last thing | would say on this though is the
would say on this though is the 1o} 1Y
would say on this though is the prospect of a regional
prospect of a regional intervention
prospect of a regional IR Y
prospect of a regional intervention here, both of
intervention here, both of {aT )
intervention here, both of these gentlemen and forces have
these gentlemen and forces have backers from the region,
backers from the region, talking about Egypt, South
talking about Egypt, South Sudan, Chad, Central African
Sudan, Chad, Central African Republic, Libya and potentially
Republic, Libya and potentially Ethiopian, but this is the real
Ethiopian, but this is the real e gs]
Ethiopian, but this is the real concern also
Ethiopian, but this is the real OIS RSO E:
Ethiopian, but this is the real concern also beyond a wider
concern also beyond a wider Sdala 1ol
concern also beyond a wider ethnic citation and civil war
ethnic citation and civil war component here is
component here Is a regionalisation of this
regionalisation of this o a1 diTas
regionalisation of this conflict because again both
conflict because again both leaders really have strong
leaders really have strong oo o= e n o]0y
leaders really have strong o1l [ e Il it e
leaders really have strong connections with key leaders
connections with key leaders across
connections with key leaders YR I o)
connections with key leaders across the region. Thank you so
across the region. Thank you so much for your analysis on this
much for your analysis on this SJ1]s] [l
Jonas Horner.
Jonas Horner.
Ve
We will bring you the latest on this developing situation as we
this developing situation as we get
this developing situation as we A
Let’s get some of the day’s other news now.
Gunmen in central Mexico have killed seven people,
Including a child, in an attack in a water park
and spa in Cortazar.
Numerous families had been enjoying themselves at the park
when about 20 armed men approached a group of people
and opened fire.
The area has seen a surge in drug-related violence
In recent years.
Environmental campaigners in Germany are celebrating
the end of 60 years of nuclear energy production
with the closure of the country’s three remaining
nuclear power stations, but opinion polls suggest that
most Germans see nuclear energy as cleaner alternative
Japan’s Prime Minister Fumio Kishida says his country must
do everything to ensure safety as foreign dignitaries gather
for meetings of the G7
and prepare for a summit next month.
The Japanese leader was evacuated unhurt
on Saturday following a suspected smoke bomb attack.
At least 12 inmates have been I BB LR el
at one of Ecuador’s most dangerous prisons.
Clashes between rival gangs broke out on Friday
at the Litoral Penitentiary.
On Thursday, three female guards were killed by armed
attackers outside the jail.
Well, let’s go to Taiwan, where tensions with China
continue to escalate.
sl
Launch of a weather satellite has briefly stopped flies
has briefly stopped flies between China
has briefly stopped flies R R e s
has briefly stopped flies between China and Taiwan.
China enforced a no—fly zone to the north of Taiwan
near a group of disputed islands called Senkaku by Japan
and Diaoyu by China.
The no—fly zone was initially planned to last two days
It follows days of intense Chinese military drills around
Taiwan, which have been seen as a response to
Taiwan’s president meeting QRO TSR RS L E
In California last week.
For more, I’m joined by Oriana Skylar Mastro
from Stanford University.
Her research focuses on Chinese military and security policy.
Let’s just get your reaction to the
Let’s just get your reaction to N L e
Let’s just get your reaction to the latest development on this.
the latest development on this. |
the latest development on this. IR a1 e
the latest development on this. | think right now it
the latest development on this. RO S D AR
the latest development on this. | think right now it is really
I think right now it is really 100
| think right now it Is really to mathematics soon to tell
to mathematics soon to tell what has happened. A lot of
what has happened. A lot of 1]
what has happened. A lot of people are saying that it was
people are saying that it was the international pressure that
the international pressure that caused China to reduce this
caused China to reduce this no—fly
caused China to reduce this [ S i VAONT
caused China to reduce this no—fly zone down from the three
no—fly zone down from the three days, and it is standard
days, and it is standard o)
days, and It is standard IR
days, and It is standard MR )
days, and It is standard Chinese fare to deny
days, and it is standard Chinese fare to deny the no—fly
Chinese fare to deny the no—fly 4o o)
Chinese fare to deny the no—fly zone ever
Chinese fare to deny the no—fly AN (S i
Chinese fare to deny the no—fly zone ever existed. But
Chinese fare to deny the no—fly YN (S T s
zone ever existed. But it really highlights that from the
really highlights that from the TR )
really highlights that from the TSl - e
really highlights that from the A RIS
really highlights that from the outside it is very hard for us
outside it is very hard for us E1S
outside it is very hard for us as analysis to know what has
as analysis to know what has happened in the decision—making
happened in the decision—making LI
happened in the decision—making process. It’s
happened in the decision—making I | (X
happened in the decision—making process. It’s also perfectly
process. It’s also perfectly DI
process. It’s also perfectly possible that they change their
possible that they change their plans for other reasons besides
plans for other reasons besides international pressure. How is
international pressure. How is this gone down at
international pressure. How Is this gone down at the White
this gone down at the White House because | imagine this is
House because | imagine this is OGS
House because | imagine this is perhaps welcome news to the
perhaps welcome news to the T Y|
perhaps welcome news to the United States? Generally
United States? Generally speaking, the White House was
speaking, the White House was trying
speaking, the White House was [l ¢o)
speaking, the White House was trying to play down President
trying to play down President Tsai’s transit. A lot of the
Tsal’s transit. A lot of the (ST [y o]
Tsal’s transit. A lot of the messaging coming
Tsal’s transit. A lot of the NESE L[l Rl [ e 10
Tsal’s transit. A lot of the messaging coming out was the
messaging coming out was the i
messaging coming out was the ElaR e
messaging coming out was the a1 R 1
messaging coming out was the LN R G RO R LS
messaging coming out was the fact that this was nothing new,
fact that this was nothing new, S
fact that this was nothing new, this was President Tsai’s
this was President Tsal’s seventh
this was President Tsal’s N el
this was President Tsal’s seventh time this happened,
seventh time this happened, EIN e
seventh time this happened, almost two or
seventh time this happenedq, almost two or three
seventh time this happenedq, I el R Lo e R el n- e [ Y2 a)
seventh time this happened, almost two or three dozen times
almost two or three dozen times before in history with other
before in history with other Taiwan presidents. So China did
Taiwan presidents. So China did launch these major military
launch these major military exercises in response to
exercises In response to President Tsai transit and her
President Tsai transit and her VTt
President Tsai transit and her VTS R T i
President Tsai transit and her VTS R i IR AT
President Tsal transit and her visit with the Speaker of the
visit with the Speaker of the YT IS}
visit with the Speaker of the house Kevin McCarthy, so |
house Kevin McCarthy, so | a1 ¢
house Kevin McCarthy, so | el &)
house Kevin McCarthy, so | think the hope was to keep this
think the hope was to keep this a3
think the hope was to keep this VAL
think the hope was to keep this survey did not escalate to the
survey did not escalate to the N
survey did not escalate to the R AT
survey did not escalate to the degree that the exercises and
degree that the exercises and N
degree that the exercises and crisis did after Speaker
crisis did after Speaker Pelosi’s
crisis did after Speaker PP IR L3l
crisis did after Speaker Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan last
Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan last August. And what does this say
August. And what does this say about what
August. And what does this say E oo T iR s R )
August. And what does this say IR G R s
August. And what does this say about what we can potentially
about what we can potentially expect in terms
about what we can potentially OB R R
about what we can potentially expect in terms of relations
expect in terms of relations YA e
expect in terms of relations YR T
expect in terms of relations between the United States and
between the United States and China? Of course it is too
China? Of course it is too early
China? Of course it is too AT
China? Of course it is too early to tell anything
early to tell anything long—term, as you say, it’s an
long—term, as you say, it’s an early
long—term, as you say, it’s an VA EL)
long—term, as you say, it’s an VAL
long—term, as you say, it’s an early stage of development, but
early stage of development, but T
early stage of development, but 1R
early stage of development, but IR R
early stage of development, but if you were to speculate on
If you were to speculate on what this shows, what would
what this shows, what would iy
what this shows, what would your thoughts be? | would say
your thoughts be? | would say i
your thoughts be? | would say of course there are some things
of course there are some things a1
of course there are some things that we are
of course there are some things IR N e )
of course there are some things that we are more than
that we are more than others, and one is
that we are more than others, N - R
that we are more than others, and one is the Chinese military
and one is the Chinese military has become so
and one iIs the Chinese military has become so much more
has become so much more capable. Over the past two
capable. Over the past two Y
capable. Over the past two decades. And the Chinese
decades. And the Chinese 23 g g gl
decades. And the Chinese government has become more
government has become more reliant on the military, not
reliant on the military, not only
reliant on the military, not VA
reliant on the military, not only to pursue its own foreign
only to pursue its own foreign policy goals
only to pursue its own foreign T LTS
only to pursue its own foreign policy goals as a signalling
policy goals as a signalling device. The party has
device. The party has oppositely said
device. The party has ISR 1 I i ]
device. The party has oppositely said after August
oppositely said after August a1
oppositely said after August that we should expect a higher
that we should expect a higher tempo
that we should expect a higher I R
that we should expect a higher tempo of these
that we should expect a higher W O R SR S
that we should expect a higher W |V R SR A
tempo of these types of exercise around the island of
exercise around the island of Taiwan. | think their main goal
Taiwan. | think their main goal T3
Taiwan. | think their main goal is to normalise this type of
Is to normalise this type of behaviour, located in the South
behaviour, located in the South China Sea, the first couple of
China Sea, the first couple of Al 1s
China Sea, the first couple of Al
China Sea, the first couple of times a Chinese harassed ships
times a Chinese harassed ships LT
times a Chinese harassed ships there, these were major news
there, these were major news e
there, these were major news stories. Now this happens
stories. Now this happens EIN e
stories. Now this happens almost weekly and no—one covers
almost weekly and no—one covers i
almost weekly and no—one covers Y
almost weekly and no—one covers it. So the
almost weekly and no—one covers T R a0 80 1 )
almost weekly and no—one covers it. So the normalise this type
It. So the normalise this type i
It. So the normalise this type of behaviour
It. So the normalise this type A AT 0 =110
It. So the normalise this type of behaviour and to have it
of behaviour and to have it Y- 1a]
of behaviour and to have it seen as more
of behaviour and to have it Y NI - R 0L a o]
of behaviour and to have it seen as more routine for the
seen as more routine for the o)
seen as more routine for the Chinese military to be
Chinese military to be constantly in close contact and
constantly in close contact and circling and violating the air
circling and violating the air )
circling and violating the air et el ok hd Lo oo 0]
circling and violating the air defence identification zone of
defence identification zone of Taiwan. Such but if the Chinese
Taiwan. Such but if the Chinese [ gl llgl
Taiwan. Such but if the Chinese government does decide to use
government does decide to use T
government does decide to use LT
government does decide to use I A hl
government does decide to use force, it might be even more
force, it might be even more difficult for us to
force, it might be even more iR IR IR R
force, it might be even more IR IR R R
difficult for us to tell the AT R o)
difficult for us to tell the difference between a major
difference between a major exercise and
difference between a major Il - - e
difference between a major exercise and an actual
exercise and an actual invasion. Thank you for your
invasion. Thank you for your [T h 16
invasion. Thank you for your thoughts. Good to talk to you.
thoughts. Good to talk to you. Thank you for having me.
A sacred, ancient symbol of Scotland’s monarchy known
as The Stone of Destiny is to make the journey
from Edinburgh Castle to Westminster Abbey
for the Coronation of King Charles.
The exact details of when and how are a closely
guarded secret, but new techniques are being used
to find out more about the stone’s history.
Our Scotland correspondent, Alexandra Mackenzie, reports.
The Stone of Destiny or stone o XXall ]y ]e]
The Stone of Destiny or stone obscuring was legally
obscuring was legally transported from Westminster
transported from Westminster X} 1%
transported from Westminster Abbey to Edinburgh Castle on St
Abbey to Edinburgh Castle on St Andrews day in 1996. Intricate
Andrews day In 1996. Intricate preparations
Andrews day in 1996. Intricate preparations including digital
preparations including digital scans
preparations including digital o= - a1
preparations including digital scans and 3—D—printed out are
scans and 3—D—printed out are ]
scans and 3—D—printed out are Aro s
scans and 3—D—printed out are ey A R
scans and 3—D—printed out are now in the final stages
scans and 3—D-printed out are now in the final stages for its
now In the final stages for its 34ilgn)
now In the final stages for its XTI e)
now In the final stages for its return to London for the
return to London for the oo o aC uo)e]
return to London for the coronation of King Charles III.
coronation of King Charles III. T
coronation of King Charles III. e oYy o]
coronation of King Charles III. It’s going to be
coronation of King Charles III. IR LR
coronation of King Charles III. It’s going to be a really
It’s going to be a really momentous occasion. If they
momentous occasion. If they YTl
momentous occasion. If they T
momentous occasion. If they want a generation event,
want a generation event, really. And it’s really
really. And it’s really significant that the macro
really. And it’s really LT I L G R E T R
significant that the macro well il
significant that the macro well e s a1 10 1)
significant that the macro well I e a1 - h S
significant that the macro well will continue its historic role
will continue its historic role in the coronation of monarchs
in the coronation of monarchs i
in the coronation of monarchs Sl TR
in the coronation of monarchs of Britain. Until it was
in the coronation of monarchs AR IR LR s
of Britain. Until it was seen )Y
of Britain. Until it was seen by King Edward | amendment in
by King Edward | amendment in 1926
by King Edward | amendment in eyl 3TN
by King Edward | amendment in 1926 and enclosed in the
1926 and enclosed in the coronation chair, the stone was
coronation chair, the stone was used in
coronation chair, the stone was MR
coronation chair, the stone was used in the of Scottish
used in the of Scottish s 1Re R
used in the of Scottish monarchs. At Westminster Abbey
monarchs. At Westminster Abbey e
monarchs. At Westminster Abbey NS
monarchs. At Westminster Abbey the chair is being prepared for
the chair is being prepared for the
the chair is being prepared for A
the chair is being prepared for the new King and the Stone of
the new King and the Stone of Destiny will again be placed in
Destiny will again be placed in T
Destiny will again be placed in it. Ag
Destiny will again be placed in T -
Destiny will again be placed in it. As it was for many
it. As it was for many coronations, including that of
coronations, including that of the
coronations, including that of N L)
coronations, including that of the late Queen Elizabeth II.
coronations, including that of the late Queen Elizabeth Il. So
the late Queen Elizabeth Il. So TR
the late Queen Elizabeth Il. So R
the late Queen Elizabeth Il. So HICRRED
the late Queen Elizabeth Il. So here you can see
the late Queen Elizabeth II. So here you can see three
here you can see three AT R a1
here you can see three different Chilmark stock market
different Chilmark stock market a traditional treaty model of
a traditional treaty model of the stone has been created for
the stone has been created for the
the stone has been created for e ilas
the stone has been created for Rl -]
the stone has been created for the first time. It can now be
the first time. It can now be viewed and in greater detail
viewed and in greater detalil than ever
viewed and In greater detail than ever before. The
than ever before. The Ll o Te 31 (Y
than ever before. The 3—D-printed replica
than ever before. The 3—D—printed replica of the
5—D—printed replica of the stone
5—D—printed replica of the SR il
5—D—printed replica of the stone will also help in
stone will also help in preparations
stone will also help In preparations for the
preparations for the coronation. In terms of
coronation. In terms of planning on how to insert the
planning on how to insert the stone into
planning on how to insert the S )
planning on how to insert the stone into the chat, the 3D
stone into the chat, the 3D printers have been used to get
printers have been used to get the choreography done right,
the choreography done right, T
the choreography done right, it’s a very precious object and
it’s a very precious object and very happy, so to be able to
very happy, so to be able to S
very happy, so to be able to utilise the print physically in
utilise the print physically in the
utilise the print physically in e ilas
utilise the print physically in the first had
utilise the print physically In the first had means the
utilise the print physically in the first had means the actual
the first had means the actual )
the first had means the actual S R
the first had means the actual SRR
the first had means the actual RN
the first had means the actual stone is in the best of hands
stone is in the best of hands 30
stone iIs in the best of hands i
stone iIs in the best of hands on its way
stone i1s in the best of hands on its way temporarily
stone is in the best of hands on its way temporarily down
on its way temporarily down south.
on its way temporarily down s e g
on its way temporarily down south. For Scottish students
south. For Scottish students SO RO
south. For Scottish students stole the stone from
stole the stone from Westminster
stole the stone from WSS S S @YY
stole the stone from WSS NS S @SR
stole the stone from Westminster Abbey on Christmas
Westminster Abbey on Christmas DEY
Westminster Abbey on Christmas Day in 1950. Months later it
Day in 1950. Months later it TS
Day in 1950. Months later it was found. Some say The Stone
was found. Some say The Stone i
was found. Some say The Stone of Destiny should not be taken
of Destiny should not be taken 100
of Destiny should not be taken to London
of Destiny should not be taken o R JaleloalRe) g
of Destiny should not be taken oo ale[ola o aRaa:)
of Destiny should not be taken to London for the crowning of
to London for the crowning of King Charles
to London for the crowning of (O EGE SRR
to London for the crowning of King Charles Ill. But there is
King Charles IIl. But there is an
King Charles IIl. But there is LI
King Charles IIl. But there is an agreement that
King Charles Ill. But there is an agreement that the
King Charles Ill. But there Is an agreement that the stone
an agreement that the stone should only
an agreement that the stone SRV R
an agreement that the stone should only leave Scotland for
should only leave Scotland for a
should only leave Scotland for W g0 aC u o)n]
should only leave Scotland for o s s a0 a = 010!
should only leave Scotland for a coronation and then
should only leave Scotland for R SR e
a coronation and then be returned here to
a coronation and then be AN RO el
a coronation and then be returned here to Andrew Castle.
returned here to Andrew Castle. VY’Y
returned here to Andrew Castle. NSRS
returned here to Andrew Castle. Now this don’t sit alongside
Now this don’t sit alongside the
Now this don’t sit alongside - e
Now this don’t sit alongside the Crown Jewels of Scotland
the Crown Jewels of Scotland but
the Crown Jewels of Scotland iR 1l
the Crown Jewels of Scotland YR 1 o e s
the Crown Jewels of Scotland but will soon be returned to
but will soon be returned to its original home in Perth.
its original home in Perth. Alexandra Mackenzie, BBC News,
Alexandra Mackenzie, BBC News, Edinburgh.
Israelis opposed to government plans for a radical overhaul
of the judicial system are holding a fifteenth week
of protests across the country.
Police closed roads in Tel Aviv and Haifa, where the biggest
demonstrations have reqgularly been held.
A counter—protest in favour of the government plans has
been held in Netanya.
The Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has put the proposal
on hold for now, so that talks can be held on reaching
a compromise.
Mr Netanyahu said that recent events would not harm Israel’s
democracy or economy.
Thousands of Christians filled Jerusalem’s Old City
on Saturday for an important Orthodox Easter ritual,
despite restrictions by Israeli police.
The Holy Fire ceremony drew huge crowds to the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre, in occupied East Jerusalem,
where Israeli police control security.
It sits on the site where Christians believe Jesus
was crucified and buried.
Police had limited attendance to 1,800 people inside
and 1,200 outside.
Church leaders urged Christians to ignore restrictions
and criticised the police presence at the event.
It’s 20—years since one BRI A n ey
to reintroduce beavers into the wild in the UK
began in Kent.
During that time, the creatures have been sinking their teeth
into trees, plants and soil - and have transformed
the landscape in the process.
Chrissie Reidy can tell us more.
V10
Beaver really
SIS T LAV o]T s
Beaver really put their feet up and
Beaver really put their feet up TR
Beaver really put their feet up and that’s my 20 years ago they
and that’s my 20 years ago they e
and that’s my 20 years ago they - e lalano e l0lo=Ns|
and that’s my 20 years ago they were reintroduced here at Ham
were reintroduced here at Ham s
were reintroduced here at Ham fan to transform the land back
fan to transform the land back to wetland. It was drying out,
to wetland. It was drying out, it almost had dried up. The
it almost had dried up. The T
it almost had dried up. The treaties in
it almost had dried up. The IR R )
it almost had dried up. The treaties in the background,
treaties in the background, a1
treaties in the background, that small
treaties in the backgroung, that small bridge that was
treaties in the background, that small bridge that was just
that small bridge that was just s
that small bridge that was just N R )
that small bridge that was just N A Y
that small bridge that was just over there used to be
that small bridge that was just N B NI RN - 1 [
that small bridge that was just N ORI RN IR
over there used to be able to be able to be
over there used to be able to I RO R NG
over there used to be able to be able to be walked across.
be able to be walked across. You can’t do
be able to be walked across. N R a1
be able to be walked across. You can’t do that anymore. That
You can’t do that anymore. That T3
You can’t do that anymore. That T3
You can’t do that anymore. That is a wetland site now. We can
Is a wetland site now. We can T
Is a wetland site now. We can N1
Is a wetland site now. We can A R S )
Is a wetland site now. We can see reefs are bad
Is a wetland site now. We can A B - N« ol ls
Is a wetland site now. We can see reefs are bad but it
Is a wetland site now. We can A B I N R
see reefs are bad but it is AN T
see reefs are bad but it is crisscrossed with all sorts of
crisscrossed with all sorts of beaver
crisscrossed with all sorts of eV e 102
crisscrossed with all sorts of beaver channels and Paul’s and
beaver channels and Paul’s and AR
beaver channels and Paul’s and hollows, and all filled with
hollows, and all filled with e
hollows, and all filled with water. By turning to nature
water. By turning to nature this thread footage shows how
this thread footage shows how the
this thread footage shows how e N e
this thread footage shows how the beaver has
this thread footage shows how N YV I LR e
this thread footage shows how the beaver has created meanders
the beaver has created meanders in
the beaver has created meanders MR
the beaver has created meanders in the stream, allowing other
In the stream, allowing other habitats to develop. We don’t
habitats to develop. We don’t T\
habitats to develop. We don’t say beavering
habitats to develop. We don’t VAL V)Y
habitats to develop. We don’t VALV LG IV
habitats to develop. We don’t say beavering away for nothing.
say beavering away for nothing. 11T
say beavering away for nothing. 1N e
say beavering away for nothing. The beaver really is a grafter
The beaver really Is a grafter from building dams to digging
from building dams to digging canals, transporting water,
canals, transporting water, even
canals, transporting water, SRS Wy o}
canals, transporting water, even slowing water down. The
even slowing water down. The beaver is supersmart. The
beaver Is supersmart. The beaver have credit canals, the
beaver have credit canals, the beaver have made dams, they
beaver have made dams, they BV
beaver have made dams, they have felled trees and they are
have felled trees and they are brought water all around the
brought water all around the -
brought water all around the site. And in doing so, a lot of
site. And in doing so, a lot of the victories that were sucking
the victories that were sucking on
the victories that were sucking )
the victories that were sucking on the moisture
the victories that were sucking sl Lt - 01 ¢
the victories that were sucking AR el iRt T o) i
the victories that were sucking on the moisture out of the
on the moisture out of the site, dried up, have started
site, dried up, have started die off. But they have credit
die off. But they have credit habitats in their own right,
habitats in their own right, standing dead, it’s been over
standing dead, it’s been over 20 years,
standing dead, it’s been over P{O RIS 111
standing dead, it’s been over 20 years, but what’s taken its
20 years, but what’s taken its place is lots lots of willow.
place is lots lots of willow. Willow just happens to be the
Willow just happens to be the beaver’s favourite foodstuffs,
beaver’s favourite foodstuffs, especially in winter when times
especially in winter when times )
especially in winter when times are tough, and also what they
are tough, and also what they build dams from. Build their
build dams from. Build their lodges from.
build dams from. Build their (e fe ISR e P} ¢
build dams from. Build their lodges from. It is hoped the
lodges from. It is hoped the TR
lodges from. It is hoped the success of
lodges from. It is hoped the e R S
lodges from. It is hoped the success of this project in this
success of this project in this part of Kent will go some way
part of Kent will go some way 100
part of Kent will go some way (111
part of Kent will go some way to help restore other
part of Kent will go some way O S O R G R B [
to help restore other wetlands around the country with beavers
around the country with beavers doing
around the country with beavers LR
around the country with beavers doing what they do best.
Chrissie Reidy, BBC News.
Government airstrikes were D]
Government airstrikes were reported to have
Government airstrikes were g R O EVER
Government airstrikes were reported to have been carried
reported to have been carried B IT1d
reported to have been carried out on
reported to have been carried RIS
reported to have been carried out on positions of
reported to have been carried NG IS R G
out on positions of the paramilitary Rapid Support
paramilitary Rapid Support e R e s
paramilitary Rapid Support T )
paramilitary Rapid Support FV (IR R 14
paramilitary Rapid Support Forces the city of undermine
Forces the city of undermine Mark, across the Nile from the
Mark, across the Nile from the ]I
Mark, across the Nile from the capital of Khartoum. Rival
capital of Khartoum. Rival o ge- s
capital of Khartoum. Rival R LR e
capital of Khartoum. Rival forces were extending artillery
forces were extending artillery TR
forces were extending artillery fires. At least 60, 56 people
fires. At least 60, 56 people have died and hundreds more
have died and hundreds more el e P
have died and hundreds more wounded. The
have died and hundreds more e eI
have died and hundreds more wounded. The UN Secretary
wounded. The UN Secretary el
wounded. The UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres has
General Antonio Guterres has called
General Antonio Guterres has LR
General Antonio Guterres has called for an immediate
called for an immediate - I
called for an immediate 1Al a e
called for an immediate ceasefire and a return to
ceasefire and a return to G
ceasefire and a return to talks. We will have more on the
talks. We will have more on the developing situation across the
developing situation across the programme so Stay with us for
programme so Stay with us for 11T
programme so Stay with us for The Brief on that.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @luxmy?q.
Most of us got to see some sunshine on Saturday.
| suspect that Sunday will be a slightly cloudier affair.
That cloud rolling its way in from the west.
That saidq, If you do get some sunshine, it
will feel relatively warm.
But those cloudier conditions, courtesy of this frontal system
pushing its way in from
High pressure still holding firm just about, so we’re
looking at mainly dry weather and where we are closest
to the centre of the high across parts eastern England,
a sunny but rather chilly start with some early fog patches.
Further west, though, a lot of cloud, spots
Through the afternoon, Northern Ireland could well
brighten up but that could spawn some pretty sharp
showers.
North—east Scotland, also seeing some spells
of sunshine, lifting
temperatures here to around 17 degrees.
Generally values between 12 and 16 degrees.
As we move through Sunday night, we keep some quite large
areas of cloud.
The cloud will break in places but if you do see clear spells
for any length of time, they could fill in with some
patches of mist and fog.
And If it stays cloudy where you are, it will remain
relatively mild
but in the clearer spots, temperatures could drop
relatively close to freezing.
Into Monday, still this patchwork of clear spells
and cloudy areas.
It could well be that we see quite a lot of cloud
rolling its way in from the North Sea and that,
coupled with a bit of a breeze from the North Sea, will make
it feel really rather chilly for some of our eastern coasts.
So temperatures in Hull, for example, around 13 degrees,
same sort of temperature for Aberdeen but further west,
Glasgow, 17 degrees,
In some spots up to 18 and as as we head deeper
into the week, this area of high pressure stays with us,
meaning it will be largely dry
but with this high building to the north—east of us,
this easterly wind will tend to strengthen a little.
So that breeze, quite noticeable coming
in off the chilly North Sea will make it feel rather cool
for some of these eastern coasts.
We could see more cloud in the south developing
on Tuesday, maybe even giving rise to the odd shower.
Some spells of sunshine elsewhere.
Once again, the highest temperatures likely to be
g ISR N el and west of the UK.
And that is a theme that will continue as we head deeper
into the week.
Always a little bit chilly the further east you are.
Could turn quite cloudy around the middle parts of the week.
But there will always be some spells of sunshine
and generally warmest in the west.
on Saturday following a suspected smoke bomb attack.
This 1s BBC News.
The UN Secretary—General calls for an immediate ceasefire
In Sudan after at least 56 people were killed in clashes
between rival military factions.
Around 600 people have been injured in the violence.
The military launched air strikes on a paramilitary
force’s base In the capital Khartoum to reassert control
over the country.
A Chinese rocket launching a weather satellite briefly
forces planes flying to and from northern Taiwan
IR I T
Taiwan says some rocket debris did fall into the warning zone
in the seas but had not affected the safety
of the island’s territory.
It comes after days of military drills in the region.
A sacred, ancient symbol of Scotland’s monarchy known
A sacred, ancient symbol of Scotland’s monarchy known
T of Scotland’s monarchy known
W of Scotland’s monarchy known government
70| of Scotland’s monarchy known government in
Tl of Scotland’s monarchy known government in Mexico
| of Scotland’s monarchy known government in Mexico have
Covid government in Mexico have killed people including a child
killed people including a child in an attack in waterpark ——
In an attack in waterpark —- gunmen in Mexico have
In an attack in waterpark —— gunmen in Mexico have killed
gunmen in Mexico have killed 0] 8
gunmen in Mexico have killed people, including a
gunmen in Mexico have Kkilled people, including a child, in
people, including a child, In an attack on a
people, including a child, in an attack on a waterpark in
an attack on a waterpark In Mexico.
Now on BBC News, Click.
Sit up straight!
..the phones are taking charge, the robots are doing
the cooking and the humans are —
well, just lying around, really.
We’re in Korea to visit the country’s best—known
exports.
We’re in Ukraine to meet the hacktivists trying to help
win the war.
And If you’ve ever wondered where the sounds in your phone
come from, prepare to be...underwhelmed.
That’s your new ringtone right there!
JAUNTY MUSIC PLAYS.
You know how it Is.
You’re wandering through a bustling capital city
and you fancy a coffee, so you call up an app,
select your drink —
ooh, iced banana latte, don’t mind if | do —
and send the order through so the barista can
make 1t in advance.
And the barista’'s name is beat.
Well, right now, I’m struggling to see the point of him.
All he’s done is put the cup on to the machine.
I’m in Seoul, South Korea, for the first time since
the pandemic, and I’m looking for signs of this
hyper—advanced nation’s continued push into
ORI -
..of which my banana latte is a small sign.
See, In 2020, the government at the time introduced
a new policy called Untact - that’s the opposite of contact
— which aimed to promote economic growth by automating
parts of society and removing human contact at the same time.
Here’s a mobile shop where you can buy phones
and sign contracts without dealing with a real person.
And here’s how you get airport information these days.
Please give me the airline information.
| will show you where it is.
Please wear a face mask for the health of the people
=[O [ RY0TTE
It’s no surprise this policy was given a boost by Covid,
when we were all encouraged not to touch anything
or be near anyone.
Mind you, I’m not sure it explains why my chicken
was fried by a robot yesterday.
How would you want yours done?
As one of the most high—tech countries on earth, South Korea
IS In a prime place to make these changes.
With nearly 100% of under—40s online,
they love their technology here.
And Untact was not the first government policy to try
and help this nation’s rise.
In fact, it was a government push towards industry,
and later high—tech industry,
that’s got it to where it is today.
In the last 60 years, this country has completely
reinvented itself, going from one of the world’s poorest
nations to an industrial and technological powerhouse.
A huge part of its success is down to the massive
family—run businesses called chaebols that
tower over Seoul
You’ll have heard of a few of them, I’m sure.
There’s LG, arguably the country’s king of home
goods and, of course, those bendy TVs.
Hyundai makes everything from electric cars and robo—taxis
to one of the world’s biggest floating cranes,
capable of lfting 10,000 tonnes.
And SK Group has a firm grip on telecoms, 56,
chips and semiconductors.
But all of these names are dwarfed by the country’s
best—known brand, Samsung.
Its HQ 1s a massive campus in the city of Suwon
and it’s certainly on a par with those of tech companies
that I’ve seen elsewhere in terms of scale —
although not every tech campus |'ve been to has
a cimbing wall.
But these days, you do need to give your staff the freedom
to work the way they want, and that includes new ways
to achieve new heights.
C—Lab stands for "creative lab".
All the Samsung employees can submit their own idea.
Once they are selected, they are excused from their
assigned work and focus only on developing their ideas.
Many big tech firms have seen the benefit of setting up
iIn—house accelerators BRI R e B3 a1
In 2012, it’s supported over 500 start—ups.
Every year, 30—40 projects are chosen,
and Lee Dayoung’s was one of them -
although she did have the help of a friend.
Hey, say hi.
llHi.ll
Piloto 1s a child’s smartphone companion and maybe a guardian,
a friendly face with a cheeky sense of humour who meets kids
R IR e Y-
Normally, kids like to talk about toileting.
Yeah, | know.
I’ve got two.
They love It.
That’s the reason why we put that scenario.
Today, parents are using parental control apps,
which means controlling the screen time or sensing
what your kid’s watching on the screen.
| wanted to give the opportunity to control
themselves on their own and develop their self-regqulation
skills, because it’s necessary to teach how to use
the smart devices wisely.
If you smile, it also smiles.
Amongst other things, Piloto uses the phone’s
camera to teach good screen technique...
Distance, please, Spencer.
..and its gyroscopes to teach good posture.
Sit up straight.
Sit up straight!
a3
And by learning to care about Piloto’s teeth,
kids might also learn to do the same for theirs.
Now, If having children has made you want to pull your hair
JT el | know the feeling —
and another C—Lab start—up has been working on a solution.
Scanning, and then | capture — video capture — with this
button.
That will show you how W CRTG EL RO RS
In all seriousness, many people suffer from hair loss for many
different reasons and the Becon device
Is a scanner that can help.
It analyses your scalp andg, using Al, gives you a diagnosis
to help you choose the best products and ingredients
to treat your specific condition.
| was actually suffering from the hair loss for 15—20
In Korea, there are 4 million products to take care
of the hair loss condition but people never know
which product will do best,
so we wanted to find out the right solution.
There’s even a hairline simulator, should you want
to lose a bit of forehead.
So, this 1s what | would look like if | had more hair.
There we go.
And If | lose more of my hair, | would look like that.
LG L =Y [T you can’t unsee.
Dayoung and Minsuk say that being able to develop
their ideas In the safety of a large company
IEE I - i
Budget—wise, people—wise, it’s really difficult to make
a start—up because it requires a huge amount
QR E I
Not only are the entrepreneurs given dedicated office spaces,
but they can also recruit their own project members
from other Samsung employees.
Having my own team, working with them full-time,
concentrating on our dream was super good.
Of course, at the end of a project, Samsung has
the right to retain ideas and integrate them into its own
products or allow the project owner to spin off as
a fully—fledged company.
We basically created this programme to stimulate
a start—up ecosystem and promote job creation in
T
Samsung Is yet another huge company that’s acknowledging
that creativity often comes from being nimble,
like a start—up, and is trying to find ways to incorporate
that spirit into its enormous corporate ecosystem.
We’ll be back in Korea later, but now to the US.
In January, a company called FlevenlLabs released a trial
version of its Al translation software
intended for dubbing movies.
It went viral, but not in the way they’d hoped.
James Clayton picks up the story.
Yo, boys, | may need some help.
| found a room with a bunch of mob spawners.
RYAN REYNOLDS’ VOICE: Have you ever wondered what it
would be like to be someone else?
MORGAN FREEMAN’S VOICE: ~with ElevenlLabs’ Al
technology, you can find out.
Given a minute of anyone’s voice, the software can quickly
put together an imitation.
Within days, people were imitating celebrity
voices, making them say things they’d never said.
| just think | would love to get Ratatoied.
This 1s the point where | tell
you that you’re actually
listening to an Al voice, but it wasn’t exactly
the most convincing voice.
This 1s It.
Al VOICE: Testing out my voice clone.
| don’t think it sounds like me that much,
but what do you think?
I’m going to record here, too, just to...
..you know, to have more.
My producer Ben and | spoke to the CEO and co—founder
of ElevenLabs, Mati Staniszewski, for the company’s
first broadcast interview.
So, | had a go at < R R R
and, you know, it was sort of reasonably successful,
although it seemed to have a bit of an Australian accent.
The majority of our work is based on public domain data,
where majority of the voices and the work that we have
are actually US - American accents.
So, iIf Ben did it, it might be more successful?
Ben should definitely try.
The company’s terms and conditions are clear that
you can only clone your own voice, but not everyone has
abided by its rules.
On sites like 4chan, it’s incredibly easy to find
people who’ve taken celebrity voices and made them say racist
and hateful things.
ElevenLabs accepts its platform has been used for hate speech.
99% of commenters are kind of positive, that we’ve seen,
and for less than 1% of what was generated,
it was usually against terms of service —
whether it was hate speech or variations of that.
The company says only paid users can clone voices now
and they’re developing a new tool to track down people
=L IR (o Lo R o] E: T oY g B
But ElevenLabs doesn’t just do cloned voices...
Hold on, just give me a second.
..the company has another tool where users can create a unique
voice completely from scratch.
Let’s use a female gender.
I’m going to do a middle age and | think even more fitting
with a British accent.
And I’m just going to click Generate.
That’s going to create WO E L L VA S VA I
G IR Y (e
FEMALE BRITISH=ACCENTED VOICE: Britain’s first live public
broadcast was made from the factory of Marconi’s
Wireless Telegraph Company in Chelmsford.
It’s never been easier to imitate a politician’s voice.
Sleepy Joe, you have run this country to its absolute ground.
Well, at least | do run sometimes, if you know
what | mean.
Mark Nitzberg is a professor at UC Berkeley’s Al Research
| asked him whether we should R B o o M iR o)
presidential elections in 2024,
We’ll very likely see many more deepfakes than we did
in the last cycle, just YRR R B Ly 8
And I’m not sure what measures we are taking to counter
what effect that might have.
There are plenty of other concerns around this tech, too.
For example — scams.
This could make them far more believable and far
easier to execute.
The Federal Trade Commission put out a statement in March,
warning people that scams imitating relatives can now
be incredibly convincing.
ElevenLabs themselves say that as Al develops,
people are simply going to have LI RO R a I LS 0 [T
they hear and things W F O YRR S
And kind of the wider education is just making sure that people
across know that as we think about audio, as we think
about texts, as we think about images, a lot
of the content has been created IRV TG
Al—generated and it’s important to know that this might be —
this might be the case.
You know, one needs to, again, take this approach
where we think about what we want in a society
before we allow the release of these tools.
Voice cloning for the public is here to stay.
It’s very difficult to see how this is going to be put back
In 1its box now.
But this is clearly disruptive technology that can be used
for both good and bad.
W1
I I
Higher, | am
ST AR [0 I
Higher, | am a Shiona McCallum with
Higher, | am a Shiona McCallum i IR 1S
Higher, | am a Shiona McCallum with this week’s tech news.
with this week’s tech news. Were many mistakes along the
Were many mistakes along the Vg
Were many mistakes along the way? Of course. | think we are
Were many mistakes along the way? Of course. | think we are
way? Of course. | think we are headed to
way? Of course. | think we are YT R ]
way? Of course. | think we are headed to a place where we are.
headed to a place where we are. I
headed to a place where we are. T =Y ar)
headed to a place where we are. If someone offers you $44
If someone offers you $44 I
If someone offers you $44 TR s
If someone offers you $44 billion for Twitter now, would
bilion for Twitter now, would you
billion for Twitter now, would you take
bilion for Twitter now, would you take it? No, it
billion for Twitter now, would you take it? No, it depends on
you take it? No, it depends on STYe
you take it? No, it depends on her. If | was confident that
her. If | was confident that Y%
her. If | was confident that W A
her. If | was confident that they would regular pursue the
they would regular pursue the g
they would regular pursue the (el N
they would regular pursue the truth, 1I’d be
they would regular pursue the truth, I’d be glad to have
truth, I’d be glad to have 00 al- o )
truth, I’d be glad to have someone else.
truth, I’d be glad to have - -
truth, I’d be glad to have someone else. | don’t care
someone else. | don’t care oY 014
someone else. | don’t care about the
someone else. | don’t care TR G Y
someone else. | don’t care about the money but | do want
about the money but | do want 100
about the money but | do want to halve some source of truth
to halve some source of truth a1
to halve some source of truth that | can count
to halve some source of truth E e e 11 o ol
to halve some source of truth that | can count on. Tech giant
that | can count on. Tech giant Alibaba plans to relate its own
Alibaba plans to relate its own AlA ChatGPT style product. The
AlA ChatGPT style product. The a1 ao 01e
AlA ChatGPT style product. The chat but will
AlA ChatGPT style product. The s o 1R 1 o
AlIA ChatGPT style product. The chat but will be integrated
chat but will be integrated across Alibaba’s website in the
across Alibaba’s website in the Y ]d
across Alibaba’s website in the near future. Nasa has launched
near future. Nasa has launched a
near future. Nasa has launched ERAT
near future. Nasa has launched a new satellite to
near future. Nasa has launched Y AL U R O - 1 4
near future. Nasa has launched Y A U RO R o & s
a new satellite to track air pollution over North America.
pollution over North America. Temple will keep a tab on
Temple will keep a tab on WIOT ]
Temple will keep a tab on nitrogen dioxide, formaldehyde
nitrogen dioxide, formaldehyde and ground—level ozone which
and ground—level ozone which )
and ground—level ozone which SRS
and ground—level ozone which are key ingredients for smog.
When the full-scale invasion of Ukraine began, a second
battle also got under way — a cyber war led by activist
Joe Tidy has been to Ukraine to speak to those who are fighting
This 1s Killmilk, the leader of a Russian hacker army that’s
been attacking Ukraine and its allies since the invasion.
He’s rallied a Telegram group of hackers and supporters,
nearly 100,000 members strong.
He wouldn’t agree to a direct interview but, after weeks
of asking, he sent us this video before breaking off
communication.
And it’s not just Russians who are hacking for Russia.
I’m still carrying out attacks, yeah.
These two hackers, an American and a Dutch national,
have carried out disruptive but temporary attacks
on Ukraine and its allies, too.
| was hijacking the Ukraine embassy.
No target is off limits.
Recently, Killmilk called for attacks on hospitals
In countries like Germany that have donated tanks to Ukraine.
But the lines are clearly being blurred on the Ukrainian
side, too, and no—one seems to be hiding it.
As the capital Kyiv braced for attack, Roman was helping
carry out criminal hacks and building software
for the war effort as part of a volunteer group.
You were a big part of — and one of the leaders of —
IT Stand For Ukraine.
What happened?
Look at you now.
I’ve met a guy who was responsible for
the information war.
| showed him all the data and all the things
we’ve been doing.
He was amazed and he said, "OK, come on, come on,
"Roman.
"Come on, we need it."
el RIS
Even before he was recruiteq, Roman confirms that his hacking
team did work directly with the Ukrainian authorities.
So, they basically started to give us some targets and say
what to do, when to do.
What sort of targets were you going for in
those early days?
(K[ [ R telecommunication, erm....
..Service companies.
There were some disruptions in — in railway ticketing.
So, you took out the ticketing system for the Southern Russia
Railway?
T Tl dgl] o] like 20 hours or so.
20 hours?
So, no—one could get tickets from the machines?
No.
That’s a lot of disruption.
It’s the kind of attack that Ukraine’s cyber military
could never publicly carry out themselves as a responsible
nation, but is seemingly oot R Iz e
Yeah, OK.
Mykhailo Fedorov is Deputy PRI LI Sa: eEL Ss
for Digital Transformation.
As the full—scale war broke out, it was his department that
controversially set up the Telegram group for the IT
N )RV TS
Do you think the lines have been blurred between what is
and was criminal hacking and what is now accepted
and encouraged by the government?
But is it your view that anyone hacking Russia currently is not
doing anything criminal?
At Ukraine’s cybersecurity defence HQ, they say they’re
facing attacks from dozens of other groups, too.
So, already, you’ve had 2,186 — is that right?
Viktor Zhora is the leader of Ukraine’s cybersecurity
authority.
He accuses the Russian military of working with groups
like Killnet - something Killnet denies.
Every day, we deal with up to ten severe cyber incidents.
Reading the news in the UK NI RO R (o ]g (P
they might think that the cyber A B R e dlTes
Is just, you know, LEGL{EL
What would you say to that?
Of course, the impact of strikes of cruise missiles
Is much higher than R =T S
But the reason that cyber attacks can bring such impact
to Ukrainian infrastructure is also due to our cyber
defending capabilities RSt gl
In case we were weaker,
these attacks would be more destructive.
Some predict that the severity of attacks will increase
as Russia struggles on the physical battlefield,
and there’s a concern that hacktivists might cause serious
harm if attacks get out of control
Ted is one of the main coordinators of the IT
N )RV TS
Are you In danger of gamifying hacking in this regard?
You’ve got a leaderboard up with the amount of attacks
people are carrying out.
This isn’t playing, is it?
This Is serious criminal activity.
Talking from the standpoint of Western laws, | think,
IRl a1
But when war Is coming to your country, everything
Is changing.
There are no good or bad ways to fight.
Thankfully, the cyber war has proven to be less destructive
than the physical war.
But the conflict is no doubt rewriting the rules
of engagement online.
No, it’s not your L[] {g]e
but millions of people around the world might have just
reached for their handsets.
In Korea, Samsung is King, and each generation
of its mobile phones comes with a new version of this...
MELODY REPEATS
..Its Over The Horizon e e Ao
And while I’m in the country, I’ve popped in to chat to one
of the people who composed it.
Sound can deliver the message and sound can deliver
the emotions.
The reason we enjoy music globally is music
Is universal, right?
So, sound design also has the grammar in which -
It’s a universal language that everybody can understand.
And that’s what we have to do.
These days, phones can do loads of things, and for each thing,
there’s a sound — many of them created here.
Even something as simple as tapping the screen needs
to sound like, well, something.
What do you think the sound really is?
| don’t know.
You don’t know?
So, that...
..that sound on the phone is actually tapping on wood?
VAR
Gangnam Station, Samsung building, and it’s not
It’s a doorframe.
Did you go around knocking lots of different things,
looking for the ideal knock?
| am.
Glass, stones and everything.
That’s called a foley recording.
Myoung Nam tells me that while some sounds
were completely invented from scratch, it made sense
for those linked to real=world actions
to have a familiar feel
Now that your phone can be your credit card,
for example, your in—phone wallet should sound
like your real wallet.
Would you try hitting the card whenever you’re ready?
Are there any sounds that just don’t work on a phone?
Like, you know, particularly low or high sounds, like...
| mean, the smartphone speaker cannot play the lower
frequency, so we o100 N e e e ol Te )8
In the beginning of the design.
Can | give you another sound?
Yes, please.
Thank you.
Personally, | think sound design is one
of the underappreciated parts of movies, TV,
and, as it turns out, technology too.
You can do a lot i RN e
It just has to be the right little, obviously.
That’s your new ringtone right there!
And that’s it from Seoul in South Korea for the moment.
But if you’d like to see more of our adventures in this
amazing city, then check us out on the socials.
Thanks for watching and we’ll see you soon.
Most of us got to see some sunshine on Saturday.
| suspect that Sunday will be a slightly cloudier affair.
That cloud rolling its way in from the west.
That saidq, If you do get some sunshine, it
will feel relatively warm.
But those cloudier conditions, courtesy of this frontal system
ST R CRYZ VA LR () the west, even bringing some
splashes of rain.
High pressure still holding firm just about, so we’re
looking at mainly dry weather and where we are closest
to the centre of the high across parts eastern England,
a sunny but rather chilly start with some early fog patches.
Further west, though, a lot of cloud, spots
Through the afternoon, Northern Ireland could well
brighten up but that could spawn some pretty sharp
showers.
North—east Scotland, also seeing some spells
of sunshine, lifting
temperatures here to around 17 degrees.
Generally values between 12 and 16 degrees.
As we move through Sunday night, we keep some quite large
areas of cloud.
The cloud will break in places but if you do see clear spells
for any length of time, they could fill in with some
patches of mist and fog.
And If it stays cloudy where you are, it will remain
relatively mild
but in the clearer spots, temperatures could drop
relatively close to freezing.
Into Monday, still this patchwork of clear spells
and cloudy areas.
It could well be that we see quite a lot of cloud
rolling its way in from the North Sea and that,
coupled with a bit of a breeze from the North Sea, will make
it feel really rather chilly for some of our eastern coasts.
So temperatures in Hull, for example, around 13 degrees,
same sort of temperature for Aberdeen but further west,
Glasgow, 17 degrees,
In some spots up to 18 and as as we head deeper
into the week, this area of high pressure stays with us,
meaning it will be largely dry
but with this high building to the north—east of us,
this easterly wind will tend to strengthen a little.
So that breeze, quite noticeable coming
in off the chilly North Sea will make it feel rather cool
for some of these eastern coasts.
We could see more cloud in the south developing
on Tuesday, maybe even giving rise to the odd shower.
Some spells of sunshine elsewhere.
Once again, the highest temperatures likely to be
g ISR N el and west of the UK.
And that is a theme that will continue as we head deeper
into the week.
Always a little bit chilly the further east you are.
Could turn quite cloudy around the middle parts of the week.
But there will always be some spells of sunshine
and generally warmest in the west.
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast with Ben Thompson
and Nina Warhurst.
Our headlines today:
A ban on any new so—called smart motorways —
campaigners welcome the move but say they want the hard shoulder to be
returned to all roads.
ks
It doesn’t
el - o o) 2= s
el s e Y el
It doesn’t cover the existing roads and
It doesn’t cover the existing roads LR
It doesn’t cover the existing roads and the existing roads are killing
and the existing roads are killing 11
and the existing roads are killing us so it
and the existing roads are killing MR NS
and the existing roads are killing us so it is half
and the existing roads are killing MR EEE R T
and the existing roads are killing us so it is half the battle but
us so it is half the battle but there
us so it is half the battle but e NS
us so it is half the battle but N
us so it is half the battle but there is half the battle to go.
More than a hundred arrests, as animal rights protesters
storm Aintree racecourse, and disrupt the start
of the Grand National
And when the race did get going, it was the favourite who won
the day.
Corach Rambler proved a bargain for his owners —
a Scottish syndicate who bought him for just
The largest military parade in 70 years —
more than 6,000 members of Britain’s armed services
will take part in next month’s Coronation.
And the weather, a lot more cart around today compared to yesterday,
around today compared to yesterday, E1)Y
around today compared to yesterday, patchy rain in the
around today compared to yesterday, VAR RO R
around today compared to yesterday, patchy rain in the west but it
around today compared to yesterday, ELGA TR ER S R
patchy rain in the west but it will il
patchy rain in the west but it will fill wall ALl the
patchy rain in the west but it will TIRTE IR - [ 11
patchy rain in the west but it will fill wall All the details and
fill wall. All the details and I e 0] 4
fill wall. All the details and outlook coming up after breakfast.
outlook coming up after breakfast. NS
outlook coming up after breakfast. NS
outlook coming up after breakfast. Just as she will feel warm.
It’s Sunday, 16th April.
Our main story:
Motoring groups have welcomed the government’s decision to cancel
Motoring groups have welcomed the government’s decision to cancel
the construction of new smart motorways, but insisted
the announcement does not go far enough.
Existing stretches of smart motorway in England will remain,
but more emergency stopping places will be put in place.
The AA has called for the hard shoulder to return on all roads.
Aruna lyengar reports.
ks
o1+
It I1s not quite the end of smart motorways. Plans for 14
It Is not quite the end of smart motorways. Plans for 14 will be
motorways. Plans for 14 will be scrapped, including 11 that had
scrapped, including 11 that had already
scrapped, including 11 that had E LA T
scrapped, including 11 that had already been paused. It was a £1
already been paused. It was a £1 billion but existing smart motorways
billion but existing smart motorways Y e
billion but existing smart motorways which make up 10% of England’s
which make up 10% of England’s [0V
which make up 10% of England’s motorway network will remain. It is
motorway network will remain. It is good
motorway network will remain. It Is good news
motorway network will remain. It is good news and
motorway network will remain. It Is good news and it
motorway network will remain. It is good news and it is good
motorway network will remain. It Is good news and it is good that it is
good news and it is good that it Is S
good news and it is good that it Is RS
good news and it is good that it Is gone as far
good news and it is good that it Is LR LGS
good news and it is good that it Is gone as far as that has to cover
gone as far as that has to cover T L 0=1S
gone as far as that has to cover routes are ready currently being
routes are ready currently being built.
routes are ready currently being i
routes are ready currently being built. | did not expected to that
built. | did not expected to that far.
built. | did not expected to that 1Tt
built. | did not expected to that far. But obviously it does not cover
far. But obviously it does not cover U}
far. But obviously it does not cover existing roads and it is the
existing roads and it is the US|
existing roads and it is the existing roads that are killing us.
existing roads that are killing us. So
existing roads that are killing us. i
existing roads that are killing us. NI
existing roads that are killing us. So it is half the battle but there
So it i1s half the battle but there T3
So it i1s half the battle but there is still half the
So it is half the battle but there is still half the battle to go.
s still half the battle to go. First
Is still half the battle to go. First introduced in 2006, smart
First introduced in 2006, smart motorways were controversial from
motorways were controversial from )
motorways were controversial from RS e
motorways were controversial from the start. They supposed to reduce
the start. They supposed to reduce congestion by using technology,
congestion by using technology, removing
congestion by using technology, LR TS
congestion by using technology, removing the hard shoulder
removing the hard shoulder 11| S LW
removing the hard shoulder W 1] VRS
removing the hard shoulder completely to create an extra lane
completely to create an extra lane of
completely to create an extra lane R ai ol
completely to create an extra lane AR a il iTt
completely to create an extra lane R Ao T R T
completely to create an extra lane R 2ol N R I S
completely to create an extra lane R i RO IR a1
completely to create an extra lane R i R R e
of traffic. But this is what can happen. They do
of traffic. But this i1s what can happen. They do have
of traffic. But this is what can happen. They do have emergency bays
happen. They do have emergency bays Nl
happen. They do have emergency bays il
happen. They do have emergency bays and if a
happen. They do have emergency bays N AR s
happen. They do have emergency bays and if a car stops in a live lane, a
and If a car stops in a live lane, a Vel
and If a car stops in a live lane, a red X sign
and If a car stops in a live lane, a USRS
and If a car stops in a live lane, a red X sign is displayed to close it.
red X sign Is displayed to close It. g
red X sign is displayed to close Iit. OIS
red X sign Is displayed to close It. OO NI
red X sign Is displayed to close it. Other types involve keeping
red X sign is displayed to close it. Other types involve keeping a hard
Other types involve keeping a hard =)
Other types involve keeping a hard shoulder opening it up at peak times
shoulder opening It up at peak times 1S
shoulder opening It up at peak times as an
shoulder opening It up at peak times IR
shoulder opening It up at peak times as an extra lane.
shoulder opening it up at peak times as an extra lane. The BBC panorama
as an extra lane. The BBC panorama programme in
as an extra lane. The BBC panorama JOL[Eluln R
as an extra lane. The BBC panorama programme in 2020 found that 38
programme in 2020 found that 38 )]
programme in 2020 found that 38 people had been killed on smart
people had been killed on smart motorways over a space of five years
motorways over a space of five years Yl
motorways over a space of five years LR
motorways over a space of five years NGROER E
motorways over a space of five years add there was this finding from a
add there was this finding from a Freedom of information request
Freedom of information request I\ Wily T}
Freedom of information request involving one stretch of the M25.
iInvolving one stretch of the M25. One warning
iInvolving one stretch of the M25. O LRVET LS
iInvolving one stretch of the M25. One warning sign was out of
involving one stretch of the M25. One warning sign was out of action
One warning sign was out of action e
One warning sign was out of action O 1
One warning sign was out of action for nearly a
One warning sign was out of action VR LA
One warning sign was out of action for nearly a year. 336 days. There
for nearly a year. 336 days. There TS
for nearly a year. 336 days. There was also a 20 fold rise in he
was also a 20 fold rise in he O
was also a 20 fold rise in he misses, 72 in the five
was also a 20 fold rise In he misses, 72 in the five years with a
NIRRT I L (\TRYTE T R 4 hard
NIRRT I L (TR T R 4 hard shoulder,
NIRRT I L (\TRYTE T R 4 hard shoulder, 1485
NIRRT L (\TRTET R 4 hard shoulder, 1485 in
misses, 72 in the five years with a hard shoulder, 1485 in the five
hard shoulder, 1485 in the five e
hard shoulder, 1485 in the five years without. Campaigners say they
years without. Campaigners say they ET)
years without. Campaigners say they are pleased
years without. Campaigners say they EI N L RG]
years without. Campaigners say they are pleased the government is
are pleased the government is acknowledging the public’s lack of
acknowledging the public’s lack of confidence in smart motorways.
acknowledging the public’s lack of R LB E M u O E LI
confidence in smart motorways. This e
confidence in smart motorways. This policy was to widen motorways on the
policy was to widen motorways on the cheap and all the evidence from back
cheap and all the evidence from back T
cheap and all the evidence from back in 2006,
cheap and all the evidence from back W Lin
cheap and all the evidence from back in 2006, 2011, actually shows that
In 2006, 2011, actually shows that officials knew there
In 2006, 2011, actually shows that il R O R R )
In 2006, 2011, actually shows that officials knew there would be
officials knew there would be oG
officials knew there would be greater risks by actually only
greater risks by actually only having emergency refuge areas every
having emergency refuge areas every (I
having emergency refuge areas every 1.5 miles. People knew there would
1.5 miles. People knew there would be
1.5 miles. People knew there would R
1.5 miles. People knew there would -
1.5 miles. People knew there would R < Wl
1.5 miles. People knew there would N Y- Ul B a1
1.5 miles. People knew there would be risks. And | think that is
1.5 miles. People knew there would R - U ER G GG E R R
be risks. And | think that is the scandals of smart motorways, they
scandals of smart motorways, they were rolled out with any car — at
were rolled out with any car — at without
were rolled out with any car — at [T 111
were rolled out with any car — at without any consultation. Meanwhile
without any consultation. Meanwhile any upgrades on smart motorways will
any upgrades on smart motorways will i
any upgrades on smart motorways will go ahead providing 150 more
go ahead providing 150 more emergency stopping places across a
emergency stopping places across a network and also better technology
network and also better technology to
network and also better technology e
network and also better technology to detect vehicles that are broken
to detect vehicles that are broken down.
Aruna lyengar, BBC News.
Our political correspondent, Damian Grammaticas, explains
what prompted the government’s decision.
14 of them have been paused
or planned, will not go ahead.
Some of them was to convert

Citation: BBC News, 02:35 16/04/2023, BBC1 London, 205 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3C0D1C2A?bcast=138736133 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)