That’s it, goodbye.
ARCHIVE: Australia! There’s a bright future.
| can’t believe we’re actually doing this.
Here we go, then, the start of our new lives.
G’day, new arrivals! Welcome to paradise.
It’s like a prisoner—of—war camp.
We can have a wonderful life here, IR RO b
ANGATH G RERGINIGRGRG R Are you ready?
Not you, mate! You lot!
It’s time to show the world how we host.
I’ve got it all under control.
Il [4
..get ready...
| was born ready.
..because this year...
LR g o e Telk
- NINE
Now, come on!
provide more details of it later at a news conference and
later at a news conference and we
later at a news conference and -mu i
later at a news conference and we will keep across this story
we will keep across this story and bring you the latest
and bring you the latest o gz 1nlo)n]
and bring you the latest information on BBC News.
It’s the most common form of dementia —
Alzheimer’s — and there is currently no cure for it.
But there is now hope there could soon be new drugs
to treat it.
After major clinical trials, an experimental drug has been
shown to slow down the progress of the disease significantly.
Our Medical Editor, Fergus Walsh, has the details
After decades of failed trials, there are now two antibody
drugs which can slow early stage Alzheimer’s disease.
The latest one Is Donanemab, which is given as a monthly
infusion.
It works by clearing a rogue protein called amyloid,
which builds up in sticky clumps in the brains
of Alzheimer’s patients.
In a trial, it slowed cognitive decline by around 35% over 18
months in a group of nearly 1200 patients with early stage
Alzheimer’s, the best results reported so far.
But there were some LRI LRl a e
At least two volunteers died as a result of brain swelling.
Now, in November, another antibody treatment, called
Lecanemab, was the first drug aver to show it could slow
the progress of Alzheimer’s disease.
Dementia researchers say we’re now entering a new era
T - Vs L R R -1 12
We really see that we’re at a revolutionary point in how
we treat Alzheimer’s disease.
So what we now need, when we have the full results,
Is for the regulators to make quick decisions so that
patients that could benefit from these treatments
are able to benefit.
Now we don’t know how much Donanemab will cost,
But Lecanemab is over £20,000 a year per patient in the US,
where It’s already licensed.
Dementia specialists say we’ll need a complete overhaul
of Alzheimer’s services here, including access to specialist
brain scans If patients are to benefit from these new drugs.
The remains of a man who went missing on a fishing
trip have been found inside a crocodile.
65—year—old Kevin Darmody went missing in Far North
Queensland over the weekend.
After a 2—day search of the area, police euthanised
two large crocodiles before finding human body parts.
| spoke to our correspondent in Australia, Phil Mercer
and asked just how common these crocodile attacks are.
In the state of Queensland, Monica, extremely rare.
Since record—keeping began back in the mid—1980s,
there’s only been over a dozen fatal attacks.
What we do know about Kevin Darmody
(3R =1 [T TS fishing with friends
In far northern Queensland, on Cape York over the weekend.
His friends didn’t see the attack,
but they certainly heard it - they heard a yell and a very
large splash, and this was a group fishing
along the river bank, when they got to the scene,
the missing man wasn’t there, but the only thing
that was left were his shoes, his flip—flops.
And the authorities, over the course
of the next 24 hours, hunted down two large
crocodiles — IR LR R U T
one was four metres, both were shot dead and human
remains were found inside one of those large reptiles.
But wildlife authorities believe
that both crocodiles were involved
Phil, Mr Darmody was an experienced
fisherman, so do we know what exactly provokes
a crocodile to want to eat someone alive?
Crocodiles are a direct link to our prehistoric past.
It’s estimated they’ve been on the planet for 65 million
years, they have evolved to be almost
the perfect predator.
They are patient, they are cunning,
and they are stealthy.
And some research estimates they can
hold their breath up to eight hours.
So it’s not really a question of provoking these animals —
they are always there in those rivers and creeks,
and water holes in tropical northern Australia,
and the advice Is to stay away from waterways.
But of course, If you’re IR R R TR L D]
doing that, so the authorities do say that
people should take AN o= o 0iue)s]
around waterways In tropical northern Australia at night,
dusk, and dawn when these fearsome
predators, the world’s largest reptiles are
at their most active.
More now on preparations T TR e noa - u [0 a0 d
King Charles Ill this weekend.
Big Ben is being lit up every night between now and Sunday
to mark the Coronation, with the colours of the Union
Flag and the national flowers of all four home nations.
Hundreds of soldiers, many on horseback, marched down
from Buckingham Palace past Trafalgar Square
and Downing Street to Westminster Abbey.
Many of us had some beautiful late spring
sunshine on Wednesday.
In fact, in Bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours
of sunshine, a glorious day.
But top temperature, well, that was in South Wales,
In Gwynedd, just shy of 20 Celsius, and it felt
very pleasant indeed.
Now it’s not out of the question that we could see
20 Celsius on Thursday, but the weather story
Is certainly on the change with low pressure starting
to move In from the southwest.
So as we go through the day on Thursday, it’s a tale
of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off
the North Sea, affecting eastern England and northeast
We’ve got rain pushing into the southwest —
and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best
of the sunshine Is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll
see the best of the warmth.
The breeze still coming from an east direction,
so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight
edge to things.
A little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough
with highs of 19-20 Celsius perhaps in the southeast.
Now, as we move out of Thursday into Friday, that weather front
will continue to push its way steadily north.
It’WL bring outbreaks of rain as it does so,
and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
So on Friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving
T gy 1 England, into Scotland.
Sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
But unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
TR TS LI )R GO EO LI E R TR -
that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily
north as we go through the day.
So not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look
likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain
across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
And the wider picture throughout the Bank.
Holiday weekend — Saturday will be the wettest
of the days, Sunday and Monday, sunny spells and scattered
showers.
Some of them on Monday could be quite heavy.
Take care.
The Federal Reserve hikes rates (0]
The Federal Reserve hikes rates to their highest level in 16
to their highest level in 16 years.
to their highest level in 16 AR
to their highest level in 16 -G AR G e
to their highest level in 16 years. We look at the impact on
years. We look at the impact on the
years. We look at the impact on IS
years. We look at the impact on the US economy, and beyond.
the US economy, and beyond. Plus, from Pakistan to
Plus, from Pakistan to Ethiopia, how the
Ethiopia, how the cost—of—living crisis is taking
cost—of—Lliving crisis is taking Y
cost—of—Lliving crisis is taking ER vl
cost—of—Lliving crisis is taking a toll on the elderly
cost—of—Lliving crisis Is taking a toll on the elderly around
a toll on the elderly around the
a toll on the elderly around el ejalsR
Hello, and welcome to Asia Business Report. I’m Monica
Business Report. I’m Monica Miller. We begin with the
Miller. We begin with the e 11
Miller. We begin with the Federal Reserve’s decision to
Federal Reserve’s decision to )
Federal Reserve’s decision to raise interest
Federal Reserve’s decision to IR S
Federal Reserve’s decision to RN NI Tl
Federal Reserve’s decision to raise interest rates for the
raise interest rates for the 10th
raise Interest rates for the 10th consecutive time in
IR EH R G LR D R O 10th consecutive time in just
10th consecutive time in just s
10th consecutive time in just over one year. America’s
over one year. America’s central
over one year. America’s - aine: |04
over one year. America’s central bank increased its key
central bank increased its key interest
central bank increased its key M )
central bank increased its key interest rate by a quarter
Interest rate by a quarter percentage point and
interest rate by a quarter percentage point and that is a
percentage point and that Is a move
percentage point and that Is a s 1o
percentage point and that Is a MR R L
percentage point and that is a move that was expected. The
move that was expected. The 04
move that was expected. The cost of
move that was expected. The Il L |
move that was expected. The SRl S
move that was expected. The cost of borrowing is now at its
cost of borrowing Is now at its highest in 16 years,
cost of borrowing is now at its highest in 16 years, but is the
highest in 16 years, but is the Fed finally done
highest In 16 years, but Is the Fed finally done with rate
Fed finally done with rate Y4
Fed finally done with rate hikes? The BB(C’s
Fed finally done with rate hikes? The BBC’s Samir Hussein
hikes? The BBC’s Samir Hussein reports from New York.
reports from New York. Inflation remain steadily high.
Inflation remain steadily high. To
Inflation remain steadily high. 1K s
Inflation remain steadily high. To try and get the cost of
To try and get the cost of living back down to more normal
living back down to more normal =SS
living back down to more normal S R
living back down to more normal RGN
living back down to more normal levels the Federal Reserve,
levels the Federal Reserve, X e[ NS
levels the Federal Reserve, Xl 1
levels the Federal Reserve, America’s central bank, has
America’s central bank, has raised interest rates ten
America’s central bank, has R e B TR A0 o)
raised interest rates ten times in a little over a year, and
in a little over a year, and e
in a little over a year, and A
in a little over a year, and N R
in a little over a year, and R s
in a little over a year, and now it seems it may
In a Uttle over a year, and now it seems it may be
In a lttle over a year, and now it seems it may be ready
In a little over a year, and now it seems it may be ready to
now It seems it may be ready to perhaps take a pause. The
perhaps take a pause. The o0 1001n8 TN
perhaps take a pause. The ot il
perhaps take a pause. The ot lnalin R RS G
perhaps take a pause. The committee will take into
committee will take into account the cumulative
account the cumulative W] Nl o]
account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy,
tightening of monetary policy, the legs with which it lacks
the legs with which it lacks T dE ulo]n
the legs with which it lacks inflation and economic and
inflation and economic and financial developments. —— the
financial developments. —— the Y[R
financial developments. —— the Y IR
financial developments. —— the legs. We will make that
legs. We will make that determination meeting by
determination meeting by meeting. The rate rises have
meeting. The rate rises have slowed economic growth in the
slowed economic growth in the United States by making it more
United States by making it more expensive to borrow money and
expensive to borrow money and inflation is starting to come
inflation is starting to come WS R
inflation is starting to come (3 i P 01
inflation is starting to come down, but they have been some
down, but they have been some unexpected knock—on effects of
unexpected knock—on effects of the
unexpected knock—on effects of N )
unexpected knock—on effects of R G
unexpected knock—on effects of the rate hikes. They played a
the rate hikes. They played a part in the banking crisis,
part in the banking crisis, where three banks collapsed in
where three banks collapsed In Y3
where three banks collapsed In less than two months. So far,
less than two months. So far, the Fed has been successful in
the Fed has been successful In slowing
the Fed has been successful In VL RGE
the Fed has been successful In slowing the economy and
the Fed has been successful in slowing the economy and prices
slowing the economy and prices without plunging the country
without plunging the country into recession. But
without plunging the country TR e 3 e T A IR a o
into recession. But the g 3
into recession. But the trickiest moment may have
trickiest moment may have arrived. At some point,
arrived. At some point, T FLEES
arrived. At some point, policymakers have to decide if
policymakers have to decide if 3%
policymakers have to decide if they have done
policymakers have to decide If they have done enough to keep
they have done enough to keep T dE ulo]n
they have done enough to keep inflation falling, while
inflation falling, while leaving the economy with enough
leaving the economy with enough monetary
leaving the economy with enough I [ o F Lo
leaving the economy with enough I R ()
leaving the economy with enough monetary space to keep
monetary space to keep expanding. They didn’t think
expanding. They didn’t think 3%
expanding. They didn’t think they were there at this
IR G TR TR LR
IR G TR TR (ALl AT
IR G TR TR meeting, but it
they were there at this meeting, but it seems likely
meeting, but it seems likely that
meeting, but it seems likely ( E IR
meeting, but it seems likely that they will be there soon.
that they will be there soon. You
that they will be there soon. VTR Y
that they will be there soon. TR e
that they will be there soon. You have heard some error
You have heard some error talking about the knock—on
talking about the knock—on At e
talking about the knock—on effect of the Fed’s aggressive
effect of the Fed’s aggressive e |1y e
effect of the Fed’s aggressive tightening, particularly in the
tightening, particularly in the banking sector, while shares of
banking sector, while shares of regional banks have again come
regional banks have again come Malel-)a
regional banks have again come under pressure
regional banks have again come TG S RS
regional banks have again come under pressure after this
under pressure after this latest rate hike. Patois stocks
latest rate hike. Patois stocks in particular is down 50% in
in particular is down 50% In trading and reports that the
trading and reports that the bank is exploring options,
bank Is exploring options, including
bank Is exploring options, QUGG
bank Is exploring options, LU T
bank Is exploring options, including a sale. Earlier |
Including a sale. Earlier | spoke to Chief
including a sale. Earlier | spoke to Chief US economist,
spoke to Chief US economist, and
spoke to Chief US economist, TR
spoke to Chief US economist, T Ao s
spoke to Chief US economist, and she told me now might be a
and she told me now might be a WY}
and she told me now might be a good time for the Fed to pause
good time for the Fed to pause and
good time for the Fed to pause T e el le )8
good time for the Fed to pause and consider its
good time for the Fed to pause S RS AL R
good time for the Fed to pause and consider its options. |
and consider its options. | sl e
and consider its options. | think today a chair Powell
think today a chair Powell TR e
think today a chair Powell T
think today a chair Powell interest —— indicated this may
Interest —— indicated this may be
Interest —— indicated this may )
Interest —— indicated this may be the last hike in
Interest —— Indicated this may be the last hike in this
be the last hike in this W] Nl o]
GG R L RO Wl NI e
GG R L RO tightening cycle but
be the last hike in this tightening cycle but still left
tightening cycle but still left the door open to some monetary
the door open to some monetary policy flexibility going
policy flexibility going forward
I TR A A 18R [T 1T oin g e
I TR A A 18R [T 1T 0 n IR RN
policy flexibility going forward and that speaks to the
forward and that speaks to the i
forward and that speaks to the ElnR s
forward and that speaks to the T In R a1 Tata Eno]n
forward and that speaks to the NI A A = ez 118 1S
fact that inflation remains elevated. Now, one way to deal
elevated. Now, one way to deal with this
elevated. Now, one way to deal ORGSR ]
elevated. Now, one way to deal with this high and sticky
with this high and sticky T dE ulo]n
with this high and sticky inflation may be to stay with
Inflation may be to stay with interest rates
inflation may be to stay with interest rates where they
Inflation may be to stay with interest rates where they are
Interest rates where they are A
Interest rates where they are now, but for longer than we are
now, but for longer than we are Y|
now, but for longer than we are used to during tightening
used to during tightening W’ R
used to during tightening cycles. Another one may be that
cycles. Another one may be that TaTa A u o] s
cycles. Another one may be that if inflation remains strong and
If inflation remains strong and Y e
If inflation remains strong and accelerates in
It inflation remains strong and accelerates in the coming
accelerates in the coming eI
accelerates in the coming months, they could be another
months, they could be another )
months, they could be another e 8
months, they could be another one or two hikes coming down
one or two hikes coming down the
one or two hikes coming down R =]
one or two hikes coming down the line, but
one or two hikes coming down R T
one or two hikes coming down the line, but | think the
the line, but | think the working assumption for the Fed
working assumption for the Fed right
working assumption for the Fed {0
working assumption for the Fed right now is that the hard part
right now is that the hard part i
right now is that the hard part of the claim is
right now is that the hard part N L e -]
right now is that the hard part of the claim is done. Interest
of the claim is done. Interest 1121
of the claim is done. Interest rates have
of the claim is done. Interest TN IRIEY BN E -
of the claim is done. Interest rates have increased by about
rates have increased by about five
rates have increased by about VR G
rates have increased by about five percentage points since
five percentage points since last
five percentage points since AT
five percentage points since last year, and so from here
last year, and so from here onwards,
last year, and so from here VG0 |
last year, and so from here onwards, | think there is some
onwards, | think there I1s some flexibility, but not a
onwards, | think there is some flexibility, but not a lot more
flexibility, but not a lot more W]l o]
flexibility, but not a lot more WO R
flexibility, but not a lot more tightening to be done. We were
tightening to be done. We were looking
tightening to be done. We were OIS
tightening to be done. We were looking at what is happening in
looking at what Is happening iIn the banking sector
looking at what Is happening In the banking sector and
the banking sector and certainly interest rates have
certainly interest rates have played a role in all
g TR S W LI E A played a role in all of that.
played a role in all of that. 111
played a role in all of that. TR GG
played a role in all of that. This morning we see another
This morning we see another regional bank that looks like
regional bank that looks like 1
regional bank that looks like it might
regional bank that looks like Il TS
regional bank that looks like it might be in trouble, pack
it might be in trouble, pack TS
it might be in trouble, pack West. So
it might be in trouble, pack VY Y o R 1o
it might be in trouble, pack West. So what do you see moving
West. So what do you see moving forward, is what
West. So what do you see moving IR E1 R I R
West. So what do you see moving forward, is what the Fed doing,
forward, is what the Fed doing, YT
forward, is what the Fed doing, are we facing a credit crunch
are we facing a credit crunch and
are we facing a credit crunch ETa o Nan 1 alec]s ]
are we facing a credit crunch and American banks? | think
and American banks? | think 81
and American banks? | think IRl
and American banks? | think this will be the key question
this will be the key question we need to answer
this will be the key question - - R 01 i) e
this will be the key question we need to answer for the rest
we need to answer for the rest i
we need to answer for the rest of this year.
we need to answer for the rest RO Y
we need to answer for the rest of this year. As you have
of this year. As you have mentioned earlier, monetary
mentioned earlier, monetary policy
mentioned earlier, monetary WD TR S
mentioned earlier, monetary policy works with long lags and
policy works with long lags and we are seeing the interest rate
we are seeing the interest rate sensitive sectors of the
sensitive sectors of the 1)
sensitive sectors of the economy show
AR MO R RO economy show that
RO S R G [ economy show that effect
sensitive sectors of the economy show that effect of
economy show that effect of W] Nl o]
economy show that effect of tightening monetary policy at
tightening monetary policy at YR
tightening monetary policy at an expeditious pace last year,
an expeditious pace last year, and so
an expeditious pace last year, MO R
an expeditious pace last year, and so the regional banking
and so the regional banking Ino g
and so the regional banking sector is now undergoing
sector Is now undergoing significant
sector iIs now undergoing significant stress, and | think
significant stress, and | think we are
significant stress, and | think R R[N
significant stress, and | think we are going to
significant stress, and | think TR T R O
significant stress, and | think we are going to see that in the
we are going to see that in the amount of loans they are
we are going to see that in the TR R CE L R G VA TR [ G
amount of loans they are able (0]
amount of loans they are able e e
amount of loans they are able A IR
amount of loans they are able to extend to businesses over
to extend to businesses over the coming quarters, and the
the coming quarters, and the &Y
the coming quarters, and the key is
the coming quarters, and the (SRERGEL
the coming quarters, and the key is that the regional
key Is that the regional banking sector in the US is
banking sector in the US is g%
banking sector in the US is very closely tied with small
very closely tied with small and
very closely tied with small EYale el el 0 A= Ns
very closely tied with small and medium—sized companies,
and medium-sized companies, which provide about
and medium-—sized companies, which provide about half the
which provide about half the jobs
which provide about half the LI
which provide about half the jobs in the US economy, so |
Jobs in the US economy, so | [aHs e
Jobs in the US economy, so | think the
Jjobs in the US economy, so | NI GRS A
Jjobs in the US economy, so | GRSl w i
Jjobs in the US economy, so | I R Rl e R
jobs in the US economy, so | think the effects of the credit
think the effects of the credit oo oo lhuloln]
think the effects of the credit condition tightening will be
condition tightening will be s
condition tightening will be felt in
condition tightening will be T i )
condition tightening will be CUENEOER
condition tightening will be felt in the real economy but
felt in the real economy but history suggests this typically
history suggests this typically happens with a lag, so it is
happens with a lag, so it is 018
happens with a lag, so it is not something
happens with a lag, so it is ARSI G R A ]
happens with a lag, so it is not something that happens
not something that happens immediately but
not something that happens Tl CGELE VAT )
not something that happens immediately but it is coming
iImmediately but it is coming down
iImmediately but it is coming [0y sl )
iImmediately but it is coming down the line,
iImmediately but it Is coming down the line, and | think
iImmediately but it 1s coming down the line, and | think this
down the line, and | think this T
down the line, and | think this is also
down the line, and | think this IR 1Y
down the line, and | think this is also why it
down the line, and | think this IR AL
down the line, and | think this is also why it is so important
Is also why It is so important 018
Is also why It is so important RO ERA
Is also why It is so important for the Fed, now
Is also why it i1s so important for the Fed, now that interest
for the Fed, now that interest rates have
for the Fed, now that interest TN
for the Fed, now that interest rates have reached 5%, to have
rates have reached 5%, to have Y
rates have reached 5%, to have a look around and see how much
a look around and see how much e
a look around and see how much s
a look around and see how much more it needs to do. Let’s
more It needs to do. Let’s Sl 4
more It needs to do. Let’s Sl &)
more It needs to do. Let’s stick with inflation, and they
stick with inflation, and they are at stubborn levels of the
are at stubborn levels of the us
are at stubborn levels of the =Tl
are at stubborn levels of the US and other parts of the
US and other parts of the gl
US and other parts of the world, and in his taking a
world, and in his taking a major toll on the elderly, who
major toll on the elderly, who are trying to survive. The
are trying to survive. The international group, help page,
International group, help page, AN AT
international group, help page, AN (e a o s
international group, help page, estimates inflation has
estimates inflation has affected millions of people
affected millions of people across the world from Pakistan
across the world from Pakistan (0]
across the world from Pakistan to Ethiopia,
across the world from Pakistan AT
across the world from Pakistan to Ethiopia, leaving them
to Ethiopia, leaving them struggling to afford food and
struggling to afford food and Yo 11
struggling to afford food and medical care. Earlier | spoke
medical care. Earlier | spoke (0]
medical care. Earlier | spoke R
medical care. Earlier | spoke to the BBC’s Global Population
to the BBC’s Global Population W I I
to the BBC’s Global Population correspondent, Ricardo Sember,
correspondent, Ricardo Sember, and he told me how the plight
and he told me how the plight i
and he told me how the plight of the elderly and other
of the elderly and other vulnerable groups, has gone
vulnerable groups, has gone unnoticed. This is how experts
unnoticed. This Is how experts A eg o)
unnoticed. This Is how experts describe this group,
unnoticed. This is how experts describe this group, they are
describe this group, they are invisible when it comes to
Invisible when it comes to humanitarian aid to
invisible when it comes to humanitarian aid to emergency
humanitarian aid to emergency help, and also to data, as
help, and also to data, as normally children and those in
normally children and those In the
normally children and those In a0 g a e R
normally children and those In the workforce are the main
the workforce are the main targets for these. And I’ve
targets for these. And I’ve been speaking
targets for these. And ['ve been speaking with other
targets for these. And I’ve been speaking with other people
been speaking with other people in several regions, the Middle
In several regions, the Middle LI
In several regions, the Middle East Africa, Asia,
In several regions, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Latin
East, Africa, Asia, Latin N a (o
East, Africa, Asia, Latin N o Ta s )
East, Africa, Asia, Latin America and also here in
East, Africa, Asia, Latin X N L D N R
East, Africa, Asia, Latin America and also here in the UK
America and also here in the UK (0]
America and also here in the UK to understand the impact on
to understand the impact on 81
to understand the impact on W E g e (o1 E ]
to understand the impact on this particular group, and the
this particular group, and the a1
this particular group, and the stories are really strong, and
stories are really strong, and RY7-Y
stories are really strong, and I’ve heard stories of people
I’ve heard stories of people having one meal a day,
having one meal a day, sometimes
having one meal a day, el N Ta el e o)
having one meal a day, sometimes not even
having one meal a day, I TR R B
having one meal a day, sometimes not even that. People
sometimes not even that. People Lo}
sometimes not even that. People skipping medical treatments,
skipping medical treatments, because they
skipping medical treatments, TR G A N
skipping medical treatments, because they can’t afford
because they can’t afford =1 [l
because they can’t afford transport to the hospital and
transport to the hospital and (0]
transport to the hospital and to pharmacies, and as you say,
to pharmacies, and as you say, those
to pharmacies, and as you say, R AL P
to pharmacies, and as you say, those interviews, they reflect
those interviews, they reflect 81
those interviews, they reflect this new
those interviews, they reflect I BT s
those interviews, they reflect this new research of Help Age
this new research of Help Age International.
this new research of Help Age NG EOLE S LY
this new research of Help Age International. They have done
International. They have done 1200 interviews in ten
1200 interviews In ten countries
1200 interviews In ten o TN a e
1200 interviews In ten T -
1200 interviews in ten countries and the findings
countries and the findings include an increase of
countries and the findings LU R R o EER o
countries and the findings include an increase of up to
include an increase of up to r{o A
include an increase of up to 70% in
include an increase of up to y{o) /T =Y 1o
include an increase of up to A B R - i e ns
include an increase of up to 70% in health care costs.
70% In health care costs. 0]
70% In health care costs. People resorting
70% in health care costs. People resorting to
70% 1In health care costs. People resorting to begging for
People resorting to begging for the
People resorting to begging for il a
People resorting to begging for R la R e
People resorting to begging for R Ale R lea = 1s]
People resorting to begging for the first time in their lives
the first time in their lives s
the first time in their lives 0N o0
the first time in their lives over 80 years old, and a
over 80 years old, and a gl
over 80 years old, and a (LS
over 80 years old, and a L B
over 80 years old, and a growing sense of shame and
growing sense of shame and humiliation, as mental health
humiliation, as mental health e 0]
humiliation, as mental health o
humiliation, as mental health N LG
humiliation, as mental health became a key issue in this
became a key Issue In this i
became a key Issue In this IR
became a key Issue In this crisis for older people.
became a key issue In this crisis for older people. The
crisis for older people. The o e s
crisis for older people. The e L a1 ae|
crisis for older people. The former MasterCard chief
former MasterCard chief T LN b
former MasterCard chief YR OLCY.|
former MasterCard chief executive A) banker
former MasterCard chief Y AW L
former MasterCard chief YWY [ R W T
former MasterCard chief executive A) banker will be the
executive AJ banker will be the Y Yalel
executive AJ banker will be the world Bank’s
executive AJ banker will be the World Bank’s next president.
World Bank’s next president. The
World Bank’s next president. 1IN &
World Bank’s next president. The bank’s board of governors
The bank’s board of governors has elected him after he was
has elected him after he was nominated to the post by
nominated to the post by President Joe Biden, he
President Joe Biden, he replaces the departing World
replaces the departing World Bank chief, David Malpass.
Bank chief, David Malpass. Spain is known for its many
Spain is known for its many bars. In fact the
Spain i1s known for its many bars. In fact the country has
bars. In fact the country has 280,000 of them, according to
280,000 of them, according to il
280,000 of them, according to official statistics, and such
official statistics, and such T
official statistics, and such is their importance that the
Is their importance that the country’s Parliament has agreed
country’s Parliament has agreed (0]
country’s Parliament has agreed to debate a
country’s Parliament has agreed R E LW O] T
country’s Parliament has agreed to debate a proposal to make
to debate a proposal to make 1o R e o as
to debate a proposal to make borrowers in small towns
to debate a proposal to make 01180 e IR s 1a e
borrowers in small towns and villages eligible for special
villages eligible for special subsidies and benefits. This
subsidies and benefits. This 1ol ]gd
subsidies and benefits. This report from
subsidies and benefits. This (I g R g LA |
subsidies and benefits. This report from central Spain. The
report from central Spain. The e
report from central Spain. The rural heartland
report from central Spain. The I 1ad eI}
report from central Spain. The rural heartland of Central
rural heartland of Central Spain.
rural heartland of Central S TVl
rural heartland of Central Spain. After decades of
Spain. After decades of migration towards cities, these
migration towards cities, these vast agricultural reliant areas
vast agricultural reliant areas i
vast agricultural reliant areas AR AT
vast agricultural reliant areas of the country are sparsely
of the country are sparsely populated. They’ve become known
populated. They’ve become known 1
populated. They’ve become known IR N )
populated. They’ve become known RN OS] EI R
populated. They’ve become known as emptied Spain. The divide
as emptied Spain. The divide O A e
as emptied Spain. The divide A 1 melle1
as emptied Spain. The divide I a1 e
as emptied Spain. The divide between rural and urban is more
between rural and urban is more pronounced here than in most
pronounced here than in most European countries. 90% of
European countries. 90% of S ENIE S
European countries. 90% of Spaniards inhabit larger towns
Spaniards inhabit larger towns and
Spaniards inhabit larger towns TR
Spaniards inhabit larger towns and cities. The rest are here.
and cities. The rest are here. Open macro
[TV
nearly half of Spanish towns are at
nearly half of Spanish towns TR a4
nearly half of Spanish towns are at risk of depopulation.
are at risk of depopulation. Among them, this one in the
Among them, this one In the Aragon region,
Among them, this one in the Aragon region, population 36.
Aragon region, population 36. XS
Aragon region, population 36. As is the case in so many
As Is the case In so many villages, the bar is
As Is the case in so many villages, the bar is the
villages, the bar Is the heart AR AT
villages, the bar Is the heart of the community.
TRANSLATION: It Is a
TRANSLATION: It 1s a place for
TRANSLATION: It is a place for I
TRANSLATION: It is a place for people to
TRANSLATION: It is a place for O CRGIGEG
TRANSLATION: It is a place for people to gather because
people to gather because ez R )
people to gather because O ERVERT]
people to gather because otherwise you wouldn’t see
otherwise you wouldn’t see people. It means we have a
people. It means we have a meeting place. TRANSLATION:
meeting place. TRANSLATION: Ko es
meeting place. TRANSLATION: | ots of
meeting place. TRANSLATION: Lots of people are involved in
Lots of people are involved In the
Lots of people are involved In N
Lots of people are involved In the bar, and its maintenance
the bar, and its maintenance creates jobs, says this woman,
creates jobs, says this woman, )
creates jobs, says this woman, so bars are needed to make sure
so bars are needed to make sure people stay
so bars are needed to make sure ] CES VAL
so bars are needed to make sure people stay and work here. But
people stay and work here. But with
people stay and work here. But i )
people stay and work here. But IO R
people stay and work here. But GO R A P
people stay and work here. But with so few customers, many
with so few customers, many e
with so few customers, many rural bars are struggling.
rural bars are struggling. TRANSLATION: The bar is not a
TRANSLATION: The bar is not a viable business. We have to
viable business. We have to organise all sorts of other
organise all sorts of other T A
organise all sorts of other activities, and that’s because
activities, and that’s because the bar
activities, and that’s because oo a1
activities, and that’s because the bar does not pay for
the bar does not pay for itself. So
the bar does not pay for 1T AR T
the bar does not pay for itself. So you have to find
itself. So you have to find s
itself. So you have to find other sources
itself. So you have to find I A
itself. So you have to find other sources of income
itself. So you have to find I e el e - e
other sources of income In order
other sources of income In R RN
other sources of income In order to make a profit. Or
order to make a profit. Or T s
order to make a profit. Or rather just to break even. A
rather just to break even. A WD el
rather just to break even. A political movement,
political movement, representing rural Spain, has
representing rural Spain, has been campaigning for the
been campaigning for the repopulation of areas like
repopulation of areas like this,
repopulation of areas like =1
repopulation of areas like this, and calling for an
this, and calling for an Tl I uEhle
this, and calling for an improvement in public
LT T Tl LT s IR (T T improvement in public services.
Improvement in public services. It is hoping to have an
improvement in public services. It is hoping to have an impact
It is hoping to have an impact o0
It is hoping to have an impact el
It is hoping to have an impact on the national political
on the national political )
on the national political debate by performing well in
debate by performing well in upcoming local elections. This
upcoming local elections. This party wants to make bars in
party wants to make bars In towns
party wants to make bars In R e
party wants to make bars In towns with fewer than 200
towns with fewer than 200 TR o Th w010
towns with fewer than 200 inhabitants eligible for
Inhabitants eligible for special economic support from
special economic support from the
special economic support from R R
special economic support from the state, because of the
the state, because of the el
the state, because of the e IR )
the state, because of the social role they play. Spain’s
social role they play. Spain’s parliament is considering the
parliament Is considering the plan. TRANSLATION: We are
plan. TRANSLATION: We are fighting to improve lives in
fighting to improve lives In R ils
fighting to improve lives In our villages, to
L R R I QRO our villages, to improve
our villages, to improve infrastructure, have better
Infrastructure, have better services, better internet
services, better internet connections
services, better internet o el Lo sl e el
services, better internet connections and improve our
connections and improve our roads, which are very bad.
I =R A AL
The nitiative to save
The initiative to save bars
The nitiative to save bars iIs
The initiative to save bars Is aimed at preventing
The initiative to save bars is aimed at preventing villagers
aimed at preventing villagers from suffering abandonment,
from suffering abandonment, which has already been the fate
which has already been the fate i
which has already been the fate of so many. But those who live
of so many. But those who live in emptied Spain, know that the
In emptied Spain, know that the odds are
In emptied Spain, know that the - sl
In emptied Spain, know that the odds are still stacked against
odds are still stacked against them.
YIS
YRS
Before we go, let me tell you how
Before we go, let me tell you AR
Before we go, let me tell you RO ]
Before we go, let me tell you how the British government is
how the British government is taking on action against some
taking on action against some S|
taking on action against some annoying unsolicited calls that
annoying unsolicited calls that we
annoying unsolicited calls that w11
annoying unsolicited calls that ] LG
annoying unsolicited calls that we all get every once in
we all get every once In awhile.
we all get every once In I
we all get every once In awhile. The UK
we all get every once In I L R G
we all get every once In awhile. The UK is imposing a
awhile. The UK is imposing a ban
awhile. The UK is imposing a 1ol s
awhile. The UK is imposing a ban on all cold
awhile. The UK Is imposing a ban on all cold calls selling
ban on all cold calls selling financial products as part of a
financial products as part of a national crackdown on scams.
national crackdown on scams. That is it for this edition of
That is it for this edition of Asia Business
That is 1t for this edition of Asia Business Report. | am
Asia Business Report. | am | YTl
Asia Business Report. | am [ LR
Asia Business Report. | am Monica Miller. Thanks for
Monica Miller. Thanks for watching.
Picking out an outfit for the prom.
A mum and daughter well aware of just how much an outfit
can set people back.
Hundreds.
You even see them second—hand online for hundreds
and when you are struggling to pay
It 1s that moment when you look and you think,
you want it to be right, so | think this is a really
lovely thing to do.
People can come along and take away
a donated dress, for free.
It is run by a charity, which identified a desperate
need.
Children can’t go to the prom,
because they cannot afford it, or because their parents
are getting into debt, or | have had phone calls
from people who have been harrassed
by doorstep moneylenders, and all of the awful ways
that they get money back, so it is done just to stop
that, just to make sure that the prom
Is inclusive and everybody can go.
Last year, they helped almost 500
people with dresses.
This year, they hope WL I W [ 8
Hello. | am Alice with The Catch Up. Tonight, a drone
Catch Up. Tonight, a drone YR 4
Catch Up. Tonight, a drone attack attempt in Russia. Can
attack attempt in Russia. Can Big Sam save Leeds, and Love
Big Sam save Leeds, and Love Island star in cancer scare. At
Island star in cancer scare. At i
Island star in cancer scare. At first, climate change could
first, cimate change could dramatically reduce life in the
dramatically reduce lfe in the deepest parts of
dramatically reduce life in the deepest parts of our oceans for
deepest parts of our oceans for the
deepest parts of our oceans for e e
deepest parts of our oceans for W (W)Y
deepest parts of our oceans for the rich by sunlight.
the rich by sunlight. Scientists are warning that
Scientists are warning that R
Scientists are warning that life in them could be
Scientists are warning that R R e o e elileTe
life in them could be reduced Y
life in them could be reduced by as
life in them could be reduced W)
life in them could be reduced by as much as 40% by the end of
by as much as 40% by the end of )
by as much as 40% by the end of the century. Some
by as much as 40% by the end of R [ AR R
by as much as 40% by the end of the century. Some of the
the century. Some of the a1
the century. Some of the stories now. Russia says it
stories now. Russia says It a0y iazYs)
stories now. Russia says It a0 ia s R o)
stories now. Russia says It a0 e o IR o INe 80 0o
stories now. Russia says It downed two drones last
stories now. Russia says it downed two drones last night
downed two drones last night that,
downed two drones last night that ——
downed two drones last night that, —— targeted its
that, —— targeted its g g
that, —— targeted its G I L (o]
that, —— targeted its government HQ in Moscow, known
government HQ in Moscow, known 13
government HQ in Moscow, known as the Kremlin. Unverified
as the Kremlin. Unverified footage on social
as the Kremln. Unverified footage on social media
footage on social media appeared to show an object
appeared to show an object iV o]
appeared to show an object flying over
appeared to show an object UL RN S O
appeared to show an object flying over before a small
flying over before a small YO
flying over before a small explosion. Russia accused
explosion. Russia accused Ukraine of attempting to kill
Ukraine of attempting to kill President Putin, but Ukraine
President Putin, but Ukraine said it had nowt
President Putin, but Ukraine T A s e B0 A ne]
President Putin, but Ukraine said it had nowt to do with it
sald it had nowt to do with It. Madeleine
said 1t had nowt to do with It. Madeleine McCann’s
sald it had nowt to do with it. Madeleine McCann’s parents
said 1t had nowt to do with it. Madeleine McCann’s parents have
Madeleine McCann’s parents have said
Madeleine McCann’s parents have R
Madeleine McCann’s parents have IR R
Madeleine McCann’s parents have R e
Madeleine McCann’s parents have 1B CRER (R
Madeleine McCann’s parents have said she is still very much
sald she Is still very much missed. Today marks the 16th
missed. Today marks the 16th SR 18
missed. Today marks the 16th anniversary of her
anniversary of her disappearance in Portugal. Love
disappearance in Portugal. Love Island star is having tests for
Island star Is having tests for O]
Island star Is having tests for O ] (L
Island star Is having tests for thyroid cancer, after
Island star is having tests for thyroid cancer, after fans
thyroid cancer, after fans o0 ]a e}
thyroid cancer, after fans ol )
thyroid cancer, after fans spotted a lump on her neck
spotted a lump on her neck o
spotted a lump on her neck while she was
spotted a lump on her neck AR
spotted a lump on her neck while she was in the villa. The
while she was In the villa. The 23—year—old from
while she was in the villa. The 23—year—old from London says
23—year—old from London says V70
23—year—old from London says ALl s
23—year—old from London says AV el 1 R aaitlne]
23—year—old from London says even her mum didn’t notice it.
even her mum didn’t notice It. I Xals |
even her mum didn’t notice It. And Big Sam
even her mum didn’t notice It. GGG IRE R
even her mum didn’t notice It. And Big Sam is back in
even her mum didn’t notice It. L GREIGRE IDRE E A LR G
even her mum didn’t notice it. A GRIGRE ID R E AR O R
And Big Sam Is back in the big league. He’s been
And Big Sam Is back In the big league. He’s been named
And Big Sam Is back in the big league. He’s been named Leeds
league. He’s been named Leeds 1
league. He’s been named Leeds IR R T
league. He’s been named Leeds boss for the final four matches
boss for the final four matches i
boss for the final four matches of the
boss for the final four matches R AR e
boss for the final four matches ORI @ EE T
boss for the final four matches of the Premier league season.
of the Premier league season. The
of the Premier league season. LGN
of the Premier league season. IR TR
of the Premier league season. The dug out better and joins
The dug out better and joins the Yorkshire
The dug out better and joins W I ST g
The dug out better and joins the Yorkshire giants, who are
the Yorkshire giants, who are outside
the Yorkshire giants, who are il -0} 8
the Yorkshire giants, who are outside of the relegation zone
outside of the relegation zone o0
outside of the relegation zone on goal difference. Time now to
on goal difference. Time now to leave you with ten seconds of
leave you with ten seconds of escape. A police officer in the
escape. A police officer in the us
escape. A police officer in the US state
escape. A police officer in the IS -
escape. A police officer in the US state of Virginia was inches
US state of Virginia was inches from
US state of Virginia was inches g e ]
US state of Virginia was inches from death as
US state of Virginia was inches e B L
US state of Virginia was inches from death as a speeding driver
from death as a speeding driver oY)
from death as a speeding driver spun out
from death as a speeding driver S LTI
from death as a speeding driver spun out of control, collided
spun out of control, collided with
spun out of control, collided a0 10018
spun out of control, collided with another car and nearly hit
with another car and nearly hit them. Luckily, no one was hurt.
them. Luckily, no one was hurt. That is you all caught up.
That is you all caught up. Goodbye for now. Have a good
Goodbye for now. Have a good evening.
Hello, I’m Qasa Alom from the BBC Sport Centre.
Coming up on the programme:
Manchester City striker Erling Haaland breaks
the record for goals in @ Premier League season.
Where next for Lionel Messi,
as the World Cup winner announces he’ll leave
Paris St Germain at the end of the season.
Ryder Cup stars Sergio Garcia, lan Poulter
and Lee Westwood won’t play in this year’s event —
find out why.
Manchester City striker Erling Haaland broke the record
for goals in a Premier League season as his side went back
to the summit of the table by beating West Ham.The
Norwegian scored his 35th league goal of the campaign
in @ 3—nil win to move past Alan Shearer and Andrew Cole’s
previous best of 34.
Haaland, in his debut season in English football,
was given a guard of honour at full time by his teammates
as he set the new record LTSGR S G [
of the year.
City are top again by a point N - Il hda)
a game In hand.
22 years old.
We’re still five games left.
How many times | make a substitution after a hat
trick at 60 minutes?
Otherwise, maybe we had to score more.
But at the same time, maybe we get injured.
Because it’s a special with this boy, you have to be
all the time Like a watch.
Congratulations to him, for all the team to help him,
of course, to achieve It.
And yeah, it’s really good.
Really good to have him.
That’s what the team played really well tonight.
Really disappointed.
We lose our first goal to a set piece because,
you know, we are pretty good at defending them.
And so I’m really disappointed with that.
against Man City.
They might have scored R A s
goals and we carried a little bit of luck at times
when the ball hit the Inside of the post and didn’t go in.
But | thought we deserved it.
| thought we’d done a good enough job to to warrant
[l [ TR 1 R E IR 1A
And we wanted to come out in the second half and do
Liverpool kept alive their outside hopes
of qualifying for next season’s Champions League
after Mohamed Salah scored the only goal in a 1—nil
win over Fulham.
Salah scored for the eighth home game in a row as Liverpool
won for the fifth successive Premier League game to maintain
their late—season form.
Jurgen Klopp’s side stay fifth in the table, four points
behind fourth—placed Manchester United, who have two
games In hand.
If Newcastle, and especially Man United, if they win
all their games, then you have no chance.
So and we have to keep and that’s already not,
I I ] g hands as well
RO i =Ty g1 o]y B if Brighton wins all the games
then they are ahead of us.
So that’s the situation we have just to win football games.
And In the end, we can have a look at the table.
And I’m In this moment really happy with the development,
with the direction we go into.
| think we deserve more from the game.
I’m proud of our players
and we played this evening the fourth game in 12 days
and the fourth game In 12 days and we showed that,
and our quality in some moments of the game,
of course, as of all, we deserve much more
from the game.
Sam Allardyce says he was shocked to be asked
to take over as manager of Leeds United and that some
people have called him mad to take the job.
He took his first training session with the squad
on Wednesday after Spaniard Javi Gracia was dismissed
after just 10 weeks and 12 games in charge at Elland Road.
Allardyce Is tasked with quiding Leeds to safety
with four games remaining.
They are currently out of the bottom three but only
on goal difference.
A tough first game for him though against leaders
Manchester City on Saturday.
That’s probably the biggest challenge because of
the shortness of games that are left.
Like, | mean, | think that, you know, there needs to be
points picked up In.
And the difficulty is, you know, you look at
the fixtures, you know what | mean?
We start with an easy one on Saturday and,
you know, | mean, can’t get any easier than Manchester City
away, can It?
But | enjoyed the game so much and | and to try and be able
to save this club and and put it back and keep it
In the Premier League is a big responsibility
and a big challenge but one I E R OR LG
because of who Leeds United are.
In Italy just 6 points separate 6 teams from 2nd
(A ) R T I T g o] ] g e midweek round of Serie
A Matches.
Juventus beat Lecce T VIR s
against Sassuolo to ensure they stay 2nd and 3rd.
Inter Milan thumped Verona 6-0 to move up to 4th place though
after disappointing 1 all draws for Roma and Milan
against Monza and Cremonese.
Atalanta’s 3—2 win against Spezia keeps them
ST Gl a) as well for next seasons
Champions League as well.
AV T - R g [o1g RN e
Valencia and Villarreal AT - - LU
Atletico Madrid leapfrogged their city rivals, Real Madrid,
to go second after A51 victory against Cadiz.
And Getafe beat Celta Vigo 1-0.
And In Germany, Eintracht Frankfurt will face RB Leipzig
R g NI ] after a dramatic 3—2 win
In their Semi Final against Stuttgart.
FE Tl [ iRO7CTg1 a goal down early
to Tiago Tomas but came back through goals from Evan NDicka,
Daichi Kamada and French forward Kolo Muani to set up
the showdown with the reigning champions on June 3rd.
Could Lionel Messi’s time at Paris Saint Germain be up?
He’s been suspended him for two weeks unpaid
for an unathorised trip to Saudi Arabia.
He’s an ambassador for the Saudi tourist authority
who say the trip included feeding gazelles and visiting
a luxury shopping centre.
He’ll be free again for the final three games
of the season, as PSG look to retain their Ligue 1 title,
but speculation’s growing that we won’t see him
In @ PSG shirt again.
So where could he go next?
There’s two other options, of course.
Saudi Arabia.
An offer has arrived for around £400 million.
Yes, you heard.
Well, for one year, for 100 million.
The idea Is to put together Cristiano Ronaldo and Leo Messi
In the same league, and the MLS have always been there.
They cannot afford that kind of money.
But they said whenever you want to come to the MLS,
Inter Miami, we’ll open the doors for you.
And he knows that.
The England and Wales (W eI eI
the sanctions it recommends against the six former
Yorkshire players found to have used racist slurs at the club.
It follows the allegations made by Azeem Rafiq.
Here’s our sports editor Dan Roan.
Now, ECB charges that have been issued all stemmed
from allegations made by the former Yorkshire spinner
Azeem Rafig, now a seventh former Yorkshire player.
The ex—England captain, Michael Vaughan,
he was cleared by the CDC panel.
As for the other six, well, they’ve had to wait until today
to discover what kind of punishments they may face.
The former England and Yorkshire batsman
Gary Ballance, who had admitted a charge of using racist
language towards Rafiq and who had apologised to him.
The ECB today revealed that they were recommending
that the panel issue him with an eight week suspension
that would only apply if he came out of retirement.
He announced his retirement last month and that he received
an £8,000 fine.
Now, as for the other former Yorkshire players
who were found to have used racist or discriminatory
language, the ECB recommended 7500 pound fines for both
the former England star Matthew Hoggard and the former
Yorkshire player and coach Andrew Gale.
£5,000 fines for England’s former player Tim Bresnan
and Yorkshire’s former all rounder John Blain and A400
£0 fine for another former Yorkshire player, Richard
SN
The ECB also said today that they wanted all six
Individuals to go on an educational course
and to be reprimanded.
Staying with cricket, Pakistan successfully defended
a 287-run total as they beat New Zealand by 26 runs
In a one—day Iinternational to take an unassailable 3—0
LR R -a
Imam—ul—Haqg and Babar Azam
hit half—centuries as Pakistan scored 287/6 in Karachi.
Tom Blundell top scored for New Zealand with 65
and Cole McConchie was 64 not out but they fell short
with two matches still to play in the series.
Meanwhile, at the IPL, Mumbai Indians chased down
a mammoth 215 to beat the Punjab Kings.
It meant Liam Livingstone’s 82 not out including seven fours
and four sixes was in Y1 B
n what seemed like an improbable chase,
Mumbal were up against it Mohali when skipper
But Suryakumar Yadav and Ishan Kishan hit fifties
before Tilak Varma and Tim David’s late runs took Mumbai
over the finishing line.
They won the game by six wickets.
And Lucknow Super Giants and Chennai Super Kings
were forced to split points as their Indian Premier League
match was called off due to rain.
With incessant rain lashing the Ekana Stadium, even
the minimum five overs R GRS @O LT R LR
possible after the home team had made 125 for seven in 19
point 2 overs.
Four golfers including lee Westwood and lan Poulter
will no longer be eligible to play in this year’s Ryder
Cup after announcing their resignation from the DP
T Y
Westwood and Poulter have starred in a number of famous
Ryder Cup victories IR R TR UG A
out of the reckoning to take on Team USA along
with Richard Bland and Sergio Garcia —
after the quartet missed Wednesday’s deadline of paying
a fine for breaking DP WOrld Tour rules and playing
in the opening LIV Golf tournament last July.
Reigning Champion Carlos Alcaraz is through to
the Semi Finals of the Madrid Masters after beating
the Russian Karen Khachanov in straight sets 6—4, 7-5.
The Spaniard has been in brilliant form throughout
the tournament and will now play Croatian Borna Coric
Iin the final four at the clay court event.
The 19 year old needs to defend his title in order
to replace Novak Djokovic as the world number one.
And that’s the latest from me.
Take care, goodbye.
I’ll speak to you soon.
Many of us had some beautiful late spring
sunshine on Wednesday.
In fact, in Bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours
of sunshine, a glorious day.
But top temperature, well, that was in South Wales,
In Gwynedd, just shy of 20 Celsius, and it felt
very pleasant indeed.
Now it’s not out of the question that we could see
20 Celsius on Thursday, but the weather story
Is certainly on the change with low pressure starting
to move In from the southwest.
So as we go through the day on Thursday, it’s a tale
of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off
the North Sea, affecting eastern England and northeast
We’ve got rain pushing into the southwest —
and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best
of the sunshine Is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll
see the best of the warmth.
The breeze still coming from an east direction,
so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight
edge to things.
A little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough
with highs of 19-20 Celsius perhaps in the southeast.
Now, as we move out of Thursday into Friday, that weather front
will continue to push its way steadily north.
It’WL bring outbreaks of rain as it does so,
and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
So on Friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving
T gy 1 England, into Scotland.
Sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
Now, as we move Into the start of the weekend, that
southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north
But unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
TR TS LI )R GO EO LI E R TR -
that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily
north as we go through the day.
So not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look
likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain
across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
And the wider picture throughout the Bank.
Holiday weekend — Saturday will be the wettest
of the days, Sunday and Monday, sunny spells and scattered
showers.
Some of them on Monday could be quite heavy.
Take care.
Live from Washington, this is BBC News.
Welcome to viewers on PBS in America.
Ukraine denies it’s behind any attack on Moscow
or President Putin, after footage emerges of drone
strike on the Kremlin.
The US Federal Reserve raises rates once again,
but could it be the last hike in a while?
A teenager Is arrested, after eight children
and a security guard are shot dead at an elementary
school in Belgrade.
I’m Sumi Somaskanda.
Welcome to our show.
First — breaking news out of Ukraine — as the capital
Kyiv comes under attack.
Our correspondent — Hugo Bachega — who’s currently
LT R G T bunker — Hugo Bachega —
sald that in the past hour, the air—raid alert
In the capital went off, at around 02:20am, local time.
The BBC team heard at least one loud explosion, and the city’s
air defence has been activated.
Earlier today, Ukraine says 1 G S A R A RGP
INn an attack on Kherson.
Missile strikes hit a market, a railway station, a petrol
station and residential I Te
station and residential buildings.
It comes as Ukraine’s President Zelensky denied
that his country carried out an alleged drone attack
on the Kremln.
Russia says it was an attempt on Vladimir Putin’s life.
This video, which appears to show the drone attack,
remains unverified.
Our analysis editor Ros Atkins has been taking a closer look.
Russia claims Ukraine try to il
Russia claims Ukraine try to kill Vladimir Putin in the
kill Vladimir Putin In the early
Kill Vladimir Putin in the early hours of Wednesday. This
early hours of Wednesday. This T
early hours of Wednesday. This is the first video we have.
Is the first video we have. It’s in Moscow. We see an
It’s In Moscow. We see an object
It’s In Moscow. We see an e E
It’s In Moscow. We see an object lay in from the left
It’s in Moscow. We see an object lay in from the left and
o T EWAL R RO T 0L
o T EWAL R RO T explode. Now let’s
object lay in from the left and explode. Now let’s pause here.
explode. Now let’s pause here. We
explode. Now let’s pause here. wWe know
explode. Now let’s pause here. we know this
explode. Now let’s pause here. NG RO R
explode. Now let’s pause here. Y G R IRl )
explode. Now let’s pause here. We know this is Moscow because
We know this is Moscow because 1
We know this is Moscow because IR S
We know this is Moscow because this is Red Square. This
We know this i1s Moscow because this is Red Square. This is a
this Is Red Square. This Is a recent
this Is Red Square. This Is a (T
this Is Red Square. This Is a (W (T [
this Is Red Square. This Is a recent picture of the
this 1s Red Square. This Is a recent picture of the same
recent picture of the same place with the Kremlin wall in
place with the Kremlin wall in the background and stands for
the background and stands for Y4
the background and stands for next year’s victory parade. You
next year’s victory parade. You can
next year’s victory parade. You S NRL T
next year’s victory parade. You can see those stands in the
can see those stands in the ViTel-Yo]
can see those stands in the video too, meaning it is also
video too, meaning it is also recent, and
video too, meaning it is also = A s 1
video too, meaning it is also recent, and if we play
video too, meaning it Is also recent, and if we play the
recent, and if we play the ViTel-Yo]
recent, and if we play the video on an pause
recent, and If we play the video on an pause again, there
video on an pause again, there is the
video on an pause again, there TR N 1Y
video on an pause again, there is the object flying towards
Is the object flying towards the
Is the object flying towards eI [0 n0lc)
Is the object flying towards eI [0t d
Is the object flying towards the dome of the
Is the object flying towards A N R NG
Is the object flying towards the dome of the Senate Palace,
the dome of the Senate Palace, moments before
the dome of the Senate Palace, 10 0 n i R n- A
the dome of the Senate Palace, moments before it explodes we
moments before it explodes we can
moments before it explodes we S NRL T
moments before it explodes we N )
moments before it explodes we RN ER]
moments before it explodes we can see people on the dome. We
can see people on the dome. We [ I
can see people on the dome. We [0 el 4T}
can see people on the dome. We don’t know who they are for
don’t know who they are for what they are doing. Now Russia
what they are doing. Now Russia says it
what they are doing. Now Russia LV R E
what they are doing. Now Russia says it was attacked by two
says It was attacked by two unmanned aerial vehicles, in
unmanned aerial vehicles, In s
unmanned aerial vehicles, In other words drones. We can’t
other words drones. We can’t oo e1al88s]
other words drones. We can’t NIl RGE] o
other words drones. We can’t confirm that, and if that is
confirm that, and if that is )
confirm that, and if that is one video, here are three more.
one video, here are three more. 111
one video, here are three more. This is a map of Russia,
one video, here are three more. IR R e LU S E R
This i1s a map of Russia, with Moscow
This i1s a map of Russia, with | T ooy A= Ta sl
This i1s a map of Russia, with Moscow and the
This Is a map of Russia, with Moscow and the West, and all of
Moscow and the West, and all of i)
Moscow and the West, and all of these videos show this part of
these videos show this part of the city. Here is the second.
the city. Here Is the second. The BB(C’s
the city. Here Is the second. I Y YR u i o 1u o )n]
the city. Here Is the second. The BBC’s verification team has
The BBC’s verification team has T3}
The BBC’s verification team has posted —— confirmed it was
posted —— confirmed it was Y|
posted —— confirmed it was WSV
posted —— confirmed it was posted at 315
posted —— confirmed It was posted at 315 Moscow Time on
posted at 315 Moscow Time on Wednesday morning. We see the
Wednesday morning. We see the same dome
Wednesday morning. We see the e Lo =i
Wednesday morning. We see the same dome with smoke rising
same dome with smoke rising from it. The words of the name
from i1t. The words of the name o1
from i1t. The words of the name )
from i1t. The words of the name - el
from i1t. The words of the name of a local telegram
from it. The words of the name of a local telegram channel
of a local telegram channel that
of a local telegram channel E V|
of a local telegram channel that posted the video. This
that posted the video. This Y4
that posted the video. This next video
that posted the video. This T AR AT e A [0y
that posted the video. This next video shows the
that posted the video. This AR N LB R s
next video shows the Senate Palace dome with fire clearly
Palace dome with fire clearly visible,
Palace dome with fire clearly VTS 1
Palace dome with fire clearly visible, and then this shows an
visible, and then this shows an object
visible, and then this shows an o i\
visible, and then this shows an object flying in from the
QTR LD R R - right. Again, we
eI TR (e (= right. Again, we see an
right. Again, we see an OISR
right. Again, we see an explosion. Russia says all
right. Again, we see an OISO TSI E RV AR K|
explosion. Russia says all of 81
explosion. Russia says all of this was a planned terrorist
this was a planned terrorist act
this was a planned terrorist Yo =180 ]
this was a planned terrorist act and an assassination
act and an assassination attempt on the President, but
attempt on the President, but has provided no evidence to
has provided no evidence to o4
has provided no evidence to Ll G
has provided no evidence to back that up. Ukraine says it
back that up. Ukraine says it 3
back that up. Ukraine says it is all staged by Russia. As for
Is all staged by Russia. As for Vladimir Putin, the Kremlin
Vladimir Putin, the Kremlin LV
Vladimir Putin, the Kremlin VG
Vladimir Putin, the Kremlin says he wasn’t
Vladimir Putin, the Kremln says he wasn’t there at
Vladimir Putin, the Kremlin says he wasn’t there at the
says he wasn’t there at the time
says he wasn’t there at the Al a
says he wasn’t there at the time of the incident and these
time of the incident and these pictures
time of the incident and these RO
time of the incident and these pictures from Reuters on
pictures from Reuters on Wednesday showed the dome
Wednesday showed the dome looking undamaged. And while we
looking undamaged. And while we try to work out what exactly it
try to work out what exactly it is these videos show, both
Is these videos show, both Sl
Is these videos show, both sides say the other carried it
sides say the other carried it 111
The reaction in the West has been to urge caution on any
Russian claims.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he would take
anything the Russia presidency said with a "very large
The White House Press Secretary pointedly avoided inflamatory
language.
oy fa ez
ol ol
Since the beginning of this o a1aiTan
Since the beginning of this conflict the
Since the beginning of this o AR L= TR e=Ys )
Since the beginning of this conflict the United States are
conflict the United States are certainly not encouraging, or
certainly not encouraging, or enabling Ukraine to
enabling Ukraine to strike IS}
enabling Ukraine to strike beyond its borders. We have
beyond its borders. We have been
beyond its borders. We have Y
beyond its borders. We have been very clear from here
beyond Iits borders. We have been very clear from here about
been very clear from here about that
been very clear from here about s ial o101
been very clear from here about that but again | don’t want to
that but again | don’t want to get into speculation from here
get into speculation from here oY 018
get into speculation from here Yo Yo iaa )
get into speculation from here about the authenticity of this
about the authenticity of this report, so I’m just not going
report, so I’m just not going (0]
report, so I’m just not going to speculate from here.
Let’s get some perspective now.
Live now to retired Lieutenant General Steff Twitty,
formerly the Deputy Commander of US European Command,
and now at the Washington—based Center for European Policy
Analysis.
show. What is your first impression of hearing of these
Impression of hearing of these O S
Impression of hearing of these O S
Impression of hearing of these explosions in key?
impression of hearing of these OISR R ST
impression of hearing of these explosions in key? So a couple
O[T T G - R T o] i
O[T T G - R T o] of things | would like
explosions In key? So a couple of things | would like to add
of things | would like to add (0]
of things | would like to add R G
of things | would like to add R R
of things | would lke to add R R e Ieenalnal alnc1nels
of things | would lke to add to what the commentator just
to what the commentator just T
to what the commentator just talked about —— in Kyiv. As you
talked about —— In Kyiv. As you ]
talked about —— In Kyiv. As you take a look at the
talked about —— in Kyiv. As you take a look at the video, you
take a look at the video, you aTo N (o)
take a look at the video, you [ (
take a look at the video, you notice you do not see a large
notice you do not see a large explosion, and that tells me
explosion, and that tells me that
explosion, and that tells me IR )
explosion, and that tells me OEIR R
explosion, and that tells me that there was not a missile
that there was not a missile YTz
that there was not a missile attached to this drone.
attached to this drone. Normally if you’re going to go
Normally if you’re going to go ATl e
Normally if you’re going to go after someone
Normally if you’re going to go A 0 = o - a sl
Normally if you’re going to go after someone and execute
Normally if you’re going to go A R e -
after someone and execute an assassination, it’s going to be
assassination, it’s going to be Y
assassination, it’s going to be a missile
assassination, it’s going to be RS |
assassination, it’s going to be RSSO I -
assassination, it’s going to be a missile associated with that,
a missile associated with that, like a hellfire missile to a
like a hellfire missile to a target
like a hellfire missile to a I AL
like a hellfire missile to a target that particular
GG o T [wT]E ]y individual,
target that particular individual, and it is normally
individual, and it i1s normally WL
individual, and it i1s normally going to have its
individual, and it is normally going to have its eye going in
going to have its eye going In Y
going to have its eye going In a window, or not a window, a
a window, or not a window, a a[o70]8
a window, or not a window, a a[oTs]aRe] 8
a window, or not a window, a door or something of that
door or something of that nature. So in this case we
nature. So In this case we el e ks
nature. So In this case we didn’t see that happen. In
didn’t see that happen. In regards to the attacks on Kyiv,
regards to the attacks on Kyuiy, )
regards to the attacks on Kyuiy, e
regards to the attacks on Kyuiy, one of the things we
regards to the attacks on Kyiyv, one of the things we need to
one of the things we need to also
one of the things we need to E e lls] 4
one of the things we need to also think about is
one of the things we need to IR € R
also think about i1s the Ukrainians have said
also think about is the Ukrainians have said that
also think about Is the Ukrainians have said that they
Ukrainians have said that they are
Ukrainians have said that they 1R o]
Ukrainians have said that they IR R
Ukrainians have said that they are going to do a
TN TR L counterattack,
are going to do a counterattack and
counterattack, and Russia started last week upping their
started last week upping their missile attacks
started last week upping their SN a1 o)1
started last week upping their missile attacks on Kyiv itself,
missile attacks on Kyiv itself, and | think
missile attacks on Kyiv itself, BB s &S
missile attacks on Kyiv itself, and | think as they continue to
and | think as they continue to do this, this is the Russians
do this, this is the Russians trying
do this, this is the Russians R
do this, this is the Russians trying to throw or distract the
trying to throw or distract the Ukrainians from their counter
Ukrainians from their counter ACSVER
Ukrainians from their counter offensive, put
Ukrainians from their counter ISV T G g
Ukrainians from their counter ICHENE T R G E [l g g [}
QLT AN o TT g T g g [e )
offensive, put their mind somewhere else, have them have
somewhere else, have them have to do
somewhere else, have them have ol I -] s
somewhere else, have them have to do other things instead of
to do other things instead of initiating this counter
initiating this counter A SN )
initiating this counter offensive. Keep them busy, in
offensive. Keep them busy, In s
offensive. Keep them busy, In other words. So general,
other words. So general, staying with the
other words. So general, WL RO RGERYGIGI
other words. So general, staying with the explosions we
staying with the explosions we are hearing about in Kyiv, also
are hearing about in Kyiv, also that
are hearing about in Kyiv, also e I I 4
are hearing about in Kyiv, also I o)
are hearing about in Kylv, also that attack we mentioned
are hearing about in Kylv, also EIEE RN R N e e
that attack we mentioned In curse on, where 21 people were
curse on, where 21 people were =GR
curse on, where 21 people were killed, you are saying this
killed, you are saying this is Russia stepping
Killed, you are saying this Is Russia stepping up those
Russia stepping up those S
Russia stepping up those strikes. It is Ukraine in a
strikes. It Is Ukraine in a W)}
strikes. It Is Ukraine in a 0T TS
strikes. It Is Ukraine in a good position to
strikes. It 1s Ukraine In a good position to fend
strikes. It is Ukraine in a good position to fend off this
good position to fend off this 3701}
good position to fend off this type of Russian attack with its
type of Russian attack with its air defence? When you have
air defence? When you have multiple missiles coming in,
multiple missiles coming in, hundreds of missiles, it is
hundreds of missiles, 1t Is hard to fend
hundreds of missiles, It Is IR R e s A =ns
hundreds of missiles, It Is hard to fend them off, so
hundreds of missiles, 1t Is hard to fend them off, so the
hard to fend them off, so the Ukrainians have done a pretty
Ukrainians have done a pretty W)}
Ukrainians have done a pretty WLl T
Ukrainians have done a pretty good job by destroying many of
good job by destroying many of these missiles
good job by destroying many of B SIIR e
good job by destroying many of BN TR ROE 1)
good job by destroying many of these missiles that are coming
these missiles that are coming in, but
these missiles that are coming TP o LAY 010 0 =)
these missiles that are coming in, but some of these missiles
in, but some of these missiles are low
In, but some of these missiles are low flight missiles that
are low flight missiles that will
are low flight missiles that IR E e [
are low flight missiles that IR )
are low flight missiles that will invade the Ukrainian air
will invade the Ukrainian air defence systems and are bound
defence systems and are bound (0]
defence systems and are bound (ol o[-
defence systems and are bound to get through, so as they
to get through, so as they PqaTe 1ol ¢
to get through, so as they knock down 75, 25 May get
knock down 75, 25 May get Il B
knock down 75, 25 May get through, and so they are still
through, and so they are still not
through, and so they are still (Ao 0= 1
through, and so they are still not at the
through, and so they are still A R N L1
through, and so they are still not at the position where they
not at the position where they BV
not at the position where they have a layer of defence that
have a layer of defence that could be totally secure for
have a layer of defence that WG AR T G
could be totally secure for the people out there, as a result
people out there, as a result i
people out there, as a result A0 00 ]
people out there, as a result S e
people out there, as a result of some of these missiles
of some of these missiles evading air defence systems was
evading air defence systems was (00
evading air defence systems was to do you think these extracts
to do you think these extracts could
to do you think these extracts o1 o)
to do you think these extracts could be a distraction
to do you think these extracts TG - [ Lan e Inu o s o] s
could be a distraction for Ukraine as it prepares as you
Ukraine as it prepares as you said
Ukraine as it prepares as you IR s
Ukraine as it prepares as you IR
Ukraine as It prepares as you said for this counteroffensive?
sald for this counteroffensive? Absolutely.
said for this counteroffensive? Absolutely. Anytime that you
Absolutely. Anytime that you have to focus elsewhere, such
have to focus elsewhere, such E1
have to focus elsewhere, such as making sure that
as making sure that T i Inai (i lns)
as making sure that infrastructure is
as making sure that I S a TN RS (1)
infrastructure is straight, making sure
infrastructure Is straight, making sure that you are
making sure that you are getting
making sure that you are ARG
making sure that you are getting the family members and
getting the family members and the kids
getting the family members and N RO
getting the family members and the kids that are being
the kids that are being impacted by these missiles in
iImpacted by these missiles In bunkers, and
Impacted by these missiles In bunkers, and making sure
impacted by these missiles In bunkers, and making sure you
bunkers, and making sure you are putting them in hospitals
are putting them in hospitals and
are putting them in hospitals EYaTaBRo 01
are putting them in hospitals and out of harm’s way, you take
and out of harm’s way, you take that attention
and out of harm’s way, you take eI Nz n i (o a IR
and out of harm’s way, you take that attention of the
and out of harm’s way, you take W EIE O L TR G R G T [
that attention of the things that you need to do to prepare
that you need to do to prepare 018
that you need to do to prepare o R a1
that you need to do to prepare O R o 0l no A=tz ]
that you need to do to prepare for this counteroffensive. So
for this counteroffensive. So Y Yy
for this counteroffensive. So what should Ukraine be doing,
what should Ukraine be doing, then,
what should Ukraine be doing, X[ i PR}
what should Ukraine be doing, then, to prepare? Well,
what should Ukraine be doing, WY AR I E LY (A
what should Ukraine be doing, then, to prepare? Well, | think
then, to prepare? Well, | think 3%
then, to prepare? Well, | think they have done well over this
they have done well over this past year, and they
past year, and they particularly have been
particularly have been resilient, with all
particularly have been I R I | R A
resilient, with all these NS
resilient, with all these missiles attacking. What we
missiles attacking. What we N el
missiles attacking. What we o)
missiles attacking. What we need to do is continue to get
need to do Is continue to get the
need to do Is continue to get eI Ts[elis ol 11
need to do is continue to get AN i 1 18
need to do is continue to get the additional air defence
the additional air defence SN
the additional air defence RGN
the additional air defence systems in there, and the
systems in there, and the Ukrainians have sounded that
Ukrainians have sounded that 3%
Ukrainians have sounded that ORI
Ukrainians have sounded that they are going to
Ukrainians have sounded that WA TGO D R O (o]
Ukrainians have sounded that WA TGO DI R O [OR [ ES
they are going to do this counteroffensive. My assessment
counteroffensive. My assessment T
counteroffensive. My assessment is that
counteroffensive. My assessment ROEIRGEY
counteroffensive. My assessment RUEI ARG
counteroffensive. My assessment is that they are probably not
Is that they are probably not initiated this counteroffensive
initiated this counteroffensive 018
initiated this counteroffensive for a couple of reasons. Number
for a couple of reasons. Number i)
for a couple of reasons. Number one, the
for a couple of reasons. Number IR UCR GRS A
for a couple of reasons. Number one, the weather, it
for a couple of reasons. Number IR IR GRS
for a couple of reasons. Number one, the weather, it is still
one, the weather, it is still raining there,
one, the weather, It Is still raining there, so
one, the weather, it Is still raining there, so you’ve got
raining there, so you’ve got muddy terrain and
raining there, so you’ve got DGR I G
raining there, so you’ve got muddy terrain and so forth.
muddy terrain and so forth. Number
muddy terrain and so forth. VT s IR A o]
muddy terrain and so forth. Number two, they are still
Number two, they are still waiting for much of the
waiting for much of the ammunition that has
waiting for much of the Y Il R - e
ammunition that has been g
ammunition that has been I RO
ammunition that has been promised from the West, and
promised from the West, and also
promised from the West, and RO
promised from the West, and also they have new
promised from the West, and SSRGSV SRS
also they have new recruits L]
also they have new recruits IRl
also they have new recruits coming in, and much of the
coming in, and much of the ] I
coming in, and much of the equipment still coming in. So |
equipment still coming in. So | e
equipment still coming in. So | think, as these conditions
think, as these conditions S ]as
think, as these conditions start to mature, we
think, as these conditions SNE RO R R R
think, as these conditions SN E RO R TR R =T
start to mature, we will see the Ukrainians conduct this
the Ukrainians conduct this R
the Ukrainians conduct this offence, which will help with
offence, which will help with 1
offence, which will help with all the missiles and stuff
all the missiles and stuftf falling
all the missiles and stuftf GG
all the missiles and stuftf TR
all the missiles and stuftf falling on them, because they
falling on them, because they il
falling on them, because they I
falling on them, because they will be able to go in and
will be able to go Iin and E a4
will be able to go Iin and attack much
will be able to go In and attack much of these attacks
attack much of these attacks that
attack much of these attacks ( E IR
attack much of these attacks G EIR GG
attack much of these attacks that they are enduring right
that they are enduring right now. General, you mentioned
now. General, you mentioned Ukraine waiting for ammunition.
Ukraine waiting for ammunition. We saw the US announcing it is
We saw the US announcing it is sending Ukraine another $300
sending Ukraine another $300 el He)s]
sending Ukraine another $300 million in weapons out of the
million in weapons out of the S Jglils|
million in weapons out of the Spring Offensive. If those
Spring Offensive. If those weapons arrive, do you think
weapons arrive, do you think the Ukrainian forces will be
the Ukrainian forces will be able to push back Russian
able to push back Russian il Y
able to push back Russian M AT
able to push back Russian fighters? Well, the Ukrainians
fighters? Well, the Ukrainians have shown that they are
have shown that they are capable of doing anything they
capable of doing anything they put
capable of doing anything they oJT aR {4 (31
capable of doing anything they put their minds to, you know?
put their minds to, you know? Take a look at Kyiv, take a
Take a look at Kyiv, take a 0] 4
Take a look at Kyiv, take a look at what they have done in
look at what they have done In Kherson, and what they are
Kherson, and what they are continuing to do in Mahmoud.
continuing to do in Mahmoud. The conditions they have asked
The conditions they have asked e
The conditions they have asked for, the rate
The conditions they have asked R NG LR ] LR
The conditions they have asked for, the rate troops, they are
for, the rate troops, they are capable of not only pushing the
capable of not only pushing the Russians back across that 400
Russians back across that 400 S
Russians back across that 400 N
Russians back across that 400 miles of disputed area, but
miles of disputed area, but 3%
miles of disputed area, but ORI
miles of disputed area, but they are also capable of taking
they are also capable of taking Crimea
they are also capable of taking Wl LIS
they are also capable of taking Wl LR -
they are also capable of taking Crimea as well. General, one
Crimea as well. General, one T4
Crimea as well. General, one TS AL
Crimea as well. General, one quick last question, | want to
quick last question, | want to e8]
quick last question, | want to o et o 1o 4
quick last question, | want to o N o )
quick last question, | want to come back to this drone strike
come back to this drone strike i
come back to this drone strike of this
come back to this drone strike AR T lRe o)
come back to this drone strike R e I a4
come back to this drone strike of this drone attack that
of this drone attack that Russia
of this drone attack that "SI ERE
of this drone attack that TSR] 1]
of this drone attack that NTSIER LG
of this drone attack that Russia is calling an attack.
Russia is calling an attack. BN
Russia is calling an attack. Indeed you
NI E R U [T 1 T & Indeed you mentioned
Russia Is calling an attack. Indeed you mentioned you are
Indeed you mentioned you are 018
Indeed you mentioned you are AN
Indeed you mentioned you are not sure of Russia’s accusation
not sure of Russia’s accusation I
not sure of Russia’s accusation here, that Ukraine was behind
here, that Ukraine was behind it. The
here, that Ukraine was behind T LRI
here, that Ukraine was behind it. The US says Russia has
it. The US says Russia has o 1aal-]
it. The US says Russia has o 8u - s BT ie
it. The US says Russia has R 1Y
it. The US says Russia has carried out many false flag
carried out many false flag operations was the what do you
operations was the what do you sl e
operations was the what do you think actually happen? Well, |
think actually happen? Well, | bR
think actually happen? Well, | A AR =0
think actually happen? Well, | don’t want to speculate, but as
don’t want to speculate, but as we know, Russia is known for
we know, Russia is known for a8
we know, Russia is known for their disinformation campaign,
their disinformation campaign, SO
their disinformation campaign, R )
their disinformation campaign, LR R
their disinformation campaign, so we will just have to wait
so we will just have to wait and see. There
so we will just have to walit and see. There is
so we will just have to walit MBI LD
so we will just have to walit and see. There is a report
so we will just have to wait and see. There is a report out
and see. There Is a report out there
and see. There Is a report out el e 1o
and see. There Is a report out there that this may have
TR TR E AL happened by
there that this may have happened by Russians, Russian
happened by Russians, Russian partisan groups, so we will
partisan groups, so we will [T
partisan groups, so we will just have to wait and see how
just have to wait and see how O
just have to wait and see how this thing unfolds but | don’t
this thing unfolds but | don’t want to speculate whether
want to speculate whether Ukraine executed this or not.
Ukraine executed this or not. We
Ukraine executed this or not. YT
Ukraine executed this or not. We just don’t know at this
We just don’t know at this e
We just don’t know at this point. Thank you so much for
point. Thank you so much for I
point. Thank you so much for joining us
point. Thank you so much for [ T
point. Thank you so much for I TG R G
point. Thank you so much for joining us on the BBC. OK.
joining us on the BBC. OK. Thank you.
Around the
Around th e world
Around the world and across the UK, this is
Around the world and across the 1] ORI )]
Around the world and across the VIO IR (o P
I e
There was a musical start to the
There was a musical start to R
There was a musical start to the well dressing celebrations.
the well dressing celebrations. 111
the well dressing celebrations. This is an tradition. It is a
This Is an tradition. It Is a pagan tradition, and
This 1s an tradition. It Is a pagan tradition, and it was to
pagan tradition, and it was to thank the gods at the time for
thank the gods at the time for the
thank the gods at the time for N[
thank the gods at the time for (N[
thank the gods at the time for [ R L
thank the gods at the time for the gift of water, so the crops
the gift of water, so the crops would grow, and hence you get
would grow, and hence you get 1l
would grow, and hence you get all this
would grow, and hence you get Y R TR 101
would grow, and hence you get all this beautiful greenery
all this beautiful greenery around on the
all this beautiful greenery IO RO U
all this beautiful greenery IO RO R U -l
all this beautiful greenery around on the wells. And this
around on the wells. And this T
around on the wells. And this is the main village well. All
Is the main village well. Al the designs are
Is the main village well. All the designs are drawn onto clay
the designs are drawn onto clay boards and their natural
boards and their natural materials are used to complete
materials are used to complete the pictures. All the designs
the pictures. All the designs 81
the pictures. All the designs W IERCT g
the pictures. All the designs this year have a
the pictures. Al the designs this year have a Coronation
this year have a Coronation el =y
this year have a Coronation theme. Each
this year have a Coronation T - I a0 AT
this year have a Coronation theme. Each involves hours of
theme. Each involves hours of painstaking work by volunteers.
painstaking work by volunteers. They are fabulous, aren’t they?
They are fabulous, aren’t they? They are
They are fabulous, aren’t they? IS LR ) g g L)
They are fabulous, aren’t they? They are appropriate because of
They are appropriate because of the
They are appropriate because of e e s ialo)s]
They are appropriate because of the Coronation next
They are appropriate because of RO NE R D (R e
They are appropriate because of RO E IR D (R e
the Coronation next week. The |l
the Coronation next week. The well dressings will be on
well dressings will be on G [1301EYY
well dressings will be on display here
LG TS [ R TNy display here until
well dressings will be on display here until Saturday. It
display here until Saturaay. It T
display here until Saturaay. It is a chance to bring
display here until Saturday. It is a chance to bring the
Is a chance to bring the community together and to
community together and to admire
community together and to T
community together and to admire these unique pieces of
adamire these unique pieces of local art.
Ao 11
You are watching BBC News.
The US Federal Reserve on Wednesday raised interest
rates to their highest IR R
The Fed lifted its benchmark interest—rate
by a quarter of one percentage point, pushing its overnight
interest rate range to five to 5.25%.
During the press conference, Chairman Jerome Powell
signalled that they might be ready
to take a pause on rate hikes.
The committee will take into account the cumulative
account the cumulative W] Nl o]
account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy,
tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary
the lags with which monetary policy affects economic
policy affects economic activity and inflation and
activity and inflation and Yoo ol an] [
activity and inflation and economic and financial
economic and financial developments. We will make that
developments. We will make that determination meeting by
determination meeting by meeting.
Earlier, | spoke to Jason Furman.
He’s the Former Chairman of the White House Council
of Ecnomic Advisors.
Jason, thanks for joining us. N
Jason, thanks for joining us. IR
Jason, thanks for joining us. I RO N )
Jason, thanks for joining us. Are these rate hikes actually
Are these rate hikes actually working to stabilise the
working to stabilise the economy? |
working to stabilise the L A ) S
working to stabilise the economy? | hope so, | think
working to stabilise the G VAR O CREOR R GIL ST
economy? | hope so, | think so, but we
economy? | hope so, | think so, I R e e
economy? | hope so, | think so, IR e o)
economy? | hope so, | think so, but we can’t be sure, because
but we can’t be sure, because we
but we can’t be sure, because Wl s
but we can’t be sure, because we don’t know what the
we don’t know what the - latzImsi
we don’t know what the s lasi 1B
we don’t know what the counterfactual is. The good
counterfactual is. The good news
counterfactual is. The good el
counterfactual is. The good news is inflation expectations
news Is inflation expectations remain
news Is Inflation expectations remain anchored. Inflation
remain anchored. Inflation isn’t
remain anchored. Inflation IR SR
remain anchored. Inflation RS Ll AL
remain anchored. Inflation isn’t rising, and that’s
Isn’t rising, and that’s probably a lot better than what
probably a lot better than what would have happened if the Fed
would have happened If the Fed hadn’t taken these aggressive
hadn’t taken these aggressive (-] L
hadn’t taken these aggressive steps. The bad news is that
steps. The bad news Is that inflation, underlying inflation
inflation, underlying inflation s
inflation, underlying inflation at least
inflation, underlying inflation AR ISR e
inflation, underlying inflation at least when you subtract out
at least when you subtract out food and energy, isn’t really
food and energy, isn’t really falling, so we haven’t seen
falling, so we haven’t seen 18"}
falling, so we haven’t seen very much of any progress in
very much of any progress In 1Tl WL
very much of any progress In underlying inflation yet.
underlying inflation yet. That’s what Jerome Powell said,
That’s what Jerome Powell said, that
That’s what Jerome Powell said, s e A a0
That’s what Jerome Powell said, that inflation is still too
that inflation is still too GIls
that inflation is still too e[ PRI
that inflation is still too WIS
that inflation is still too high. This is the 10th hike in
high. This is the 10th hike In (n
high. This is the 10th hike In 14 months and
high. This i1s the 10th hike iIn 14 months and the Fed did
high. This is the 10th hike In 14 months and the Fed did to
14 months and the Fed did to signal that it might cause
signal that it might cause MR- - Lo 01 0]
signal that it might cause increases. Would that be the
Increases. Would that be the right step? |
Increases. Would that be the Ao IS Y Y G V)
Increases. Would that be the right step? | have no idea, )
right step? | have no idea, J sy
right step? | have no idea, J Powell has no
right step? | have no idea, | Powell has no idea, and the
Powell has no idea, and the reason
Powell has no idea, and the YR
Powell has no idea, and the T I BRI Y
Powell has no idea, and the YO NE R OGRS
Powell has no idea, and the T EI MR O R R
Powell has no idea, and the IO NE LRI IR R )
Powell has no idea, and the T EINMEB RO IR RO R
reason Is that we need to see what’s going to happen in the
what’s going to happen in the economy. You know, a year ago,
economy. You know, a year ago, T3
economy. You know, a year ago, it was clear that interest
it was clear that interest 100
It was clear that interest A e e
It was clear that interest rates needed to
It was clear that interest IR RO N o
It was clear that interest IR RN -
It was clear that interest rates needed to be a lot
rates needed to be a lot higher, and so they were on a
higher, and so they were on a path to
higher, and so they were on a WEIORON[)
higher, and so they were on a WEIORON T
higher, and so they were on a path to go up, no matter what
path to go up, no matter what the
path to go up, no matter what R L
path to go up, no matter what the dataset, they will still be
the dataset, they will still be e
the dataset, they will still be RIS
the dataset, they will still be on that upward path. Right now,
on that upward path. Right now, we
on that upward path. Right now, Wl s
on that upward path. Right now, we don’t know
on that upward path. Right now, TNl sl a0y Loy
on that upward path. Right now, we don’t know how tight credit
we don’t know how tight credit will
we don’t know how tight credit Y
we don’t know how tight credit will be as a result of the
will be as a result of the banking situation, we don’t
banking situation, we don’t aTe L
banking situation, we don’t T AR
banking situation, we don’t know the trajectory for
know the trajectory for unemployment, we don’t know
unemployment, we don’t know what’s good happen to
what’s good happen to inflation, and so the Fed is
inflation, and so the Fed is I O] T
inflation, and so the Fed is appropriately | think
inflation, and so the Fed Is IO EIC A R OISV LT
inflation, and so the Fed Is appropriately | think saying we
appropriately | think saying we are
appropriately | think saying we 1R o]
appropriately | think saying we IR R
appropriately | think saying we are going to collect more
are going to collect more TSI R
are going to collect more information, make that decision
iInformation, make that decision and we’re
iInformation, make that decision TR NN [0
information, make that decision and we’re done with telling you
and we’re done with telling you in advance what we are going to
In advance what we are going to [
In advance what we are going to do, because we ourselves don’t
do, because we ourselves don’t R0y
do, because we ourselves don’t know in
do, because we ourselves don’t 0 ARl
do, because we ourselves don’t know in advance will be going
know in advance will be going (0]
know in advance will be going to do. What are
know In advance will be going to do. What are the economic
to do. What are the economic indicators you are looking at
indicators you are looking at (0]
indicators you are looking at ol e 4
indicators you are looking at A AL
Indicators you are looking at to know what should be
Iindicators you are looking at to know what should be done?
to know what should be done? Obviously, the most important
Obviously, the most important T
Obviously, the most important is inflation. That is
Is inflation. That Is ultimately
Is Inflation. That Is ultimately what
Is Inflation. That is ultimately what they
IS Inflation. That Is ultimately what they are
s inflation. That is ultimately what they are trying
ultimately what they are trying (0]
ultimately what they are trying to bring
ultimately what they are trying R [T B
ultimately what they are trying to bring down. The problem is
to bring down. The problem is that
to bring down. The problem is s e A a0
to bring down. The problem is that inflation is probably one
that inflation Is probably one i
that inflation Is probably one AR AT
that inflation Is probably one AR e e o
that inflation 1s probably one of the most lagged indicators
of the most lagged indicators that
of the most lagged indicators IR )
of the most lagged indicators that there is. A lot of the
that there i1s. A lot of the T dE ulo]n
that there i1s. A lot of the inflation |
that there is. A lot of the inflation | believe it is
inflation | believe it Is emanating
ot LT TN emanating from the
it L TN emanating from the very tight
emanating from the very tight labour market, so looking at
labour market, so looking at the
labour market, so looking at e e8]
labour market, so looking at the broad suite of things, you
the broad suite of things, you Y11
the broad suite of things, you assess the tightness of the
assess the tightness of the labour market, most importantly
labour market, most importantly the underpayment rate, but also
the underpayment rate, but also how many workers are quitting
how many workers are quitting a8
how many workers are quitting their jobs, how many job
their jobs, how many job NIl
their jobs, how many job openings, and then finally just
openings, and then finally just S0y
openings, and then finally just (AT0y A enl i s
openings, and then finally just ATy A sl (o a IR o] a4
openings, and then finally just how much work is the banking
how much work is the banking tlgns il
how much work is the banking turmoil doing for the
how much work Is the banking turmoil doing for the Fed? How
turmoil doing for the Fed? How much of
turmoil doing for the Fed? How el (o I AR )
turmoil doing for the Fed? How much of the Fed’s job is it
much of the Fed’s job is it WILTR
much of the Fed’s job is it doing, how much is
much of the Fed’s job Is it doing, how much is credit
doing, how much Is credit actually
doing, how much is credit actually contracting? So there
actually contracting? So there has been of course some
has been of course some o u LN (o0
has been of course some uu iAo I
has been of course some criticism of the
has been of course some NS R R )
has been of course some criticism of the Fed raising
criticism of the Fed raising 1121
criticism of the Fed raising rates again,
criticism of the Fed raising EICIIEL EI =TT
criticism of the Fed raising rates again, and | want to tell
rates again, and | want to tell 1]
rates again, and | want to tell you what Elizabeth Warren
you what Elizabeth Warren A
you what Elizabeth Warren tweeted earlier today.
What do you think of some Democrats calling for a stop to
Democrats calling for a stop to these rate hikes?
Democrats calling for a stop to NN G YA TS
Democrats calling for a stop to MBI YA IR
Democrats calling for a stop to these rate hikes? First of all,
these rate hikes? First of all, |
these rate hikes? First of all, 1 would
these rate hikes? First of all, (R GEY Y
these rate hikes? First of all, | would say by the
R G IR LY S - | would say by the way,
these rate hikes? First of all, | would say by the way, most
| would say by the way, most economists who are coming from
economists who are coming from )
economists who are coming from e ase o g 1A [
economists who are coming from the Democratic side actually
the Democratic side actually sl e
the Democratic side actually sl @IS
the Democratic side actually think that inflation is a
think that inflation i1s a IR
Wl g E Lo problem, and
think that inflation is a problem, and have
think that inflation Is a problem, and have broadly
think that inflation is a problem, and have broadly been
problem, and have broadly been supportive of the
problem, and have broadly been S LR R U R LG
problem, and have broadly been supportive of the rate hikes. A
supportive of the rate hikes. A number of the different doves
number of the different doves in the economic debates have
In the economic debates have been
In the economic debates have R
In the economic debates have been less dovish, and | think
been less dovish, and | think T
been less dovish, and | think it’s for good reason, because
it’s for good reason, because 3%
it’s for good reason, because they understand that doing more
they understand that doing more Ao
they understand that doing more now can be
they understand that doing more RT0y Ao s o - ealllets
they understand that doing more now can be much less costly
now can be much less costly than letting the problem grow,
than letting the problem grow, letting inflation get
letting inflation get UG R
letting inflation get entrenched, and then it is much
entrenched, and then it 1s much harder to deal
entrenched, and then it i1s much harder to deal with in the
harder to deal with in the AR =1 e
harder to deal with in the future, and so |
harder to deal with In the future, and so | think
harder to deal with in the future, and so | think doing
future, and so | think doing too little today is what would
too little today i1s what would risk millions
too little today is what would risk millions and millions of
risk millions and millions of jobs. That’s what the Fed is
jobs. That’s what the Fed is trying to control and
Jobs. That’s what the Fed Is trying to control and |
jobs. That’s what the Fed Is trying to control and | think
trying to control and | think 3%
trying to control and | think ORI
trying to control and | think they are doing a good job of
they are doing a good job of 1
ST AT
But again, these rate hikes BV
But again, these rate hikes have an
But again, these rate hikes BV N s
But again, these rate hikes VN NES s
But again, these rate hikes have an effect on households
have an effect on households and businesses? Absolutely, and
and businesses? Absolutely, and |
and businesses? Absolutely, and (R
and businesses? Absolutely, and | wish there
and businesses? Absolutely, and B ORGSR &
and businesses? Absolutely, and | wish there was another
and businesses? Absolutely, and RV R GECRE L G E R E )
and businesses? Absolutely, and | wish there was another way to
| wish there was another way to ey}
| wish there was another way to bring inflation down but there
bring inflation down but there isn’t. Again, if we go a little
Isn’t. Again, if we go a little AT0 R
Isn’t. Again, if we go a little more slowly and
Isn’t. Again, If we go a little more slowly and take your time,
more slowly and take your time, inflation will rise and it will
inflation will rise and 1t will be
inflation will rise and 1t will )
Inflation will rise and it will be even harder and more
inflation will rise and it will be even harder and more costly
be even harder and more costly (0]
be even harder and more costly (ol o[-
be even harder and more costly e |
be even harder and more costly to get it down. Why do you want
to get it down. Why do you want (00
to get it down. Why do you want to get
to get it down. Why do you want A
to get it down. Why do you want to get it down? It benefits the
to get it down? It benefits the American economy. Low and
American economy. Low and stable inflation
American economy. Low and S NI dE A 1 Rie s
American economy. Low and stable inflation for decades
stable inflation for decades 1
stable inflation for decades was good for workers and
was good for workers and I S e
was good for workers and businesses and it led the
was good for workers and AN ST A RN T
businesses and it led the Fed act really aggressively to
act really aggressively to combat
act really aggressively to o0 010 )
act really aggressively to RN
act really aggressively to combat the last couple of
combat the last couple of recessions. We like to get that
recessions. We like to get that e
recessions. We like to get that back, paying the price now for
back, paying the price now for 1
back, paying the price now for it is a
back, paying the price now for TR
back, paying the price now for it is a small price than
back, paying the price now for IR U N (R G EL R G
it i1s a small price than the )
it i1s a small price than the price we would
it 1s a small price than the price we would have to pay if
price we would have to pay If we
price we would have to pay If YN |
price we would have to pay If N s
price we would have to pay If we did it later on. You
we did it later on. You R8T e in o al=Tel
we did it later on. You mentioned the current banking
mentioned the current banking situation, raising rates while
situation, raising rates while we
situation, raising rates while Y1
situation, raising rates while we seen three major banks that
we seen three major banks that have failed.
we seen three major banks that REVCR |
we seen three major banks that have failed. | think these
have failed. | think these LG
have failed. | think these banks were
have failed. | think these RN
have failed. | think these banks were real outliers in
banks were real outliers In terms
banks were real outliers In g
banks were real outliers In terms of their
banks were real outliers In N R R T L)
banks were real outliers Iin terms of their poor management
terms of their poor management and
terms of their poor management a4
terms of their poor management and risk profile. They were the
and risk profile. They were the ones
and risk profile. They were the I R IETe
and risk profile. They were the ones that right after Silicon
ones that right after Silicon Valley Bank had a goblin and
Valley Bank had a goblin and knew about the problems are
knew about the problems are First Republic and Signature so
First Republic and Signature so | think this is the end of this
| think this i1s the end of this IES)
| think this i1s the end of this phase of the
| think this Is the end of this phase of the banking crisis.
phase of the banking crisis. No—one knows for
phase of the banking crisis. Nl e L A
phase of the banking crisis. No—one knows for sure but here
No—one knows for sure but here 3
No—one knows for sure but here is the thing, the Fed has more
Is the thing, the Fed has more than one tool it can
Is the thing, the Fed has more than one tool, it can change
than one tool, it can change TR e
than one tool, it can change TR S
than one tool, it can change interest rates but it also has
IR G IR T A L g Y
IR G IR T A L g -1
IR G IR T A L g a set of
Interest rates but it also has R Rl CL T o]
Interest rates but it also has a set of lending facilities,
a set of lending facilities, the FDIC has programmes, and
the FDIC has programmes, and L
the FDIC has programmes, and E IR a1
the FDIC has programmes, and H EIRVL a4 (53
the FDIC has programmes, and that’s what they are and should
that’s what they are and should o 0 a0
that’s what they are and should o 11T )
that’s what they are and should RO NI )
that’s what they are and should continue to use to contain any
continue to use to contain any further
continue to use to contain any Alan
continue to use to contain any further issues in the banking
T S TR R G R LA T system, while
further issues Iin the banking system, while keeping their
system, while keeping their policy
system, while keeping their (TR (YT
system, while keeping their policy focus on an objective
policy focus on an objective which is
policy focus on an objective I R T ()
policy focus on an objective which is price stability. The
which Is price stability. The aim is to avoid
which Is price stability. The R N [ I
which Is price stability. The aim is to avoid a recession.
aim Is to avoid a recession. Wwill
aim Is to avoid a recession. wWill we?
aim Is to avoid a recession. YHIRTYA
aim Is to avoid a recession. Will we? | certainly hope so. |
Will we? | certainly hope so. | sl e
Will we? | certainly hope so. | el &)
Will we? | certainly hope so. | think the odds of a recession
think the odds of a recession s
think the odds of a recession N R )
think the odds of a recession over the next
think the odds of a recession W RGBT
think the odds of a recession over the next year are 50-50
over the next year are 50-50 but they
over the next year are 50-50 T GG
over the next year are 50-50 but they are much higher than
but they are much higher than 3%
but they are much higher than they would
but they are much higher than AT GGG Y
but they are much higher than they would normally be. Great
they would normally be. Great (0]
they would normally be. Great to have you on the show, thank
to have you on the show, thank 1]
to have you on the show, thank you very much.
Eight children and a security guard have been killed
In a school shooting in the Serbian capital
Belgrade.
Tonight, tributes have been laid for the victims
of the shooting.
In a televised address to the country, President
Aleksandar Vucic described the attack as "the most
difficult day in the modern SO RO g TAl
Three days of national mourning have been declared.
Police arrested a 13—year—old boy and said he’d
been planning the attack e R R ss
of the children he wanted to kill
Bethany Bell reports.
A 13—year—old boy Is led away by police.
He’s the main suspect in a mass shooting at one of the best
state schools in Belgrade.
He came to school with two guns.
He fired at the security guard and three girls
standing in the hallway.
TRANSLATION: | was walking up the stairs and while | was
walking up | could hear a sound,
L IR LTy it was maybe boys,
some kids throwing firecrackers and that they were having fun.
But then | could hear IR
and the sound was coming from in front of the school
And then | saw the security guard
falling to the groung, so | quickly ran from where
| was.
| didn’t want to go upstairs any more.
| didn’t know who was up there.
He then walked into a history class
where he shot the teacher before turning his weapon
Police say the shooter planned the attack a month in advance
and had drawn up a list of children to target.
The 13—year—old has been put in a specialist
psychiatric facility.
He Is alleged to have used two guns
belonging to his father.
Both his parents have since been arrested.
All day, people have come to pay their respects
OB - R R A
There Is a deep sense of shock and sadness here.
This Is normally a lively part of town, but the people
who live here say It’s never felt so quiet.
They are struggling to understand
how a day at school turned into a nightmare.
With candles and flowers, this city is mourning its dead.
Bethany Bell, BBC News, Belgrade.
o e
Police and the US State of LY E]
Police and the US State of CTXIGIERT )]
Police and the US State of Georgia say they’ve arrested a
Georgla say they’ve arrested a 1] oYt
Georgla say they’ve arrested a suspect in
Georgia say they’ve arrested a suspect in connection with
suspect in connection with shooting at a medical facility
shooting at a medical facility in Atlanta on Wednesday.
In Atlanta on Wednesaday. 24—year—old
in Atlanta on Wednesaday. 24—year—old Dion
in Atlanta on Wednesday. 24—year—old Dion Patterson is
24—year—old Dion Patterson is in
24—year—old Dion Patterson is [ AT ()Y
24—year—old Dion Patterson is [ RS A
24—year—old Dion Patterson is in custody after five women
In custody after five women were shot in the hospital
were shot In the hospital waiting room. One of the
waiting room. One of the Vi Tunls8ls
waiting room. One of the victims have died. Lisa
victims have died. Lisa YR - o IRl
victims have died. Lisa arrested the wife and friend of
arrested the wife and friend of Y
arrested the wife and friend of a suspect accused of killing
a suspect accused of killing five
a suspect accused of killing AN
a suspect accused of killing five of his neighbours in
five of his neighbours iIn Quigley
five of his neighbours iIn &]TTT | YA LT R
five of his neighbours In Quigley blend, Texas. ——
Quigley blend, Texas. —- Cleveland,
Quigley blend, Texas. —— Cleveland, Texas. She was
Cleveland, Texas. She was already facing charges for
already facing charges for hindering prosecution of a
hindering prosecution of a TR
hindering prosecution of a TG -\
hindering prosecution of a T - asl= e e
hindering prosecution of a felon. A friend will
hindering prosecution of a T A Wil T
hindering prosecution of a felon. A friend will be charged
felon. A friend will be charged e
felon. A friend will be charged with helping the suspect leave
with helping the suspect leave the neighbourhood where the
the neighbourhood where the ol
the neighbourhood where the s ne o) 4
the neighbourhood where the crime took place. An Brazilian
crime took place. An Brazilian T ()
crime took place. An Brazilian police raided the home of
police raided the home of o e s
police raided the home of L S L ()
police raided the home of former president —— president
former president —— president Jair Bolsonaro as part of an
Jair Bolsonaro as part of an investigation into his Covid—19
Investigation into his Covid—19 records. Police allege that his
records. Police allege that his vaccination status was forged
vaccination status was forged SO
vaccination status was forged so he could enter the US.
so he could enter the US. Phones have been seijzed
so he could enter the US. Phones have been seized among
Phones have been seized among s
Phones have been seized among OGS
Phones have been seized among other things. He says he has
other things. He says he has nothing
other things. He says he has O RG
other things. He says he has nothing to hide.
People in the UK are beginning their preparations
for the Coronation of King Charles, which will take
place next Saturday.
In the run—up to the ceremony, the BBC’s Special US
Correspondent Katty Kay has WO CEHLG RGO
families of other nations to see what lessons they might
have for Britain’s new King, SN R R S S
documentary Europe’ss Royals Revealed.
| spoke to her ahead SRR
It’s great to see you. For your
IT’s great to see you. For your N
IT’s great to see you. For your new documentary you
It’s great to see you. For your new documentary you had the
new documentary you had the enviable job of going to
enviable job of going to - o
enviable job of going to meet. .. Someone
enviable job of going to meet... Someone had to do it.
meet... Someone had to do It. Going to meet Europe’s
meet... Someone had to do it. Going to meet Europe’s other
Going to meet Europe’s other Royal families and seeing how
Royal families and seeing how 3%
Royal families and seeing how AN
Royal families and seeing how they live including Norway, you
they live including Norway, you S Ts)
they live including Norway, you had an exclusive interview. She
had an exclusive interview. She 3
had an exclusive interview. She T
had an exclusive interview. She is a fascinating and quite
Is a fascinating and quite controversial
Is a fascinating and quite o N eI 0 0ol
Is a fascinating and quite controversial woman. She is the
controversial woman. She Is the G
controversial woman. She Is the oldest child of
controversial woman. She is the oldest child of King Harald and
oldest child of King Harald and she should have been cleaned by
she should have been cleaned by rights
she should have been cleaned by L ET
she should have been cleaned by rights but Norway’s succession
rights but Norway’s succession laws won’t change until she was
laws won’t change until she was Y
laws won’t change until she was a teenager so younger brother
a teenager so younger brother will
a teenager so younger brother IR gt
a teenager so younger brother will inherit the
a teenager so younger brother IR et e lne -]
a teenager so younger brother will inherit the throne. She
will inherit the throne. She 1
will inherit the throne. She T
will inherit the throne. She was is what they call in Royal
was Is what they call in Royal language a spare which is how
language a spare which Is how Prince Harry refers to himself
Prince Harry refers to himself and string
Prince Harry refers to himself LGS T
Prince Harry refers to himself SRS LG RO
and string of other controversial businesses, a
controversial businesses, a oo i
controversial businesses, a o0 R e
controversial businesses, a o R
controversial businesses, a school where she taught people
school where she taught people (0]
school where she taught people to talk
school where she taught people DR &)
school where she taught people to talk to angels and she
to talk to angels and she A gl 1S
to talk to angels and she describes herself as a
describes herself as a clairvoyant. A boyfriend who is
clairvoyant. A boyfriend who Is Y
clairvoyant. A boyfriend who Is a spiritual guru, a shame and
a spiritual guru, a shame and in all this has been pretty
In all this has been pretty o a1n e a3
in all this has been pretty o a0 eI
in all this has been pretty controversial in the
In all this has been pretty controversial in the Norwegian
controversial in the Norwegian press. It’s not the
controversial in the Norwegian I I R R [
controversial in the Norwegian press. It’s not the kind of
press. It’s not the kind of GG
press. It’s not the kind of things royals are expect to do.
things royals are expect to do. | was interested to
things royals are expect to do. BT SRR 17
things royals are expect to do. | was interested to talk to
things royals are expect to do. B LR N RO R @O N -
| was Interested to talk to her (0]
| was Interested to talk to her to find out how
| was interested to talk to her to find out how the Norwegian
to find out how the Norwegian Royal
to find out how the Norwegian CEIRElnllG
to find out how the Norwegian Royal family has handled her
Royal family has handled her doing things kind of
doing things kind of differently. There have been
differently. There have been comparisons with Prince Harry
comparisons with Prince Harry and Meghan. My fiance and the
and Meghan. My fiance and the Norwegian people and everybody
Norwegian people and everybody B
Norwegian people and everybody has decided that
Norwegian people and everybody ELE e - R L s
Norwegian people and everybody EL e B O i
Norwegian people and everybody ELR e RO T s
Norwegian people and everybody has decided that it is best for
has decided that it 1s best for me
has decided that it 1s best for )
has decided that it 1s best for me to step down
has decided that it i1s best for me to step down because of
has decided that it I1s best for me to step down because of his
me to step down because of his VT oo 014
me to step down because of his L DN G I
me to step down because of his views about things. But what |
views about things. But what | sl e
views about things. But what | think has been amazing through
think has been amazing through 81
think has been amazing through this whole cycle has been the
this whole cycle has been the conversations
this whole cycle has been the 0N I e i e
this whole cycle has been the e LR e
this whole cycle has been the conversations with all had
conversations with all had through it
conversations with all had [T I A1
conversations with all had through it all, from a very
through it all, from a very |
through it all, from a very LG
through it all, from a very UL
through it all, from a very young age | remember my mum and
young age | remember my mum and dad, the king and queen saying
dad, the king and queen saying that we have to stick together,
that we have to stick together, we have to talk things through,
we have to talk things through, V70
we have to talk things through, even if it’s
we have to talk things through, AV BN h
we have to talk things through, A R IR I R
we have to talk things through, even if it’s hard. We have to
even If it’s hard. We have to put all
even If it’s hard. We have to 1T =1 R 1)
even If it’s hard. We have to ] T S
even If it’s hard. We have to put all the cards on the table
put all the cards on the table e T
put all the cards on the table R
put all the cards on the table R
put all the cards on the table because we are family and we
because we are family and we BV
because we are family and we have to work things through,
have to work things through, through
have to work things through, W [T T
have to work things through, through all the turmoil,
through all the turmoil, because
through all the turmoil, O - o e
through all the turmoil, because there has been so
through all the turmoll, because there has been so many
because there has been so many turmoils. Taking
because there has been so many W W R ET G I
because there has been so many turmoils. Taking a different
turmoils. Taking a different E1}
turmoils. Taking a different path than being a traditional
path than being a traditional -]
path than being a traditional role. This will run ahead of
role. This will run ahead of the coronation
role. This will run ahead of Ao ae ar- n [0 a0 A
role. This will run ahead of the coronation of King Charles.
the coronation of King Charles. i
the coronation of King Charles. If you are suddenly to send him
If you are suddenly to send him [
If you are suddenly to send him I i) s
If you are suddenly to send him wishes for his reign and
wishes for his reign and everybody
wishes for his reign and LA
wishes for his reign and everybody of course is looking
everybody of course is looking from
everybody of course is looking A0 IR
everybody of course is looking from the Queen,
everybody of course is looking NIRRT AR o)
everybody of course is looking NIRRT U O R
everybody of course is looking from the Queen, who is so
from the Queen, who Is so well=known
from the Queen, who Is so Iy a1l
from the Queen, who Is so well—known and loved.
from the Queen, who Is so well—=known and loved. |
well-known and loved. | (T30l 001002) 8
well-known and loved. | remember my
well—known and loved. | remember my game grandfather,
remember my game grandfather, King of
remember my game grandfather, COLEI RGN
remember my game grandfather, King of life, he was such a
King of life, he was such a -
King of life, he was such a LR R
King of life, he was such a loved king. —— King
King of lfe, he was such a loved king. —— King Olaf.
King of lUfe, he was such a loved king. —— King Olaf. My
loved king. —— King Olaf. My father.
loved king. —— King Olaf. My GO Al o}
loved king. —— King Olaf. My father. Going into that role up
father. Going into that role up to
father. Going into that role up o laline
father. Going into that role up to him because how could he
to him because how could he fill those shawls? And | think
fill those shawls? And | think that’s the point, you don’t
that’s the point, you don’t fill his
that’s the point, you don’t TR
that’s the point, you don’t fill his shoes. King Charles
fill his shoes. King Charles il
fill his shoes. King Charles I
fill his shoes. King Charles will be different
fill his shoes. King Charles I - i e e Ao nn
fill his shoes. King Charles will be different from Queen
will be different from Queen Elizabeth? Absolutely, you
Elizabeth? Absolutely, you IR
Elizabeth? Absolutely, you can’t copy somebody else. |
can’t copy somebody else. | =X\
can’t copy somebody else. | =5 LG T
can’t copy somebody else. | really did notice that when she
really did notice that when she T
really did notice that when she talked about taking a different
talked about taking a different E1}
talked about taking a different path and being a different
path and being a different I
path and being a different Royal, it reminds me of Harry
Royal, it reminds me of Harry and Meghan. Can you remind me
and Meghan. Can you remind me about
and Meghan. Can you remind me oo 010 4
and Meghan. Can you remind me about how her family
about how her family has TETals 1|
about how her family has handled all of this publicly?
handled all of this publicly? i
handled all of this publicly? e ng s
handled all of this publicly? She describes herself as
She describes herself as somebody
She describes herself as WA S
She describes herself as somebody has done things out of
somebody has done things out of )
somebody has done things out of i 00
somebody has done things out of oo & e
somebody has done things out of N & B
somebody has done things out of the box and in a way, Prince
the box and in a way, Prince Harry does as well.
the box and In a way, Prince Harry does as well. Some of
the box and in a way, Prince Harry does as well. Some of the
Harry does as well. Some of the GG
Harry does as well. Some of the R IR
Harry does as well. Some of the O R CER I
Harry does as well. Some of the things she’s done have caused
things she’s done have caused controversy in Norway because
controversy in Norway because there have been suggestions of
there have been suggestions of o 011w
there have been suggestions of o 01d [{uleld
there have been suggestions of o AT e n
there have been suggestions of conflict of interest. Was she
conflict of interest. Was she using her royal title to make
using her royal title to make NN
using her royal title to make money from her businesses in
money from her businesses In the Norwegians didn’t like
the Norwegians didn’t like 1
the Norwegians didn’t like i
the Norwegians didn’t like that. The big difference is
that. The big difference is that
that. The big difference is IR As
that. The big difference is that it hasn’t
that. The big difference Is that it hasn’t caused a rift in
that it hasn’t caused a rift In the family. They sat
that it hasn’t caused a rift in the family. They sat down
that it hasn’t caused a rift In the family. They sat down and
the family. They sat down and G
the family. They sat down and spoke about it and | wanted to
spoke about It and | wanted to 12T 4
spoke about It and | wanted to check out
spoke about It and | wanted to oz o e
spoke about It and | wanted to check out her story, |
spoke about it and | wanted to check out her story, | didn’t
check out her story, | didn’t want
check out her story, | didn’t i lc) s
check out her story, | didn’t T e Tz R v
check out her story, | didn’t want her to think it was just
want her to think it was just me
want her to think it was just (RG]
want her to think it was just me telling of
want her to think it was just RGO RG[
want her to think it was just me telling of this and
want her to think it was just NERCIL LR G
want her to think it was just me telling of this and | spoke
me telling of this and | spoke (0]
me telling of this and | spoke R
me telling of this and | spoke RGN
me telling of this and | spoke to the royal correspondent for
to the royal correspondent for a
to the royal correspondent for SR
to the royal correspondent for a big tabloid magazine in
a big tabloid magazine In Norway has been ready critical
Norway has been ready critical i
Norway has been ready critical A0 00 ]
Norway has been ready critical S e
Norway has been ready critical R I R
Norway has been ready critical of some of the things Martha
of some of the things Martha (1)
of some of the things Martha Louise is done but said exactly
Louise Is done but said exactly the
Louise Is done but said exactly )
Louise Is done but said exactly RN CRIR
Louise Is done but said exactly O R ERUR Elull
Louise Is done but said exactly the same in, family loves each
the same In, family loves each other and
the same In, family loves each R G Y
the same In, family loves each other and they come
the same in, family loves each other and they come out of this
other and they come out of this much stronger, had these
much stronger, had these conversations and been honest
conversations and been honest with each other and there
conversations and been honest IR R R N
conversations and been honest ORI SRR N
with each other and there is a clear affection between all of
clear affection between all of the
clear affection between all of eIz eslo ) ny
clear affection between all of Az ol i A
clear affection between all of the members of the family so
the members of the family so V70
the members of the family so S RGII]
the members of the family so even though Martha Louise has
even though Martha Louise has been
even though Martha Louise has - e as
even though Martha Louise has been sort of, in a way, the
been sort of, in a way, the troublesome Royal child who
troublesome Royal child who hasn’t fit into the box, done
hasn’t fit into the box, done GG
hasn’t fit into the box, done things differently, the family
things differently, the family has
things differently, the family TN aTe s
things differently, the family has not been torn apart by it.
has not been torn apart by Iit. | guess that’s the big
| guess that’s the big At e
| guess that’s the big AR e )
| guess that’s the big difference between the house of
difference between the house of YT [0 8
difference between the house of wWindsor and the
difference between the house of Windsor and the royal house of
Windsor and the royal house of Norway. And when the house of
Norway. And when the house of Norway says we love each other,
Norway says we love each other, and
Norway says we love each other, ETa o R )
Norway says we love each other, and the Norwegian population
and the Norwegian population believes them.
Katty’s Documentary Europe’s Royals Revealed
Is available on BBC Select here in the US and Canada,
which is distributed on Amazon Prime Video,
Apple TV, and the Roku Channel.
VTR G RV L =1y OGO T E YT
Stay with us here on BBC News.
Many of us had some beautiful late spring
sunshine on Wednesday.
In fact, in Bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours
of sunshine, a glorious day.
But top temperature, well, that was in South Wales,
In Gwynedd, just shy of 20 Celsius, and it felt
very pleasant indeed.
Now it’s not out of the question that we could see
20 Celsius on Thursday, but the weather story
Is certainly on the change with low pressure starting
to move In from the southwest.
So as we go through the day on Thursday, it’s a tale
of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off
the North Sea, affecting eastern England and northeast
We’ve got rain pushing into the southwest —
and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best
of the sunshine Is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll
see the best of the warmth.
The breeze still coming from an east direction,
so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight
edge to things.
A little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough
with highs of 19-20 Celsius perhaps in the southeast.
Now, as we move out of Thursday into Friday, that weather front
will continue to push its way steadily north.
It’WL bring outbreaks of rain as it does so,
and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
So on Friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving
T gy 1 England, into Scotland.
Sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
Now, as we move Into the start of the weekend, that
southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north
But unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
TR TS LI )R GO EO LI E R TR -
that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily
north as we go through the day.
So not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look
likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain
across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
And the wider picture throughout the Bank.
Holiday weekend — Saturday will be the wettest
of the days, Sunday and Monday, sunny spells and scattered
showers.
Some of them on Monday could be quite heavy.
Take care.
The Federal Reserve hikes rates to their highest level in 16
We look at the impact on the US economy, and beyond.
Plus, from Pakistan to Ethiopia, how the
cost—of—Lliving crisis Is taking a toll on the elderly around
Hello, and welcome to Asia Business Report.
I’m Monica Miller.
We begin with the Federal Reserve’s decision to
raise interest rates for the 10th consecutive time
In just over one year.
America’s central bank [ (oL G
interest rate by a quarter percentage point and that is
a move that was expected.
The cost of borrowing is now at its
highest In 16 years, but is the Fed finally done
-] s
The BBC’s Samir Hussein reports from New York.
Inflation remain steadily high.
To try and get the cost of living back down to more
normal levels the Federal Reserve,
America’s central bank, has raised interest rates ten
times in a little over a year, and
now it seems it may be ready to perhaps take a pause.
The committee will take into account the cumulative
tightening of monetary policy, the legs with which it lacks
inflation and economic and financial developments.
We will make that determination meeting by meeting.
The rate rises have slowed economic growth
In the United States by making it more
expensive to borrow money and inflation is starting
to come down, but they have been some
unexpected knock—on IR
They played a part in the banking crisis,
where three banks collapsed in less than two months.
So far, the Fed has been successful in slowing
the economy and prices without plunging the country
into recession.
But the trickiest moment may have
arrived.
At some point, policymakers have to decide if
they have done enough to keep inflation falling,
while leaving the economy with enough
monetary space to keep expanding.
They didn’t think VAR G IR LR G [
meeting, but it seems likely that they will be there soon.
You have heard some error talking about the knock—on
effect of the Fed’s aggressive tightening, particularly
in the banking sector, while shares of
regional banks have again come under pressure after this
latest rate hike.
Patois stocks Iin particular is down 50% in trading
and reports that the bank is exploring options,
iIncluding a sale.
Earlier | spoke to Chief US economist,
and she told me now might be a good time for the Fed
to pause and consider oL (] 1R
| think today Chair Powell
indicated this may be the last hike in this
tightening cycle but still left the door open to some monetary
policy flexibility going forward and that speaks
to the fact that inflation remains
elevated.
Now, one way to deal with this high and sticky
inflation may be to stay N R S R s
they are now, but for longer than we are
used to during tightening cycles.
Another one may be that if inflation remains strong
and accelerates in the coming months, they could be another
one or two hikes coming down the line, but | think
the working assumption RN TN
right now is that the hard part N L e -]
Interest rates have increased by about
five percentage points since last year, and so from here
onwards, | think there is some flexibility,
but not a lot more tightening to be done.
We were looking at what is happening in the banking sector
and certainly interest rates have
played a role in all of that.
This morning we see another regional bank that looks
ke it might be in trouble, pack
So what do you see moving forward, is what the Fed doing,
are we facing a credit crunch and American banks?
| think this will be the key question
we need to answer for the rest of this year.
As you have mentioned earlier, monetary
policy works with long lags and we are seeing the interest
rate sensitive sectors of the economy show that effect
of tightening monetary policy at
an expeditious pace last year, and so the regional banking
sector iIs now undergoing significant stress, and | think
we are going to see that in the amount of loans
they are able to extend O I 1 I ) s
the coming quarters, and the key is that the regional
banking sector in the US is very closely tied with small
and medium-—sized companies, which provide about half
(N R RS economy, so |
think the effects of the credit condition tightening will be
felt in the real economy but history suggests this
typically happens AGEREE AR
not something that happens immediately but it is coming
down the line, and | think this is also why it is so important
for the Fed, now that interest rates have reached 5%,
to have a look around N - a0y a0 (o1
more It needs to do.
Let’s stick with inflation, and they
are at stubborn levels of the US and other parts
The international group, help page,
estimates inflation has affected millions of people
across the world from Pakistan to Ethiopia, leaving them
gTTe[o [ UTaTs [ (=N a{e]ge food and medical care.
Earlier | spoke to the BBC’s Global Population
correspondent, and he told me how the plight
of the elderly and other vulnerable groups, has gone
unnoticed.
This Is how experts describe this group, they are invisible
when 1t comes to humanitarian aid to emergency
help, and also to data, as normally children and those
in the workforce are the main targets for these.
And |'ve been speaking with other people
In several regions, the Middle East, Africa,
Asla, Latin America and also here in the UK
to understand the impact on this particular group,
and the stories are really strong, and I’ve heard stories
of people having one meal a day,
sometimes not even that.
RS Tl | medical treatments,
because they can’t afford transport to the hospital
and to pharmacies, SRR )2
those interviews, they reflect this new research of Help Age
International
They have done 1200 interviews in ten
countries and the findings LU R R o EER o
to 70% 1n health care costs.
People resorting to begging for the first time in their lives
over 80 years old, and a growing sense of shame
and humiliation, Rz
became a key Issue In this crisis for older people.
The former MasterCard chief executive A) banker will be
the World Bank’s next president.
The bank’s board of governors has elected him after he was
nominated to the post by President Joe Biden,
he replaces the departing World Bank chief, David
Malpass.
Spain Is known for its many bars.
In fact the country has 280,000 of them, according to official
statistics, and such is their importance
that the country’s Parliament has agreed
to debate a proposal to make borrowers in small towns
and villages eligible for special
This report from central Spain.
The rural heartland of Central Spain.
After decades of migration towards cities, these
vast agricultural reliant areas of the country are sparsely
populated.
They’ve become known as emptied Spain.
The divide between rural and urban is more
pronounced here than in most European countries.
90% of Spaniards inhabit larger towns
Nl
The rest are here.
Nearly half of Spanish towns are at risk of depopulation.
Among them, this one in the Aragon region,
population 36.
As Is the case in so many villages, the bar is the heart
of the community.
TRANSLATION: It i1s a place for people to gather
because otherwise you wouldn’t see
people.
It means we have a meeting place.
TRANSLATION: Lots of people are involved in the bar,
and its maintenance creates jobs, says this woman,
so bars are needed to make sure people stay and work here.
But with so few customers, many rural bars are struggling.
TRANSLATION: The bar is not a viable business.
We have to organise all sorts of other
activities, and that’s because the bar does not
pay for itself.
So you have to find other TR el e - e e =]
to make a profit.
Or rather just to break even.
A political movement, representing rural Spain,
has been campaigning for the repopulation of areas
tke this, and calling for an improvement in public
a1
It is hoping to have an impact on the national political
debate by performing well in upcoming local elections.
This party wants to make bars in towns with fewer than 200
inhabitants eligible for special economic support
from the state, because of the social role they play.
Spain’s parliament is considering the
TRANSLATION: We are fighting R R NS R LRy
villages, to improve infrastructure, have better
services, better internet connections and improve our
roads, which are very bad.
The initiative to save bars is aimed at preventing
villagers from suffering abandonment,
which has already been the fate of so many.
But those who live in emptied Spain, know that the odds
are still stacked against them.
Before we go, let me tell you how the British government
Is taking on action against some
annoying unsolicited calls that we all get every
once in awhile.
LR QR L T -1y on all cold calls selling
financial products as part of a national crackdown on scams.
That i1s it for this edition of Asia Business Report.
| am Monica Miller.
Thanks for watching.
lndlyls
Tl -1y
Putting their skills to the 34
Putting their skills to the test. It was
Putting their skills to the ISR L
Putting their skills to the test It was all about
Putting their skills to the test. It was all about accuracy
test. It was all about accuracy 018
test. It was all about accuracy R
test. It was all about accuracy for the hopeful that this we
for the hopeful that this we can’s
for the hopeful that this we WL R ST
for the hopeful that this we can’s discipline called auto
can’s discipline called auto solo.
can’s discipline called auto o Ik
can’s discipline called auto LR
can’s discipline called auto BRI
can’s discipline called auto solo. It is that you can do on
solo. It Is that you can do on tarmac or on grass and it is
tarmac or on grass and it is s
tarmac or on grass and it is car control so
tarmac or on grass and it is car control, so driving around
car control, so driving around Y
car control, so driving around ER e 111t
car control, so driving around a course with cones, different
a course with cones, different challenges, against the clock,
challenges, against the clock, against competitors. 12 drivers
against competitors. 12 drivers o] 4
against competitors. 12 drivers took part at the event at Vista
took part at the event at Vista Heritage the prize, two places
Heritage the prize, two places up for grabs to race all season
up for grabs to race all season 018
up for grabs to race all season for free. Motorsport UK moved
for free. Motorsport UK moved to Oxfordshire
for free. Motorsport UK moved o0 aRelne LAa iRl
for free. Motorsport UK moved to Oxfordshire in 2020 and
to Oxfordshire in 2020 and I ILTs]
to Oxfordshire in 2020 and hoping events
to Oxfordshire in 2020 and WL AU SR LG
to Oxfordshire in 2020 and hoping events like this can
hoping events like this can a0}
hoping events like this can el Ao
hoping events like this can show how accessible driving can
show how accessible driving can be. Great
show how accessible driving can be Great to
show how accessible driving can be. Great to see there is
show how accessible driving can IR RO R RO NSl
be. Great to see there Is stuff WL
be. Great to see there Is stuff I
be. Great to see there Is stuff LR R
be. Great to see there Is stuff going on for disabled people,
going on for disabled people, getting
going on for disabled people, A [ 1)) 0
going on for disabled people, getting people out and involved
getting people out and involved in showing them that they can
In showing them that they can get back into competitive
get back into competitive sport.
Hi there.
I’m Ellis with The Catch—Up.
Tonight, a drone attack attempt in Russia.
Can Big Sam save Leeds?
And a Love Island S IR e 1)
But first, cimate change could dramatically reduce life
In the deepest parts of our oceans that are
reached by sunlight.
Scientists are warning that R R e o e elileTe
by as much as 40% by the end of the century.
Some other stories now.
Russia says It downed to drones last night
targeted its government HQ in Moscow, known
as the Kremlin.
Unverified footage on social media appeared to show
an object flying over ISR B UEIUEGIGE
Russia accused Ukraine of attempting to kill
President Putin, but Ukraine said it had nowt to do with it
Madeleine McCann’s parents have said she’s still
very much missed.
Today marks the 16th anniversary of her
disappearance in Portugal.
Love Island star Sami Richie is having tests for thyroid
cancer after fans spotted a lump on her neck while she
The 23—year—old from London says even her mum
didn’t notice It.
And Big Sam Is back in the big league.
He’s been named Leeds boss for the Final Four matches
of the Premier League season.
The dug out veteran joins the Yorkshire Giants
who are outside of the relegation zone
on goal difference.
Time now to leave you with ten seconds of escape.
A police officer in the US state of Virginia was inches
from death as a speeding driver spun out of control,
collided with another car and nearly hit them.
Luckily, no one was hurt, but he all caught up.
Bye for now.
Have a good evening.
Hello, I’m Qasa Alom from the BBC Sport Centre.
Coming up on the programme:
Manchester City striker Erling Haaland breaks
the record for goals in @ Premier League season.
Where next for Lionel Messi,
as the World Cup winner announces he’ll leave
Paris St Germain at the end of the season.
Ryder Cup stars Sergio Garcia, lan Poulter
and Lee Westwood won’t play in this year’s event —
find out why.
Manchester City striker Erling Haaland broke the record
for goals in a Premier League season as his side went back
to the summit of the table by beating West Ham.The
Norwegian scored his 35th league goal of the campaign
in @ 3—nil win to move past Alan Shearer and Andrew Cole’s
previous best of 34.
Haaland, in his debut season in English football,
was given a guard of honour at full time by his teammates
as he set the new record LTSGR S G [
of the year.
a game In hand.
22 years old.
We’re still five games left.
How many times | make a substitution after a hat
trick at 60 minutes?
Otherwise, maybe we had to score more.
But at the same time, maybe we get injured.
Because it’s a special with this boy, you have to be
all the time Like a watch.
Congratulations to him, for all the team to help him,
of course, to achieve It.
And yeah, it’s really good.
Really good to have him.
That’s what the team played really well tonight.
Really disappointed.
We lose our first goal to a set piece because,
you know, we are pretty good at defending them.
And so I’m really disappointed with that
against Man City.
They might have scored R A s
goals and we carried a little bit of luck at times
when the ball hit the Inside of the post and didn’t go in.
But | thought we deserved it.
| thought we’d done a good enough job to to warrant
[l [ TR 1 R E IR 1A
And we wanted to come out in the second half and do
Liverpool kept alive their outside hopes
of qualifying for next season’s Champions League
after Mohamed Salah scored the only goal in a 1—nil
win over Fulham.
Salah scored for the eighth home game in a row as Liverpool
won for the fifth successive Premier League game to maintain
their late—season form.
Jurgen Klopp’s side stay fifth in the table, four points
behind fourth—placed Manchester United, who have two
games In hand.
If Newcastle, and especially Man United, if they win
all their games, then you have no chance.
So and we have to keep and that’s already not,
I I ] g hands as well
RO i =Ty g1 o]y B if Brighton wins all the games
then they are ahead of us.
So that’s the situation we have just to win football games.
And In the end, we can have a look at the table.
And I’m In this moment really happy with the development,
with the direction we go into.
| think we deserve more from the game.
I’m proud of our players
and we played this evening the fourth game in 12 days
and the fourth game In 12 days and we showed that,
and our quality in some moments of the game,
of course, as of all, we deserve much more
from the game.
Sam Allardyce says he was shocked to be asked
to take over as manager of Leeds United and that some
people have called him mad to take the job.
He took his first training session with the squad
on Wednesday after Spaniard Javi Gracia was dismissed
after just 10 weeks and 12 games in charge at Elland Road.
Allardyce Is tasked with quiding Leeds to safety
with four games remaining.
They are currently out of the bottom three but only
on goal difference.
A tough first game for him though against leaders
Manchester City on Saturday.
That’s probably the biggest challenge because of
the shortness of games that are left.
Like, | mean, | think that, you know, there needs to be
points picked up In.
And the difficulty is, you know, you look at
the fixtures, you know what | mean?
We start with an easy one on Saturday and,
you know, | mean, can’t get any easier than Manchester City
away, can It?
But | enjoyed the game so much and | and to try and be able
to save this club and and put it back and keep it
In the Premier League is a big responsibility
and a big challenge but one I E R OR LG
because of who Leeds United are.
In Italy just 6 points separate 6 teams from 2nd
(A ) R T I T g o] ] g e midweek round of Serie
A Matches.
Juventus beat Lecce T VIR s
against Sassuolo to ensure they stay 2nd and 3rd.
Inter Milan thumped Verona 6-0 to move up to 4th place though
after disappointing 1 all draws for Roma and Milan
against Monza and Cremonese.
Atalanta’s 3—2 win against Spezia keeps them
ST Gl a) as well for next seasons
Champions League as well.
AV T - R g [o1g RN e
Valencia and Villarreal AT - - LU
Atletico Madrid leapfrogged their city rivals, Real Madrid,
to go second after A51 victory against Cadiz.
And Getafe beat Celta Vigo 1-0.
And In Germany, Eintracht Frankfurt will face RB Leipzig
R g NI ] after a dramatic 3—2 win
In their Semi Final against Stuttgart.
FE Tl [ iRO7CTg1 a goal down early
to Tiago Tomas but came back through goals from Evan NDicka,
Daichi Kamada and French forward Kolo Muani to set up
the showdown with the reigning champions on June 3rd.
Could Lionel Messi’s time at Paris Saint Germain be up?
He’s been suspended him for two weeks unpaid
for an unathorised trip to Saudi Arabia.
He’s an ambassador for the Saudi tourist authority
who say the trip included feeding gazelles and visiting
a luxury shopping centre.
He’ll be free again for the final three games
of the season, as PSG look to retain their Ligue 1 title,
but speculation’s growing that we won’t see him
In @ PSG shirt again.
So where could he go next?
There’s two other options, of course.
Saudi Arabia.
An offer has arrived for around £400 million.
Yes, you heard.
Well, for one year, for 100 million.
The idea Is to put together Cristiano Ronaldo and Leo Messi
In the same league, and the MLS have always been there.
They cannot afford that kind of money.
But they said whenever you want to come to the MLS,
Inter Miami, we’ll open the doors for you.
And he knows that.
The England and Wales (W eI eI
the sanctions it recommends against the six former
Yorkshire players found to have used racist slurs at the club.
It follows the allegations made by Azeem Rafiq.
Here’s our sports editor Dan Roan.
Now, ECB charges that have been issued all stemmed
from allegations made by the former Yorkshire spinner
Azeem Rafig, now a seventh former Yorkshire player.
The ex—England captain, Michael Vaughan,
he was cleared by the CDC panel.
As for the other six, well, they’ve had to wait until today
to discover what kind of punishments they may face.
The former England and Yorkshire batsman
Gary Ballance, who had admitted a charge of using racist
language towards Rafiq and who had apologised to him.
The ECB today revealed that they were recommending
that the panel issue him with an eight week suspension
that would only apply if he came out of retirement.
He announced his retirement last month and that he received
an £8,000 fine.
Now, as for the other former Yorkshire players
who were found to have used racist or discriminatory
language, the ECB recommended 7500 pound fines for both
the former England star Matthew Hoggard and the former
Yorkshire player and coach Andrew Gale.
£5,000 fines for England’s former player Tim Bresnan
and Yorkshire’s former all rounder John Blain and A400
Now, as for the other former Yorkshire players
who were found to have used racist or discriminatory
language, the ECB recommended £7 500 fines for both
the former England star Matthew Hoggard and the former
Yorkshire player and coach Andrew Gale.
£5,000 fines for England’s former player Tim Bresnan
and Yorkshire’s former all rounder John Blain and A400
£0 fine for another former Yorkshire player, Richard
SN
The ECB also said today that they wanted all six
Individuals to go on an educational course
and to be reprimanded.
Staying with cricket, Pakistan successfully defended
a 287-run total as they beat New Zealand by 26 runs
In a one—day Iinternational to take an unassailable 3—0
LR R -a
Imam—ul—Haqg and Babar Azam
hit half—centuries as Pakistan scored 287/6 in Karachi.
Tom Blundell top scored for New Zealand with 65
and Cole McConchie was 64 not out but they fell short
with two matches still to play in the series.
Meanwhile, at the IPL, Mumbai Indians chased down
a mammoth 215 to beat the Punjab Kings.
It meant Liam Livingstone’s 82 not out including seven fours
and four sixes was in Y1 B
| n what seemed like an improbable chase,
Mumbal were up against it Mohali when skipper
But Suryakumar Yadav and Ishan Kishan hit fifties
before Tilak Varma and Tim David’s late runs took Mumbai
over the finishing line.
They won the game by six wickets.
And Lucknow Super Giants and Chennai Super Kings
were forced to split points as their Indian Premier League
match was called off due to rain.
With incessant rain lashing the Ekana Stadium, even
the minimum five overs R GRS @O LT R LR
possible after the home team had made 125 for seven in 19
point 2 overs.
Four golfers including lee Westwood and lan Poulter
will no longer be eligible to play in this year’s Ryder
Cup after announcing their resignation from the DP
T Y
Westwood and Poulter have starred in a number of famous
Ryder Cup victories IR R TR UG A
out of the reckoning to take on Team USA along
with Richard Bland and Sergio Garcia —
after the quartet missed Wednesday’s deadline of paying
a fine for breaking DP WOrld Tour rules and playing
in the opening LIV Golf tournament last July.
Reigning Champion Carlos Alcaraz is through to
the Semi Finals of the Madrid Masters after beating
the Russian Karen Khachanov in straight sets 6—4, 7-5.
The Spaniard has been in brilliant form throughout
the tournament and will now play Croatian Borna Coric
Iin the final four at the clay court event.
The 19 year old needs to defend his title in order
to replace Novak Djokovic as the world number one.
And that’s the latest from me.
Take care, goodbye.
I’ll speak to you soon.
Many of us had some beautiful late spring
sunshine on Wednesday.
In fact, in Bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours
of sunshine, a glorious day.
But top temperature, well, that was in South Wales,
In Gwynedd, just shy of 20 Celsius, and it felt
very pleasant indeed.
Now it’s not out of the question that we could see
20 Celsius on Thursday, but the weather story
Is certainly on the change with low pressure starting
to move In from the southwest.
So as we go through the day on Thursday, it’s a tale
of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off
the North Sea, affecting eastern England and northeast
We’ve got rain pushing into the southwest —
and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best
of the sunshine Is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll
see the best of the warmth.
The breeze still coming from an east direction,
so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight
edge to things.
A little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough
with highs of 19-20 Celsius perhaps in the southeast.
Now, as we move out of Thursday into Friday, that weather front
will continue to push its way steadily north.
It’WL bring outbreaks of rain as it does so,
and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
So on Friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving
T gy 1 England, into Scotland.
Sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
Now, as we move Into the start of the weekend, that
southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north
But unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
TR TS LI )R GO EO LI E R TR -
that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily
north as we go through the day.
So not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look
likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain
across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
And the wider picture throughout the Bank.
Holiday weekend — Saturday will be the wettest
of the days, Sunday and Monday, sunny spells and scattered
showers.
Some of them on Monday could be quite heavy.
Take care.
Have a good evening.
Live from Washington, this is BBC News.
Ukraine denies it’s behind any attack on Moscow
or President Putin following unverified footage of a drone
strike on the Kremlin.
Brazilian police raid former President Jair Bolsanoro’s
home, as they investigate his Covid vaccine records.
And ahead of the coronation, advice from Royal families
of other nations for Britain’s new King.
Hello I’m Sumi Somaskanda.
We start with breaking news out of Ukraine,
as the capital Kyiv I
Our correspondent, who’s currently sheltering
In an underground bunker, said
4y air raid alert in the capital
went off at around 02:20 local time.
The BBC team heard at least one loud explosion, and the city’s
air defence has been activated.
Earlier today, Ukraine says at least 21 were killed
INn an attack on Kherson.
Missile strikes hit a market, a railway station, a petrol
station and residential I Te
It comes as Ukraine’s President Zelensky denied
that his country carried out an alleged drone attack
on the Kremln.
Russia says it was an attempt on Vladimir Putin’s life.
Our Russia editor Steve Rosenberg sent this report
from Moscow.
AL ELERICT RGO what appears to be a drone.
LU LRV LGE T over the Kremlin.
This footage Is unverified, but the Kremlin says that
overnight, two drones targeted the residence
RISl
Moscow blames Ukraine, but says that no—one was injured.
On Russian state TV, a dramatic start to this talk show.
The presenter announces breaking news.
"There’s been an attempt," he says,
"to assassinate Putin.”
In daylight down at the Kremlin,
we couldn’t see any obvious signs of the explosions.
Lots of questions remain unanswered
about what happened here last night.
Who launched the drones, R AR a1 Ye
Ukraine has denied involvement.
If this was, IR UG T K E
a Ukrainian drone attack, an attempt to kill
the President in the very heart of Moscow,
that is hugely embarrassing for the authorities here.
After all, where was the security?
This Is supposed to be one of the most heavily—quarded
seats of power in the world.
Last weekend, Russia accused Ukraine
of launching a drone strike on a fuel depot
In Russian—occupied Crimea.
Days later, bombs detonated and derailed two freight
trains in a part of Russia near the Ukrainian border.
Citing security concerns, A TS E L R G DL GV
already cancelled military parades planned
for the 9th of May, Victory Day, when Russians mark
the defeat of Nazi Germany.
For now, the Kremlin continues to insist that the big
Red Square parade In Moscow will go ahead
despite last night’s explosions.
But there iIs ER R S e
N ORI
Red Square has been closed to the public
since the end of April.
That 1s unusual, and reflects RN R 1)
More than 14 months since the Kremlin launched
Its full—scale invasion of Ukraine,
the war Is feeling much closer to home.
The reaction in the West has been to urge caution on any
Russian claims.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he would take
anything the Russia presidency said with a ‘very large shaker
Seth Jones, Director of the International Security
Program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies.
How do you assess Russia’s claims that this was
an assassination S I IR [l
Putin?
Well but we are
Well, but we are waiting for here in Washington is more of a
here in Washington is more of a I e
here in Washington is more of a public statement, right now.
public statement, right now. RY
public statement, right now. RG]
public statement, right now. REES TR
public statement, right now. AR UG R O |
I’ve spoken to several individuals in the US
individuals in the US 710 g
Individuals in the US government, the US
individuals in the US government, the US intelligence
government, the US intelligence agencies are still trying to
agencies are still trying to oo e1al88s]
agencies are still trying to o a1alsntmaezTIs
agencies are still trying to confirm their assessment of who
confirm their assessment of who conducted these attacks so |
conducted these attacks so | sl e
conducted these attacks so | s @i
conducted these attacks so | think it is a
conducted these attacks so | Al SRR e
conducted these attacks so | think it is a little early to
think 1t is a little early to PqaTe L
think 1t is a little early to know who was
think it Is a little early to Pl A R LA
think it Is a little early to know who was involved in this.
know who was involved In this. They
know who was involved In this. LA G
know who was involved In this. They would just say
know who was involved in this. They would just say very
They would just say very briefly that Russia is in no
briefly that Russia is in no position to
briefly that Russia is in no DI RN
briefly that Russia is In no position to be accusing
briefly that Russia is in no position to be accusing anyone
position to be accusing anyone i
position to be accusing anyone R
position to be accusing anyone of these kinds of activities
of these kinds of activities ATl e
of these kinds of activities ST
of these kinds of activities after multiple assassination
after muttiple assassination attempts on
after multiple assassination attempts on Zelensky, the
attempts on Zelensky, the Ukrainian leader and then
Ukrainian leader and then INZELILT]
Ukrainian leader and then invading his country, so
invading his country, so sometimes things like this come
sometimes things like this come around when you take those
around when you take those kinds of actions. We’ve heard
kinds of actions. We’ve heard 0 08
kinds of actions. We’ve heard some military analysts saying
some military analysts saying 81
some military analysts saying this could be
some military analysts saying AT T e |
some military analysts saying this could be a false flag
this could be a false flag operation led by
this could be a false flag G G AT S E
this could be a false flag operation led by Russia itself,
operation led by Russia itself, what do you think of that? It
what do you think of that? It is possible at this point. |
Is possible at this point. | sl e
Is possible at this point. | s @i
Is possible at this point. | think it is probably unlikely
T LI R T Lo 1 AT T LT LY but | think
T LI R T Lo 1 AT T LT LY I IR 10 &= o
think it Is probably unlikely but | think at this point we
but | think at this point we really can’t rule anything out.
really can’t rule anything out. At the very least, this was
At the very least, this was highly unlikely to be a serious
highly unlikely to be a serious effort at assassinating
effort at assassinating Vladimir Putin, because he is
Vladimir Putin, because he is not likely, he wasn’t there at
not likely, he wasn’t there at the
not likely, he wasn’t there at R T
not likely, he wasn’t there at the time, he wasn’t likely to
the time, he wasn’t likely to have been there, doesn’t spend
have been there, doesn’t spend Y
have been there, doesn’t spend ERI )
have been there, doesn’t spend ER e a
have been there, doesn’t spend a lot of his time there. Much
a lot of his time there. Much more likely that if this was
more likely that if this was Ukraine, again we
more likely that If this was Ukraine, again we still
more likely that it this was Ukraine, again we still don’t
Ukraine, again we still don’t know, this
Ukraine, again we still don’t G TR GRS
Ukraine, again we still don’t know, this was probably more of
know, this was probably more of Y
know, this was probably more of SRS G o]
know, this was probably more of a psychological attack to get
a psychological attack to get media
a psychological attack to get M I A= anno]n
a psychological attack to get M R = oo o= a0e!
a psychological attack to get media attention and to cause
media attention and to cause 0 08
media attention and to cause some fear in Moscow and if that
some fear in Moscow and If that T
some fear in Moscow and If that is the case, it
some fear in Moscow and If that TR R -
some fear in Moscow and If that is the case, it has already had
Is the case, It has already had that effect, to
Is the case, It has already had that effect to some
Is the case, It has already had that effect, to some degree.
that effect, to some degree. what do
that effect, to some degree. What do you think this says
What do you think this says about
What do you think this says E oo T R o)
What do you think this says about the Kremlin’s defences?
about the Kremlin’s defences? £
about the Kremlin’s defences? TS
about the Kremlin’s defences? It is essentially supposed to
It I1s essentially supposed to be
It I1s essentially supposed to -
It I1s essentially supposed to be a fortress.
It Is essentially supposed to R T b
It Is essentially supposed to be a fortress. It is supposed
be a fortress. It is supposed (0]
be a fortress. It is supposed D)
be a fortress. It is supposed R a1
be a fortress. It Is supposed to be a fortress although if
to be a fortress although If o )
to be a fortress although If one looks at the last two
one looks at the last two decades, | was in Moscow a
decades, | was In Moscow a number of years ago
decades, | was in Moscow a number of years ago during the
number of years ago during the subway suicide bombings, we’ve
subway suicide bombings, we’ve had attacks against a theatre
had attacks against a theatre in Moscow, these were connect
in Moscow, these were connect (0]
in Moscow, these were connect R
in Moscow, these were connect to the Chechen war is and
to the Chechen war Is and WInlhl|
to the Chechen war Is and coming from
to the Chechen war is and WG ERiC RG]
to the Chechen war is and coming from church, it
to the Chechen war Is and coming from church, it is
to the Chechen war iIs and coming from church, it is not
coming from church, it is not inconceivable that these kinds
Inconceivable that these kinds i
Inconceivable that these kinds A n o G
Inconceivable that these kinds of attacks could have
iInconceivable that these kinds of attacks could have occurred.
of attacks could have occurred. We
of attacks could have occurred. Y )
of attacks could have occurred. YN -
of attacks could have occurred. We have had drones get shot
We have had drones get shot down around
We have had drones get shot a0 a R a0 0 lalo IRl
We have had drones get shot down around the White House in
down around the White House In Washington, so nothing is
Washington, so nothing is impenetrable, these days. We
Impenetrable, these days. We BV
Impenetrable, these days. We have seen
impenetrable, these days. We have seen Ukraine and Russia
have seen Ukraine and Russia basically pointing fingers at
basically pointing fingers at each other for what happened,
each other for what happeneq, what
each other for what happeneq, e 11]
each other for what happeneq, N - )
each other for what happeneq, IR RN
each other for what happeneq, what can the US do here to
what can the US do here to ensure that
what can the US do here to IR GEIR GG
what can the US do here to ensure that things don’t
ensure that things don’t o )
ensure that things don’t Y IR0
ensure that things don’t escalate even further?
ensure that things don’t A B RY Ch Rl e d |
ensure that things don’t escalate even further? | think
escalate even further? | think )
escalate even further? | think e
escalate even further? | think one of the things that the
escalate even further? | think ICE RO ER G ER G E R G R TR
one of the things that the US needs to do and
one of the things that the US M RN s R s
one of the things that the US RO R Ot
one of the things that the US needs to do and what it has
needs to do and what it has done
needs to do and what it has RS e
needs to do and what it has done since this
needs to do and what it has LRI R R s
needs to do and what it has done since this war began is to
done since this war began is to e8]
done since this war began is to oo Tie
done since this war began is to come out publicly
done since this war began Is to come out publicly with its own
come out publicly with its own Y 00 = a1
come out publicly with its own assessment of
come out publicly with its own A 0 a1 1 R Ao
come out publicly with its own assessment of who perpetrated
assessment of who perpetrated the
assessment of who perpetrated eI o
assessment of who perpetrated A o e =] s
assessment of who perpetrated the attack and then second, to
the attack and then second, to e[
the attack and then second, to urge caution from Ukraine, to
urge caution from Ukraine, to limit or stop these kinds of
Uimit or stop these kinds of potentially
umit or stop these kinds of potentially escalatory attacks
potentially escalatory attacks and then also to signal to the
and then also to signal to the Russians that they
and then also to signal to the NSIELG R GE RGNS
and then also to signal to the NSIELG R OE R G EVER )
and then also to signal to the Russians that they have to be
Russians that they have to be g%
Russians that they have to be RE I
Russians that they have to be very careful in escalating as
very careful in escalating as well We mentioned that there
well. We mentioned that there have been these explosions
have been these explosions heard overnight in Kyiv
have been these explosions L O GG TR [ [
heard overnight in Kyiv and s
heard overnight in Kyiv and other cities in Ukraine and we
other cities in Ukraine and we have also seen the strike that
have also seen the strike that Ukrainians have reported any
Ukrainians have reported any o4
Ukrainians have reported any back where 21 people were
back where 21 people were killed .
back where 21 people were killed. —— Kherson. Have we
killed. —— Kherson. Have we -]
killed. —— Kherson. Have we I
killed. —— Kherson. Have we seen a step up
Kiled. == Kherson. Have we JLEE G R R
killed. —— Kherson. Have we seen a step up in attacks
Kiled. —— Kherson. Have we seen a step up in attacks and
seen a step up In attacks and why
seen a step up In attacks and AN
seen a step up In attacks and AL N
seen a step up In attacks and A BN )
seen a step up In attacks and why now? I’m not sure
seen a step up in attacks and why now? I’m not sure we are
why now? I’m not sure we are AN
why now? I’m not sure we are seeing a major in peace and
seeing a major in peace and Russian strikes, and various
Russian strikes, and various W16
Russian strikes, and various WD LR
Russian strikes, and various points of the wall we see the
points of the wall we see the Russians target bullion areas
Russians target bullion areas i
Russians target bullion areas of Ukraine and again,
of Ukraine and again, interestingly with these
Interestingly with these IO
Interestingly with these drones, they
Interestingly with these O IR GG [T [
drones, they didn’t tell I L o)
drones, they didn’t tell I L AT
drones, they didn’t tell DL AT R G
drones, they didn’t tell anybody but the Russians have
anybody but the Russians have been killing civilians in
been killing civilians In Ukraine over the past year, and
E T RO N L Y T A T [ again, | think
E T RO N L Y T A T [ =L EIL ARG RS
E T RO N L Y T A T [ HEI RO LS G T
Ukraine over the past year, and again, | think this is probably
again, | think this is probably in part in preparation for what
In part in preparation for what 3
In part in preparation for what is likely to be a Ukrainian
Is likely to be a Ukrainian counter—attack
Is likely to be a Ukrainian T a1 &
Is likely to be a Ukrainian counter—attack in the next
counter—attack in the next 1] 0
counter—attack in the next 1 N
counter—attack in the next couple of weeks or so. Is
couple of weeks or so. Is Ukraine ready for this
Ukraine ready for this counter—attack?
Ukraine ready for this T o A
Ukraine ready for this counter—attack? We have been
counter—attack? We have been hearing that ammunition is
hearing that ammunition is running out, that weapons have
running out, that weapons have IREV A
running out, that weapons have arrived, how well-placed
running out, that weapons have arrived, how well—placed is
arrived, how well—placed is Ukraine to
arrived, how well—placed Is Ukraine to launch a
Ukraine to launch a counteroffensive? | think
counteroffensive? | think Ukraine does have a sufficient
Ukraine does have a sufficient amount
Ukraine does have a sufficient EYano 010
Ukraine does have a sufficient amount of material The
Ukraine does have a sufficient amount of material. The bigger
amount of material. The bigger issues frankly
amount of material. The bigger B RIE L OVELS
amount of material. The bigger issues frankly are going to be
Issues frankly are going to be does
Issues frankly are going to be s
Issues frankly are going to be does it have
Issues frankly are going to be I V|
Issues frankly are going to be does it have a clever enough
does it have a clever enough strateqy,
does It have a clever enough strategy, leadership,
strategy, leadership, initiative at lower levels of
initiative at lower levels of the Ukrainian military to break
the Ukrainian military to break through what are increasingly
through what are increasingly defensive structures. | was
defensive structures. | was [T
defensive structures. | was TSR
defensive structures. | was just looking at some satellite
just looking at some satellite imagery of Russian
iImagery of Russian IR0 1 E o a e n) s
Imagery of Russian I E o n = el i
Imagery of Russian reinforcements with Dragon’s
reinforcements with Dragon’s 012y
reinforcements with Dragon’s I Tale]
reinforcements with Dragon’s teeth and burns and deep
teeth and burns and deep R o=
teeth and burns and deep trenches, the Russians are
trenches, the Russians are preparing,
trenches, the Russians are Y E gl T Al
trenches, the Russians are preparing, it will be difficult
preparing, it will be difficult (0]
preparing, it will be difficult to break through those lines
to break through those lines and to
to break through those lines Yl IR o 30 une 0 lals/
to break through those lines and to surround Russian forces,
and to surround Russian forces, |
and to surround Russian forces, (11814
and to surround Russian forces, | think it
and to surround Russian forces, B R
and to surround Russian forces, B SR
and to surround Russian forces, | think it is less for me about
| think it I1s less for me about MEI e
| think it I1s less for me about material and
| think 1t Is less for me about material and much more about a
material and much more about a e
material and much more about a WA S |
material and much more about a WA A1 Y VA
material and much more about a clever strategy. If we do speak
clever strategy. If we do speak oY 018
clever strategy. If we do speak Yo Yo iaa )
clever strategy. If we do speak about the material here, we
about the material here, we R0y
about the material here, we TR0y AR )
about the material here, we Gy R Y
about the material here, we know the US has announced
know the US has announced another big package of weapons.
another big package of weapons. Does the international
Does the International community,
Does the international community, the US’s partners,
community, the US’s partners, do they
community, the US’s partners, R A L
community, the US’s partners, do they need to step up as
do they need to step up as well? | think
do they need to step up as ARG &
do they need to step up as well? | think the likelihood is
well? | think the likelihood is is going
well? | think the likelihood is TR LI R
well? | think the likelihood Is IR
well? | think the lkelihood is is going to be a
well? | think the likelihood Is is going to be a long war
well? | think the lkelihood is is going to be a long war so
Is going to be a long war so why do
Is going to be a long war so A R 111
Is going to be a long war so K RIS
Is going to be a long war so KRG R G
Is going to be a long war so why do think over the next
why do think over the next e
why do think over the next several weeks
why do think over the next AN G IR V- ls )
why do think over the next several weeks and months, that
several weeks and months, that Y
several weeks and months, that RN
several weeks and months, that a range of Western countries
a range of Western countries need to
a range of Western countries Al - e o Ieo anu a0l
a range of Western countries need to continue providing
need to continue providing assistance to Ukraine, these
assistance to Ukraine, these are munitions, these are
are munitions, these are weapons systems that are going
weapons systems that are going (0]
weapons systems that are going to break down
weapons systems that are going R a0 e ]s
weapons systems that are going R a0y I R
weapons systems that are going L i R RN Y
to break down over the next W 1]
to break down over the next w1 X0
to break down over the next couple of weeks. These are aid,
couple of weeks. These are aid, training, intelligence, so for
training, intelligence, so for me it
training, intelligence, so for N
training, intelligence, so for me it is less about stepping up
me it Iis less about stepping up and more continuing.
me it is less about stepping up and more continuing. Seth
and more continuing. Seth Jones, thank you again for
Jones, thank you again for LI
Jones, thank you again for L TR
Jones, thank you again for joining us. Thank you.
To Sudan now, where clashes between rival military factions
have continued, despite both sides agreeing to a seven—day
truce starting on Thursday.
More than a 100,000 people have already fled to neighbouring
countries amid warnings of a humanitarian catastrophe
that could affect the entire region.
More witnesses to the conflict have desribed the scale
of the violence In Sudan.
One British—Sudanese man, Mohamed, described the moment
he and his family were caught in the crosshairs of
the fighting in Khartoum.
They were shooting, me and the kids would stay here because
kids would stay here because T
kids would stay here because it’s the safest
kids would stay here because TR R Ny
kids would stay here because it’s the safest area for us to
it’s the safest area for us to stay. We had the army behind us
stay. We had the army behind us and the
stay. We had the army behind us IR
stay. We had the army behind us MR ol
stay. We had the army behind us and the RS if in front
stay. We had the army behind us TR S T R A s o) A
stay. We had the army behind us and the RS if in front of us
and the RS if in front of us and
and the RS if in front of us SR
and the RS if in front of us and they were shooting at each
and they were shooting at each s
and they were shooting at each other and we
and they were shooting at each R R
and they were shooting at each NN R R N )
and they were shooting at each NN R R R RO
and they were shooting at each other and we were in the middle
other and we were In the middle )
other and we were In the middle RG]
other and we were In the middle so that was
other and we were In the middle RO R )
other and we were In the middle so that was the hardest point
so that was the hardest point i
so that was the hardest point of the whole situation. We laid
of the whole situation. We laid down and | was talking to them
down and | was talking to them constantly, explaining, we are
constantly, explaining, we are IS
constantly, explaining, we are IR
constantly, explaining, we are quite safe here,
constantly, explaining, we are IR R R GG
constantly, explaining, we are quite safe here, we’re on the
quite safe here, we’re on the IR
quite safe here, we’re on the ground, nothing is happening to
ground, nothing is happening to us, I’m looking at
ground, nothing is happening to TN ROT R A
ground, nothing Is happening to us, I’m looking at and around
us, I’m looking at and around (0]
us, I’m looking at and around to my children say we are in
to my children say we are In danger —— I’m not going to
to my children say we are Iin danger —— I’m not going to turn
danger —— I’m not going to turn around to my children and
danger —= I’m not going to turn around to my children and say
around to my children and say we are in danger.
Mohammed and his children have now been evacuated to England.
Our Africa correspondent Andrew Harding has more
AR IR - e i [u e
No head yet of the current ceasefire really sticking and
ceasefire really sticking and no word yet about the seven—day
no word yet about the seven—day )
no word yet about the seven—day IR
no word yet about the seven—day IR
no word yet about the seven—day ceasefire that is supposed to
ceasefire that is supposed to e8]
ceasefire that is supposed to come into
ceasefire that is supposed to iR g
ceasefire that is supposed to come into force. We’ve had
ceasefire that is supposed to R - RN E
come Into force. We’ve had a VTi
come Into force. We’ve had a visit from two
come Into force. We’ve had a T R eI ] 0] s
come Into force. We’ve had a VT R A R e o el O IV
visit from two senior UN officials to port Sudan which
officials to port Sudan which T
officials to port Sudan which TR\
officials to port Sudan which is rapidly becoming the hub for
Is rapidly becoming the hub for the
Is rapidly becoming the hub for O LR N E [ |
Is rapidly becoming the hub for the emerging humanitarian
the emerging humanitarian P
the emerging humanitarian response, real frustration
response, real frustration expressed by
response, real frustration OISR AU
response, real frustration expressed by those officials
expressed by those officials saying that they urgently need
saying that they urgently need high level detailed guarantees
high level detailed guarantees oY 018
high level detailed guarantees about access, concern about the
about access, concern about the looting
about access, concern about the GO G
about access, concern about the looting of six trucks, food
looting of six trucks, food el 3
looting of six trucks, food trucks that were delivering aid
trucks that were delivering aid (0]
trucks that were delivering aid o e
trucks that were delivering aid to die for. That
trucks that were delivering aid ORI
trucks that were delivering aid to die for. That is of
trucks that were delivering aid ORI LR B
to die for. That 1s of real concern
to die for. That is of real ol sl alel
to die for. That is of real concern and a broader
to die for. That Is of real concern and a broader sense
concern and a broader sense that
concern and a broader sense L]
concern and a broader sense s - o]
concern and a broader sense that a lot more needs to be
that a lot more needs to be done to facilitate support for
done to facilitate support for hospitals in
done to facilitate support for oL R o E L (e ]
done to facilitate support for hospitals in particular we know
hospitals in particular we know are
hospitals in particular we know IR o]
hospitals in particular we know are being targeted
hospitals In particular we know are being targeted widely in
are being targeted widely In Khartoum and Darfur. And the
Khartoum and Darfur. And the Exodus, tens of thousands of
Exodus, tens of thousands of civilians heading north,
civilians heading north, heading
civilans heading north, heading south, heading east and
heading south, heading east and west in fact, all the borders
west In fact, all the borders i
west In fact, all the borders of Sudan, continues.
Around the world and across the UK, this is BBC
VS
1400 competitors, 46 teams, from 18 European countries. All
from 18 European countries. All Wl
from 18 European countries. All coming together in Birmingham
coming together in Birmingham 018
coming together in Birmingham R
coming together in Birmingham for the LGBTQ
coming together in Birmingham IR GRS RIUH
WL GTIG T L R nThs LT for the LGBTQ plus union cup
for the LGBTQ plus union cup tournament. This has coincided
tournament. This has coincided with
tournament. This has coincided A R )
tournament. This has coincided with the 200th anniversary of
with the 200th anniversary of right itself, so to bring this
right itself, so to bring this international tournament head
international tournament head (0]
international tournament head R
international tournament head to the West Midlands is
to the West Midlands is EladiE ]\
to the West Midlands is actually really
to the West Midlands Is actually really special. The
actually really special. The event
actually really special. The R 5
actually really special. The event was originally meant to
event was originally meant to have been hosted here by the
have been hosted here by the Sl thE]
have been hosted here by the Birmingham bulls four years ago
Birmingham bulls four years ago I
Birmingham bulls four years ago R LS
Birmingham bulls four years ago but was postponed due to Covid.
but was postponed due to Covid. Organisers say it was important
Organisers say It was important (0]
Organisers say It was important to include
Organisers say It was important s ol ]
Organisers say It was important to include a women’s
Organisers say it was important to include a women’s tournament
to include a women’s tournament EYS
to include a women’s tournament YR
to include a women’s tournament as well. People are so warm and
as well. People are so warm and welcoming and you feel like
welcoming and you feel like NG
welcoming and you feel like W R
welcoming and you feel like everyone is so united. And it
everyone Is so united. And it T
everyone Is so united. And it is hoped
everyone Is so united. And it T L R
everyone Is so united. And it is hoped the event will help to
Is hoped the event will help to Y]
Is hoped the event will help to break down
IS hoped the event will help to break down barriers.
You’re Live with BBC News.
Brazilian police have raided former president
Jair Bolsanoro’s home on Wednesday morning as part
of an investigation into his Covid vaccination records.
Police suspect his vaccine information was falsified
to gain entry into the US.
Three of Mr Bolsonaro’s assistants have been arrested
and his phone has been seized.
The ex—president denies any involvement and says he has
LI s
We have our Latin America regional editor Mimi Swaby
R I
What do police expect to find e
What do police expect to find on Jair Bolsanoro’s phone? It
on Jair Bolsanoro’s phone? |t T
on Jair Bolsanoro’s phone? |t is hoped this
on Jair Bolsanoro’s phone? It is hoped this investigation
Is hoped this investigation will help answer the many
will help answer the many questions on how Jair
questions on how Jair Bolsanoro, a Covid sceptic who
Bolsanoro, a Covid sceptic who has vowed
Bolsanoro, a Covid sceptic who IELR N s
Bolsanoro, a Covid sceptic who has vowed never to get a
has vowed never to get a vaccine was registered on
vaccine was registered on public records that were
public records that were T
public records that were released in February that he
released in February that he 1
released in February that he was vaccinated, and the
released Iin February that he was vaccinated, and the police
was vaccinated, and the police YR
was vaccinated, and the police R (] Tn s
was vaccinated, and the police are expect to
was vaccinated, and the police IR A RO R il s}
was vaccinated, and the police are expect to find evidence of
are expect to find evidence of what they are calling a
what they are calling a criminal alliance, showing the
criminal alliance, showing the insertion
criminal alliance, showing the M as oo
criminal alliance, showing the insertion of false data into
Insertion of false data into Brazilian public health
Brazilian public health records. Investigators are
records. Investigators are looking
records. Investigators are L R
records. Investigators are looking into a group including
looking into a group including the Bolsanoros to see if they
the Bolsanoros to see if they have forged these
the Bolsanoros to see Iif they have forged these fake
the Bolsanoros to see if they have forged these fake cards,
have forged these fake cards, 81
have forged these fake cards, this includes Bolsanoro’s
this includes Bolsanoro’s daughters, his assistance and
daughters, his assistance and 1
daughters, his assistance and his assistant’s wife fake
his assistant’s wife fake aforotlanl a0
his assistant’s wife fake el ot laa - a1 als)
his assistant’s wife fake documents and this is all
his assistant’s wife fake I e RO IR IR
documents and this is all to get
documents and this i1s all to get into
documents and this is all to get into the
documents and this i1s all to get into the US
documents and this is all to get into the US and at this
get into the US and at this time when Bolsanaro arrived in
time when Bolsanaro arrived In the
time when Bolsanaro arrived In IS
time when Bolsanaro arrived In the US last year
time when Bolsanaro arrived In W RN ES AYE T 1)
time when Bolsanaro arrived In the US last year the US still
the US last year the US still S Ts)
the US last year the US still had Covid restrictions in place
had Covid restrictions in place i
had Covid restrictions in place of. On December the
had Covid restrictions in place WD U4
had Covid restrictions in place of. On December the 21st, Mr
of. On December the 21st, Mr Bolsanaro was registered as
Bolsanaro was registered as vaccinated. This entry in a
vaccinated. This entry in a public health office in Rio de
public health office in Rio de Janeiro was later removed, just
Janeiro was later removed, just P Ya )
Janeiro was later removed, just el T
Janeiro was later removed, just PR Ak s
Janeiro was later removed, just PR A
Janeiro was later removed, just IR AR iR L
Janeiro was later removed, just one week later it was taken off
one week later it was taken off and he
one week later it was taken off NGB R e
one week later it was taken off and he went back to being
and he went back to being unvaccinated, so there are many
unvaccinated, so there are many questions to be answered in
questions to be answered In 81
questions to be answered In this latest investigation. What
this latest investigation. What is Bolsanaro saying about all
Is Bolsanaro saying about all i
Is Bolsanaro saying about all of this? Has come out and said
of this? Has come out and said 1)
of this? Has come out and said he has confirmed his
of this? Has come out and said e 0 a1ne sl o e o ale 0 g s
of this? Has come out and said he has confirmed his home was
he has confirmed his home was raided, his mobile was seized,
raided, his mobile was seized, )
raided, his mobile was seized, he says that
raided, his mobile was seized, VRO E G )
raided, his mobile was seized, he says that he has no idea of
he says that he has no idea of )
he says that he has no idea of VAT L]
he says that he has no idea of any forging of
he says that he has no idea of VARG L)Y
he says that he has no idea of any forging of any document and
any forging of any document and has maintained the fact that he
has maintained the fact that he has never taken a vaccine and
has never taken a vaccine and e E
has never taken a vaccine and nor has his daughter. Mr
nor has his daughter. Mr Bolsanaro’s wife reaffirmed
Bolsanaro’s wife reaffirmed this,
Bolsanaro’s wife reaffirmed R 1 )
Bolsanaro’s wife reaffirmed this, she posted on her social
this, she posted on her social media on Instagram saying that
media on Instagram saying that s
media on Instagram saying that her husband has never been
her husband has never been vaccinated. The
her husband has never been VY - N e
her husband has never been VY - PN e
her husband has never been vaccinated. The head of the
vaccinated. The head of the s T ne )
vaccinated. The head of the Bolsanaro political party came
Bolsanaro political party came IT1Y
Bolsanaro political party came out on
Bolsanaro political party came N R
Bolsanaro political party came out on social media saying we
out on social media saying we nIe s
out on social media saying we AR ILAAR a1
out on social media saying we el
out on social media saying we trust that all legal doubts
trust that all legal doubts will
trust that all legal doubts Y
trust that all legal doubts IR - - e
trust that all legal doubts will be cleared up and it will
will be cleared up and it will be
will be cleared up and it will TN g
will be cleared up and it will be proven that Mr Bolsanaro did
be proven that Mr Bolsanaro did 018
be proven that Mr Bolsanaro did not commit any illegal acts.
not commit any illegal acts. AT
not commit any illegal acts. But this is just one of the
But this Is just one of the many scandals around Mr
many scandals around Mr Bolsanaro currently. He is also
Bolsanaro currently. He is also being investigated
Bolsanaro currently. He is also S RO LG R ]
Bolsanaro currently. He is also being investigated for some
being investigated for some )
being investigated for some hose at
being investigated for some N
being investigated for some hose at a ledger
being Investigated for some hose at a ledger devoted
hose at a ledger devoted suppression, for embezzlement
suppression, for embezzlement i
suppression, for embezzlement of foreign
suppression, for embezzlement R [
suppression, for embezzlement of foreign gifts among many
of foreign gifts among many s
of foreign gifts among many OER GG
of foreign gifts among many other things so again, another
other things so again, another I
other things so again, another dramatic turn
other things so again, another I A (oR Al g IRio s
other things so again, another dramatic turn for Mr Bolsanaro.
dramatic turn for Mr Bolsanaro. Very interesting story. Thank
Very interesting story. Thank IR
The US Federal Reserve on Wednesday raised interest
rates to their highest IR R
The Fed lifted its benchmark interest—rate by a quarter
of one percentage point, pushing its overnight interest
rate range to 5—5.25%.
Meanwhile on Capitol Hill,
the federal government could be unable to pay all of its bills
on time as soon as June 1, threatening the future
of US economy.
Earlier | spoke to Wendy Edelberg,
the director of the Hamilton Project
at Brookings Institution and former chief economist
at the Congressional NG LT 05 i [o-)
Wendy, thanks very much for I
Wendy, thanks very much for joining us. This is the 10th
joining us. This is the 10th rate
joining us. This is the 10th G
joining us. This is the 10th rate hike that
joining us. This Is the 10th rate hike that we have
LG R G TR G T [0 )] rate hike that we have seen in
rate hike that we have seen In (n
rate hike that we have seen In 14 months and resort Jerome
14 months and resort Jerome o ry -
14 months and resort Jerome Powell signal it may be the
Powell signal it may be the last hike at least for a while.
last hike at least for a while. Do you think that there are
Do you think that there are AT0 R
Do you think that there are more hikes
Do you think that there are R )
Do you think that there are more hikes to come? | believe
more hikes to come? | believe them
more hikes to come? | believe el e ez e
more hikes to come? | believe them when they say that the
them when they say that the decisions they make going
decisions they make going forward
decisions they make going e Ei Rl
decisions they make going o n i Eln R )
decisions they make going O E LG R R Y
decisions they make going forward will be entirely data
forward will be entirely data dependent. | think that there
dependent. | think that there T
dependent. | think that there is a chance that there is
RO ERCROEIR O ECRE another
Is a chance that there Is another hike
Is a chance that there is another hike or two in
Is a chance that there iIs another hike or two in the
another hike or two In the AR =T 01
another hike or two In the AN TR G
another hike or two In the future, but like MIC sufficient
future, but like MIC sufficient evidence that
future, but like MIC sufficient RO
future, but like MIC sufficient evidence that the very
evidence that the very substantial and very speedy
substantial and very speedy rate
substantial and very speedy 1N
substantial and very speedy rate hikes that they have put
rate hikes that they have put in place over a little over a
in place over a little over a 1
in place over a little over a 10
in place over a little over a year are slowing the
In place over a little over a year are slowing the economy in
year are slowing the economy in the
year are slowing the economy in eIl
year are slowing the economy in the United States. What
the United States. What VTl el
the United States. What VT a1 ae
the United States. What evidence are you seeing?
evidence are you seeing? Because inflation does remain
Because Inflation does remain stubbornly high.
Because inflation does remain stubbornly high. Sectors most
stubbornly high. Sectors most sensitive
stubbornly high. Sectors most NN 1)
stubbornly high. Sectors most sensitive are responding to the
sensitive are responding to the interest
sensitive are responding to the M )
sensitive are responding to the interest rate hikes, so the
iInterest rate hikes, so the housing market
Interest rate hikes, so the housing market in the United
housing market in the United 0
housing market in the United States is slowing
States Is slowing substantially. Investment is
substantially. Investment is slowing. Then, of course, we
slowing. Then, of course, we R0y
slowing. Then, of course, we TR0y AR )
slowing. Then, of course, we know the banking sector is one
know the banking sector is one i
know the banking sector is one of the primary places about
of the primary places about monetary policy has an effect
monetary policy has an effect and
monetary policy has an effect T R )
monetary policy has an effect MR N )
monetary policy has an effect and these rate hikes are having
and these rate hikes are having an
and these rate hikes are having T A o s
and these rate hikes are having an effect on the assets of the
an effect on the assets of the balance sheets of the banks and
balance sheets of the banks and that
balance sheets of the banks and IE
balance sheets of the banks and that is tightening credit
that Is tightening credit o aelin e o ol
that Is tightening credit o la el s b i
that Is tightening credit conditions. If we look
that Is tightening credit o a el TR R - o o] 10
that Is tightening credit conditions. If we look at what
conditions. If we look at what Democrats are saying we are
Democrats are saying we are seeing some saying that this is
seeing some saying that this is causing painful average
causing painful average Americans. It is making
causing painful average (A O E LG R G
Americans. It i1s making their bills
Americans. It i1s making their RT3 ]
Americans. It i1s making their bills higher, their
Americans. It is making their bills higher, their mortgage
bills higher, their mortgage payments higher. Isn’t that a
payments higher. Isn’t that a real
payments higher. Isn’t that a T 1o o n= s
payments higher. Isn’t that a T IR a1l s
payments higher. Isn’t that a real concern for the Fed as
real concern for the Fed as well? Of course it is, but what
well? Of course i1t Is, but what is
well? Of course 1t Is, but what is also
well? Of course it is, but what is also happening to households
Is also happening to households across the US, and particularly
across the US, and particularly Y
across the US, and particularly low income households, as they
low income households, as they are
low income households, as they IRl
low income households, as they are suffering from inflation
are suffering from inflation being far too high, so that is
being far too high, so that is the fed’s primary concern, and
the fed’s primary concern, and |
the fed’s primary concern, and IR 01 0s]
the fed’s primary concern, and | should say the labour market
| should say the labour market right
| should say the labour market o]y A T3
| should say the labour market right now is still quite strong
right now is still quite strong and so |
right now is still quite strong MO R R
right now is still quite strong NN 1] s
right now is still quite strong and so | think on balance
and so | think on balance households are doing remarkably
households are doing remarkably |
households are doing remarkably R
households are doing remarkably well all considering and | hold
well all considering and | hold oIIL s
well all considering and | hold out hopes for a soft landing. |
out hopes for a soft landing. | sl e
out hopes for a soft landing. | el R )
out hopes for a soft landing. | think there is a chance that
think there I1s a chance that the Fed
think there I1s a chance that e
think there I1s a chance that the Fed can pull
think there 1s a chance that the Fed can pull this off. What
the Fed can pull this off. What about
the Fed can pull this off. What E oo T R o)
the Fed can pull this off. What about the concerns about a
about the concerns about a recession? Do
about the concerns about a (IO D R
about the concerns about a recession? Do you think we
recession? Do you think we might slip into a recession? |
might slip into a recession? | sl e
might slip into a recession? | think we
might slip into a recession? | el R N 1)
might slip into a recession? | think we are properly in
might slip into a recession? | OIS R I I AL R (]
might slip into a recession? | think we are properly in for a
think we are properly in for a W 1]
think we are properly in for a w1 X0
think we are properly in for a couple of quarters of
think we are properly In for a couple of quarters of moving
couple of quarters of moving sideways, whether or that that
sideways, whether or that that T
sideways, whether or that that is a slight contraction or just
Is a slight contraction or just staying above zero. | think the
staying above zero. | think the best outcome
staying above zero. | think the I Ao Tinee - S
staying above zero. | think the O A oo a1 o
staying above zero. | think the A R e e R IR )
staying above zero. | think the best outcome is that we are
best outcome Is that we are o115
best outcome Is that we are able to move sideways a little
able to move sideways a little i
able to move sideways a little bit and
able to move sideways a little Y - Ta sl | o
able to move sideways a little bit and that is enough to bring
bit and that is enough to bring inflation down. Of course, if
inflation down. Of course, If the debt ceiling vines and the
the debt ceiling vines and the United States does not pay its
United States does not pay its 1
United States does not pay its bills, all bets are off. Would
bills, all bets are off. Would 1]
bills, all bets are off. Would you think Congress should do to
you think Congress should do to Tl I
you think Congress should do to improve the economic outlook to
improve the economic outlook to avoid
improve the economic outlook to NI |
iImprove the economic outlook to avoid a recession?
Improve the economic outlook to avoid a recession? The primary
avoid a recession? The primary sl e
avoid a recession? The primary think they can do is raise the
think they can do is raise the debt ceiling and
think they can do Is raise the debt ceiling and allow US
debt ceiling and allow US 1% YO BT
debt ceiling and allow US taxpayers to
debt ceiling and allow US YO VISR Ol o E )Y
debt ceiling and allow US taxpayers to pay our bills. So,
taxpayers to pay our bills. So, | guess
taxpayers to pay our bills. So, [ [T
taxpayers to pay our bills. So, | guess it is the old adage,
| guess it is the old adage, 373
| guess it is the old adage, "First, do no harm."
| guess it Is the old adage, "First, do no harm." | do you
"First, do no harm." | do you {aTls] 4
"First, do no harm." | do you think this fight could
"First, do no harm.” | do you think this fight could impact
think this fight could impact that long—term? | am immensely
that long—term? | am immensely RN
that long—term? | am immensely frustrated. There
that long—term? | am immensely S I L N S
that long—term? | am immensely frustrated. There is nothing on
frustrated. There Is nothing on the downside
frustrated. There Is nothing on eSS
frustrated. There is nothing on the downside if the debt
the downside If the debt ceiling doesn’t bind and the US
ceiling doesn’t bind and the US Treasury finds itself in a
Treasury finds itself in a T34y}
Treasury finds itself in a position where there is not
position where there is not enough money in
position where there Is not enough money in the checking
enough money in the checking account to pay all the bills
account to pay all the bills and
account to pay all the bills ETa L
account to pay all the bills and it has to do some juggling.
and it has to do some juggling. 111
and it has to do some juggling. This would be an unforced
This would be an unforced e
This would be an unforced S -1
This would be an unforced i - L
This would be an unforced error, and it would certainly
error, and it would certainly be —
error, and it would certainly ]
error, and it would certainly i
error, and it would certainly - AL
error, and it would certainly be — even if it just lasted a
be — even If it just lasted a 1] 0
be — even If it just lasted a 1 N
be — even If it just lasted a couple of days — for an
couple of days — for an Yo 888101 1]
couple of days — for an ol a0 e Do) s
couple of days — for an enormous blow to financial
enormous blow to financial 18 s
enormous blow to financial markets that
enormous blow to financial M IE IR R Lo 01 el
enormous blow to financial markets that would speedily
markets that would speedily work its way through to the
(LT TR VARG IR ([ ¥
(LT TR VARG IR ([ real economy, but if
work its way through to the real economy, but if it lasts
real economy, but If it lasts AT0 R
real economy, but If it lasts more than a couple of days, |
more than a couple of days, | Y00
more than a couple of days, | TR dYi 0T\
more than a couple of days, | am worryingly quite confident
am worryingly quite confident that
am worryingly quite confident IR As
am worryingly quite confident that it would tip us into
that it would tip us into recession. How do you think it
recession. How do you think it would impact the global
would impact the global economy? | can only imagine
economy? | can only imagine what other countries and what
what other countries and what T s =
what other countries and what international investors must be
international investors must be W T e}
international investors must be OILUGR L
international investors must be thinking right now about the US
thinking right now about the US g g
thinking right now about the US government and Congress. It
government and Congress. It e
government and Congress. It )
government and Congress. It must be enormously frustrating.
must be enormously frustrating. | mean, US Treasury, it is
| mean, US Treasury, it Is perhaps the most
| mean, US Treasury, it is perhaps the most important
perhaps the most important market across the entire
market across the entire International financial system,
International financial system, and |
International financial system, T s 10s]
International financial system, MR EERITE)
International financial system, and | am sure that the
and | am sure that the Treasurer will follow
E R R TR R [ Treasurer will follow the
Treasurer will follow the playbook that they laid out in
playbook that they laid out In 201 to
playbook that they laid out In 2011 to continue to make
2011 to continue to make TR e
2011 to continue to make interest payments on time. So
interest payments on time. So that, as long as they are able
that, as long as they are able to,
that, as long as they are able (R4 13
that, as long as they are able O AT
that, as long as they are able to, they would not strictly
to, they would not strictly defaults on US Treasury ponds,
defaults on US Treasury ponds, but
defaults on US Treasury ponds, I R
defaults on US Treasury ponds, but even given that, | am
but even given that, | am oo a1 ATe[=1n e
but even given that, | am o Al s dR e s
but even given that, | am o Al R IR
but even given that, | am oo Ao [ a R iR a = o o a e
but even given that, | am confident that the bond market
confident that the bond market across the globe would respond
across the globe would respond and
across the globe would respond EYa (s IR v
across the globe would respond and to be quite worried about
and to be quite worried about the
and to be quite worried about IS
and to be quite worried about RS
and to be quite worried about W RS IR T AL D)
and to be quite worried about W R TS R ST AL G T
and to be quite worried about the US Treasury not being able
the US Treasury not being able (0]
the US Treasury not being able to pay all of its bills, and |
to pay all of its bills, and | am sure the legal challenges
am sure the legal challenges would come quite swiftly and |
would come quite swiftly and | am not sure how the courts
am not sure how the courts would respond, and | suspect
would respond, and | suspect 81
would respond, and | suspect this would increase the US
this would increase the US borrowing cost
this would increase the US LT R ]y
this would increase the US borrowing cost for evermore,
borrowing cost for evermore, I
borrowing cost for evermore, it
borrowing cost for evermore, but it might also just create a
but it might also just create a general lack of confidence that
general lack of confidence that could be quite persistent.
could be quite persistent. Wendy, thank you very much for
Wendy, thank you very much for LG
Wendy, thank you very much for GGG TR
Wendy, thank you very much for joining us. Yeah, |
Wendy, thank you very much for I T CE L A R TS
Wendy, thank you very much for joining us. Yeah, | was happy
joining us. Yeah, | was happy to.
People in the UK are beginning their preparations
for the Coronation of King Charles, which will take
place next Saturday.
In the run—up to the ceremony, the BBC’s Special US
I I T Il G G been meeting with royal
families of other nations to see what lessons they might
have for Britain’s new King as a part of her new documentary
Europe’s Royals Revealed.
Katty, it is great to see you.
For your new documentary, you had the enviable job
of going to meet...
Someone had to do It.
..0f going to meet Europe’s other Royal families and seeing
how they live including Norway, you had an exclusive interview
with Princess Martha Louise.
Tell us about her story.
She Is a fascinating and quite o N eI 0 0ol
She Is actually the oldest child of King Harald
and Queen Sonia and she should have been queen by rights
but Norway’s succession laws weren’t changed
until she was
a teenager so her younger 1R BT el s ks
the throne.
She she Is kind of what In royal language they call
the "spare”, which is how Prince Harry refers to himself
and she had string of other controversial businesses.
She had a school where she taught people
to talk to angels, and she describes herself
as a clairvoyant.
She has a boyfriend who is a spiritual guru.
He’s a shaman, Shaman Durek.
In the Norwegian press, pretty controversial.
These are not the kind of things royals are
expected to do.
So | was really interested to talk to her to find out how
the Norwegian Royal Family has handled her
doing things kind of differently.
Here’s what she said.
There have been comparisons with Prince Harry and Meghan.
My fiance, Shaman Durek, and the Norwegian people,
| guess, everybody has decided that it is best
for me to step down
because of his views LT G
But what | think has been amazing through
this whole cycle has been the conversations we’ve all had
through 1t all.
From a very young age, | remember my mum and dad,
the King and Queen, saying that we have to stick together,
we have to talk things through, even if it’s hard.
We have to put all the cards on the table, we have to,
because we are family and we have to work things
through, through all R 1"
because there has been so many turmoils with me,
going, taking a different path than being
a traditional royal.
This will run ahead of the Coronation
of King Charles.
If you were suddenly to send him wishes for his reign,
and everybody of course is looking
(R (SO TTT=Y R o T I R Gl a1l ek
| remember my grandfather, King Olaf, he was such
a loved king.
My father feared going into that role after him,
because how could he fill those shoes?
And | think that’s the whole point,
you don’t fill his shoes.
So King Charles will be A= R a1
Absolutely, you can’t copy somebody else.
Katty, | really did notice that when she
talked about taking a different path and being a different
royal, it does remind me of Harry and Meghan.
So tell us about how her family has
handled all of this publicly?
She very much describes herself as somebody has done things out
of the box and, in a way, Prince Harry does as well.
And look, some of the things she’s done have caused
controversy in Norway, because there have been
suggestions of o A e e e
Was she using her royal title to make
money from her businesses?
And the Norwegians didn’t really like that.
| think the big difference is that it hasn’t caused a rift
In the family.
As she said, they sat down and spoke about it and | wanted
to kind of check out her story, '‘cause | didn’t want to think
It was just her telling of this, and | spoke
to the royal correspondent for a big tabloid magazine
In Norway who has been pretty critical of some of the things
Martha Louise has done, but said exactly the same
[l
the family loves each other.
Katty’s Documentary Europe’s Royals Revealed is available
on BBC Select here in the US and Canada, which is
distributed on Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV,
VTR G RV L =1y OGO T E YT
L1l o Tg s
It 1s all part of our culmination coverage
It is all part of our culmination coverage which will
culmination coverage which will YIS
culmination coverage which will air on
culmination coverage which will YT )
culmination coverage which will air on the BBC.
culmination coverage which will IR RN T el s
culmination coverage which will air on the BRC. Do tune
culmination coverage which will T BN e R -1
Stay with us here on BBC News.
Many of us had some beautiful late spring
sunshine on Wednesday.
In fact, in Bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours
of sunshine, a glorious day.
But top temperature, well, that was in South Wales,
In Gwynedd, just shy of 20 Celsius, and it felt
very pleasant indeed.
Now it’s not out of the question that we could see
20 Celsius on Thursday, but the weather story
Is certainly on the change with low pressure starting
to move In from the southwest.
So as we go through the day on Thursday, it’s a tale
of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off
the North Sea, affecting eastern England and northeast
We’ve got rain pushing into the southwest —
and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best
of the sunshine Is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll
see the best of the warmth.
The breeze still coming from an east direction,
so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight
edge to things.
A little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough
with highs of 19-20 Celsius perhaps in the southeast.
Now, as we move out of Thursday into Friday, that weather front
will continue to push its way steadily north.
It’WL bring outbreaks of rain as it does so,
and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
So on Friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
Now, as we move Into the start of the weekend, that
southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north
But unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
TR TS LI )R GO EO LI E R TR -
that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily
north as we go through the day.
So not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look
likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain
across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
And the wider picture throughout the Bank.
Holiday weekend — Saturday will be the wettest
of the days, Sunday and Monday, sunny spells and scattered
showers.
Some of them on Monday could be quite heavy.
Take care.
VOICE—OVER: This is BBC News.
We’ll have the headlines and all the main news stories
for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
| was at home when | got a phone call from the director
of news at the BBC saying that’s the Queen was gravely
1LL
He didn’t stand on ceremony or offer any small talk —
"Clive, how are you?"
He simply said "The Queen IV VAT T ]y
TR R
And | was preparing to fly to Italy on a filming trip
the next day and | thought...
| should go In.
| was in the Newsnight office because we’d had wind,
obviously with a note being passed through the House
of Commons, that something was happening.
| know | speak on behalf O RO RN AR TR TL LR
that we send our best wishes to Her Majesty the Queen
and that she and the Royal Family are in our thoughts
and prayers at this moment.
And of course there’s this big protocol, obviously,
If the Queen had passed away then Newsnight wouldn’t
be going on.
But simultaneously | was getting calls,
as we were waiting to see if this event was going
to unfold, | got a call from Don Macinnes who was running
the events coverage and he said "look, would you be able to get
yourself to Balmoral?”
So as soon as we heard that the Queen had in fact
died, Newsnight was obviously cancelled, so | got
on the train and then rushead home, threw all the black
clothes | could find in the car — because | didn’t know how
long | was going to be away — and put my foot down in the car
and sped to Balmoral.
And It was extraordinary because | was going through
the most rugged countryside to get there, | was thinking -
this Is extraordinary.
What moment in history, I’m going through the long road
at the Spittal of Glenshee WL GE IR 1y o
]
Not only for Scotland and the UK but for the world.
My colleague Kirsty Wark iIs at RO G - =
Yes, | think what you see behind me is almost in marked
contrast to what was happening at Buckingham Palace
because hundreds of people have been coming forwards
and backwards all day, laying flowers, making
tributes, but there Is an air of real peace
and respect and dignity.
When | got to Balmoral it was just — | went to find
the BBC point and it was just IR RO IR Bt 1]
OLN R L RO (T period of time, and that
started to unfold, where | was talking to people
who are coming In, where they were coming from,
a lot in Europe because, you know, walking down
R T A R Ty where she walked regularly.
A lot were local and a lot knew R ool il e e 1 B
Everybody brought their dogs, that was a great thing,
everybody had their dogs.
And there were tiny children, and there were much older
people, and there were people in wheelchairs, and this
continued all through the day until | can remember | left
at about 11:25. ..
..and there were still people coming with their iPhone
torches in wheelchairs, and walking, to deliver flowers
or just to stand and be there.
So, all through the day | was really watching
what people were doing and listening to them
and there were hardly talking.
And they literally wanted IR RO
| thought 1t was so incredibly moving — they wanted to come
to be near her.
Her relationship with Scotland was one of family, certainly,
but it was also one of being I LR LR G ST GG [T S
Being a girl that had been at Balmoral since
she was a baby, and in fact, | think there was a case
that the Queen had only ever taken two summer holidays
anywhere other than Scotland.
Her thread of ancestry goes all the way back to Robert
the Bruce’s and then through Mary Queen of Scots
and so forth.
You know, she was a truly Scottish monarch.
She was Elizabeth the first in Scotland because of course,
she was at the Elizabeth Il of Scotland, she was the first
In Scotland — but | think it was just about her sense
of place and her sense of belonging and | think
she felt that sense of belonging very strongly.
People would come up and ask me, you know,
If they were Spanish or perhaps, you know,
from another country, would come up and ask me,
what does this mean?
You know, what happens next?
And are the royal family going to come out?
Are they going to look at the flowers?
| mean, | didn’t know, | was keeping in close touch
with the palace and | kind of knew that the younger
members of the royal family were really desperately upset
so | really didn’t expect them to come out and look
at the flowers and look AR RAs o i
So, the members of the royal family have completed
their service of prayer at Crathie Kirk which of course
Is the Kirk the family all knows so well
Sometimes when you’re reporting on a grieving family,
it’s important that that SRR G EL LR
| think when you’re in a time of grief as a commentator
reporter, it’s about choosing the moment to speak and not,
as It were, blanketing the whole thing with your words.
So | think you’ve got to be able to take a pause
sometimes. ..
And let— really let what you’re seeing in front
of you or having g G RO 1 {0 G R
IV &Y
Tonally, it’s incredibly important not to be gushing.
Who wants gushing, you know?
All | thought about was this was someone’s mother
and grandmother.
And last year they lost their father and grandfather.
And what we expect of them is to be so public.
Grief Is grief, whether you’re the richest person in the world
or the poorest person in the world, it’s grief.
And | think everybody that watched those young royals
at that gate that day was thinking that.
| was very moved.
| wouldn’t like to have to do that.
And then there was a moment where as we went back
through the gates, the younger, the grandchildren, the children
of the grandchildren, stood and turned and waved
at the crowd and the crowd waved back.
It was amazing.
I’m also conscious when you’re reporting on grief stricken
times and events, you can reflect their grief,
you can empathise with their grief because you’ve
had your own grief with parental death,
but it’s not your grief.
TR R emoting particularly.
So I’m very conscious of taking a step back,
not Iin any form of coolness or anything, but, you know,
EICATT T I d T (o] ORI ez
(RGO E will always — | tear up now...
...always makes me cry, is the pipes.
When the pipes came down from Edinburgh Castle,
It was extraordinary.
Extraordinary.
BAGPIPES SKIRL.
What was really extraordinary for me, and | do love
the pipes, is that | went IR UERI N R R R A=
to the wedding of my daughter...
..where there was a piper.
You know, ‘cause Iit’s so much part of Scottish culture.
Punctuating big moments.
BAGPIPES SKIRL.
You are there to do your job, =1l YT R T (Y
on the whole time.
You’re thinking, you’re writing things, you’re
thinking of phrases.
You’re checking Il ROy
There’s still the producer in me that’s trying to grab
people and get people to come up to the microphone
and tell their stories and do all that running around stuff,
Trying to find food — R [iailal i
You know, going to the loo, finding a port—a—cabin,
JI IR LTI morning until night.
All of us were passing each other bits of bananas.
| think a lot of people came to Scotland hoping
they would be able to file past and see the Queen here,
thinking that actually the crowds wouldn’t
be so great.
VOED RGN [ R R T o] [T the Royal Mile to St Giles,
that was an extraordinary time, with the children
walking behind it.
And | thought, you know, this place has witnessed John
N e
It’s seen so many things, and now it’s seeing probably
the royal moment iR R 1Ty
And were you on air while that was happening?
Yes, we were on air, intermittently with London.
We were doing the 6:00pm and 10:00pm news as well.
You’re scribbling on pieces of paper, because I’m afraid
that’s all we had.
The Queen was a symbol of stability, continuity,
BN T RO e and almost the last line
of defence against the shattering of this country.
And | saw an element of that shattering during Covid,
and | will never forget the Queen’'s broadcast,
We should take comfort that, while we may have more
still to endure, better days will return.
We will be with our friends again.
We will be with our families again.
We will meet again.
In the moments of crisis, she kept us together,
and | think it’s important even for republicans
to remember that.
| was never introduced to her, but | was in the same
room as her.
She was — | don’t know, maybe two metres, three metres
away from me.
It was in South Africa.
| was the Africa correspondent, and she was there for
a Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Durban.
But my mother, who was a school teacher in Jamaica before
| was born, she led T R L T
to meet the Queen.
ARCHIVE: The Queen, who is the guest of the governor
during her stay, visits Sabina Park, where 35,000
schoolchildren wait to welcome her.
Their eyes shine R NI e
The Queen has come from a far—off land to see them.
It’s a moment they will cherish all their lives.
| spoke to my mum a couple of nights ago.
She said that, you know, she was really sad that
What did she say?
She said the brightest jewel in the crown jewels is no more,
and my dad told me that he cried when he heard
| said, "You felt that much emotion?"
He said, "Yes, because she never had a bad word
to say about anyone.”
He never heard her say anything bad about anybody.
And In an age where mouthing off is what you do to get
attention on so many levels, RO e R
and he respected that.
There I1s no doubt in my mind that, if the Queen could have
chosen somewhere, It would have been Balmoral
And In fact, obviously her health was failing,
and she was always at Balmoral for that period
In the summer, so maybe...
You don’t know what happens when people are near death.
You don’t know what happens, and you don’t know if it’s just
a letting go, and it is possible that that is where
she wanted to let go.
What did she mean to you?
It’s ke my mum, who died a number of years ago
at exactly the same age as her.
She even looked slightly like her.
So | think that idea of generationally knowing
where my mum was coming from and where the Queen
was coming from — | think she’s been the most extraordinary
negotiator for this country.
The diplomat par excellence.
So how do you wind down after this, especially given
that personally there Is a lot going on with your daughter’s
wedding?
| drove back to Glasgow, | put my black clothes away,
| filled the car with all the flowers and candles
and everything that we were taking to my daughter’s wedding
and drove up there.
Mad week 1in the office.
IR - W ¢ of planning — obviously
you plan as much as you can for most eventualities —
I’m not sure it was clear the proclamation was going
to be televised.
Good morning to you, Sophie.
There’s a little bit of a chill in the air here at St James’s
Palace.
The cloud of early morning has been shifting, moving above us,
but thankfully the incessant rain over the last few days
that greeted the passing R RO R e Y
When it became clear that it was going to be
televiseq, then preparations had to be put in place in order
to do that, because it’s the public declaration that
Charles is King.
Obviously as soon as the Queen passed away, Charles did become
King, but the public declaration of that came
at the proclamation ceremony.
It wasn’t the day before.
We’re going to go R Y R
This moment has never RN -
That has never been made public, what goes
on inside that room.
Just do a bit of research and get it right.
And on the balcony there, the trumpeters, the state
trumpeters, of the Household Cavalry and
the Serjeant—at—Arms will make the first
and principal proclamation.
You’re talking about an ancient ceremony that goes back
hundreds of years, but outside, you had a load of people
who wanted to see the spectacle, who had selfie
sticks and IPhones.
So there was a sort of a weird sort of mix
there between the ancient Yl R a - eare e laa
At the end of the day, at the proclamation
of a new king you’re remembering, to a degree,
the former monarch, the Queen who has died.
And indeed, it Is also where Prince Charles first
officially declares to the world that his
My lords, ladies and gentlemen, it is my most sorrowful duty
to announce to you the death of my beloved mother,
the Queen.
| know how deeply you, the entire nation, and | think
| may say the whole world, MU EIGER I GEuERD
the irreparable loss N N - IR a i e f
It Is the greatest consolation to me to know of the sympathy
expressed by so many to my sisters and brothers,
and that such overwhelming affection and support should be
extended to our whole family.
He fashioned it as a moment to be looking forward,
and that tempered the way that | covered the story.
It was slightly less sombre than if | was talking
| mentioned that | brought my own phone up to take a picture,
because no—one’s ever photographed it.
No—one’s ever been present at this moment.
And there’s about 1,000 people here, and as soon
as the trumpeters came out on the balcony, just before
the proclamation, a huge "ooh" went right through the crowd,
everyone ready for that proclamation of a new King.
And | have to say, I got my phone out too.
And | felt that tone was right for that moment,
because you’re looking forward.
You then go back to the ceremony and the pageantry
of the Queen’s death itself, RV R RS LR G R
at rest in Edinburgh, MR ORI R i o ¢
Aldermen and citizens of London and others do now hereby,
with one voice and consent of tongue and heart,
publish and proclaim that the Prince Charles Philip
Arthur George Is now, by the death of our late
sovereign of happy memory, become our only lawful
and rightful liege Y e TR
What did you take a picture of?
Trumpeters, and then the guy in all the regalia coming out
and saying, proclaiming, that King Charles IlI
Is King Charles III.
# God save the King...
That’s when all the selfie sticks went up, because someone
publicly declaring "Long live the King," when that hasn’t
been said since 1952 in this country, in the United Kingdom,
was quite a moment.
Hip—hip...
Hooray!
Hip—hip...
Hooray!
Hip—hip...
Hooray!
One has got used to sort of having a ringside seat
to various huge events, and | do take that
responsibility pretty seriously — that | am a viewer’s eyes
and ears on a particular story.
Tonight at 10:00pm, Russia warns it will launch strikes
on the capital, Kyiv, telling residents to
VRO (e o
And Iit’s important that there is someone doing that,
so It might as well be me.
AN TG T o [ international correspondent.
The latest information — explain why we’re down
here In the basement.
Life has gone increasingly underground in Kyiv...
You try to find the objective truth, and it’s not about my
bias or my ideas on Russia or Ukraine or whatever.
One country has invaded another, and it shouldn’t have
done it, and that’s the story.
And that is how you report it - you find the objective truth.
Is there anything you’d do with hindsight?
Uh...not that | can think of.
Damian Grammaticas Is standing nearby at Buckingham Palace.
Damian, the news a little bit earlier on today said
the doctors in Scotland were concerned about the Queen’s
health, coming as Liz Truss was making a rather important
statement concerning the future of energy bills.
That, of course, insignificant now given the gravity
of the situation we seem to be experiencing with Her Majesty.
We saw that you tweeted about the line around
the cost of living.
Is there anything that you would have said differently?
NI lo 8
People see what they want to see and read
what they want to read.
If people don’t think the best of you then they really do read
what they read into it, because they’re reading into it
the way they want to,
there’s nothing you can do about that, and that’s
something that doesn’t concern me in the slightest.
Everyone can have an opinion.
Anyone can have an opinion.
Opinions are two a penny.
It’s finding that truth that perhaps the majority of people
oG aRNC el gt aRe i H
And that’s vital, absolutely vital, because we’re in this
big debate about the role not just of the monarchy now
but the role of the BBC - you know, the licence fee
N R e s e ke Jadal
But If we’re not trying to find an objective truth,
I’m not sure what the point of this is.
Who do you imagine is watching when you are thinking about how
you’re delivering the news and the tone that you’re using?
=)
You know, | am thinking about me at home watching.
What is it that | would expect from an organisation
like the BBC in covering a story like this?
What would | expect?
| think about how | would feel, actually, a lot of the time.
And that has been, frankly, a lodestar throughout my career
In judging — trying to judge the mood when | cover a story.
VY
We will have a look at the coronation
We will have a look at the A A I L e l]s
In just a moment. There Is cold
in just a moment. There is cold YIS
in just a moment. There is cold air on Wednesday and
In Just a moment. There Is cold air on Wednesday and we will
air on Wednesday and we will T
air on Wednesday and we will see this weather
air on Wednesday and we will X RO IR iR a1 ns
see this weather fronts encroaching. Between that
see this weather fronts AGOE TG LR G E L
encroaching. Between that and the diminishing area of high
the diminishing area of high pressure
the diminishing area of high NG
the diminishing area of high pressure we have a stronger
pressure we have a stronger il
pressure we have a stronger wind. And Esau
pressure we have a stronger LT RN TGy
pressure we have a stronger wind. And Esau high easterly
wind. And Esau high easterly wind bringing cloud to eastern
wind bringing cloud to eastern oo in e el
wind bringing cloud to eastern Scotland and
wind bringing cloud to eastern o oo e e le IRl
wind bringing cloud to eastern Scotland and the northeast of
Scotland and the northeast of England and that brings but
England and that brings but |
England and that brings but rain into south—west England,
rain into south—west England, o 1011
rain into south—west England, South Wales
rain into south—west Englang, South Wales and increases the
South Wales and increases the rain in lreland so
South Wales and increases the rain in Ireland so this
South Wales and increases the rain in lreland so this will
South Wales and increases the rain in Ireland so this will be
rain In Ireland so this will be o 01118
rain In Ireland so this will be oo [ i
rain In Ireland so this will be o i I
rain in Ireland so this will be cooler with a stronger wind for
cooler with a stronger wind for eastern Scotland and the
eastern Scotland and the Midlands and particularly the
Midlands and particularly the Southeast
Midlands and particularly the el
Midlands and particularly the e T
Midlands and particularly the Southeast will be warmer than
Southeast will be warmer than o0
Southeast will be warmer than on Wednesday. Temperatures of
on Wednesday. Temperatures of 19
on Wednesday. Temperatures of (el YTL
on Wednesday. Temperatures of (R =
on Wednesday. Temperatures of RN RO
on Wednesday. Temperatures of 19 but even these could
on Wednesday. Temperatures of R NN R e I )
on Wednesday. Temperatures of 19 but even these could see a
19 but even these could see a bit
19 but even these could see a Y o) 8
19 but even these could see a i -]
19 but even these could see a bit of rain into the evening
19 but even these could see a WG TR RGO ERACRIR RS
bit of rain into the evening is that whether
bit of rain into the evening is IR A aRanelals
bit of rain into the evening is that whether front pushes
that whether front pushes northwards into the area of
northwards into the area of high pressure. Stronger winds
high pressure. Stronger winds in place on Friday in Scotland
In place on Friday in Scotland where
In place on Friday in Scotland R
In place on Friday in Scotland SRRl
in place on Friday in Scotland where we will find
in place on Friday in Scotland TR R R R [
in place on Friday in Scotland TR R R EGIER 1)
where we will find this rain easing, pushing its way further
easing, pushing its way further Aro N
easing, pushing its way further north into Scotland and
north into Scotland and LT
north into Scotland and LT
north into Scotland and following on from that the UK
following on from that the UK il
following on from that the UK will see sunshine but also
will see sunshine but also A e
will see sunshine but also ) el
will see sunshine but also showers and they could be happy
showers and they could be happy e
showers and they could be happy or potentially thundery as
or potentially thundery as well
or potentially thundery as oy T
or potentially thundery as T R e S
or potentially thundery as R s
or potentially thundery as well. The winds are lighter,
well. The winds are lighter, from
well. The winds are lighter, A0 IR
well. The winds are lighter, from the south or south—west,
from the south or south—west, (Vi
from the south or south—west, (L2
from the south or south—west, 15—=17 and we
from the south or south—west, L VAL Rl
from the south or south—west, 15—=17 and we still have the
15—17 and we still have the long
15—17 and we still have the L RYLG
15—17 and we still have the L LRGN
15—-17 and we still have the long wind of Scotland so
long wind of Scotland so temperatures
long wind of Scotland so S E RO
long wind of Scotland so temperatures lower here. Let’s
temperatures lower here. Let’s head into the coronation
head into the coronation weekends and it is a mixed bag.
weekends and it Is a mixed bag. At the moment
weekends and it Is a mixed bag. N - ale an - a ko
weekends and it is a mixed bag. X el a i o o] 3
weekends and it is a mixed bag. X R e et o R
weekends and it is a mixed bag. At the moment it looks like we
At the moment it looks like we will
At the moment it looks like we Y
At the moment it looks like we RN e
At the moment it looks like we will see better weather
will see better weather =1L
will see better weather L Rl
will see better weather arriving on Saturday. The dry
arriving on Saturday. The dry i) g
arriving on Saturday. The dry weather on Sunday before heavy
weather on Sunday before heavy ) o e
weather on Sunday before heavy A e e
weather on Sunday before heavy showers return on Monday. No
showers return on Monday. No doubt
showers return on Monday. No 01010 R nal:)
showers return on Monday. No doubt the detail and timings
doubt the detail and timings 1
doubt the detail and timings may change but this is the
may change but this is the general pattern
may change but this Is the general pattern that we have
general pattern that we have got as we
general pattern that we have [ A TR L
general pattern that we have got as we head into Saturday.
got as we head into Saturday. Again, more weather fronts
Again, more weather fronts WInlhl|
Again, more weather fronts coming in from the south—west
coming in from the south—west )
coming in from the south—west R )
coming in from the south—west so we will
coming in from the south—west R R 4
coming in from the south—west so we will seek cloud
so we will seek cloud thickening.
so we will seek cloud W [T C T BT YT | &S
so we will seek cloud thickening. Outbreaks of rain
thickening. Outbreaks of rain and pushing northwards across
and pushing northwards across many parts of England and
many parts of England and Wales. May Turner drive from
Wales. May Turner drive from the south later in the day.
the south later in the day. oo in e el
the south later in the day. Scotland and Northern Ireland
Scotland and Northern Ireland are
Scotland and Northern Ireland IR}
Scotland and Northern Ireland are seeing sunshine but also
are seeing sunshine but also ol o s
are seeing sunshine but also showers and those are typically
showers and those are typically 15—
showers and those are typically LT i)
showers and those are typically 15— 17 degrees. That does move
15— 17 degrees. That does move away overnight as the weather
away overnight as the weather front edges out to the North
front edges out to the North Sea and then we have got a
Sea and then we have got a little ridge of high pressure
little ridge of high pressure pushing in from
lttle ridge of high pressure pushing in from the Atlantic so
pushing Iin from the Atlantic so that means a dry day
pushing in from the Atlantic so that means a dry day on Sunday.
that means a dry day on Sunday. They will be a few showers
They will be a few showers around but not as many, not as
around but not as many, not as heavy. A lot of places will be
heavy. A lot of places will be dry with
heavy. A lot of places will be AT B )
heavy. A lot of places will be dry with some sunshine at times
dry with some sunshine at times ahead of
dry with some sunshine at times R R R4
dry with some sunshine at times LR BRI e
ahead of the next weather system
ahead of the next weather SRR InIh]
ahead of the next weather SRR R LRI
ahead of the next weather system coming in from the
system coming in from the Atlantic so a window of
Atlantic so a window of o] I g T s 11
Atlantic so a window of W] g T iR
Atlantic so a window of opportunity on Sunday. You are
opportunity on Sunday. You are having a picnic and the
having a picnic and the temperatures
having a picnic and the S E LT R
having a picnic and the S E IR G T
having a picnic and the temperatures could reach 18,
temperatures could reach 18, )
temperatures could reach 18, may be 19 in the southeast of
may be 19 in the southeast of England. But then we
may be 19 In the southeast of England. But then we saw the
England. But then we saw the Y4
England. But then we saw the Y ez e el
England. But then we saw the Y e sl A
England. But then we saw the next bend of rain coming into
next bend of rain coming into which
next bend of rain coming into Yt R 1
next bend of rain coming into which will sweep eastwards
which will sweep eastwards overnight and into Monday
overnight and into Monday morning together with a
morning together with a Ao 14
morning together with a stronger west to southwesterly
stronger west to southwesterly il
stronger west to southwesterly wind. The
stronger west to southwesterly LN s
stronger west to southwesterly wind. The rain bad
stronger west to southwesterly LR e le a0y 213
wind. The rain bad moves through followed by quite a few
through followed by quite a few A e
through followed by quite a few ) el
through followed by quite a few showers and some of those could
showers and some of those could be heavy on Monday so more
be heavy on Monday so more cloud on
be heavy on Monday so more o Tl sl
be heavy on Monday so more cloud on the Monday and the
cloud on the Monday and the )
cloud on the Monday and the i)
cloud on the Monday and the i e e
cloud on the Monday and the A A e - Vo
cloud on the Monday and the chance of some Arena so
chance of some Arena so temperatures not quite so high,
temperatures not quite so high, 1o 4
temperatures not quite so high, 1o @0y s
temperatures not quite so high, back down to 14—-16.
temperatures not quite so high, LT e RO [
temperatures not quite so high, back down to 14—-16. A lot
temperatures not quite so high, back down to 14-16. A lot going
back down to 14-16. A lot going o0
back down to 14-16. A lot going s
back down to 14-16. A lot going on over the coronation weekend.
on over the coronation weekend. Some rain in
on over the coronation weekend. Nt
on over the coronation weekend. IR R R R e o 13
on over the coronation weekend. RGN ENER R e e 1S s
Some rain in the forecast and GOILT]
Some rain in the forecast and looking further ahead into
looking further ahead into next week going to
looking further ahead into next LR ORCE
looking further ahead into next week going to keep a
looking further ahead into next W I RO G R D]
week going to keep a cool north—westerly wind for a time
north—westerly wind for a time and
north—westerly wind for a time ETa 0 100l
north—westerly wind for a time and some showers before that
and some showers before that high—pressure noses
S N R SR SR L high—pressure noses in
and some showers before that high—pressure noses in from the
high—pressure noses in from the Atlantic and produces showers
Atlantic and produces showers ahead of some rain coming in
ahead of some rain coming In from
ahead of some rain coming In A0 IR
ahead of some rain coming In AR A N el o
ahead of some rain coming In from the Atlantic so nothing
from the Atlantic so nothing particularly settled for the
particularly settled for the outlook and nothing
outlook and nothing particularly warm either. These
particularly warm either. These temperatures are near or
temperatures are near or slightly below average for the
slightly below average for the time
slightly below average for the Al a
slightly below average for the HNCRI R
slightly below average for the time of year. It will be
time of year. It will be present enough when the Sun is
present enough when the Sun is IT1Y
present enough when the Sun is YT o 01
present enough when the Sun is out but every now and then we
out but every now and then we could see a shower or two. That
could see a shower or two. That T
could see a shower or two. That is it. Goodbye.
Live from Washington.
This 1s BBC News, welcome to viewers on PBS in America.
Ukraine denies it’s behind any attack on Moscow
or President Putin after footage emerges of drone strike
on the Kremln.
The US Federal Reserve raises rates once again,
but could it be the last hike in a while?
A teenager Is arrested after eight children
and a security guard are shot dead at an elementary
school in Belgrade.
Hello, I’m Sumi Somaskanda.
First, news out of Ukraine, with explosions heard
In the capital of Kyiv.
Our correspondent Hugo Bachega, who was sheltering
underground, when the air raid alert in the capital went
off at around 02:20 am local time.
The BBC team heard at least one loud explosion
and the city’s air defence has been activated.
Earlier today, Ukraine says at least 21 were killed
INn an attack on Kherson.
Missile strikes hit a market, a railway station, a petrol
station and residential I Te
It comes as Ukraine’s President Zelensky denied
that his country carried out an alleged drone attack
on the Kremln.
Russia says it was an attempt on Vladimir Putin’s
This video, which appears to show the drone
attack, remains unverified.
Our analysis editor Ros Atkins has been taking a closer look.
Russia claims Ukraine try to kill Vladimir Putin
In the early hours of Wednesday.
This is the first video we have.
I el A
We see an object fly in from the left and
explode.
Now let’s pause here.
We know this i1s Moscow because this is Red Square.
LR R W Ty R GRS [
place with the Kremlin wall in the background and stands
for next year’s victory parade.
You can see those stands in the video too, meaning
it I1s also recent, and if we play the video
on and pause again, there is the object flying
towards the dome of the Senate Palace,
moments before it explodes we can see people on the dome.
We don’t know who they are or what they are doing.
Now Russia says it was attacked by two
unmanned aerial vehicles, in other words, drones.
We can’t confirm that, and if that is
one video, here are three more.
This Is a map of Russia, with Moscow in the west,
and all of these videos show this part of the city.
Here 1s the second.
The BBC’s verification team has
confirmed It was posted at 315 Moscow Time on Wednesday
morning.
We see the same dome with smoke rising
el
The words of the name of a local telegram channel
that posted the video.
This next video A LR
Palace dome with fire clearly visible, and then this shows
an object flying in from the right.
Again, we see an explosion.
Russia says all of this was a planned terrorist
act and an assassination attempt on the President,
but has provided no evidence to back that up.
Ukraine says it Is all staged by Russia.
As for Vladimir Putin, -l e lils
says he wasn’t there at the time of the incident
and these pictures from Reuters on
Wednesday showed the dome looking undamaged.
And while we try to work out what exactly it is these videos
show, both sides say I e e laa - IRt
Wl
The reaction in the West has been to urge caution
Russian claims.
US Secretary of State O VA UG I L
he would take anything the Russia presidency said
with a "very large shaker of salt",
while the White House Press Secretary
pointedly avoided inflammatory language.
Since the beginning of this conflict, the United States
are certainly not encouraging, or enabling Ukraine to strike
beyond its borders.
We have been very clear from here about that but again
| don’t want to get into speculation from here
about the authenticity of this report, so I’m just not
going to speculate from here.
Earlier, | spoke to retired el e
Stefft Twitty, formerly the Deputy Commander of US
European Command, and now at the Washington—based Center
for European Policy Analysis.
What is your first impression of hearing of these
explosions in Kyiv?
So a couple of things | would like to add
to what the commentator just talked about.
As you take a look at the video, you notice
you do not see a large explosion, and that tells me
that there was not a missile attached to this drone.
Normally if you’re going to go after someone and execute
an assassination, it’s going to be a missile
associated with that, like a hellfire missile
to target that particular individual, and it is normally
going to have its eye going in a window, or not
a window, a door or something of that nature.
So in this case we didn’t JLROE ] B
In regards to the attacks on Kyiv, one of the things
we need to also think about is the Ukrainians have
sald that they are going to do a counterattack, and Russia
started last week upping their missile attacks on Kyiv
itself, and | think RGN RO HUGTER R RGTE
this Is the Russians trying to throw or distract
the Ukrainians from their counter offensive,
put their mind somewhere else, have them have to do other
things Instead of initiating this counter offensive.
Keep them busy, in other words.
So what should Ukraine be doing, then, to prepare?
Well, | think they have done well over this past year,
and they particularly have been resilient,
with all these missiles attacking.
What we need to do 1s continue to get the additional air
defence systems in there, and the Ukrainians have sounded
that they are going to do this counteroffensive.
My assessment Is that they are probably not initiated this
counteroffensive for a couple of reasons.
Number one, the weather, it is still raining there,
so you’ve got muddy N e ads P
Number two, they are still waiting for much
of the ammunition that has been promised from the West,
and also they have new recruits coming in, and much
of the equipment SIS
So | think, as these conditions start to mature,
we will see the Ukrainians conduct this offence,
which will help with all the missiles and stuff falling
on them, because they will be able to go in and attack much
of these attacks that they are enduring right now.
General, you mentioned Ukraine waiting for ammunition.
We saw the US announcing it is sending Ukraine another
$300 million in weapons ahead of the Spring Offensive.
If those weapons arrive, do you think the Ukrainian
forces will be able to push back Russian fighters?
Well, the Ukrainians have shown that they are capable of doing
anything they put their minds to, you know?
Take a look at Kyiv, take a look at what they have
done in Kherson, and what they are continuing
to do in Bakmut.
The conditions they have asked R NG LR ] LR
they are capable of not only pushing the Russians back
across that 400 miles of disputed area, but they are
also capable of taking Crimea as well
The US Federal Reserve on Wednesday raised interest
rates to their highest IR R
The Fed lifted its benchmark interest—rate
by a quarter—of—one percentage point, pushing its overnight
interest rate range to five to 5.25%.
During the press conference, Chairman Jerome Powell
signalled that they might be ready to take a pause
on rate hikes.
The committee will take into account the cumulative
tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary
policy affects economic activity and inflation
and economic and financial developments.
We will make that determination meeting by meeting.
Earlier, | spoke to Jason Furman.
He’s the former Chairman of the White House Council
of Ecnomic Advisors.
Jason, thanks for joining us.
Are these rate hikes actually working to stabilise
the economy?
| hope so, | think so, but we can’t be sure,
because we don’t know Y R o ez Iwsi 1S
The good news is inflation expectations remain anchored.
Inflation isn’t rising, and that’s probably a lot
better than what would have happened, if the Fed hadn’t
taken these aggressive steps.
The bad news Is that inflation, underlying inflation at least,
when you subtract out food and energy, isn’t really
falling, so we haven’t seen very much, if any,
progress in underlying inflation, yet.
That’s what Jerome Powell = AR i Bl )
Is still too high.
This 1s the 10th hike In 14 months, and the Fed did seem
to signal that it might pause increases.
Would that be the right step?
| have no idea, ] Powell has no idea, and the reason
Is that we need to see what’s going to happen in the economy.
You know, a year ago, it was clear that interest
rates needed to be a lot higher, and so they were
on a path to go up, no matter what the data said,
they would still be on that upward path.
Right now, we don’t know how tight credit will be
as a result of the banking situation, we don’t know
the trajectory for unemployment, we don’t know
what’s going to happen to inflation, and so the Fed
Is, appropriately, | think, saying, we are going to collect
more Information, make that decision and we’re done
with telling you In advance what we are going to do,
because we ourselves don’t know in advance what we’ll be
going to do.
What are the economic indicators you are looking
Obviously, the most important is inflation.
That is ultimately what they are trying to bring down.
The problem is that inflation is probably one of the most
lagged indicators that there is.
A lot of the inflation, | believe, it’s emanating
from the very tight labour market, so looking at the broad
suite of things, you assess the tightness of the labour
market, most importantly the unemployment rate,
but also how many workers are quitting their jobs,
how many job openings, and then, finally, just how
much work Is the banking turmoil doing for the Fed?
How much of the Fed’s job is it doing, how much
Is credit actually contracting?
So there has been, of course, some criticism of the Fed
raising rates again, and | want to tell you what
Elizabeth Warren tweeted earlier today.
What do you think of some Democrats calling for a stop
to these rate hikes?
First of all, | would say, by the way, most economists
who are coming from the Democratic side actually
think that inflation is a problem, and have broadly
been supportive ORI TG
A number of the different doves in the economic debates have
been less dovish, and | think it’s for good reason,
because they understand that doing more now can be much less
costly than letting the problem grow, letting inflation get
entrenched, and then it is much harder to deal
with in the future, and so | think doing too little
today i1s what would risk millions and millions of jobs.
That’s what the Fed Is trying to control and | think
they are doing a good job of it.
But, again, these rate hikes have an effect
on households and businesses.
Absolutely, and | wish there was another way to bring
Inflation down, RO IR
Again, If we go a lttle more slowly, and take your time,
inflation will rise, IR R G
and more costly to get it down.
Why do you want to get it down?
I (S ] the American economy.
Low and stable inflation for decades was good
for workers and businesses, and it let the Fed act really
aggressively to combat the last couple of recessions.
We’d like to get that back, paying the price now
for it i1s a smaller price than the price we would have
to pay If we did it later on.
You mentioned the current banking situation, raising
rates, while we seen three major banks that have failed.
Is that dangerous?
| think these banks were real outliers, in terms
of their poor management and risk profile.
They were the ones that, right after Silicon Valley Bank
had a problem, we knew about the problems at First Republic
and Signature, so | think this is the end of this phase
of the banking crisis.
No—one knows for sure, but here’s the thing —
the Fed has more than one tool — it can change interest rates
but it also has a set of lending facilities,
the FDIC has programmes, RO E IR FIR G SR
and should continue to use, to contain any further issues
in the banking system, while keeping their policy
focus on an objective which is price stability.
The aim Is to avoid EN eSS i B
| certainly hope so.
| think the odds of a recession over the next year are 50-50,
but they are much higher than they would normally be.
Great to have you on the show.
Thank you very much.
Eight children and a security guard have been killed
In a school shooting in the Serbian capital
Belgrade.
Tonight, tributes have been laid for the victims
of the shooting.
In a televised address to the country, President
Aleksandar Vucic described the attack as "the most
difficult day in the modern SO RO g TAl
Three days of national mourning have been declared.
Police arrested a 13—year—old boy and said he’d
been planning the attack e R R ss
of the children he wanted to kill
Bethany Bell reports.
A 13—year—old boy Is led away by police.
He’s the main suspect in a mass shooting at one of the best
state schools in Belgrade.
He came to school with two guns.
He fired at the security guard and three girls
standing in the hallway.
TRANSLATION: | was walking up the stairs and while | was
walking up | could hear a sound,
L IR LTy it was maybe boys,
some kids throwing firecrackers and that they were having fun.
But then | could hear IR
and the sound was coming from in front of the school
And then | saw the security guard
falling to the groung, so | quickly ran from where
| was.
| didn’t want to go upstairs any more.
| didn’t know who was up there.
He then walked into a history class
where he shot the teacher before turning his weapon
Police say the shooter planned the attack a month in advance
and had drawn up a list of children to target.
The 13—year—old has been put in a specialist
psychiatric facility.
He Is alleged to have used two guns
belonging to his father.
Both his parents have since been arrested.
All day, people have come to pay their respects
OB - R R A
There Is a deep sense of shock and sadness here.
This Is normally a lively part of town, but the people
who live here say It’s never felt so quiet.
They are struggling to understand
how a day at school turned into a nightmare.
With candles and flowers, this city is mourning its dead.
Bethany Bell, BBC News, Belgrade.
Around the world and across the UK,
IR N Y
Putting their skills to the test.
It was all about accuracy for this weekend’s
hopefuls at Vista in the discipline called
Auto Solo.
Auto Solos can be AR IR e
It’s something you can do on tarmac or grass and it’s car
control
Driving around the course with cones, different
challenges against the clock, against competitors.
12 drivers took part in the event
at Vista Heritage, the prize?
Two places up for grabs to race IR E O R i -]
Motorsport UK moved to Oxfordshire in 2020
and Is hoping events like this can show how accessible
driving can be.
Great to see that there’s this stuff going on for disabled
people, getting people out,
getting people involved and showing them they can get
back into competitive sports.
You’re Live with BBC News.
The UN Secretary—General has called on the warring factions
In Sudan to stop the fighting, before the conflict escalates
into an all out war.
The comments come as the final flight, carrying British
nationals wanting to escape the fighting in Sudan,
took off, ahead of a new seven—day ceasefire
between warring military factions.
More than 100,000 people have fled to
neighbouring countries.
The fighting needs to stop and (0]
The fighting needs to stop and to stop
The fighting needs to stop and (VI (Y
The fighting needs to stop and to stop now stop
The fighting needs to stop and S I A O IGI L
The fighting needs to stop and to stop now stop aid must be
to stop now stop aid must be allowed
to stop now stop aid must be NI e (s
to stop now stop aid must be VY s a e e ]
to stop now stop aid must be YOS B R
to stop now stop aid must be YOS B e -l e
to stop now stop aid must be YO B R R R el
allowed In and we need secured an immediate access to give
an immediate access to give 0
an immediate access to give R
an immediate access to give help to people who most.
There’s new reason for hope In the battle against Alzheimer’s.
After major clinical trials, an experimental drug called
Donanemab has been shown to slow down the progress
of the disease significantly.
And that could have global Tl IO ES
The World Health Organization estimates that more
than 55 million people are living with dementia,
the most common form of which is Alzheimer’s.
That figure which is expected ORI Wi BT
by 2030.
And it will spike to 139 million,
R L A R 1
The Alzheimer’s Association in the US says more than 6
million Americans are QI LA O] TR 1 )
the disease.
Our Medical Editor Fergus Walsh has
been looking into the new drug, and has more.
Like this is like a highly significant
Like this Is lke a highly significant moment.
Like this Is like a highly significant moment. There are
significant moment. There are now two antibody drugs which
now two antibody drugs which can
now two antibody drugs which - A0}
now two antibody drugs which can slow early stage
can slow early stage Alzheimer’s disease. The drug
Alzheimer’s disease. The drug is
Alzheimer’s disease. The drug T =Y
Alzheimer’s disease. The drug is called Donanemab and it’s
Is called Donanemab and it’s given
Is called Donanemab and it’s ELERE
Is called Donanemab and it’s given is a monthly infusion. It
given is a monthly infusion. It e
given is a monthly infusion. It works by clearing a rogue
works by clearing a rogue e
works by clearing a rogue protein called amyloid which
protein called amyloid which G
protein called amyloid which builds up in sticky clumps in
builds up In sticky clumps In the
builds up In sticky clumps In el 118
builds up In sticky clumps In the brains of
builds up in sticky clumps In the brains of Alzheimer’s
the brains of Alzheimer’s patients. In a trial, it slowed
patients. In a trial, it slowed cognitive decline by around 35%
cognitive decline by around 35% s
cognitive decline by around 35% over 18 months in a group of
Q7T T DR [T ) nearly 1200 patients
over 18 months In a group of nearly 1200 patients with
nearly 1200 patients with early—stage Alzheimer’s. The
early—stage Alzheimer’s. The best
early—stage Alzheimer’s. The 3T s
early—stage Alzheimer’s. The I T 1
early—stage Alzheimer’s. The best results seen in trials so
best results seen in trials so e
best results seen in trials so far but there were some
best results seen In trials so far but there were some serious
far but there were some serious 3
far but there were some serious R w
far but there were some serious side effect. These two
side effect. These two volunteers died as a result of
volunteers died as a result of brain swelling. In November,
JETHEANL R LR AL T another antibody
brain swelling. In November, another antibody treatment was
another antibody treatment was the
another antibody treatment was il a
another antibody treatment was the first drug ever to show it
the first drug ever to show it could
the first drug ever to show it TR
the first drug ever to show it could use slow the progress of
could use slow the progress of Alzheimer’s disease. Dementia
Alzheimer’s disease. Dementia researchers say we are now
researchers say we are now Nl
researchers say we are now L]
researchers say we are now entering a new era where
entering a new era where Alzheimer’s is treatable. We
Alzheimer’s Is treatable. We really are seeing a
really are seeing a revolutionary point in how we
revolutionary point in how we treat our sinus disease so we
treat our sinus disease so we have the full results, the
have the full results, the regulators need to make quick
regulators need to make quick decisions so
regulators need to make quick RIS R E L] 163
regulators need to make quick decisions so patients that
decisions so patients that could
decisions so patients that o NI Tk
decisions so patients that o NI el dieRane nn
decisions so patients that could benefit from these
could benefit from these R N0 810
could benefit from these treatments are able to benefit.
treatments are able to benefit. We
treatments are able to benefit. YW N s
treatments are able to benefit. We don’t know how much it will
We don’t know how much 1t will cost but
We don’t know how much it will cost but luck and
We don’t know how much i1t will cost but luck and over
cost but luck and over £20,000 W0
cost but luck and over £20,000 per year per
cost but luck and over £20,000 T Ll FIA T
cost but luck and over £20,000 per year per patient wrote is
per year per patient wrote Is already licensed.
per year per patient wrote is already licensed. Dementia
already licensed. Dementia specialists say we will need a
specialists say we will need a &G
specialists say we will need a complete overhaul of services
complete overhaul of services Ll [Tl g0
complete overhaul of services including access to specialist
Including access to specialist brain scans if patients here
brain scans If patients here are to
brain scans If patients here TR o el Ao
brain scans If patients here are to benefit from
brain scans If patients here TR At AR At
brain scans If patients here are to benefit from these new
are to benefit from these new WIS
Police in the US state of Georgia say they’ve arrested
a suspect in connection with a shooting at a medical
facility in Atlanta on Wednesday.
24—year old Deion Patterson is in custody after five people
— all of them women - were shot inside a hospital
waiting room.
One of the victims has d O
Brazilian police raided former President, Jair Bolsanoro’s
home on Wednesday morning, as part of an investigation
i R R &Y [ vaccination records.
Police suspect his vaccine information was falsified
to gain entry into the US.
Three of Mr Bolsonaro’s assistants have been arrested
and his phone has been seized.
The ex—president denies any involvement and says he has
LI s
Preparatiopns by the government and the people are under way
(@R RO g L[ ]p) of King Charles this
Saturday in London.
But not all royals are made equal.
In the run—up to the festivities, BBC Special US
I I T Il G G LN L RGO
families of other nations to see what lessons they might
have for Britain’s new King.
It’s all a part of her new documentary ‘Europe’s
Royals Revealed.'" | spoke to here ahead of the release.
Katty, it is great to see you.
For your new documentary, you had the enviable job
of going to meet...
Someone had to do It.
..0f going to meet Europe’s other Royal families and seeing
how they live including Norway, you had an exclusive interview
with Princess Martha Louise.
Tell us about her story.
She Is a fascinating and quite o N eI 0 0ol
She Is actually the oldest child of King Harald
and Queen Sonia and she should have been queen by rights
but Norway’s succession laws weren’t changed
until she was
a teenager so her younger 1R BT el s ks
the throne.
She was Is kind of what In royal language they call
the "spare”, which is how Prince Harry refers to himself
and she had string of other controversial businesses,
she had a school where she taught people
to talk to angels, and she describes herself
as a clairvoyant.
She has a boyfriend who is a spiritual guruy,
he’s a shaman, Shaman Durek, and all of this has been,
In the Norwegian press, pretty controversial.
It’s not the kind of things royals are expected to do.
So | was really interested to talk to her to find out how
the Norwegian Royal Family has handled her
doing things kind of differently.
Here’s what she said.
There have been comparisons with Prince Harry and Meghan.
My fiance, Shaman Durek, and the Norwegian people,
| guess, and everybody has decided that it is best
for me to step down
because of his views LT G
But what | think has been amazing through
this whole cycle has been the conversations we’ve all had
through 1t all.
From a very young age, | remember my mum and dad,
the King and Queen, saying that we have to stick together,
we have to talk things through, even if it’s hard.
We have to put all the cards on the table, we have to,
because we are family and we have to work things
through, through all R 1"
because there has been so many turmoils with me,
going, taking a different path than being
a traditional royal.
This will run ahead of the Coronation
of King Charles.
If you were suddenly to send him wishes for his reign,
and everybody of course is looking
(R (SO TTT=Y R o T I R Gl a1l ek
| remember my grandfather, King Olaf, he was such
a loved king.
My father feared going into that role after him,
because how could he fill those shoes?
And | think that’s the whole point,
you don’t fill his shoes.
So King Charles will be A= R a1
Absolutely, you can’t copy somebody else.
Katty, | really did notice that when she
talked about taking a different path and being a different
Royal, it does remind me of Harry and Meghan.
So tell us about how her family has
handled all of this publicly?
She describes herself as somebody has done things out
of the box and, in a way, Prince Harry does as well.
And look, some of the things she’s done have caused
controversy in Norway, because there have been
suggestions of o A e e e
Was she using her royal title to make
money from her businesses?
And the Norwegians didn’t really like that.
| think the big difference is that it hasn’t caused a rift
In the family.
As she said, they sat down and spoke about it and | wanted
to kind of check out her story, '‘cause | didn’t want to think
It was just her telling of this, and | spoke
to the royal correspondent for a big tabloid magazine
In Norway who has been pretty critical of some of the things
Martha Louise has done but said exactly the same things,
the family loves each other and they come out of this much
stronger, had these conversations and been honest
with each other and there is a clear affection
between all of the members of the family, so even though
Martha Louise has been, sort of, in a way, the troublesome
royal, the troublesome royal child who hasn’t fit
into the box, done things differently, the family
has not been torn apart by It.
| guess that’s the big difference between the House
of Windsor and the Royal House of Norway and when the House
of Norway says, "We love each other,"”
the Norwegian population believes them.
Katty’s Documentary Europe’s Royals Revealed
Is available on BBC Select here in the US and Canada,
which is distributed on Amazon Prime Video,
Apple TV, and the Roku Channel.
VTR G RV L =1y OGO T E YT
Many of us had some beautiful late spring
sunshine on Wednesday.
In fact, in Bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours
of sunshine, a glorious day.
But top temperature, well, that was in South Wales,
In Gwynedd, just shy of 20 Celsius, and it felt
very pleasant indeed.
Now it’s not out of the question that we could see
20 Celsius on Thursday, but the weather story
Is certainly on the change with low pressure starting
to move In from the southwest.
So as we go through the day on Thursday, it’s a tale
of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off
the North Sea, affecting eastern England and northeast
We’ve got rain pushing into the southwest —
and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best
of the sunshine Is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll
see the best of the warmth.
The breeze still coming from an east direction,
so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight
edge to things.
A little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough
with highs of 19-20 Celsius perhaps in the southeast.
Now, as we move out of Thursday into Friday, that weather front
will continue to push its way steadily north.
It’WL bring outbreaks of rain as it does so,
and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
So on Friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving
T gy 1 England, into Scotland.
Sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
Sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
Now, as we move Into the start of the weekend, that
southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north
And the wider picture throughout the Bank.
Holiday weekend — Saturday will be the wettest
of the days, Sunday and Monday, sunny spells and scattered
showers.
Some of them on Monday could be quite heavy.
VOICE—OVER: This is BBC News.
We’ll have the headlines and all the main news stories
for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
Welcome to HARDtalk, I’m Sarah Montague. It’s more
Welcome to HARDtalk, I’m Sarah Montagque. It’s more than 60
Montague. It’s more than 60 e
Montague. It’s more than 60 CELE RS [
Montague. It’s more than 60 RS R U
Montague. It’s more than 60 years since the Dalai Lama fled
years since the Dalal Lama fled (0]
years since the Dalal Lama fled o o)L
years since the Dalal Lama fled oo L= a el
years since the Dalal Lama fled to bit and set up a
years since the Dalai Lama fled to bit and set up a government
to bit and set up a government in exile, hopeful of one day
In exile, hopeful of one day WL
In exile, hopeful of one day going back. Since then China
going back. Since then China has banned any mention of the
has banned any mention of the spiritual leader in his
spiritual leader in his homeland, and there are reports
homeland, and there are reports i
homeland, and there are reports of widespread human rights
of widespread human rights L
of widespread human rights abuses. My guest today is the
abuses. My guest today Is the Il
abuses. My guest today Is the president of
abuses. My guest today Is the I I R S
abuses. My guest today Is the president of that self—declared
president of that self—declared A7 g g gl
president of that self—declared government in exile, Penpa
government in exile, Penpa IR
government in exile, Penpa Tsering. Will
government in exile, Penpa L R
government in exile, Penpa Tsering. Will he ever get to
Tsering. Will he ever get to T
Tsering. Will he ever get to see his ancestral homeland, let
see his ancestral homeland, let )
see his ancestral homeland, let alone govern it?
Lol
Penpa Tsering, welcome to HARDtalk.
Penpa Tsering, welcome to TN:DIEE ]
Penpa Tsering, welcome to HARDtalk. Thank you. What is
HARDtalk. Thank you. What Is the
HARDtalk. Thank you. What Is R - 1R
HARDtalk. Thank you. What Is the dream, what
HARDtalk. Thank you. What is the dream, what is it you want
the dream, what Is it you want 018
the dream, what Is it you want for Tibet? Considering
the dream, what is 1t you want for Tibet? Considering the
(TR ] T T L [T [ Ry [ reality
(TR ] T T L [T [ Ry [ O
(TR ] T T L [T [ Ry [ ARG
for Tibet? Considering the reality of the situation and
reality of the situation and the common
reality of the situation and Lo nn nn e Inl N Rt ny
reality of the situation and Ao o e I R i
reality of the situation and the common interests of people,
the common interests of people, Aoy 4
the common interests of people, now we are asking for autonomy,
now we are asking for autonomy, s E
now we are asking for autonomy, A s
now we are asking for autonomy, rather than independence,
rather than independence, LT
rather than independence, genuine autonomy not only in
genuine autonomy not only In T8
genuine autonomy not only In name but also essence, that is
name but also essence, that Is what
name but also essence, that Is Y IR )
name but also essence, that Is IR )
name but also essence, that is what we are looking for. To
what we are looking for. To resolve the Sino to bit
resolve the Sino to bit o a1aiTan
resolve the Sino to bit oo A (ot ik e
resolve the Sino to bit conflict with nonviolence
conflict with nonviolence peaceful means through
peaceful means through negotiation should be mutually
negotiation should be mutually beneficial and lasting. Just to
beneficial and lasting. Just to be
beneficial and lasting. Just to Nl d
beneficial and lasting. Just to be clear the Chinese Foreign
be clear the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman said the
Ministry spokesman said the so—called government in exile
so—called government in exile E1
so—called government in exile as an out and out separatist
as an out and out separatist o]
as an out and out separatist political group, you say you
political group, you say you are no
political group, you say you SO L
political group, you say you are no longer that you accept
are no longer that you accept 3701}
are no longer that you accept R
are no longer that you accept W RIS
are no longer that you accept 07 R T o
are no longer that you accept type it is part of China? —— to
type it is part of China? —— to bit. Whether it is part of
bit. Whether it is part of China in future as a future to
China in future as a future to Bruce —— be resolved then we
Bruce —— be resolved then we can
Bruce —— be resolved then we )
Bruce —— be resolved then we W T g o
Bruce —— be resolved then we NIl i
Bruce —— be resolved then we can be part of China,
can be part of China, historically it has
can be part of China, SO o= WA LG E L
can be part of China, SO WAL E L L I
historically 1t has been a independent
historically it has been a independent country, what we
Independent country, what we are asking for,
iIndependent country, what we are asking for, considering
Independent country, what we are asking for, considering the
are asking for, considering the reality
are asking for, considering the 1A
are asking for, considering the =102 i )
are asking for, considering the reality of the situation inside
reality of the situation inside Tibet, whether the Tibetan
Tibet, whether the Tibetan identity will remain alive for
identity will remain alive for us, so to prevent the
us, so to prevent the W G
us, so to prevent the typewritten identity, lanquage,
typewritten identity, language, religion, way of life and the
religion, way of life and the environment, that is more
environment, that 1s more Tl T &1l
environment, that 1s more Tl e =L i]s
environment, that 1s more important for us.
environment, that is more important for us. We will
environment, that 1s more important for us. We will come
important for us. We will come onto
important for us. We will come e R
important for us. We will come R e
important for us. We will come onto that in a moment, | want
onto that in a moment, | want (0]
onto that in a moment, | want to make clear about your goals
to make clear about your goals because
to make clear about your goals T o Il ns)
to make clear about your goals because there isn’t a country
because there isn’t a country in the world that dispute
In the world that dispute China’s claim
In the world that dispute IR g B
In the world that dispute SRR RO e 18
China’s claim to sovereignty s
China’s claim to sovereignty N A )
China’s claim to sovereignty W LI D IR
China’s claim to sovereignty over Tibet. Do you still
over Tibet. Do you still dispute that because that
over Tibet. Do you still I NCRGE TR G E
dispute that because that is )
dispute that because that is e
dispute that because that is one of the reasons they say
one of the reasons they say there
one of the reasons they say e e NS
one of the reasons they say e N e
one of the reasons they say there is no point having
there Is no point having conversations? China
there 1s no point having conversations? China always,
conversations? China always, 3%
conversations? China always, they used to put this
they used to put this precondition for his Holiness
precondition for his Holiness (0]
precondition for his Holiness to say Tibet
precondition for his Holiness VAT G
precondition for his Holiness to say Tibet has been part of
to say Tibet has been part of o ]
to say Tibet has been part of China since antiquity, but that
China since antiquity, but that T
China since antiquity, but that is not the case, that is not
Is not the case, that is not the
Is not the case, that is not - Ras il
Is not the case, that is not the truth. Tibet
iIs not the case, that I1s not the truth. Tibet has
iIs not the case, that I1s not At M S Ll e
the truth. Tibet has been independent to Communist China
iIndependent to Communist China invaded Tibet. So that is the
invaded Tibet. So that is the reality,
invaded Tibet. So that is the CE (AT
invaded Tibet. So that is the reality, but we
Invaded Tibet. So that is the reality, but we leave
invaded Tibet. So that is the reality, but we leave the
reality, but we leave the independent status of Tibet
Independent status of Tibet aside
Independent status of Tibet YT o 01
iIndependent status of Tibet aside but ask for China
aside but ask for China autonomy, for
aside but ask for China SN\ OGS
aside but ask for China autonomy, for the benefit of
autonomy, for the benefit of the HARDtalk
autonomy, for the benefit of OO V&l
autonomy, for the benefit of the HARDtalk and the few —-—
autonomy, for the benefit of the HARDtalk and the few —— the
the HARDtalk and the few —— the I
the HARDtalk and the few —— the Tibet in the future. That
Tibet in the future. That autonomy what
LR R R T R F | autonomy what does
LA R R T TR | autonomy what does that
Tibet in the future. That autonomy what does that look
autonomy what does that look like,
autonomy what does that look ' CA S
autonomy what does that look R G
autonomy what does that look like, does that look like Hong
like, does that look like Hong Kong?
like, does that look like Hong O\ [0l
like, does that look like Hong Kong? Not necessarily, Hong
Kong? Not necessarily, Hong Kong people are completely
Kong people are completely A= R a1
Kong people are completely different to
Kong people are completely A RO e
Kong people are completely different to Tibetan people, we
different to Tibetan people, we are not Hong Kong Chinese. Does
are not Hong Kong Chinese. Does it look like Taiwan, they are
It look like Taiwan, they are A
It look like Taiwan, they are Chinese people? They are also
Chinese people? They are also A
Chinese people? They are also Chinese people. But they have
Chinese people. But they have more independence, this
more independence, this autonomy you talk about, how on
autonomy you talk about, how on earth cannot work? When we say,
earth cannot work? When we say, we are talking about avoiding
we are talking about avoiding extreme polarities, the
extreme polarities, the polarities in this case is the
polarities In this case Is the independent status of Tibet, on
Independent status of Tibet, on the
Independent status of Tibet, on eI )
Independent status of Tibet, on e e - als)
independent status of Tibet, on the one hand and the present
the one hand and the present oo oo lhuloln]
the one hand and the present oo als iAo s e} 8
the one hand and the present o a el a I 1 AR O e T et
the one hand and the present condition of Chinese occupation
condition of Chinese occupation in Tibet on
condition of Chinese occupation M e
condition of Chinese occupation in Tibet on the other hand so
in Tibet on the other hand so we need to find
in Tibet on the other hand so W R Rl
in Tibet on the other hand so we need to find a middle way.
we need to find a middle way. Indeed but your middle way I’m
Indeed but your middle way I’m trying
Indeed but your middle way I’m R
Indeed but your middle way I’m trying to envisage how it would
trying to envisage how it would work
trying to envisage how it would e & e
trying to envisage how it would work with you as a president of
work with you as a president of YR
work with you as a president of an autonomous region working
an autonomous region working alongside and with the Chinese
alongside and with the Chinese government? That is what his
government? That is what his Holiness said, autonomy means
Holiness said, autonomy means we are willing to live within
we are willing to live within the
we are willing to live within A = O o LW AuTRno]n
we are willing to live within A O LA n kT iAo s DEo] S
we are willing to live within O L ka iAo a e aRa o
the Constitution or the A 1eal 0 e 4
the Constitution or the framework of the Chinese
framework of the Chinese Constitution. Can you see that
Constitution. Can you see that WL
Constitution. Can you see that working? Autonomy means we are
working? Autonomy means we are willing to live within the
QUG RGN RV T R [ A 1eal 0 e 4
willing to live within the framework of the Chinese
framework of the Chinese Constitution. Can you see it
Constitution. Can you see it working, it is all very well
working, it is all very well LWL
working, it is all very well VLRG]S
working, it is all very well VLR AR 1)
working, it is all very well saying that, the reality? This,
saying that, the reality? This, |
saying that, the reality? This, (e Talal0]8
saying that, the reality? This, | cannot say what form of
| cannot say what form of autonomy will shape up, but
autonomy will shape up, but 81
autonomy will shape up, but TR
autonomy will shape up, but this is something that we need
this i1s something that we need (0]
this i1s something that we need to discuss
this i1s something that we need I [ ke
this Is something that we need ORI LR i R
this Is something that we need ORI i B e e
this Is something that we need to discuss with China and then
to discuss with China and then iTels]
to discuss with China and then ATafa BReI0L
to discuss with China and then ATa oMo TLR ia s L
to discuss with China and then find out what is possible. It
find out what is possible. It is
find out what is possible. It [T
find out what is possible. It is just that he you are
Is just that he you are STy 1 d o]
Is Just that he you are accepting something that
accepting something that clearly is not really the
clearly is not really the fI-E R
clearly is not really the dream, your dream is an
dream, your dream Is an independent
dream, your dream IS an independent Tibet. You
dream, your dream Is an independent Tibet. You have
Independent Tibet. You have T o 0]
Independent Tibet. You have T
iIndependent Tibet. You have accepted it, perhaps because
accepted it, perhaps because T )
accepted it, perhaps because since 1959,
accepted It, perhaps because since 1959, when the Dalai
accepted I1t, perhaps because since 1959, when the Dalai Lama
since 1959, when the Dalai Lama VYot
since 1959, when the Dalai Lama went into
since 1959, when the Dalai Lama AR )
since 1959, when the Dalai Lama T RO R U R )
since 1959, when the Dalai Lama went into exile, that dream is
went into exile, that dream is only
went into exile, that dream is A1)y
went into exile, that dream iIs VA T [Yg
went into exile, that dream iIs only gotten further and
went into exile, that dream is VAR T O =L R T [ ]
only gotten further and further away. You accept that? No,
away. You accept that? No, under the present
under the present circumstances, yes, but we
circumstances, yes, but we believe
circumstances, yes, but we A TSN 1
circumstances, yes, but we believe in impermanence, things
believe Iin impermanence, things BV
believe Iin impermanence, things have to change, in
believe In impermanence, things have to change, in China too,
have to change, in China too, GG
have to change, in China too, things will have to change. In
things will have to change. In the way they
things will have to change. In R E VAU ARV
things will have to change. In the way they have changed over
the way they have changed over the last six years, your dreams
the last six years, your dreams only
the last six years, your dreams VA1
the last six years, your dreams only got further away. Your
only got further away. Your e any
only got further away. Your Al o
only got further away. Your S B CE LT
only got further away. Your efforts at realising it had
efforts at realising It had ETIEY
efforts at realising it had failed? Failed, | don’t
efforts at realising It had failed? Failed, | don’t know,
failed? Failed, | don’t know, western view, if
failed? Failed, | don’t know, S R AR
failed? Failed, | don’t know, western view, if we have failed
western view, If we have failed we would be nowhere, | wouldn’t
we would be nowhere, | wouldn’t be speaking to you today. OK,
be speaking to you today. OK, s
be speaking to you today. OK, SR
be speaking to you today. OK, R IR e
be speaking to you today. OK, let’s talk about what you said
let’s talk about what you said 3
let’s talk about what you said is paramount concern,
Is paramount concern, preserving the
IS paramount concern, preserving the identity of
preserving the identity of Tibet
preserving the identity of I Y= ls
preserving the identity of Tibet and Tibetans. There are
Tibet and Tibetans. There are some very big claims made about
some very big claims made about s
some very big claims made about O
some very big claims made about what is happening in Tibet. You
what Is happening in Tibet. You said
what Is happening in Tibet. You B
what Is happening in Tibet. You said it is dying
what Is happening in Tibet. You 10 GG
what Is happening in Tibet. You said it is dying a slow death
said It Is dying a slow death under Chinese
sald It Is dying a slow death - )
sald It Is dying a slow death under Chinese rule, the US
under Chinese rule, the US Republican representative Chris
Republican representative Chris {oa1ins
Republican representative Chris Smith talks about it as a
Smith talks about It as a ongoing
Smith talks about it as a ongoing genocide, the Tibetan
ongoing genocide, the Tibetan Y n A3
ongoing genocide, the Tibetan Y LS AT 15t
ongoing genocide, the Tibetan activist Richard Gere talks
activist Richard Gere talks oY 018
activist Richard Gere talks oo 1 R 1o
activist Richard Gere talks about what is going on as
about what is going on as ey o}
about what is going on as matching the
about what Is going on as matching the definition of
matching the definition of a0
matching the definition of crimes against humanity. What
crimes against humanity. What are
crimes against humanity. What TR
crimes against humanity. What are you talking about that you
are you talking about that you X\
are you talking about that you VA
are you talking about that you say is such
are you talking about that you VAR )
are you talking about that you say is such a threat?
say Is such a threat? Politically, there is no space
Politically, there is no space whatsoever
Poltically, there Is no space Y o N - ko) 8
Poltically, there Is no space whatsoever for the
Poltically, there Is no space N e N i Rl
Poltically, there Is no space whatsoever for the Tibetans to
whatsoever for the Tibetans to O
whatsoever for the Tibetans to express their
whatsoever for the Tibetans to OIS RO CE LGS
whatsoever for the Tibetans to express their feelings, let
express their feelings, let LN R
express their feelings, let alone, do other things,
alone, do other things, o]
alone, do other things, political activities. So all
political activities. So all 1]y
political activities. So all your political actions are
your political actions are linked to the welfare of your
linked to the welfare of your near
linked to the welfare of your - e 1als)
linked to the welfare of your near and dear ones. | committed
near and dear ones. | committed Y
near and dear ones. | committed a violation today | have two
a violation today | have two sl e
a violation today | have two think many times, | may die |
think many times, | may die | )
think many times, | may die | may get scarred for life but
may get scarred for life but that
may get scarred for life but IE
may get scarred for life but that is my
may get scarred for life but G EIR ROV A
may get scarred for life but that is my kin and
may get scarred for life but WO L AL R g [
may get scarred for life but that is my kin and friend that
that i1s my kin and friend that will suffer
that is my kin and friend that will suffer because of that.
will suffer because of that. Just to if you
will suffer because of that. NSRRI
will suffer because of that. Just to if you set yourself on
Just to If you set yourself on iy
Just to If you set yourself on IS
Just to If you set yourself on T -
Just to If you set yourself on I - R
Just to If you set yourself on fire, one of the reasons not to
fire, one of the reasons not to alo)
fire, one of the reasons not to el s
fire, one of the reasons not to R 1
fire, one of the reasons not to do that is who
fire, one of the reasons not to AR IR i lo R ot
fire, one of the reasons not to do that is who would suffer
do that i1s who would suffer ATl e
do that i1s who would suffer after you
do that i1s who would suffer S R GV
do that is who would suffer after you have gone? That is
after you have gone? That Iis what the
after you have gone? That Is IR R et
after you have gone? That Is what the Chinese government
what the Chinese government does, all your actions are
does, all your actions are linked to the welfare of your
linked to the welfare of your near
linked to the welfare of your - e 1als)
linked to the welfare of your near and dear ones, that is the
near and dear ones, that is the gl 10T
near and dear ones, that is the G SIS
near and dear ones, that is the gridlock system, people don’t
gridlock system, people don’t have, you have to think many
have, you have to think many Al =1s
have, you have to think many times as | mentioned, 157
times as | mentioned, 157 IS
times as | mentioned, 157 Tibetans have self immolated so
Tibetans have self immolated so =1
Tibetans have self immolated so far, hoping against hope the
far, hoping against hope the Chinese government to pay some
Chinese government to pay some attention to
Chinese government to pay some RO R s
Chinese government to pay some attention to their plight,
attention to their plight, hoping against hope
hoping against hope international community will
International community will e8]
International community will come to
International community will RO R
international community will come to the rescue. That’s not
come to the rescue. That’s not happening. We are in a strange
happening. We are in a strange situation because you have
situation because you have e
situation because you have N
situation because you have AN )
situation because you have NN R RN e
situation because you have never been to Tibet? That’s why
never been to Tibet? That’s why (0]
never been to Tibet? That’s why ettt
never been to Tibet? That’s why R TN 0)Y
never been to Tibet? That’s why to fulfil my emotional needs |
to fulfil my emotional needs | 143
to fulfil my emotional needs | try to go to
to fulfil my emotional needs | ARG EN]
to fulfil my emotional needs | try to go to the in to be on
try to go to the in to be on board as much as possible to
board as much as possible to 1114
board as much as possible to seek Tibet from
board as much as possible to A AR R e s
board as much as possible to A ARt R R e -]
seek Tibet from the other side. what
seek Tibet from the other side. What you know about what it is
What you know about what it is like there, you make claims,
like there, you make claims, claims
like there, you make claims, o EH R )
like there, you make claims, claims we are talking about, do
claims we are talking about, do 1]
claims we are talking about, do you know how the welfare of the
you know how the welfare of the people
you know how the welfare of the ] X
you know how the welfare of the people of Tibet is best served?
people of Tibet is best served? We
people of Tibet is best served? ENICE A
people of Tibet is best served? We hear, we have
people of Tibet Is best served? We hear, we have Tibetans
We hear, we have Tibetans WInlhl|
We hear, we have Tibetans coming out
We hear, we have Tibetans WAL {00
We hear, we have Tibetans WIS TG L1
We hear, we have Tibetans coming out from Tibet, we have
coming out from Tibet, we have TSI R
coming out from Tibet, we have information, so we study the
information, so we study the situation
iInformation, so we study the situation inside Tibet. We
information, so we study the situation inside Tibet. We know
situation inside Tibet. We know what’s happening there.
what’s happening there. Painters a picture of the kind
Painters a picture of the kind i
Painters a picture of the kind of things you are talking
of things you are talking 1ol 1
of things you are talking about, which are eradicating
about, which are eradicating the identity of Tibetans? Just
the identity of Tibetans? Just like
the identity of Tibetans? Just XY
the identity of Tibetans? Just like every other
the identity of Tibetans? Just [ CERAE AU E T )
the identity of Tibetans? Just [ CEA A G E AT T o T
like every other culture, the Tibetan Buddhist culture is
Tibetan Buddhist culture Is also
Tibetan Buddhist culture Is O N Ve
Tibetan Buddhist culture is N G- o e
Tibetan Buddhist culture is also based on Tibetan
Tibetan Buadhist culture Is also based on Tibetan language.
also based on Tibetan language. Today, the Chinese government
Today, the Chinese government policies and programmes are all
policies and programmes are all aimed at eradication
policies and programmes are all Y e o B A e Lo f oz in o alo
policies and programmes are all aimed at eradication of the
aimed at eradication of the Tibetan language. At one time |
Tibetan language. At one time | really used to fear, democratic
really used to fear, democratic aggression from China because
aggression from China because there are more Chinese in Tibet
there are more Chinese in Tibet and
there are more Chinese in Tibet R
there are more Chinese In Tibet NI S e Y
there are more Chinese In Tibet and Tibetans. Now they have
and Tibetans. Now they have WG E [ 0]
and Tibetans. Now they have changed the tactic another have
changed the tactic another have started colonial style boarding
started colonial style boarding schools, where children from 3-—
schools, where children from 3— SiX
schools, where children from 3— RS
schools, where children from 3— six years old,
schools, where children from 3— R A
schools, where children from 3— six years old, a few
schools, where children from 33— six years old, a few years
schools, where children from 3— six years old, a few years back
six years old, a few years back it was only several hundred and
It was only several hundred and boarding schools. There are
boarding schools. There are AT0 R
boarding schools. There are more Chinese
boarding schools. There are RO -]
boarding schools. There are more Chinese in Tibet than
more Chinese In Tibet than Tibetans?
more Chinese in Tibet than I S YA )
more Chinese in Tibet than I S YA N 1)
more Chinese in Tibet than Tibetans? There are three
more Chinese In Tibet than Tibetans? There are three and
Tibetans? There are three and half million people in Tibet?
half million people Iin Tibet? That also
half million people In Tibet? That also depends on how
half million people in Tibet? That also depends on how you
That also depends on how you define
That also depends on how you N
That also depends on how you define Tibet geographically. In
define Tibet geographically. In the autonomous region of Tibet
the autonomous region of Tibet it
the autonomous region of Tibet T
the autonomous region of Tibet it is understood
the autonomous region of Tibet A ale [ e no oo IRz ns)
the autonomous region of Tibet I el a3 R e e
the autonomous region of Tibet it is understood there are 3.5
It 1s understood there are 3.5 million
It I1s understood there are 3.5 million people, how
It Is understood there are 3.5 million people, how many
it 1s understood there are 3.5 million people, how many are
million people, how many are Tibetan and how many are
Tibetan and how many are Chinese? Roughly, we still have
Chinese? Roughly, we still have problems counting military and
problems counting military and the
problems counting military and (R NI
problems counting military and the temporary labourers who
the temporary labourers who [EE)
the temporary labourers who keep moving in and out but
keep moving in and out but NUER Y
keep moving in and out but otherwise, the
keep moving In and out but otherwise, the whole of
kKeep moving In and out but otherwise, the whole of Tibet,
otherwise, the whole of Tibet, in the quote, traditional
in the quote, traditional Tibet, we are counting
RO CRR AL N ] Tibet, we are counting about 7
Tibet, we are counting about 7 2eTUI e Ys
Tibet, we are counting about 7 million Tibetans. But that was
million Tibetans. But that was around the world and in
million Tibetans. But that was IR N R R s - R R )
around the world and in China, what
around the world and in China, eI
around the world and in China, what I’m wondering is that in
what I’m wondering is that in the Tibetan
what I’m wondering Is that In the Tibetan autonomous region,
the Tibetan autonomous region, the area that we
the Tibetan autonomous region, IR RO R R )
the Tibetan autonomous region, the area that we were talking
the area that we were talking about, you said, that there are
about, you said, that there are more Chinese
about, you said, that there are MR - R e)
about, you said, that there are more Chinese than Tibetans but
more Chinese than Tibetans but there
more Chinese than Tibetans but U R
more Chinese than Tibetans but there aren’t, are the? Not
there aren’t, are the? Not (o g [T
there aren’t, are the? Not according to the census. The
according to the census. The A
according to the census. The census, again if you look
according to the census. The TR I Y TT RG] 1
census, again If you look at the Chinese
census, again if you look at R e S S
census, again if you look at the Chinese census of 2020,
census, again If you look at the Chinese census of 2020, how
the Chinese census of 2020, how AT TN AT
the Chinese census of 2020, how A An i
the Chinese census of 2020, how definitive it is in terms of
definitive it is in terms of S|
definitive it is In terms of defining residences...
defining residences... Professor Andrew Fisher a Tibet
Professor Andrew Fisher a Tibet Yol g
Professor Andrew Fisher a Tibet expert at
Professor Andrew Fisher a Tibet O 1L
Professor Andrew Fisher a Tibet expert at The Hague,
Professor Andrew Fisher a Tibet expert at The Haque, he looked
expert at The Hague, he looked s
expert at The Hague, he looked at the census
expert at The Hague, he looked AR ST ]
expert at The Hague, he looked at the census and says the hand
at the census and says the hand Chinese population is
Chinese population is increasing but from a very ——
Increasing but from a very —-— g%
Increasing but from a very —-— very low base but it still
Increasing but from a very —— very low base but it still is a
very low base but it still is a small minority
very low base but it still is a St WAl
very low base but it still is a small minority in the country,
small minority in the country, in the nation? That’s how much
in the nation? That’s how much that —— that depends on how
that —— that depends on how much you trust the Chinese
much you trust the Chinese numbers. You think there has
numbers. You think there has been a
numbers. You think there has N NER s
numbers. You think there has been a deliberate policy of
been a deliberate policy of = L o}
been a deliberate policy of allowing Chinese and to move
allowing Chinese and to move there? There has been but now
there? There has been but now there
there? There has been but now e e NS
there? There has been but now e R N a e e
there? There has been but now there is not as much as we
there Is not as much as we feared,
there 1s not as much as we feared, that
there Is not as much as we feared, that is
there I1s not as much as we feared, that is what | have
feared, that is what | have been
feared, that is what | have WYLl T iAo
feared, that is what | have been pointing out, that is why
been pointing out, that is why 3%
been pointing out, that is why ORI
been pointing out, that is why W TCROEL LT
been pointing out, that is why they are changing the policy to
they are changing the policy to S ]as
they are changing the policy to S R
they are changing the policy to start these boarding schools.
start these boarding schools. The boarding schools are for
The boarding schools are for what, Tibetan children who get
what, Tibetan children who get sent
what, Tibetan children who get L I\
what, Tibetan children who get TN VAR )
what, Tibetan children who get TN XA LG
what, Tibetan children who get sent away? Who are sent to
sent away? Who are sent to boarding schools, and in these
boarding schools, and in these boarding schools, then you are
boarding schools, then you are taught Chinese, the medium of
taught Chinese, the medium of instruction as Mandarin, you
instruction as Mandarin, you are taught Chinese
Instruction as Mandarin, you are taught Chinese history the
are taught Chinese history the Chinese
are taught Chinese history the IR e o))
are taught Chinese history the Chinese version of history they
Chinese version of history they are taught a version of
are taught a version of Communist China, then
IR o] - IY-TE Communist China, then you
are taught a version of Communist China, then you are
Communist China, then you are taught how to maintain your
taught how to maintain your allegiance to the Communist
allegiance to the Communist Party all that and Tibetan
Party all that and Tibetan lanquage
Party all that and Tibetan language is only four classes a
language is only four classes a week as
language is only four classes a Y TR
language is only four classes a week as they claim. China says,
week as they claim. China says, that actually what has happened
that actually what has happened in the region is that you
In the region Is that you have double digit
In the region is that you have double digit economic growth
double digit economic growth there
double digit economic growth e eI s
double digit economic growth there over quarter of a
there over quarter of a century,
there over quarter of a W10 g AR {1
there over quarter of a century, that poverty has
century, that poverty has reduced by 80%, that people
reduced by 80%, that people live longer, it was 35 in the
live longer, it was 35 in the 1950¢
live longer, it was 35 in the (LYo ls
live longer, it was 35 in the 1950s and now people live until
1950s and now people live until 3%
1950s and now people live until ORI
1950s and now people live until AR
1950s and now people live until they are 70. And
1950s and now people live until IR AL R
1950s and now people live until they are 70. And they cite
they are 70. And they cite these things as reasons China
these things as reasons China has benefited Tibet? If Tibet
has benefited Tibet? If Tibet had been left alone by
had been left alone by A NS
had been left alone by themselves or for themselves,
themselves or for themselves, it would have approached a
it would have approached a certain level
it would have approached a oG RN
it would have approached a certain level of development. |
certain level of development. | [
certain level of development. | Rl
certain level of development. | e[ ok isl &IA
certain level of development. | R SIS
certain level of development. | don’t think it is necessarily
don’t think It is necessarily 018
don’t think It is necessarily RO
don’t think It is necessarily for China to
don’t think 1t i1s necessarily O IR e an
don’t think 1t i1s necessarily for China to come to Tibet to
for China to come to Tibet to claim such development, of
claim such development, of I
claim such development, of course, every time when there
course, every time when there are
course, every time when there e G
course, every time when there are talks the Chinese say oh,
are talks the Chinese say oh, we developed Tibet so much, so
we developed Tibet so much, so why
we developed Tibet so much, so NI
we developed Tibet so much, so why are Tibetans complaining,
why are Tibetans complaining, the problem with the Chinese
the problem with the Chinese leadership they fail to
leadership they fail to Male [ 3= s 00|
leadership they fail to understand the real aspiration
understand the real aspiration i
understand the real aspiration of the
understand the real aspiration RS
understand the real aspiration of the Tibetan people. It is
of the Tibetan people. It Is a[]8
of the Tibetan people. It Is not just economic
of the Tibetan people. It is not just economic development,
not just economic development, 1
not just economic development, it is for China in problem or
it 1s for China in problem or o 01 fo]s
it 1s for China in problem or s NS
it 1s for China in problem or solution is economic
solution Is economic development. They don’t think
development. They don’t think oY 018
development. They don’t think about and their aspirations. Is
about and their aspirations. Is it too late, when a Reuters
it too late, when a Reuters journalist was taken there on a
journalist was taken there on a i1 d
journalist was taken there on a Eo 1 e ls]
journalist was taken there on a tour and admitted it
journalist was taken there on a i R
tour and admitted it was closely guarded and gquided, he
closely guarded and guided, he spoke to a monk at the historic
spoke to a monk at the historic ] 8
spoke to a monk at the historic temple, and when he was asked
temple, and when he was asked who was spiritual leader was he
who was spiritual leader was he said
who was spiritual leader was he R )
who was spiritual leader was he said the Chinese president. She
said the Chinese president. She Jinping. You know the situation
Jinping. You know the situation ]
Jinping. You know the situation R
Jinping. You know the situation in Tibet, if you don’t abide by
in Tibet, If you don’t abide by the words of the Chinese
the words of the Chinese YT - s
the words of the Chinese leaders you have a problem and
leaders you have a problem and 1]
leaders you have a problem and TR ]
leaders you have a problem and you can also
leaders you have a problem and TR R
leaders you have a problem and TR SRR UL
leaders you have a problem and you can also see that Chinese
you can also see that Chinese YT - s
you can also see that Chinese leaders are Communist but
leaders are Communist but {1 gul 4o}
leaders are Communist but forcing their pictures from
forcing their pictures from bouncy Tom, their pictures are
bouncy Tom, their pictures are fully
bouncy Tom, their pictures are T VAT BV R
bouncy Tom, their pictures are fully displayed. There are no
fully displayed. There are no pictures of the Dalai Lama in
pictures of the Dalai Lama In monasteries or anywhere? They
monasteries or anywhere? They are not allowed
monasteries or anywhere? They V- S e e
monasteries or anywhere? They are not allowed in the Tibetan
are not allowed in the Tibetan autonomous region.
=TI DR G R R ]y autonomous region. Are you
autonomous region. Are you fighting for something that can
fighting for something that can no
fighting for something that can HORGLTg
fighting for something that can RGOV
UL R TG TL R E eTy no longer exist because Tibet
no longer exist because Tibet has moved on? cannot either
has moved on? cannot either 011y o}
has moved on? cannot either summing up no
has moved on? cannot either IR LR G [y
has moved on? cannot either summing up no longer exists
summing up no longer exists because
summing up no longer exists - e
summing up no longer exists because Tibet has moved on? No
because Tibet has moved on? No WLy
because Tibet has moved on? No longer exist? As a people? No,
longer exist? As a people? No, the culture.
longer exist? As a people? No, AT -l s
longer exist? As a people? No, the culture. Whether you are
the culture. Whether you are (010
the culture. Whether you are too late. Whatever the rights
too late. Whatever the rights and wrongs of your claim, 60
and wrongs of your claim, 60 e
and wrongs of your claim, 60 years on, are you too late? Are
years on, are you too late? Are you fighting for something that
you fighting for something that no
you fighting for something that RO TN
you fighting for something that no longer exists? It’s been
no longer exists? It’s been g s oA
no longer exists? It’s been eroded, it’s been decimated.
eroded, it’s been decimated. That does
eroded, it’s been decimated. I e o - aTe s
eroded, It’s been decimated. That does not necessarily
eroded, it’s been decimated. That does not necessarily mean
That does not necessarily mean (0]
That does not necessarily mean to say
That does not necessarily mean T\
That does not necessarily mean to say that it no longer
to say that it no longer exists.
to say that it no longer S
to say that it no longer exists. Of course, every
exists. Of course, every community moves
exists. Of course, every T A
exists. Of course, every I T A R
community moves on, every country moves on
community moves on, every ANV I
community moves on, every country moves on and that is
country moves on and that Is A
country moves on and that Is AT
country moves on and that Is AR R
country moves on and that Is why, in exile, we have
country moves on and that is why, in exile, we have strived
why, In exile, we have strived g%
why, In exile, we have strived very hard over the last 63
very hard over the last 63 e
very hard over the last 63 years to re—establish most of
years to re—establish most of the
years to re—establish most of el nale eI [
VRO N R - LT g [ i) the monastic institutions in
the monastic institutions in Y]
the monastic institutions in YA
the monastic institutions in exile, in India,
the monastic institutions In exile, in India, Nepal, in
exile, in India, Nepal, In Bhutan and elsewhere and other
Bhutan and elsewhere and other o=]g e
Bhutan and elsewhere and other parts of world. You’ve said
parts of world. You’ve said previously, he said a couple of
previously, he said a couple of e
previously, he said a couple of years ago that they were back
years ago that they were back channels with China that
channels with China that TGl
channels with China that remained active, despite there
remained active, despite there being no official
being no official communications between the two.
communications between the two. Are
communications between the two. RO
communications between the two. Are they still active, do spill
Are they still active, do spill LY
Are they still active, do spill speak to
Are they still active, do spill OB GE
Are they still active, do spill speak to the Chinese? ——Do you
speak to the Chinese? ——Do you still? Yes. What purpose do
still? Yes. What purpose do 3%
still? Yes. What purpose do O A
still? Yes. What purpose do they serve? If
still? Yes. What purpose do AW RO
still? Yes. What purpose do they serve? If the Tibetan,
they serve? If the Tibetan, Sino Tibet
they serve? If the Tibetan, TN e s alTes
they serve? If the Tibetan, Sino Tibet conflict needs to
they serve? If the Tibetan, NN e A T LR o o
Sino Tibet conflict needs to be VR
Sino Tibet conflict needs to be resolved, there
Sino Tibet conflict needs to be W AR R
Sino Tibet conflict needs to be N RO R R )
Sino Tibet conflict needs to be N RO CRER R s
Sino Tibet conflict needs to be resolved, there is no other way
resolved, there is no other way than by talking to the Chinese
than by talking to the Chinese leadership. Abby spoken to the
leadership. Abby spoken to the A
leadership. Abby spoken to the Chinese leadership? Back
Chinese leadership? Back i
Chinese leadership? Back channels, yes. Which presumably
channels, yes. Which presumably T8
channels, yes. Which presumably means you have. Yes? What do
means you have. Yes? What do 1]
means you have. Yes? What do you ask for? First we have to
you ask for? First we have to build the contacts. We are not
build the contacts. We are not s
build the contacts. We are not at this stage. We have to
at this stage. We have to rebuild
at this stage. We have to Yo T IR
at this stage. We have to TG R R g 17w
at this stage. We have to rebuild the contact, it’s too
rebuild the contact, it’s too early to talk about right now.
early to talk about right now. One thing you
early to talk about right now. oL R G RTLTG IT|
early to talk about right now. One thing you did want to
One thing you did want to mention is
One thing you did want to M BRI s
One thing you did want to mention is for the Dalai Lama
mention Is for the Dalai Lama (0]
mention Is for the Dalai Lama D)
mention is for the Dalai Lama to be allowed
mention Is for the Dalai Lama to be allowed to
mention is for the Dalai Lama to be allowed to go
mention Is for the Dalal Lama to be allowed to go back to
to be allowed to go back to IS
to be allowed to go back to Tibet. We’re talking about
Tibet. We’re talking about somebody in late 80s. Is there
somebody In late 80s. Is there )
somebody In late 80s. Is there any chance that you can
any chance that you can conceive
any chance that you can o el
any chance that you can TN R 1
any chance that you can conceive of that happening? In
conceive of that happening? In the
conceive of that happening? In e
conceive of that happening? In R AR R
conceive of that happening? In the next months, yes, we are
the next months, yes, we are really hoping it will be able
really hoping it will be able (0]
really hoping it will be able to go back to Tibet. That
to go back to Tibet. That AR,
to go back to Tibet. That doesn’t mean you will stay back
doesn’t mean you will stay back Taine)
doesn’t mean you will stay back into bed. If he gets the
into bed. If he gets the opportunity to go to China,
opportunity to go to China, Tibet, he will go but he will
Tibet, he will go but he will return
Tibet, he will go but he will Tl I ¢
Tibet, he will go but he will return back to India. What’s
return back to India. What’s making you hopeful he will be
making you hopeful he will be o115
making you hopeful he will be able to
making you hopeful he will be L CRGNG[)
making you hopeful he will be able to go there, even on a
able to go there, even on a Halead
able to go there, even on a short visit?
able to go there, even on a e A )
able to go there, even on a short visit? We always remain
short visit? We always remain positive and hope. If there is
positive and hope. If there is no hope, we would
positive and hope. If there iIs no hope, we would not be
positive and hope. If there Is no hope, we would not be where
no hope, we would not be where Y
no hope, we would not be where we are today. Right. | want to
we are today. Right. | want to talk
we are today. Right. | want to & 018
we are today. Right. | want to 1@ o0 iR )
we are today. Right. | want to talk about the Dalai Lama now
talk about the Dalai Lama now and
talk about the Dalai Lama now ETee R 110
talk about the Dalai Lama now R I
talk about the Dalai Lama now R e o a )
talk about the Dalai Lama now and what is done because the
and what 1s done because the LYo g-1¢: 18
and what 1s done because the I VRS
and what is done because the secretary for debate
and what iIs done because the secretary for debate cosmic
secretary for debate cosmic Department education said,
Department education saidq, T )
Department education saidq, since Dalai
Department education said, since Dalai Lama defected, he
since Dalal Lama defected, he hasn’t done
since Dalai Lama defected, he hasn’t done anything good for
hasn’t done anything good for the Tibetan people. What do you
the Tibetan people. What do you think about that? That’s
the Tibetan people. What do you A LRI E IR k]
think about that? That’s what 3%
think about that? That’s what SR INEES
think about that? That’s what N EV AT
think about that? That’s what they always say and
think about that? That’s what OV IR R VAL R
think about that? That’s what they always say and we all know
they always say and we all know what his Holiness has been
what his Holiness has been doing
what his Holiness has been LTI
what his Holiness has been LR RGO
what his Holiness has been doing over the last 63
what his Holiness has been RO R G ER SRR [
doing over the last 63 years. RIS )
doing over the last 63 years. LSL R
doing over the last 63 years. Inside Tibet, there
doing over the last 63 years. SR SR R RS
doing over the last 63 years. Inside Tibet, there is no way
Inside Tibet, there is no way 1]
Inside Tibet, there is no way TR ]
Inside Tibet, there is no way you can do anything other than
you can do anything other than 13
you can do anything other than SR G
you can do anything other than inspire people and it’s because
Inspire people and it’s because i
Inspire people and it’s because of him that
Inspire people and It’s because A RO
Inspire people and It’s because AR I S s
Gl RO E LSRRI XS]
Gl RO E LSRRI desisting from
of him that Tibetans are desisting from any kind of
DRI ([ V-]
DRI ([ violence. It’s
desisting from any kind of violence. It’s not because
L RGN violence. It’s not because they
violence. It’s not because they cannot
violence. It’s not because they o100 LR )
violence. It’s not because they cannot take up violence. His
cannot take up violence. His Holiness said, if you take up
Holiness said, If you take up violence, | will not
Holiness said, if you take up violence, | will not be
violence, | will not be ]G
violence, | will not be S R
violence, | will not be responsible for the cost. That
responsible for the cost. That itself
responsible for the cost. That Tl
responsible for the cost. That itself is the influence of his
Itself is the influence of his RS
Itself is the influence of his Holiness on
itself 1s the influence of his Holiness on the Tibetans and
Holiness on the Tibetans and improving the
Holiness on the Tibetans ana improving the situation
Holiness on the Tibetans and improving the situation inside
improving the situation inside Tibet is
improving the situation inside I B
improving the situation inside Tibet is not in
Improving the situation inside Tibet is not in his hands but
Tibet 1s not in his hands but in exile, over the
Tibet Is not in his hands but in exile, over the last 63
in exile, over the last 63 R
in exile, over the last 63 R
In exile, over the last 63 years, we managed to
in exile, over the last 63 years, we managed to establish
years, we managed to establish contact
years, we managed to establish o a - T oo nnlan 0lalRn=1S
years, we managed to establish contact communities and in
contact communities and In these
contact communities and In ) IR ] o ELa
contact communities and In these compact communities, we
these compact communities, we have monastic institutions,
have monastic institutions, cultural institutions and so
cultural institutions and so A
cultural institutions and so on. That’s how we survived
on. That’s how we survived today. Let’s talk about what
today. Let’s talk about what happened in February when the
happened In February when the Dalai Lama, at a public and
Dalai Lama, at a public and iilse]
Dalai Lama, at a public and IR 1s
Dalai Lama, at a public and film event kissed a young boy
film event kissed a young boy on
film event kissed a young boy IR
film event kissed a young boy RO R
film event kissed a young boy on the lips and said to him, "
on the lips and said to him, " suck my
on the lips and said to him, " 1 VAR [ T
on the lips and said to him, " suck my tongue." How do you
suck my tongue." How do you explain that? This is a little
explain that? This is a little i
explain that? This is a little bit out
explain that? This is a little S YIaRo T 1R} R
explain that? This is a little bit out of the way. |
explain that? This is a lttle bit out of the way. | have not
bit out of the way. | have not -]
bit out of the way. | have not S
bit out of the way. | have not seen his Holiness in that sense
seen his Holiness in that sense in my 25 years of
seen his Holiness In that sense in my 25 years of association.
In my 25 years of association. You were surprised? When the
You were surprised? When the clip
You were surprised? When the W RN
You were surprised? When the clip came out, | was surprised.
clip came out, | was surprised. Shocked?
clip came out, | was surprised. il o e o3 o
clip came out, | was surprised. Shocked? Not shocked, because
Shocked? Not shocked, because 1
Shocked? Not shocked, because his Holiness intended, he is
his Holiness intended, he Is e o)
his Holiness intended, he Is someone who
his Holiness intended, he is someone who has been
his Holiness intended, he Is someone who has been practising
someone who has been practising Buddhism over the last 87 years
Buddhism over the last 87 years and
Buddhism over the last 87 years E Al R )
Buddhism over the last 87 years and there is no instance or
and there 1s no instance or -4
and there 1s no instance or e o e o]t
and there 1s no instance or track record of
and there I1s no instance or track record of his
and there is no instance or track record of his Holiness
track record of his Holiness having done anything of that
having done anything of that sort,
having done anything of that X a - 1a s
having done anything of that sort, and in
having done anything of that X - B IR 1
having done anything of that sort, and in that sense,
having done anything of that X B R - -
having done anything of that sort, and in that sense, | was
sort, and in that sense, | was a[]8
sort, and in that sense, | was not shocked, | was not even
not shocked, | was not even Y e l=Ne]
not shocked, | was not even T aa st ie
not shocked, | was not even TV Ru = s o T o)
not shocked, | was not even worried but of course, people
worried but of course, people will
worried but of course, people BN
worried but of course, people will have their opinion and
will have their opinion and 3%
will have their opinion and they have the right to their
they have the right to their opinion. It’s not surprising,
opinion. It’s not surprising, T
opinion. It’s not surprising, is it? An 87—year—old man says
Is It? An 87—year—old man says (0]
Is It? An 87—year—old man says o
Is It? An 87—year—old man says to a nine—year—old boy"
Is 1it? An 87—year—old man says to a nine—year—old boy" suck
Is It? An 87—year—old man says to a nine—year—old boy" suck my
to a nine—year—old boy" suck my tongue”. It’s not
to a nine—year—old boy" suck my tongue". It’s not surprising
tongue”. It’s not surprising I
tongue”. It’s not surprising people are shocked. If you
people are shocked. If you Y e
people are shocked. If you e )
people are shocked. If you e B R T a e
people are shocked. If you watch the whole video...
people are shocked. If you N I B R R [ TR e s
watch the whole video... Which | have. You
watch the whole video... Which 1 have. You will
watch the whole video... Which | have. You will know whether
| have. You will know whether 81
| have. You will know whether TR
| have. You will know whether I
| have. You will know whether this is a grandfatherly love or
this Is a grandfatherly love or RIS
this Is a grandfatherly love or lost. Suck my tongue. In the
lost. Suck my tongue. In the words of the survivors network
words of the survivors network those abused by priests, which
those abused by priests, which is
those abused by priests, which T
those abused by priests, which is a US organisation, they seen
Is a US organisation, they seen 87—year—old
Is a US organisation, they seen 87—-year—old man asking
Is a US organisation, they seen 87—year—old man asking a
Is a US organisation, they seen 87-year—old man asking a young
87—year—old man asking a young )Y
87—year—old man asking a young boy to perform a
87—-year—old man asking a young boy to perform a blatantly
boy to perform a blatantly sexual act in a public setting
sexual act in a public setting T
sexual act in a public setting A7
sexual act in a public setting IR ST R
sexual act in a public setting is very disturbing. Suck my
Is very disturbing. Suck my ][I0
Is very disturbing. Suck my tongue. Maybe
Is very disturbing. Suck my tonque. Maybe for
Is very disturbing. Suck my tongue. Maybe for Westerners,
tongue. Maybe for Westerners, T
tongue. Maybe for Westerners, T
tongue. Maybe for Westerners, it’s a sexual thing but into
it’s a sexual thing but into =L
it’s a sexual thing but into bed, when we were younger, we
bed, when we were younger, we Y|
bed, when we were younger, we used to be kissed, we used to
used to be kissed, we used to be
used to be kissed, we used to R
used to be kissed, we used to be served forward, elders would
be served forward, elders would = A e le)
be served forward, elders would GEVE LR Y
be served forward, elders would chew and give food to the
chew and give food to the [
chew and give food to the younger ones. That is natural.
younger ones. That is natural. But this "Suck my tongue" is
But this "Suck my tongue” is AT0 R
But this "Suck my tongue” is R
But this "Suck my tongue” is more like eat my tongue. The
more like eat my tongue. The I
more like eat my tongue. The whole video starts with, I’m
whole video starts with, I’m not
whole video starts with, I’m [ Y a1s]
whole video starts with, I’m not trying to
whole video starts with, I’m R RO )
whole video starts with, I’m not trying to blame the boy, it
not trying to blame the boy, it N1y
not trying to blame the boy, it S a R i)
not trying to blame the boy, it starts with his Holiness
starts with his Holiness arriving and the boy giving the
arriving and the boy giving the o e nllin
arriving and the boy giving the coconut as an
arriving and the boy giving the W T = LI T ][ (TS
coconut as an auspicious welcome to him
coconut as an auspicious A Po e - e el loa = a0
coconut as an auspicious P RO IR
coconut as an auspicious welcome to him and the his
welcome to him and the his Holiness sits there and the boy
Holiness sits there and the boy 1
Holiness sits there and the boy was also given the
UL IO R [ responsibility to
was also given the responsibility to present to
responsibility to present to NS
responsibility to present to give to his Holiness. Indeed.
give to his Holiness. Indeed. 13
give to his Holiness. Indeed. R
give to his Holiness. Indeed. In the boy comes back and asks
In the boy comes back and asks 018
In the boy comes back and asks for a
In the boy comes back and asks HIa- LI P
In the boy comes back and asks for a hug. Watching the whole
for a hug. Watching the whole sequence of it, one
for a hug. Watching the whole L K R R
for a hug. Watching the whole sequence of it, one is left
sequence of it, one Is left thinking, that was
sequence of It, one Is left thinking, that was very
thinking, that was very strange,
thinking, that was very (RG]
thinking, that was very strange, that was very strange
strange, that was very strange and arguably, people will
and arguably, people will I« [13
and arguably, people will suggest, look, this is somebody
suggest, look, this is somebody who is, what,
suggest, look, this is somebody VR IR YA 4
suggest, look, this is somebody who is, what, 877 87,
suggest, look, this is somebody who is, what, 87? 87, going
suggest, look, this is somebody who is, what, 877 87, going to
who Is, what, 87?7 87, going to be
who Is, what, 87?7 87, going to -
who Is, what, 87?7 87, going to be 88 And
who Is, what, 877 87, going to be 88. And there are... One of
be 88. And there are... One of the things that has been talked
the things that has been talked about is
the things that has been talked E e R R )
the things that has been talked about is the plan,
the things that has been talked R R EL
the things that has been talked about is the plan, if there is
about is the plan, If there is i)
about is the plan, If there is Il |
about is the plan, If there is such a one,
about is the plan, If there is O -8
about is the plan, If there is such a one, for his
such a one, for his reincarnation. He has said he
reincarnation. He has said he will appoint a Lama when he is
will appoint a Lama when he Is 90. How is
will appoint a Lama when he Is TN N AR e
will appoint a Lama when he Is 90. How is that going
will appoint a Lama when he is 90. How is that going to
will appoint a Lama when he iIs 90. How is that going to work?
90. How is that going to work? 111
90. How is that going to work? This is a
90. How is that going to work? IR R 1\
90. How is that going to work? This is a totally different
This Is a totally different 1] Tu
This Is a totally different subject. This is about his
subject. This is about his Holiness
subject. This Is about his Holiness reincarnation. The
Holiness reincarnation. The only official document that is
only official document that Is available right now
only official document that is available right now is the 2011
available right now Is the 2011 Yl
available right now is the 2011 September document and that
September document and that says
September document and that VLR
September document and that VRO EIRYa ]
September document and that VRO EIRH IS
September document and that says that when his Holiness
says that when his Holiness reaches
says that when his Holiness T i)
says that when his Holiness reaches the age of 90, he will
reaches the age of 90, he will ]
reaches the age of 90, he will take certain decisions. 87,
take certain decisions. 87, L]
take certain decisions. 87, going to
take certain decisions. 87, ILE RN
take certain decisions. 87, AL RO R ]
take certain decisions. 87, going to be 88 and in another
[N IR TR T [ I Ta [ 4T two years’ time, we
going to be 88 and in another two years’ time, we will go
two years’ time, we will go through certain procedures
through certain procedures T inalle
through certain procedures within the community and then
within the community and then T
within the community and then his Holiness, when he reaches
his Holiness, when he reaches 90, will be organising of
90, will be organising of meetings including religious
meetings including religious heads.
meetings including religious YA
meetings including religious NI
meetings including religious N IRl
meetings including religious heads. The reason | ask this is
heads. The reason | ask this Is that he
heads. The reason | ask this Is eI G
heads. The reason | ask this Is that he has been
heads. The reason | ask this is that he has been a pivotal
that he has been a pivotal il
that he has been a pivotal i TR L
that he has been a pivotal figure among Tibetans in exile,
figure among Tibetans in exile, campaigning around the world.
campaigning around the world. He
campaigning around the world. 1R Y
campaigning around the world. iR
campaigning around the world. He can’t travel so much now.
He can’t travel so much now. YT e
He can’t travel so much now. YT TS R ]
He can’t travel so much now. Whoever takes on that position
Whoever takes on that position could
Whoever takes on that position o1 o)
Whoever takes on that position could be very powerful or they
could be very powerful or they could be a
could be very powerful or they 1| RN |
could be very powerful or they could be a young boy unable to
could be a young boy unable to be involved for, what, 20
be involved for, what, 20 R
be involved for, what, 20 g
be involved for, what, 20 years, or indeed, a young girl,
years, or indeed, a young girl, e
years, or indeed, a young girl, a1t
years, or indeed, a young girl, or an American, or is it
or an American, or Is It S]]
or an American, or Is It possible that
or an American, or iIs it possible that somebody
or an American, or Is it possible that somebody was
or an American, or is it possible that somebody was a
possible that somebody was a fair bit older could be
fair bit older could be anointed as Lama? Those options
anointed as Lama? Those options e}
anointed as Lama? Those options are still
anointed as Lama? Those options TR o
anointed as Lama? Those options are still open. His Holiness,
are still open. His Holiness, when he
are still open. His Holiness, LN R
are still open. His Holiness, when he is asked whether it
when he Is asked whether it could
when he Is asked whether it o1 o)
when he Is asked whether it could be a woman, he says yes,
could be a woman, he says yes, it could be a woman. It could
It could be a woman. It could be
It could be a woman. It could N
It could be a woman. It could o0 etz a1
It could be a woman. It could NN s R i)
It could be a woman. It could be an American who is in their
be an American who iIs In their 3057
be an American who iIs In their Ll Lyl
be an American who iIs In their L 0 LY e T 105
be an American who iIs In their 30s? It could be
be an American who is in their 30s? It could be anybody. It
30s? It could be anybody. It might
30s? It could be anybody. It el )
30s? It could be anybody. It might not necessarily be
might not necessarily be a Tibetan. If he is from India,
Tibetan. If he is from India, he
Tibetan. If he is from India, R
Tibetan. If he is from India, SR
Tibetan. If he i1s from India, R e 1 =Y
Tibetan. If he i1s from India, he will be called Indian. If he
he will be called Indian. If he 3
he will be called Indian. If he is born in America, he will be
Is born In America, he will be an American. And when
Is born iIn America, he will be an American. And when China
an American. And when China declares
an American. And when China eI T
an American. And when China declares a llama as is expected
declares a llama as Is expected (0]
declares a llama as Is expected to do, what happens there? |
to do, what happens there? | bR
to do, what happens there? | don’t know, because the
don’t know, because the question is, | keep chiding my
question is, | keep chiding my Chinese
question is, | keep chiding my IR [
question is, | keep chiding my Chinese friends, saying, let us
Chinese friends, saying, let us T
Chinese friends, saying, let us R s
Chinese friends, saying, let us see whether his Holiness the
see whether his Holiness the Dalai Lama outlives the
Dalai Lama outlives the Communist Party of the
Communist Party of the @ laslns 018l
Communist Party of the Communist Party outlives the
Communist Party outlives the Dalai Lama. When the time
Dalai Lama. When the time R
Dalai Lama. When the time I N
Dalali Lama. When the time comes, if China
Dalai Lama. When the time comes, if China decides whether
comes, If China decides whether (0]
comes, If China decides whether D)
comes, If China decides whether to be around or not, whether
to be around or not, whether the time comes, if China
the time comes, If China decides to choose one in the
decides to choose one in the IS
decides to choose one In the Tibetans choose one, | tell the
Tibetans choose one, | tell the )
Tibetans choose one, | tell the Chinese government, do you want
Chinese government, do you want a lifelong problem on
Chinese government, do you want RN GL TG R LRI
a lifelong problem on your hands? Do you
SR UG T TG T T YT hands? Do you think you
a lfelong problem on your hands? Do you think you will
hands? Do you think you will s
hands? Do you think you will A T
hands? Do you think you will A R - i
hands? Do you think you will aver see Tibet... You were born
ever see Tibet... You were born T le )
ever see Tibet... You were born outside the country. | really
outside the country. | really Y o la Z1as)
outside the country. | really look forward to it. | think |
look forward to it. | think | would
look forward to it. | think | T o)
look forward to it. | think | would be able to go
TR RG T would be able to go back
look forward to it. | think | would be able to go back stop
would be able to go back stop realistically, when? Nobody
realistically, when? Nobody knows.
realistically, when? Nobody T b
realistically, when? Nobody knows. If |
realistically, when? Nobody L A R
realistically, when? Nobody L AR R
realistically, when? Nobody AR RCUR G
realistically, when? Nobody knows. If | can tell that, |
knows. If | can tell that, | would.
knows. If | can tell that, | e )
knows. If | can tell that, | would. There is a plan. 5-50.
would. There Is a plan. 5-50. Is it
would. There Is a plan. 5-50. IR
would. There Is a plan. 5-50. R
would. There Is a plan. 5-50. RIS
would. There Is a plan. 5-50. Is it five years, is it 50
Is it five years, Is it 50 LR
Is it five years, Is it 50 years? I’m
Is it five years, Is it 50 LY N Ll )
Is it five years, Is it 50 years? I’m not into
Is it five years, is it 50 years? I’m not into numbers,
years? I’m not into numbers, I’m more into practical things.
I’m more into practical things. 1
I’m more into practical things. In the practical next steps for
In the practical next steps for the government in exile | want?
the government in exile | want? Reach out to the Chinese
Reach out to the Chinese A7 g g gl
Reach out to the Chinese government and see
Reach out to the Chinese O LG R Y
Reach out to the Chinese government and see how we can
government and see how we can resolve this and reach out to
resolve this and reach out to the
resolve this and reach out to R
resolve this and reach out to the international community and
the international community and explain the situation to them.
explain the situation to them. Thank you very much for coming
Thank you very much for coming e
Thank you very much for coming on HARDtalk.
Many of us had some beautiful late spring
sunshine on Wednesday.
In fact, in Bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours
of sunshine, a glorious day.
But top temperature, well, that was in South Wales,
In Gwynedd, just shy of 20 Celsius, and it felt
very pleasant indeed.
Now it’s not out of the question that we could see
20 Celsius on Thursday, but the weather story
Is certainly on the change with low pressure starting
to move In from the southwest.
So as we go through the day on Thursday, it’s a tale
of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off
the North Sea, affecting eastern England and northeast
We’ve got rain pushing into the southwest —
and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best
of the sunshine Is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll
see the best of the warmth.
The breeze still coming from an east direction,
so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight
edge to things.
A little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough
with highs of 19-20 Celsius perhaps in the southeast.
Now, as we move out of Thursday into Friday, that weather front
will continue to push its way steadily north.
It’WL bring outbreaks of rain as it does so,
and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
So on Friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving
T gy 1 England, into Scotland.
Sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
Now, as we move Into the start of the weekend, that
southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north
But unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
TR TS LI )R GO EO LI E R TR -
that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily
north as we go through the day.
So not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look
likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain
across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
And the wider picture throughout the Bank.
Holiday weekend — Saturday will be the wettest
of the days, Sunday and Monday, sunny spells and scattered
showers.
Some of them on Monday could be quite heavy.
Take care.
no longer exist because Tibet has moved on?
Live from London.
This 1s BBC News.
Hours after Russia accuses Ukraine of carrying out a drone
attack on the Kremlin, explosions have been
are heard in Kyiv.
A Serbian teenager Is arrested after eight children
and a security guard are shot dead at an elementary
school in Belgrade.
The UN’s humanitarian chief says the two warring parties
are keen to continue fighting despite hopes of a ceasefire.
i
It IS a
It 1s a shocking crisis, first,
It Is a shocking crisis, first, e T
It Is a shocking crisis, first, because as you
It I1s a shocking crisis, first, because as you have heard, and
because as you have heard, and S
because as you have heard, and S
because as you have heard, and SRS
because as you have heard, and eyes | have now
because as you have heard, and SRR IR
because as you have heard, and eyes | have now heard, the
eyes | have now heard, the =0
eyes | have now heard, the I
eyes | have now heard, the tales of traumatic atrocity.
And the most difficult years of his career.
The billionaire businessman Sir Richard Branson tells
the BBC he thought he was going to lose his entire empire
In the pandemic.
Hello, I’m Sally Bundock.
A new wave of Russian airstrikes is under way
in Ukraine, with reports RO R 4\
and the southern cities of Zaporizhzhia and Odesa.
The raids come a day after Russia accused Ukraine
of carrying out a drone attack on the Kremlin it what it
claimed was an attempt to assassinate President Putin.
Ukraine has rejected accusations that it was
responsible.
Vincent McAviney reports.
Flying In
S\ R ]y
Flying in from the left, what appears to
Flying in from the left, what I IR Ol
Flying in from the left, what IR R
Flying in from the left, what appears to be a drone, then an
appears to be a drone, then an {0 I3y}
appears to be a drone, then an explosion over the Kremlin.
explosion over the Kremlin. 111
explosion over the Kremlin. This footage is
explosion over the Kremun. This footage is unverified
explosion over the Kremuln. This footage is unverified but
This footage Is unverified but the Kremlin says
This footage Is unverified but WO VAR 1Y
This footage Is unverified but the Kremlin says early on
the Kremln says early on Wednesday
the Kremlin says early on Wednesday morning, two drones
Wednesday morning, two drones targeted the residents of the
targeted the residents of the president. Moscow quick to
president. Moscow quick to blame Ukraine saying that
blame Ukraine saying that no—one was injured. On Russian
no—one was injured. On Russian state TV a dramatic
state TV a dramatic interpretation on this talkshow
interpretation on this talkshow S )Y
interpretation on this talkshow yesterday stop
interpretation on this talkshow S EY RS Ol
Iinterpretation on this talkshow yesterday stop it the presenter
yesterday stop it the presenter announced breaking news, an
announced breaking news, an attempt
announced breaking news, an S
announced breaking news, an attempt he says
announced breaking news, an EMC I CEE )V AR
announced breaking news, an attempt he says to assassinate
attempt he says to assassinate President Putin. President
President Putin. President ALY
President Putin. President A A
President Putin. President AW ALK
President Putin. President Zelensky on a visit to Finland
Zelensky on a visit to Finland N
Zelensky on a visit to Finland denies any Ukrainian
denies any Ukrainian involvement. We don’t attack
Involvement. We don’t attack President Putin or Moscow,
iInvolvement. We don’t attack President Putin or Moscow, we
President Putin or Moscow, we il [
President Putin or Moscow, we il A LT
President Putin or Moscow, we fight on our territory, we are
fight on our territory, we are defending our villages and
defending our villages and i
defending our villages and cities. We don’t have, enough
cities. We don’t have, enough weapons for this. In daylight
weapons for this. In daylight there
weapons for this. In daylight e e R LS
weapons for this. In daylight there was no obvious signs of
there was no obvious signs of damage to the Kremlin. But lots
damage to the Kremln. But lots i
damage to the Kremln. But lots of questions still, who
of questions still, who launched the drones, with what
launched the drones, with what P
launched the drones, with what a1
launched the drones, with what aim, it was this an internal
aim, it was this an internal L
aim, it was this an internal operation or
aim, It was this an internal operation or even
aim, it was this an internal operation or even a false
aim, It was this an internal operation or even a false flag
operation or even a false flag event, whatever
operation or even a false flag event whatever narrative
event, whatever narrative [ T o)
event, whatever narrative Moscow pursues, the United
Moscow pursues, the United 0
Moscow pursues, the United States is urging caution.
States Is urging caution. First,
States Is urging caution. ST N
States Is urging caution. ST A B BV
States Is urging caution. e B BN RO R U
States Is urging caution. First, | have seen the reports,
First, | have seen the reports, |
First, | have seen the reports, EeEi ks
First, | have seen the reports, LR
First, | have seen the reports, | can’t in any way validate
| can’t In any way validate =R
| can’t In any way validate them, we simply
| can’t in any way validate them, we simply don’t
| can’t In any way validate them, we simply don’t know.
them, we simply don’t know. Second, | would take anything
Second, | would take anything L]
Second, | would take anything Ll T
Second, | would take anything LT
Second, | would take anything I T A i T
Second, | would take anything coming out of the Kremlin with
coming out of the Kremlin with Y
coming out of the Kremlin with R0
coming out of the Kremlin with a very large shake of salt.
a very large shake of salt. Last week in Russia accused
Last week In Russia accused Ukraine of launching a drone
Ukraine of launching a drone 2081
Ukraine of launching a drone strike on a fuel depot on
strike on a fuel depot on Russian occupied Crimea. Days
Russian occupied Crimea. Days later bombs detonated and
later bombs detonated and derailed to freight trains on a
derailed to freight trains on a part of Russia near the
part of Russia near the Ukrainian border. Citing
Ukrainian border. Citing 3151
Ukrainian border. Citing security concerns several
security concerns several Russian regions have now
Russian regions have now counselled military parades
counselled military parades planned for May nine, victory
planned for May nine, victory day when Russians mark the
day when Russians mark the victory over Nazi Germany. But
victory over Nazi Germany. But Aoy 4
victory over Nazi Germany. But ATy AR )
victory over Nazi Germany. But A R A sl
victory over Nazi Germany. But now the Kremlin continues to
now the Kremlin continues to TS
now the Kremlin continues to ISR
now the Kremlin continues to insist the big red Square
insist the big red Square Parade in
Insist the big red Square Parade in Moscow will go ahead
Parade in Moscow will go ahead W10
Parade in Moscow will go ahead S NCROE
Parade in Moscow will go ahead despite the explosions last
despite the explosions last Gl
despite the explosions last night, unusually though red
night, unusually though red Square has been closed to the
Square has been closed to the public since
Square has been closed to the 1] I (R
Square has been closed to the public since the end of April,
public since the end of April, reflecting a sense of
reflecting a sense of e e
reflecting a sense of weariness. Whatever did
weariness. Whatever did EladiE ]\
weariness. Whatever did actually happen above the
actually happen above the Kremlin, supposedly one of the
Kremlin, supposedly one of the most secure seats
Kremlin, supposedly one of the ST -
Kremlin, supposedly one of the most secure seats of power in
most secure seats of power In the
most secure seats of power In R LR
most secure seats of power In the world, it is likely to
the world, it is likely to intensify this conflict.
Vincent McAviney, BBC News.
Let’s go to California now and speak to Colonel Brendan
Kearney, military analyst and a former Chief of Staff
for US Marine Corps LR AT] (o] 1D
Good to have you on the QO
Good to have you on the programme. What do you make of
programme. What do you make of this alleged drone attack on
this alleged drone attack on the
this alleged drone attack on -l € a4
this alleged drone attack on the Kremlin? Good to
this alleged drone attack on - e YA oo s o o o)
this alleged drone attack on the Kremlin? Good to be with
the Kremlin? Good to be with IR
the Kremlin? Good to be with 2] TR ]
the Kremlin? Good to be with you, I’m a sceptic, on a
you, I’m a sceptic, on a E {8
you, I’m a sceptic, on a variety of the options being
variety of the options being laid out, in terms of what this
laid out, in terms of what this might
laid out, in terms of what this nlle] a1 410
laid out, in terms of what this might be. Number
laid out, In terms of what this might be. Number one, | don’t
might be. Number one, | don’t sl e
might be. Number one, | don’t think was
might be. Number one, | don’t sl R 18
might be. Number one, | don’t think was an assassination
think was an assassination attempt on the part of the
attempt on the part of the Ukrainians. Number two, | think
Ukrainians. Number two, | think 1
Ukrainians. Number two, | think it might
Ukrainians. Number two, | think Il TS
Ukrainians. Number two, | think Il N
Ukrainians. Number two, | think it might be an assassination
it might be an assassination attempt by some of President
attempt by some of President Putin’s Russian opponents.
Putin’s Russian opponents. Three, false flag was mentioned
Three, false flag was mentioned by your correspondence, that’s
by your correspondence, that’s Y
by your correspondence, that’s a possibility, you provide an
a possibility, you provide an instant justification for the
instant justification for the Russians to go after President
Russians to go after President Zelensky. So that is three
Zelensky. So that Is three GG
Zelensky. So that Is three G
Zelensky. So that Is three things of the top
Zelensky. So that is three things of the top of my head,
things of the top of my heaq, 1l
things of the top of my heaq, all on said topics, but
things of the top of my head, all on said topics, but it’s an
all on said topics, but it’s an ugly situation that continues
ugly situation that continues between Russia and Ukraine.
between Russia and Ukraine. Y=Y
between Russia and Ukraine. When it
between Russia and Ukraine. wWhen it comes to
between Russia and Ukraine. When it comes to the incentive
When it comes to the incentive 018
When it comes to the incentive R
When it comes to the incentive for the Ukraine
When 1t comes to the incentive for the Ukraine to
When it comes to the incentive for the Ukraine to carry
When 1t comes to the incentive for the Ukraine to carry out
for the Ukraine to carry out this kind
for the Ukraine to carry out I ([ a
for the Ukraine to carry out this kind of attack on the
this kind of attack on the Russian capital, what incentive
Russian capital, what incentive would
Russian capital, what incentive T s
Russian capital, what incentive would it have? | would be hard
would it have? | would be hard I
would it have? | would be hard pressed to come up with one
pressed to come up with one e T
pressed to come up with one because literally what would
because literally what would happen here as
because Uterally what would happen here as we know
because Ulterally what would happen here as we know that
happen here as we know that 81
happen here as we know that IR
happen here as we know that this war is
happen here as we know that TR I e s
happen here as we know that TR TG D LT E T g
happen here as we know that this war is not popular in
this war is not popular In Russia, we know
this war Is not popular In Russia, we know President Putin
Russia, we know President Putin 3
Russia, we know President Putin is under a great deal of
IS under a great deal of T
IS under a great deal of pressure, from some of his
pressure, from some of his o e s
pressure, from some of his N R CU R
pressure, from some of his former friends, and from the
former friends, and from the Russian military over this war.
Russian military over this war. So
Russian military over this war. R
Russian military over this war. SR UIERAY
Russian military over this war. RG] X
Russian military over this war. So this type of an
So this type of an assassination
So this type of an I A G AR a1 ¢
So this type of an assassination that was
assassination that was I3 1
assassination that was successful, could very well
successful, could very well N
successful, could very well LI (0]
successful, could very well VRN
successful, could very well prove to be a catalyst support
prove to be a catalyst support 018
prove to be a catalyst support RN RS
prove to be a catalyst support for the Russian efforts, and |
for the Russian efforts, and | e Te) 4
for the Russian efforts, and | know that Ukrainians must be
know that Ukrainians must be W T e}
know that Ukrainians must be thinking along lines, so
thinking along those lines, so it
thinking along those lines, so 1 [TE
thinking along those lines, so it just doesn’t make sense to
it just doesn’t make sense to me as to why the
It just doesn’t make sense to me as to why the Ukrainians,
it just doesn’t make sense to me as to why the Ukrainians, if
me as to why the Ukrainians, if 3%
me as to why the Ukrainians, if they were attempting to
they were attempting to assassinate President Putin,
assassinate President Putin, why
assassinate President Putin, RGN
assassinate President Putin, why they would do it. There is
why they would do it. There Is VTR o) 1)
why they would do it. There Is variable positive
why they would do it. There is variable positive payback from
variable positive payback from a successful delivery. As
a successful delivery. As always the intervention from
always the intervention from the
always the intervention from IS
always the intervention from the US as one
L VR G R A=A G LR GTy the US as one of great
always the intervention from the US as one of great caution
the US as one of great caution e
the US as one of great caution on the part of
the US as one of great caution RGN E [l = (e [y
on the part of President Zelensky. We will support
Zelensky. We will support President Zelensky
Zelensky. We will support MG E L ] N TR
President Zelensky by Yo}
President Zelensky by SR
President Zelensky by exercising caution, he is not
exercising caution, he is not aven
exercising caution, he is not even in Ukraine
exercising caution, he Is not aven in Ukraine as |
exercising caution, he is not aven in Ukraine as | understand
even In Ukraine as | understand it he
even In Ukraine as | understand 1R
even In Ukraine as | understand i CRER)
even In Ukraine as | understand it, he is in Finland,
it, he is In Finland, interestingly
IR AL ET R interestingly there
it, he is In Finland, IS VARG ENG
1A - R A 1Ty e interestingly there have been
Interestingly there have been reports that President Putin is
reports that President Putin is 018
reports that President Putin is T s
reports that President Putin is not in Moscow, and | anybody
not in Moscow, and | anybody T R )
not in Moscow, and | anybody T R O
not in Moscow, and | anybody knows where he is on a pretty
knows where he Is on a pretty regular basis, it is the
regular basis, it is the Ukrainians.
regular basis, It is the Ukrainians. | think America’s
Ukrainians. | think America’s wise to not be judgemental
wise to not be judgemental Tlalel=)g
wise to not be judgemental under these, under the
under these, under the IRt a8l P18 0T
under these, under the I8 1 R )
under these, under the circumstances we are
under these, under the IRl NS R
under these, under the circumstances we are all aware
circumstances we are all aware i
circumstances we are all aware of right now. OK, Colonel, we
of right now. OK, Colonel, we C ] L
of right now. OK, Colonel, we appreciate your analysis on
appreciate your analysis on that story.
Police In Serbia say a boy who shot dead eight pupils
and a security guard at his school in the capital,
Belgrade, had planned I SR =T
for a month.
The 13—year—old suspect has been detained, along
with his parents.
Last night thousands of people attended a candlelit
vigil at the school.
From Belgrade, Bethany Bell reports.
A 13—year—old boy Is
A 13—year—old boy is led away
A 13—year—old boy Is led away by police. He is the main
by police. He is the main 1] oYt
by police. He is the main suspect in a mass shooting at
suspect in @ mass shooting at )
suspect in @ mass shooting at e
suspect in @ mass shooting at one of the
suspect in @ mass shooting at R RN s
suspect in a mass shooting at one of the best state schools
one of the best state schools in Belgrade stop he came to
In Belgrade stop he came to oo i
In Belgrade stop he came to school with
In Belgrade stop he came to oo o B iR o)
In Belgrade stop he came to school with two guns, he fired
school with two guns, he fired the security guard three girls
the security guard three girls standing in the doorway. | was
standing in the doorway. | was walking up the stairs and while
walking up the stairs and while | was
walking up the stairs and while (R LRE U [o}
walking up the stairs and while I was walking up
walking up the stairs and while | was walking up | could hear a
| was walking up | could hear a TR
| was walking up | could hear a 03010 s = 1a 18|
| was walking up | could hear a sound, and | thought it was
sound, and | thought it was maybe boys, kids throwing
maybe boys, kids throwing firecrackers and they were
firecrackers and they were having fun. Then | could hear
having fun. Then | could hear 1
having fun. Then | could hear it close in the sun was coming
it close in the sun was coming from
it close in the sun was coming g0 ol ie
it close in the sun was coming from in front of the
it close in the sun was coming AR oA el o AR s o o ]
it close in the sun was coming from in front of the school and
from in front of the school and |
from in front of the school and 1 had
from in front of the school and |1 had the
from in front of the school and | had the security
from In front of the school and | had the security guard
| had the security guard falling to the ground so |
GG TR G TR [ quickly
GG TR G TR [ G YA
GG TR G TR [ quickly ran from
falling to the ground so | quickly ran from where | was, |
quickly ran from where | was, | e ITs]
quickly ran from where | was, | R a1
quickly ran from where | was, | did want to go upstairs
did want to go upstairs anymore,
did want to go upstairs =l
did want to go upstairs anymore, | didn’t know who was
anymore, | didn’t know who was up
anymore, | didn’t know who was T R C-D
anymore, | didn’t know who was up there. He then walked into a
up there. He then walked into a history class where
up there. He then walked into a RO FE R EH LG
up there. He then walked into a history class where he shot the
history class where he shot the Y Te s
history class where he shot the T e R0 ns)
history class where he shot the teacher before turning his
teacher before turning his weapon on his fellow students.
weapon on his fellow students. Parents rushed to the scene,
Parents rushed to the scene, waiting in agony for you news
waiting in agony for you news i
waiting in agony for you news IR s
waiting in agony for you news IR el (e el
waiting in agony for you news of their children. Police say
of their children. Police say that
of their children. Police say eI eTeinc) s
of their children. Police say that shooter planned the attack
that shooter planned the attack a
that shooter planned the attack W asTo a1
that shooter planned the attack W asTe e ol 18
that shooter planned the attack R B E e
that shooter planned the attack a month in advance and had
a month In advance and had el e
a month In advance and had drawn up a list of
a month in advance and had drawn up a list of children to
drawn up a list of children to =1y
drawn up a list of children to target. Officials said the
target. Officials said the suspect
target. Officials said the I [Tl [
target. Officials said the suspect is alleged to have used
suspect Is alleged to have used two guns belonging
suspect is alleged to have used two guns belonging to his
two guns belonging to his father. His
two guns belonging to his I o IR ]
two guns belonging to his father. His father has not been
father. His father has not been arrested. His mother is also in
arrested. His mother is also In 0= 0 a0 e B
arrested. His mother is also In detention. —— ‘s
arrested. His mother iIs also In detention. —— ‘s father has
arrested. His mother i1s also In detention. —— ‘s father has now
detention. —— ‘s father has now been arrested. At 13 years
been arrested. At 13 years [
been arrested. At 13 years younger than the age criminal
younger than the age criminal responsibility in Serbia but
responsibility in Serbia but the Serbian president says he
the Serbian president says he will
the Serbian president says he Y
the Serbian president says he will be placed in a specialist
will be placed In a specialist psychiatric
will be placed in a specialist psychiatric facility. People
psychiatric facility. People BV
psychiatric facility. People have been coming to pay their
have been coming to pay their 1] w oS
have been coming to pay their respects to those who were
respects to those who were shot. There
respects to those who were LN
respects to those who were A LN
respects to those who were shot. There is a deep sense of
shot. There Is a deep sense of qaTee ¢
shot. There Is a deep sense of oTe o @ Tals)
shot. There Is a deep sense of shock and sadness here, this is
shock and sadness here, this Is normally
shock and sadness here, this Is IV
shock and sadness here, this Is normally a lively part of town,
normally a lively part of town, I
normally a lively part of town, TR R
normally a lively part of town, but the people who live here
but the people who live here X\
but the people who live here VAL
but the people who live here say it has never felt so quiet.
say It has never felt so quiet. They are struggling to
They are struggling to understand
They are struggling to Tlatel s 1a e ale) i
They are struggling to a3 e e A
They are struggling to understand how a day at school
understand how a day at school turned into
understand how a day at school sl
understand how a day at school turned into a nightmare.
turned into a nightmare. Candles and flowers, this city
Candles and flowers, this city T
Candles and flowers, this city is morning it’s dead.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news
Millions of people will go to the polls today in England
to vote In the local elections.
More than 8000 council seats are being contested
at 230 local authorities.
Voters will be asked to show photo ID for the first
time In England.
At least 130 people have died in Rwanda after floods
and landslides In parts of the country.
Officials say heavy rain hit northern and western provinces
early on Wednesday morning, causing homes to collapse
while people slept inside.
Rescuers are searching for survivors who remain trapped.
Deaths have also been reported in neighbouring Uganda,
where six people have died following landslides.
At least two people have been killed in floods in northern
1]\
Torrential rain caused the extensive flooding
which saw rivers bursting their banks.
Roads and rail services were badly affected
by the severe weather.
The rain follows months of drought with low water
VIR ) RGOS
The World Food Programme and US AID have suspended food
deliveries In Tigray in northern Ethiopia
following the discovery that relief aid had been stolen.
US AID said food shipments had NN e sl e el
on the local market.
The UN’s humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths has told
the BBC he has asked Sudan’s rival military leaders
to meet him face—to—face in the coming days to discuss
urgent protection for the delivery of aid.
He said 1t will be difficult to secure an end
to the fighting as the warring parties are keen to keep it
going.
Mr Griffiths spoke exclusively to our chief international
correspondent Lyse Doucet just after he visited Port Sudan
on Sudan’s Red Sea coast.
She began by asking him AN A RN S LR
i
It IS a
It 1s a shocking crisis first.
It Is a shocking crisis first. Because as
It Is a shocking crisis first. SN LRV
It 1s a shocking crisis first. Because as you have
It I1s a shocking crisis first. Because as you have heard, and
Because as you have heard, and E1
Because as you have heard, and as | have now heard, details of
as | have now heard, details of eI
as | have now heard, details of traumatic atrocity that we have
traumatic atrocity that we have seen, they have
traumatic atrocity that we have LR G A VR
traumatic atrocity that we have seen, they have seen, is
seen, they have seen, Is lighting up, are pretty
lighting up, are pretty unparalleled. That is
unparalleled. That Is appalling.
unparalleled. That is appalling. And as people so
appalling. And as people so that
appalling. And as people so IR
appalling. And as people so that will lead to a
that will lead to a generational problem of
generational problem of reconciliation anyway. The
reconciliation anyway. The oA
reconciliation anyway. The second, | think really, really
second, | think really, really LN
second, | think really, really deepening concerning aspect is
deepening concerning aspect Is the speed
deepening concerning aspect Is RS I L
deepening concerning aspect Is the speed at which
deepening concerning aspect is the speed at which it is going
the speed at which it is going el
the speed at which it is going viral and
the speed at which it is going VI e )
the speed at which it is going viral and the way in
the speed at which 1t is going viral and the way in which
viral and the way in which At ey
viral and the way in which efforts to get local
11T R ERTE N R 1Ty efforts to get local or
efforts to get local or temporary ceasefires have all
temporary ceasefires have all stumbled. Stumbled presumably
stumbled. Stumbled presumably s
stumbled. Stumbled presumably over the
stumbled. Stumbled presumably IR GER]
stumbled. Stumbled presumably over the rigid existential fat
over the rigid existential fat that
over the rigid existential fat IR )
over the rigid existential fat that there is
over the rigid existential fat MEIR N ]
over the rigid existential fat that there is a war —— those at
that there i1s a war —— those at e
that there i1s a war —— those at war are keen to
that there is a war —— those at war are keen to keep going. It
war are keen to keep going. It has all the makings of a
has all the makings of a tragedy
has all the makings of a WL R
has all the makings of a tragedy of global relevance and
tragedy of global relevance and global significance. And that’s
global significance. And that’s why
global significance. And that’s AL
global significance. And that’s ARG
global significance. And that’s A GIEREE]
global significance. And that’s why this is an opportunity for
why this is an opportunity for the
why this i1s an opportunity for R
why this i1s an opportunity for the international community to
the international community to a4
the international community to show we
the international community to A A 1
the international community to AR - o1 018
the international community to show we care about Africa.
show we care about Africa. DITTENT]
show we care about Africa. DI s R )1]g
show we care about Africa. DI LR [
show we care about Africa. During your time in Port Sudan
During your time in Port Sudan had telephone conversations
had telephone conversations with two warring leaders, what
with two warring leaders, what did you hear from them? What
did you hear from them? What assurances did you get? What |
assurances did you get? What | said
assurances did you get? What | - 1Ts IR o)
assurances did you get? What | B R0
assurances did you get? What | said to them was this, said
sald to them was this, said 81
sald to them was this, said TR
sald to them was this, said this is specific
said to them was this, said this is specific protections
this Is specific protections 018
this Is specific protections R
this Is specific protections R
this 1s specific protections R ey ]
this 1s specific protections TR 0 I 1a e B0
this 1s specific protections for the move and of aid
for the move and of aid workers, persons, people, and
workers, persons, people, and goods and supplies. Going down
goods and supplies. Going down certain roads at certain times,
certain roads at certain times, airlift being protected from
airliftt being protected from being shot
airlift being protected from being shot down, very concrete
being shot down, very concrete requests. But you need to give
requests. But you need to give us those assurances, | want to
us those assurances, | want to e
us those assurances, | want to meet you to go through those
meet you to go through those assurances, so
meet you to go through those SN G TR [
meet you to go through those assurances, so they were both
assurances, so they were both obviously separately very
obviously separately very eloquent their attachment to
eloquent their attachment to humanitarian principles and
humanitarian principles and aspirations, on the question of
aspirations, on the question of where and when can we meet, and
where and when can we meet, and Ty
where and when can we meet, and TS
where and when can we meet, and it is obviously urgent and this
It i1s obviously urgent and this should be
It 1s obviously urgent and this o NI o e o 0]
It 1s obviously urgent and this A e e - s
It 1s obviously urgent and this should be done in the
It 1s obviously urgent and this G e RN R a4
It 1s obviously urgent and this should be done in the next day
should be done in the next day or
should be done in the next day ]
should be done in the next day or so, we
should be done in the next day IR LS
should be done in the next day or so, we are working on
should be done In the next day or so, we are working on it. In
or so, we are working on it. In 1]y
or so, we are working on it. In your darkest moments do you
your darkest moments do you sl e
your darkest moments do you el )
your darkest moments do you think these generals see this
think these generals see this Y
think these generals see this as a bite
think these generals see this EY AR )
think these generals see this TR iR
think these generals see this as a bite to the finish? |
as a bite to the finish? | sl e
as a bite to the finish? | think we
as a bite to the finish? | i &
as a bite to the finish? | WO R R 113
as a bite to the finish? | think we all worry about that,
think we all worry about that, it
think we all worry about that, T
think we all worry about that, it is the well
think we all worry about that, R R =] S
think we all worry about that, it is the well it is
think we all worry about that, it is the well, it is always
it is the well, it is always the well
it is the well, it is always R R E
it is the well, it is always R o E TS
it is the well, it Iis always the well that is the
it is the well, it is always the well, that is the swing
the well, that is the swing factor. In Yemen we are about
factor. In Yemen we are about to see
factor. In Yemen we are about R )
factor. In Yemen we are about to see the beginning of the
to see the beginning of the changing of circumstances. In
changing of circumstances. In Sudan we haven’t seen that,
Sudan we haven’t seen that, have we? We heard from the UN
have we? We heard from the UN Secretary General who said the
Secretary General who said the Y
Secretary General who said the UN failed to stop this war that
UN failed to stop this war that 1]
UN failed to stop this war that you did not see the warning
you did not see the warning Sl 8
you did not see the warning Sl L
you did not see the warning signs. There is
you did not see the warning SO L ECREE
you did not see the warning signs. There is a huge sense of
signs. There Is a huge sense of responsibility
signs. There Is a huge sense of ST (]
signs. There Is a huge sense of responsibility for this crisis?
responsibility for this crisis? | am
responsibility for this crisis? BE=Taalale1d
responsibility for this crisis? | am not directly familiar with
| am not directly familiar with what the UN has or has not been
what the UN has or has not been Il
what the UN has or has not been LI
what the UN has or has not been WL RG]
what the UN has or has not been LR RGN L] ]
what the UN has or has not been doing on the political side.
doing on the political side. Even the
doing on the political side. A7 R R
doing on the political side. Even the UN agency said they
Even the UN agency said they were surprised by
Even the UN agency said they R [ L WAL
Even the UN agency said they were surprised by that and
were surprised by that and scrappy?
were surprised by that and a1 XA LG
were surprised by that and scrappy? That means you are
o= A G I T R T behind with
scrappy? That means you are behind with humanitarian work
behind with humanitarian work and
behind with humanitarian work S BT
behind with humanitarian work and you didn’t
behind with humanitarian work SRV I R
behind with humanitarian work and you didn’t see that coming?
and you didn’t see that coming? |
and you didn’t see that coming? (11814
and you didn’t see that coming? | think that’s unfair,
and you didn’t see that coming? (GG AR
| think that’s unfair, there are a
| think that’s unfair, there TS s
| think that’s unfair, there are a lot of people who didn’t
are a lot of people who didn’t T
are a lot of people who didn’t see it
are a lot of people who didn’t W RGInILTR
are a lot of people who didn’t see it coming, a lot of people
see It coming, a lot of people in Sudan that didn’t see it
In Sudan that didn’t see it IR
In Sudan that didn’t see it coming. Maybe were derelict in
coming. Maybe were derelict In R 1s
coming. Maybe were derelict In our responsibility, fine, that
our responsibility, fine, that T
our responsibility, fine, that is yesterday, what we’re
Is yesterday, what we’re talking about today is doing
talking about today is doing something that
talking about today Is doing SINEOGILG RO EIEE
talking about today Is doing something that is consistent
something that is consistent with our
something that is consistent Gz
something that Is consistent with our values, as near as
with our values, as near as possible meets the needs of the
possible meets the needs of the Sudanese people.
Around the world and across the UK,
IR N Y
I e
There was a musical start to the
There was a musical start to R -
There was a musical start to the Well—dressed Celebrations
the Well—dressed Celebrations in Newbury. This
the Well—dressed Celebrations ST AR LR
the Well—dressed Celebrations in Newbury. This is an age—old
in Newbury. This Is an age—old qe-Tslidlo e M
in Newbury. This Is an age—old tradition. It is a pagan
tradition. It is a pagan tradition and it was to
tradition. It is a pagan AR R LR O s 11 ¢
tradition and it was to thank the gods at the time for the
the gods at the time for the 1o
the gods at the time for the iR
the gods at the time for the RO RV
the gods at the time for the gift of water so that the crops
gift of water so that the crops would grow and hence you get
would grow and hence you get 1l
would grow and hence you get all this would grow and hence you get all this beautiful greenery
all this beautiful greenery around. And this
all this beautiful greenery T T - LR S
all this beautiful greenery around. And this is the main
around. And this is the main well
around. And this is the main oy T
around. And this is the main well. The designed a
around. And this Is the main well. The designed a draw on
well. The designed a draw on clay boards and national
clay boards and national materials are used to complete
materials are used to complete the pictures. Each has a
the pictures. Each has a coronation
the pictures. Each has a 0 R a0 e R = n Al
the pictures. Each has a A R Ao e I ik
the pictures. Each has a 0 R Ao e = el inda Lo 0l
the pictures. Each has a 0 R N0 e = a = ihd oD a Lo Nl 0} i
coronation theme with hours of painstaking work by volunteers.
painstaking work by volunteers. They are fabulous, aren’t they?
They are fabulous, aren’t they? They are
They are fabulous, aren’t they? IS LR ) g g L)
They are fabulous, aren’t they? They are appropriate because of
They are appropriate because of the coronation
They are appropriate because of e nelarin o a i Ls
They are appropriate because of the coronation it next week.
the coronation it next week. The well dressings
the coronation it next week. IR IS LR
the coronation it next week. The well dressings will be on
The well dressings will be on G [1301EYY
The well dressings will be on display until Saturday. It is a
display until Saturday. It Is a )
display until Saturday. It Is a chance to bring the
display until Saturday. It is a chance to bring the community
chance to bring the community e[ 1)
chance to bring the community together and admire these
together and admire these pieces
together and admire these 0
together and admire these pieces of local art.
You’re Live with BBC News.
Sir Richard Branson says he thought he was going to lose
his entire empire in the pandemic.
The boss of the Virgin Group says the problems
left him depressed for the first time in his life.
He’s been speaking to Amol Rajan about what he says
have been three of the most difficult years in his career,
which has spanned more than half a century.
2l
He has had one
He has had one of the most colourful careers in business,
colourful careers In business, from creating Virgin records to
from creating Virgin records to setting up
from creating Virgin records to L T
from creating Virgin records to setting up a Trans
from creating Virgin records to LTV ER IR
from creating Virgin records to setting up a Trans Am lactic
setting up a Trans Am lactic YT
setting up a Trans Am lactic YR - oY 2
setting up a Trans Am lactic airline. Now his new venture
airline. Now his new venture into
airline. Now his new venture MRS [
airline. Now his new venture into the cruise line business
into the cruise line business (0]
into the cruise line business to space travel. Sir Richard
to space travel. Sir Richard Branson has been a survivor but
Branson has been a survivor but the pandemic left him fighting
the pandemic left him fighting 018
the pandemic left him fighting a1
the pandemic left him fighting for his empire from his
for his empire from his Caribbean
(TR TR T T Caribbean island. How
LB TR T Caribbean island. How much did
Caribbean island. How much did 1]
Caribbean island. How much did you lose through the pandemic?
you lose through the pandemic? DI
you lose through the pandemic? T BT
you lose through the pandemic? Did you lose a lot of money
Did you lose a lot of money LK
Did you lose a lot of money personally? The answer is yes.
personally? The answer Is yes. Obviously it cost us a big
Obviously it cost us a big percentage
Obviously it cost us a big R L
Obviously it cost us a big R R T
Obviously it cost us a big percentage of our network.
percentage of our network. Maybe 1.5 billion. So, there
Maybe 1.5 billion. So, there 1
Maybe 1.5 billion. So, there T
Maybe 1.5 billion. So, there was a time
Maybe 1.5 billion. So, there LRl e
Maybe 1.5 billion. So, there TN 0o el A o
Maybe 1.5 billion. So, there was a time when it really looks
was a time when it really looks like
was a time when it really looks NGRS
was a time when it really looks like we were going to lose
like we were going to lose UGN
like we were going to lose UG AR
like we were going to lose everything. We had 50, 60
everything. We had 50, 60 planes all on the ground, and
planes all on the ground, and the health
planes all on the ground, and R e 1100
planes all on the ground, and the health clubs all closed,
the health clubs all closed, the hotels all closed, and the
the hotels all closed, and the West would
the hotels all closed, and the VSR )
the hotels all closed, and the SR O e - e
the hotels all closed, and the West would have been 60,000
West would have been 60,000 I
West would have been 60,000 people are in the streets. But,
people are in the streets. But, LA
people are in the streets. But, personally, | was
people are In the streets. But, personally, | was fortunate in
personally, | was fortunate In that alkyds managed to get to
that alkyds managed to get to the island, our grandkids got
the island, our grandkids got (0]
the island, our grandkids got R
the island, our grandkids got to the island,
the island, our grandkids got IR EREE L [
the island, our grandkids got to the island, and although |
to the island, and although | O =
to the island, and although | experienced may be a couple of
experienced may be a couple of months
experienced may be a couple of Tere 0 Aol
experienced may be a couple of Ao L R e
experienced may be a couple of months of what people must feel
months of what people must feel 0= e
months of what people must feel when they
months of what people must feel W RGEELG
months of what people must feel when they are pretty low, and |
when they are pretty low, and | have never experienced that
have never experienced that people fall in my life... Do
people fall in my life... Do 1]
people fall in my life... Do TR e
people fall in my life... Do you mean for the
people fall in my lfe... Do you mean for the first time in
you mean for the first time In 1]y
you mean for the first time In your life you are depressed? |
your life you are depressed? | will certainly a little
will certainly a little LY (3T R
will certainly a little depressed. Your reputation
will certainly a lttle depressed. Your reputation took
depressed. Your reputation took Y
depressed. Your reputation took El i s
depressed. Your reputation took a bit of a hit
depressed. Your reputation took El i - e
depressed. Your reputation took a bit of a hit in the early
a bit of a hit in the early phase of
a bit of a hit in the early JIEEE R )
a bit of a hit in the early phase of the pandemic because
phase of the pandemic because 0] 0] 8
phase of the pandemic because - Tl o al an 0o as
phase of the pandemic because senior members of your team had
senior members of your team had YY1
senior members of your team had been to the government saying
been to the government saying 3%
been to the government saying W A
been to the government saying AT GG
been to the government saying they need hundreds of millions
they need hundreds of millions i
they need hundreds of millions of pounds in
they need hundreds of millions il LG D)
they need hundreds of millions of pounds in a government loan
of pounds in a government loan (0]
of pounds in a government loan )
of pounds in a government loan DRV R
of pounds in a government loan VR GRS ] Bl
of pounds in a government loan to save the company and save
to save the company and save 1]y
to save the company and save your airline, and
to save the company and save O (L R
to save the company and save your airline, and yet there was
your airline, and yet there was WAL )
your airline, and yet there was coverage of people saying,
coverage of people saying, "Hang on. Branson is a
"Hang on. Branson is a billionaire
"Hang on. Branson Is a billionaire and lives on an
bilionaire and lives on an island in the
billionaire and lives on an island in the Caribbean. Surely
Island In the Caribbean. Surely )
Island In the Caribbean. Surely he can
Island In the Caribbean. Surely ool alalsl
Island In the Caribbean. Surely he can find the money." | had
he can find the money." | had never really had any coverage
never really had any coverage IS
never really had any coverage IS
never really had any coverage quite as painful as that.
quite as painful as that. Really? And it is complicated
Really? And it 1s complicated )
Really? And it 1s complicated NI
Really? And it 1s complicated DRSNS
Really? And it is complicated IR [aalnT s
Really? And it is complicated so it is difficult to explain
so It is difficult to explain when everyone is
so It i1s difficult to explain when everyone is hurting. They
when everyone Is hurting. They were pretty well
when everyone is hurting. They were pretty well know families
were pretty well know families that
were pretty well know families IR
were pretty well know families that when hurting. But what we
that when hurting. But what we were concerned to do
that when hurting. But what we oo o o R R &
that when hurting. But what we T o = R o LR
that when hurting. But what we were concerned to do was to try
were concerned to do was to try (0]
were concerned to do was to try (ol o[-
were concerned to do was to try to get government support, not
to get government support, not s
to get government support, not gifts from government but
gifts from government but underwriting
LRI =TT T T underwriting loans. In the
underwriting loans. In the Y 1all)s
underwriting loans. In the I BV
underwriting loans. In the earlier days of his career Sir
earlier days of his career Sir Richard used glamour and
Richard used glamour and publicity stunts as a part of
publicity stunts as a part of divergence marketing. When you
divergence marketing. When you look at some
divergence marketing. When you A I - d
divergence marketing. When you look at some of the campaigns
look at some of the campaigns (0]
look at some of the campaigns to some
look at some of the campaigns R
look at some of the campaigns s AR a1
look at some of the campaigns to some of that make you wince?
to some of that make you wince? Or
to some of that make you wince? (0]as o]
to some of that make you wince? Or do you just think it was fit
Or do you just think it was fit 018
Or do you just think it was fit R
Or do you just think it was fit for the time? | think would
for the time? | think would make me wince if | felt that
make me wince If | felt that the
make me wince If | felt that Aol 00tz e
make me wince If | felt that the women were
make me wince If | felt that RO L n - la e anineluez1o10s
make me wince If | felt that the women were uncomfortable at
the women were uncomfortable at 1IN
the women were uncomfortable at EY |
the women were uncomfortable at EY R D s
the women were uncomfortable at all | don’t think
the women were uncomfortable at I D R s s G s
the women were uncomfortable at IR E GG
the women were uncomfortable at I R R G R s
all. | don’t think that | ever T3 s
all. | don’t think that | ever meet anybody feel
meet anybody feel uncomfortable. It
meet anybody feel Matsolnpiio a0 ORI E L
meet anybody feel uncomfortable. It was just in
uncomfortable. It was just in those days it made them smile,
those days it made them smile, 1]
those days it made them smile, you know, like Kate Moss for
you know, like Kate Moss for Mo
you know, like Kate Moss for instance. She laughed. She knew
Instance. She laughed. She knew s
Instance. She laughed. She knew what was coming. But, today,
what was coming. But, today, obviously, |
what was coming. But, today, TS A RGNS
what was coming. But, today, obviously, | think people would
obviously, | think people would T\
obviously, | think people would feel uncomfortable with
feel uncomfortable with LG
feel uncomfortable with something like that. So, it has
something like that. So, it has changed. Now at 72 Sir Richard
changed. Now at 72 Sir Richard said
changed. Now at 72 Sir Richard I
changed. Now at 72 Sir Richard said he discussed this
sald he discussed this succession planning with his
succession planning with his family but
succession planning with his Gl T G )
succession planning with his family but he is still in
family but he is still in feo sl
family but he is still in control of the Virgin Group and
control of the Virgin Group and 1)
control of the Virgin Group and TR
control of the Virgin Group and he is still as competitive as
he Is still as competitive as N o |
he Is still as competitive as ever. It is not
he is still as competitive as aver. It is not checkmate
he iIs still as competitive as ever. It is not checkmate yet.
We’re now just two days away from the King’s Coronation,
with millions of people across the world preparing
to celebrate the ceremony.
Some royal fans are so desperate for the best view
of the procession, they’re already camping out on The Mall
near Buckingham Palace.
Charlotte Gallagher’s been to meet them.
The tense art pitch, the flags YR
The tense art pitch, the flags IR0
The tense art pitch, the flags are being hung and there is
are being hung and there Is aven
are being hung and there Is TN
are being hung and there Is A IRl
are being hung and there is even a chance for
are being hung and there is aven a chance for selfies
are being hung and there is A NI E R A e
even a chance for selfies with the
even a chance for selfies with e
even a chance for selfies with O VAT
even a chance for selfies with the new King. People outside
the new King. People outside Buckingham Palace are ready to
Buckingham Palace are ready to o s )
Buckingham Palace are ready to celebrate the coronation. Great
celebrate the coronation. Great Britain
celebrate the coronation. Great X =Tl a I Ta s ]
celebrate the coronation. Great X T e -\ a e = e (o B
celebrate the coronation. Great Britain and America. For Donna
Britain and America. For Donna 018
Britain and America. For Donna R
Britain and America. For Donna NI
Britain and America. For Donna for the US and Mary Jane from
for the US and Mary Jane from the UK
for the US and Mary Jane from R @
for the US and Mary Jane from ORI GRS
for the US and Mary Jane from ORI G )
for the US and Mary Jane from ORI R
for the US and Mary Jane from R G O R e
for the US and Mary Jane from the UK it is also a chance to
the UK it i1s also a chance to get
the UK it is also a chance to RO
the UK it is also a chance to get together with
the UK it Is also a chance to get together with friends. They
get together with friends. They e l=1s
get together with friends. They N 1o
get together with friends. They met at the wedding of the
met at the wedding of the Prince and Princess of Wales 12
Prince and Princess of Wales 12 e
Prince and Princess of Wales 12 years ago and have attended
years ago and have attended Royal events together ever
Royal events together ever since. We started yesterday,
since. We started yesterday, and we will be here through
and we will be here through Saturday night. And what have
Saturday night. And what have 1]
Saturday night. And what have you brought with you to keep
you brought with you to keep 1]
you brought with you to keep TR Y
you brought with you to keep you going? Well, we brought
you going? Well, we brought I
you going? Well, we brought tents, sleeping bags, air
tents, sleeping bags, air mattresses, winter coats, hats,
mattresses, winter coats, hats, o 8P
mattresses, winter coats, hats, scarfs, gloves, you know,
scarfs, gloves, you know, water, granola bars. Everything
water, granola bars. Everything that we
water, granola bars. Everything E IR el
water, granola bars. Everything that we need! The royal family
that we need! The royal family have been rehearsing their
have been rehearsing their o[-
have been rehearsing their roles in
have been rehearsing their I R )
have been rehearsing their roles in the coronation
roles in the coronation ceremony. The
roles in the coronation MR LR E
roles in the coronation ceremony. The scene here at
ceremony. The scene here at VYY) s
ceremony. The scene here at Westminster Abbey. The security
Westminster Abbey. The security operation in central London is
operation in central London Is huge. These are just a
operation in central London is huge. These are just a handful
huge. These are just a handful i
huge. These are just a handful of the
huge. These are just a handful AR A
huge. These are just a handful of the more than 11,000
of the more than 11,000 AN
of the more than 11,000 officers working this week.
officers working this week. They are preparing for huge
They are preparing for huge gy 18
They are preparing for huge o ney Lol a el
They are preparing for huge e R R
They are preparing for huge crowds and the foreign
crowds and the foreign dignitaries who will be
dignitaries who will be descending on the capital. The
descending on the capital. The military is getting ready to.
military is getting ready to. More than
military i1s getting reaady to. R e10]0)
military i1s getting reaady to. More than 6000 men and
miltary is getting ready to. R R0 0O e T o Lol z]s
More than 6000 men and women from across the UK and
NI SR ORI -1 Commonwealth will be
from across the UK and (@ anlano - I - Ia oA e
Commonwealth will be involved in Saturdays events. And
Commonwealth will be involved LRI BRI A [ R G )Y
In Saturdays events. And they BV
In Saturdays events. And they have had a special visitor.
have had a special visitor. I AT -1
have had a special visitor. Princess and has met with
Princess and has met with troops at Wennington barracks,
troops at Wennington barracks, [T
troops at Wennington barracks, TSRS ]S
troops at Wennington barracks, just steps away from
troops at Wennington barracks, TSRSV E VAL IR T D Bl
just steps away from Buckingham Palace. And outside the palace
Palace. And outside the palace there
Palace. And outside the palace e e NS
Palace. And outside the palace e e N
Palace. And outside the palace N R e
Palace. And outside the palace there is a tent fit for a
there Is a tent fit for a R
there Is a tent fit for a princess. Just enjoying being
princess. Just enjoying being here
princess. Just enjoying being -1l
princess. Just enjoying being here and seeing the people.
here and seeing the people. Have you made friends with
Have you made friends with 100010
Have you made friends with people? Yeah, and people
people? Yeah, and people WFEIEIN |
people? Yeah, and people passing by
people? Yeah, and people LGRS
people? Yeah, and people ES LA LR
people? Yeah, and people passing by as well. Thousands
passing by as well. Thousands AT0 R
passing by as well. Thousands Nl
passing by as well. Thousands more Bill line at this route on
more Bill line at this route on Saturday for a
more Bill ine at this route on Saturday for a moment in
Saturday for a moment In I3 (13
Saturday for a moment In IS A )
Saturday for a moment In IS ARG E Y
Saturday for a moment in history that many want to
history that many want to A
history that many want to TR Ol fenns)
history that many want to witness. Charlotte Gallagher,
witness. Charlotte Gallagher, BBC
witness. Charlotte Gallagher, Y- o\
witness. Charlotte Gallagher, BBC News, Buckingham Palace.
And staying with the coronation, Big Ben will be lit
up every night between now and Sunday to mark
the Coronation, with the colours of the Union Flag
and the national flowers of all four home nations.
A rose, thistle, daffodil and shamrock will be projected
on to the London landmark.
o)
S0, yes,
So, yes, there Is so much going
So, yes, there is so much going o0
So, yes, there is so much going on in the capital surrounding
on In the capital surrounding the coronation
on in the capital surrounding the coronation and
on in the capital surrounding Ao ae o n o el 1a e lRln)
on in the capital surrounding the coronation and in Windsor
the coronation and in Windsor and
the coronation and in Windsor N e
the coronation and in Windsor N R N R )
the coronation and in Windsor NGRSO R Rl
the coronation and in Windsor R TN O R VR T
and elsewhere. We will be across it all for you here on
across It all for you here on BBC News. Now
across It all for you here on BRBC News. Now let’s
across It all for you here on Y Yl A Y A S R ]
across It all for you here on BBC News. Now let’s take you to
BBC News. Now let’s take you to TG
Film and television writers have taken part
In a second day of strikes that has thrown Hollywood
into chaos.
LR TR UL TR ] higher pay as well as future
safeguards around the use of artificial intelligence.
The strikes come at a challenging time for TV
as the industry grapples with the streaming boom.
Here’s our West Coast correspondent Sophie Long.
This Is
LR E),
LR VAT
This 1s day two of the strike.
This Is day two of the strike. | am
This Is day two of the strike. (=T [T
This Is day two of the strike. I am just outside
This Is day two of the strike. | am just outside Paramount
| am just outside Paramount Studios here now, the Studios
Studios here now, the Studios in LA in Hollywood, close
in LA in Hollywood, close G
in LA in Hollywood, close together. Just a stones throw
together. Just a stones throw away is the studio where
away Is the studio where [N a i
away Is the studio where Netflix is based and there were
Netflix is based and there were hundreds of
Netflix 1s based and there were hundreds of picketing
hundreds of picketing ] (I8
hundreds of picketing IS R [ [
hundreds of picketing protesters outside of their all
protesters outside of their all 81
protesters outside of their all this morning and yesterday as
this morning and yesterday as well and | think
this morning and yesterday as well and I think it
this morning and yesterday as well and | think it is fair to
well, and | think 1t is fair to say that
well, and | think 1t is fair to FVAU IR
well, and | think 1t is fair to VAU R GNP
LG T L T g say that the mood was
well, and | think it is fair to say that the mood was very
say that the mood was very GG B
say that the mood was very high. They are disappointed.
high. They are disappointed. The writers Guild, that they
The writers Guild, that they have had to take this action
have had to take this action and
have had to take this action SR
have had to take this action NG ROV )
have had to take this action and they are defiant and will
and they are defiant and will probably be aware that the last
probably be aware that the last time
probably be aware that the last AT )
probably be aware that the last time there was a right struck
time there was a right struck in it lasted 100 days so at the
In it lasted 100 days so at the el nnl=lals
In it lasted 100 days so at the moment this is day
In 1t lasted 100 days so at the moment this is day two. As
in 1t lasted 100 days so at the DRGSR E VR
moment this Is day two. As he said
moment this Is day two. As he 1B
moment this Is day two. As he said in your introduction it
sald In your introduction it has already taken late—night
has already taken late—night talk
has already taken late—night A0
has already taken late—night A0
has already taken late—night talk shows of the
has already taken late—night Y R R T
has already taken late—night talk shows of the air. Those
talk shows of the air. Those YR
talk shows of the air. Those TR
talk shows of the air. Those YR O
talk shows of the air. Those are the shows which staff
are the shows which staff i e Rt s
are the shows which staff writers for prescription drugs
writers for prescription drugs [T
writers for prescription drugs just hours before they go to
just hours before they go to air
just hours before they go to T
just hours before they go to air — they have seen an impact.
air — they have seen an impact. [
air — they have seen an impact. If the
air — they have seen an impact. IR g
air — they have seen an impact. If the strike continues it is
If the strike continues it Is EW
If the strike continues it Is likely to have an impact
It the strike continues it Is likely to have an impact on the
likely to have an impact on the autumn releases of popular
autumn releases of popular scripted Chozas well. It is not
scripted Chozas well. It is not [T
scripted Chozas well. It is not just the
scripted Chozas well. It is not TSR RS
scripted Chozas well. It is not just the writers who have been
just the writers who have been f i
just the writers who have been out. We
just the writers who have been YT R Y
just the writers who have been out. We have seen actors come
out. We have seen actors come IT1Y
out. We have seen actors come out in support. Where | am
out in support. Where | am &
out in support. Where | am here, Rob
out in support. Where | am LG R T
out in support. Where | am here, Rob Lowe came out
here, Rob Lowe came out yesterday. His son
here, Rob Lowe came out S G E VAL R L RS
here, Rob Lowe came out yesterday. His son is a writer
yesterday. His son is a writer and he came out to show support
and he came out to show support and
and he came out to show support N R
and he came out to show support and set as actors we are only
and set as actors we are only E1
and set as actors we are only as good as the writing we get.
as good as the writing we get. The studios have said, the
The studios have said, the P nI s [0 13
The studios have said, the studios and the streamers on
studios and the streamers on the
studios and the streamers on eI o) s
studios and the streamers on the other side of this dispute,
the other side of this dispute, 3%
the other side of this dispute, they have
the other side of this dispute, W A EV R
the other side of this dispute, they have said they made a very
they have said they made a very generous offer, not just on
generous offer, not just on compensation but streaming
compensation but streaming residuals. But as one of the
residuals. But as one of the sticking points here — the
sticking points here — the residuals, the royalties that
residuals, the royalties that i
residuals, the royalties that I )
residuals, the royalties that writers use to get paid from
writers use to get paid from AT a0 8 3
writers use to get paid from ATn 0 e
writers use to get paid from networks are much less under
networks are much less under streaming networks. They said
streaming networks. They said 3%
streaming networks. They said they made a generous offer. |
they made a generous offer. | G
they made a generous offer. | L CRT)
they made a generous offer. | spoke to the president of the
spoke to the president of the el
spoke to the president of the WGEA and
spoke to the president of the T DR
spoke to the president of the WGEA and she said that simply
WGEA and she said that simply 1
WGEA and she said that simply was not accurate and
WGEA and she said that simply et -
WGEA and she said that simply R e - - A s
was not accurate and the offer 1
was not accurate and the offer was not generous and what they
was not generous and what they have not engaged on and
was not generous and what they QNG ELCG LI L R G TR
have not engaged on and this is )
have not engaged on and this is one major sticking
have not engaged on and this Is one major sticking point is the
one major sticking point is the use of artificial intelligence.
use of artificial intelligence. Now, the Writers Guild, they
Now, the Writers Guild, they want it contractually based
want it contractually based that
want it contractually based ( E IR
want it contractually based that they will
want it contractually based WO E LR GV LG T
want it contractually based that they will not use Al in
that they will not use Al In )
that they will not use Al In any form of written material.
any form of written material. At the moment |
any form of written material. XA e el e Tnn)
any form of written material. At the moment | am told by the
At the moment | am told by the el
At the moment | am told by the WGEA that all streamers have
WGEA that all streamers have committed to an
WGEA that all streamers have o lnalnal RO I
WGEA that all streamers have committed to an annual meeting.
committed to an annual meeting. %S
committed to an annual meeting. As far
committed to an annual meeting. Ac far as
committed to an annual meeting. YR T LR )
committed to an annual meeting. YR LI LR O[T
committed to an annual meeting. As far as the WGA is
committed to an annual meeting. YR IR R T W e oz ae =]
As far as the WGA Is concerned that
As far as the WGA Is concerned IE
As far as the WGA Is concerned s A Te)
As far as the WGA Is concerned that is not good enough.
Two Russian cosmonauts have carried out a space walk
on the International Space Station.
The two left the space station to move what NASA called
an ‘experiment airlock’ AR TR =)
The two men have already carried out eight spacewalks
between them during their stint in space.
The cosmonauts have been on the space station
since September last year.
She at next — the top business stories.
She at next — the top business SO VYR
She at next — the top business A YR G AR )
She at next — the top business A I SR PR ORI N
stories. As ever, the US central bankers dominating the
central bankers dominating the business headlines. The Fed did
business headlines. The Fed did )
business headlines. The Fed did raise rates as expected, but
raise rates as expected, but what
raise rates as expected, but Y a0} X4
raise rates as expected, but what now? | will be back with
what now? | will be back with YR
what now? | will be back with IR0 1 g
what now? | will be back with SRS O RS
what now? | will be back with SRS A L
what now? | will be back with an expert view and the other
an expert view and the other business stories. See you a
business stories. See you a e zla 1
Many of us had some beautiful late spring
sunshine on Wednesday.
In fact, in Bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours
of sunshine, a glorious day.
But top temperature, well, that was in South Wales,
In Gwynedd, just shy of 20 Celsius, and it felt
very pleasant indeed.
Now it’s not out of the question that we could see
20 Celsius on Thursday, but the weather story
Is certainly on the change with low pressure starting
to move In from the southwest.
So as we go through the day on Thursday, it’s a tale
of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off
the North Sea, affecting eastern England and northeast
We’ve got rain pushing into the southwest —
and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best
of the sunshine Is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll
see the best of the warmth.
The breeze still coming from an east direction,
so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight
edge to things.
A little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough
with highs of 19-20 Celsius perhaps in the southeast.
Now, as we move out of Thursday into Friday, that weather front
will continue to push its way steadily north.
It’WL bring outbreaks of rain as it does so,
and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
So on Friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving
T gy 1 England, into Scotland.
Sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
Now, as we move Into the start of the weekend, that
southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north
But unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
TR TS LI )R GO EO LI E R TR -
that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily
north as we go through the day.
So not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look
likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain
across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
And the wider picture throughout the Bank.
Holiday weekend — Saturday will be the wettest
of the days, Sunday and Monday, sunny spells and scattered
showers.
Some of them on Monday could be quite heavy.
Take care.
Live from London, this is BBC News.
Rate hike number ten.
The US Federal Reserve raises the cost of borrowing again —
to a 16—year high.
But has it finally done enough to tame inflation?
Also coming up — more controversy in
the pipeline as oil giant Shell announces another
multi—billion dollar quarter.
Plus — deserted by a changing economy.
The towns and villages in rural Spain that are battling
for survival
Hello, I’m Sally Bundock with the top business stories.
And we start in the United States
where the Central Bank, the US Federal Reserve,
has raised the cost of borrowing for the tenth time.
The quarter—percent rise puts the Fed’s main interest rate
at between 5 and 5. 25% — the highest it’s
been In 16 years.
But has it done enough ORI NG e s e
Or with banks struggling and recession looming,
has the Fed gone too far?
Our North America business correspondent Samira Hussain
reports from New York.
Inflation remained stubbornly high, to
Inflation remained stubbornly e ARG (g%
Inflation remained stubbornly high, to try to get the cost of
high, to try to get the cost of living
high, to try to get the cost of Tl ETe 4
high, to try to get the cost of living back down to more normal
living back down to more normal =SS
living back down to more normal S R
living back down to more normal RGN
living back down to more normal levels the Federal Reserve has
levels the Federal Reserve has AN
levels the Federal Reserve has e
levels the Federal Reserve has IR S
levels the Federal Reserve has LR SR I -
levels the Federal Reserve has LRI SR - A 0 o)
raised interest rates ten times in a little over a year, now it
In a lttle over a year, now it seems
In a lttle over a year, now it - e ko
In a lttle over a year, now it LRI
In a lttle over a year, now it seems it may be ready
In a little over a year, now it seems it may be ready to
seems It may be ready to perhaps take a pause. The
perhaps take a pause. The o0 1001n8 TN
perhaps take a pause. The ot il
perhaps take a pause. The ot lnalin R RS G
perhaps take a pause. The committee will take into
committee will take into account the cumulative
account the cumulative W] Nl o]
account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy,
tightening of monetary policy, L
tightening of monetary policy, Y ERWi 4y
tightening of monetary policy, legs with which policy affects
legs with which policy affects Yoo ol an] [
legs with which policy affects economic activity and inflation
economic activity and inflation and economic and financial well
and economic and financial well I
and economic and financial well Y3 AR
and economic and financial well being. We will make that
being. We will make that determination meeting by
determination meeting by meeting. The risers have slow
meeting. The risers have slow 10
meeting. The risers have slow (RN
meeting. The risers have slow G RLRG
meeting. The risers have slow growth in the United States by
growth in the United States by making it more
growth In the United States by making it more expensive to
making it more expensive to borrow
making it more expensive to DAY
making it more expensive to borrow money and inflation is
borrow money and inflation Is starting to come down but
borrow money and Inflation Is starting to come down but there
starting to come down but there have been some unexpected
have been some unexpected knock—on effects of the rate
knock—on effects of the rate S
knock—on effects of the rate NI
knock—on effects of the rate hikes, they played
QIS IR R RO R G hikes, they played a part in
hikes, they played a part In the banking crisis with three
the banking crisis with three banks collapsed in less than
banks collapsed In less than two months, so
banks collapsed in less than two months, so while the
two months, so while the | (e 11
two months, so while the Federal Reserve has been
Federal Reserve has been successful
Federal Reserve has been N 3311
Federal Reserve has been successful in slowing the
successful in slowing the 1)
successful in slowing the N VAL
successful in slowing the economy and prices without
economy and prices without UL [ le}
economy and prices without plunging the country into
plunging the country into CIS [ P
plunging the country into recession, the trickiest moment
recession, the trickiest moment nEV
recession, the trickiest moment may have arrived, at some point
may have arrived, at some point policymakers had to decide if
policymakers had to decide if 3%
policymakers had to decide if they have done
policymakers had to decide It they have done enough to
policymakers had to decide If they have done enough to keep
they have done enough to keep T dE ulo]n
they have done enough to keep inflation falling while leaving
inflation falling while leaving the economy with enough
the economy with enough monetary space to keep
monetary space to keep expanding. They didn’t think
expanding. They didn’t think 3%
expanding. They didn’t think they were there at this
expanding. They didn’t think W VAT R G RV T Yy T
they were there at this meeting but it
they were there at this meeting I I A - 00
they were there at this meeting but it seems likely they will
but it seems lkely they will be
but it seems lkely they will e
but it seems lkely they will R R P
Let’s speak to Ed Price — Principal at the business
consultants Ergo Intelligence in New York.
What do you think about this latest move on the
What do you think about this EICS R RO N El
What do you think about this latest move on the part of the
latest move on the part of the Y
latest move on the part of the N A
latest move on the part of the N G AT
latest move on the part of the Federal Reserve, it was widely
Federal Reserve, it was widely (i
Federal Reserve, it was widely expected, priced and, is it the
expected, priced and, Is it the right step
expected, priced and, Is it the SR
expected, priced and, Is it the right step to take?
expected, priced ang, is it the right step to take? Yes, it is
right step to take? Yes, it is the right step to take if you
the right step to take if you YR
the right step to take if you are worried
the right step to take If you are worried about inflation but
are worried about inflation but inflation is only one of three
inflation is only one of three GG
inflation is only one of three things that
inflation is only one of three IR L]
inflation 1s only one of three things that central banks are
things that central banks are currently worried about, of
currently worried about, of course inflation means higher
course inflation means higher e
course inflation means higher prices and that is bad but
prices and that is bad but there are
prices and that is bad but L IR )
prices and that is bad but M IR N
prices and that is bad but IR R e
there are there are voices LWL
there are there are voices saying what about stability and
saying what about stability and R 1s
saying what about stability and our financial markets doing
our financial markets doing what they should, and
what they should, and employment, can people get
employment, can people get jobs. The Federal Reserve has
Jobs. The Federal Reserve has O]
Jobs. The Federal Reserve has something economist think is
something economist think is broadly a good
something economist think Is broadly a good idea in terms of
broadly a good idea in terms of containing inflation
broadly a good idea in terms of NI R AE L] )T
broadly a good idea in terms of NI R E LT W 1T
containing inflation but it could cause
containing inflation but it R -l ndelc) s
T TR i E (T T could cause further distress
could cause further distress with
could cause further distress TIOE ]G
could cause further distress with banks and financial
with banks and financial markets. We will find out in
markets. We will find out In time about
markets. We will find out In ATea - oo T R c ]
markets. We will find out In time about that we saw a huge
time about that we saw a huge 47108
time about that we saw a huge sum of student banks on
sum of student banks on financial market the US, but
financial market the US, but policymakers unanimous in
policymakers unanimous In support of this decision
policymakers unanimous in support of this decision this
support of this decision this time to
support of this decision this RO
support of this decision this IR ORI 1
support of this decision this RO R R
support of this decision this time to raise rates the range
time to raise rates the range i
time to raise rates the range of five
time to raise rates the range RNl
time to raise rates the range of five and five and a quarter
of five and five and a quarter %, NOW
of five and five and a quarter %, now they
of five and five and a quarter I TR A
of five and five and a quarter %, now they are hitting the
%, now they are hitting the pause button to see the impact,
pause button to see the impact, what you think the next few
what you think the next few months will look
what you think the next few el RO
what you think the next few months will look like the US
months will look like the US economy? Most economists expect
economy? Most economists expect some kind of downturn or
some kind of downturn or RS R
some kind of downturn or recession, the definition of a
recession, the definition of a e 3308
recession, the definition of a T3]
recession, the definition of a T e ISR R
recession, the definition of a TSR RO R A
recession, the definition of a recession in the US is somewhat
recession in the US Is somewhat subjective but | think
recession In the US is somewhat subjective but | think will
subjective but | think will probably be a recession and it
probably be a recession and it will
probably be a recession and it Y
probably be a recession and it will be a mild recession the
will be a mild recession the banks and financial markets for
banks and financial markets for JCHEH S
banks and financial markets for JTHH R
banks and financial markets for pensions can maintain the
pensions can maintain the general level of stability is
general level of stability Is again Jerome Powell said it is
again Jerome Powell said it Is a[]8
again Jerome Powell said it Is not entirely clear what the
not entirely clear what the influence will be of the above
influence will be of the above 59,
influence will be of the above 5% interest rates, some bank
5% Interest rates, some bank YR
5% Interest rates, some bank are at interest rate risk,
5% interest rates, some bank are at interest rate risk, you
are at interest rate risk, you 1
are at interest rate risk, you UEV AR
are at interest rate risk, you UE AR UG
are at interest rate risk, you may see some banks in
CICRE I I A L R SR may see some banks in trouble,
may see some banks In trouble, if that happened
may see some banks in trouble, if that happened there will be
If that happened there will be Y
If that happened there will be a much deeper recession in the
a much deeper recession In the 58
a much deeper recession In the Y
a much deeper recession In the US. How sticky will
a much deeper recession in the US. How sticky will inflation
US. How sticky will inflation be,
US. How sticky will inflation TR 18
US. How sticky will inflation IR RS
US. How sticky will inflation IR MR
US. How sticky will inflation be, that is the concern that is
be, that i1s the concern that is where Jerome Powell
be, that i1s the concern that Is where Jerome Powell and
be, that i1s the concern that is where Jerome Powell and his
where Jerome Powell and his o In I
where Jerome Powell and his focus has been on the level of
focus has been on the level of prices
focus has been on the level of [N
focus has been on the level of (IR
focus has been on the level of prices and the worry that
prices and the worry that s o
prices and the worry that a0 oo )
prices and the worry that A o o = e 034
prices and the worry that doesn’t come down quickly
doesn’t come down quickly enough how then will they
enough how then will they T A e T4
enough how then will they R OIYAalll
enough how then will they AR OIYAN IR
enough how then will they tackle this? I’UL tell you
enough how then will they tackle this? I’ll tell you a
tackle this? I’ll tell you a N1
tackle this? I’l tell you a sacret economists
tackle this? I’l tell you a saecret economists don’t
tackle this? I’l tell you a secret economists don’t really
secret economists don’t really understand inflation, we like
understand inflation, we like pretend we do
LS Rl E O TR LG pretend we do but we don’t,
understand inflation, we like pretend we do but we don’t, |
pretend we do but we don’t, | said
pretend we do but we don’t, | 1B
pretend we do but we don’t, | said in Spring 2021I
pretend we do but we don’t, | said in Spring 2021l thought
said In Spring 2021] thought inflation might
sald in Spring 2021] thought inflation might be
sald in Spring 2021] thought T iEL ] X
sald in Spring 2021l thought inflation might be a problem,
inflation might be a problem, who knows if that was a lucky
who knows If that was a lucky guess, inflation is something
guess, inflation is something only really
guess, inflation i1s something only really understand once the
only really understand once the data
only really understand once the A e el
only really understand once the data comes in,
only really understand once the RS TR R 1
only really understand once the data comes in, that is why the
data comes in, that is why the Federal Reserve says it is data
Federal Reserve says It Is data lead,
Federal Reserve says It Is data Y1l
Federal Reserve says It Is data lead, | think inflation will
lead, | think inflation will remain quite sticky for the
remain quite sticky for the 14
remain quite sticky for the rest this year into next. Some
rest this year into next. Some predict in the UK where our
predict in the UK where our inflation is still double it
inflation is still double it will
inflation is still double it e g
inflation is still double it will come down significantly
will come down significantly with energy prices falling
with energy prices falling significantly at this —— as
significantly at this —— as 81
significantly at this —— as W IERCT g
significantly at this —— as this year progresses that will
this year progresses that will LT
this year progresses that will naturally reduce quickly but
naturally reduce quickly but many are looking at that and
many are looking at that and thinking, that
many are looking at that and WO ARG
many are looking at that and thinking, that is wishful
thinking, that is wishful O
thinking, that is wishful thinking? Double—digit
thinking? Double—digit T dE ulo]n
thinking? Double—digit inflation is a
thinking? Double—digit T FI O R EI ]
thinking? Double—digit T {FI O ERE W E I Tl oI 1))
inflation Is a major problem, e T
inflation Is a major problem, because of
inflation Is a major problem, N |
inflation Is a major problem, because of a thing
inflation is a major problem, because of a thing called
because of a thing called L n IO
because of a thing called I T [0 I 1o
because of a thing called expectations, and it does
expectations, and it does G\
expectations, and it does exactly what it says on the
exactly what it says on the AP
exactly what it says on the tin, want inflation is ten or
tin, want inflation is ten or 1% and
tin, want inflation is ten or 11% and people expected to
11% and people expected to T 8
11% and people expected to remain there were if not get
remain there were If not get worse that expects the real
worse that expects the real behaviour of people who set
behaviour of people who set ([0
behaviour of people who set prices in your local shops and
prices Iin your local shops and larger chains. Ten or
prices in your local shops and larger chains. Ten or 11% in
larger chains. Ten or 11% In the UK
larger chains. Ten or 11% In - T
larger chains. Ten or 11% In e e To e
larger chains. Ten or 11% In the UK at home is a big problem
the UK at home Is a big problem and | would expect that
the UK at home is a big problem and | would expect that to
the UK at home Is a big problem and | would expect that to be a
and | would expect that to be a GhT g
and | would expect that to be a LG
and | would expect that to be a longer and harder problem in
longer and harder problem in the 5% we are
longer and harder problem In the 5% we are seeing in the US,
the 5% we are seeing in the US, V70
the 5% we are seeing in the US, even the 70% we see in the
the 5% we are seeing In the US, even the 70% we see in the euro
even the 70% we see In the euro Y
even the 70% we see In the euro Y
even the 70% we see In the euro area. —— 7%.
Let’s stay with interest rates because households
and businesses across Europe will almost certainly be facing
higher borrowing costs later today.
The European Central Bank, which sets monetary policy
for the 20 countries that use the Euro currency,
IS widely expected to raise its main interest rate
Let’s speak to Fiona Cincotta from the brokerage
City Index here in London.
TN A I
M SE e E
Interest rates in Europe are a 3
Interest rates in Europe are a e
Interest rates in Europe are a lot lower than the US now, 3-3
lot lower than the US now, 3-3 Ly
lot lower than the US now, 3-3 LY/ -1
lot lower than the US now, 3-3 5%, are we expecting them to
.5%, are we expecting them to )
.5%, are we expecting them to go up again
.5%, are we expecting them to TG ET RO Y
.5%, are we expecting them to go up again today? Yes, that is
go up again today? Yes, that is the
go up again today? Yes, that is (RS ] 3)
go up again today? Yes, that is the simple answer, we have had
the simple answer, we have had some
the simple answer, we have had N e
the simple answer, we have had some data from the eurozone
some data from the eurozone regarding patient this week,
regarding patient this week, inflation in the euro so
Inflation in the euro so remains very sticky, it
inflation In the euro so remains very sticky, it went
remains very sticky, it went MTe[a 138
remains very sticky, it went higher to
remains very sticky, it went N RO A7
remains very sticky, it went e IR A7 Ta 1|
remains very sticky, it went higher to 7%, and core
higher to 7%, and core inflation, which is one of the
inflation, which Is one of the eurozone
inflation, which i1s one of the eurozone follows
inflation, which is one of the eurozone follows closely which
eurozone follows closely which 1
eurozone follows closely which LT
eurozone follows closely which strips out volatile items such
strips out volatile items such E1
strips out volatile items such EY R = N
strips out volatile items such YR el
strips out volatile items such IR R RiTe
strips out volatile items such as viewed in full went
as viewed In full, went G111\
as viewed In full, went I\ g
as viewed In full, went slightly lower to 5.6 off the
slightly lower to 5.6 off the record
slightly lower to 5.6 off the Yoo el 1l
slightly lower to 5.6 off the record hi. Still it is well
record hi. Still it 1s well above
record hi. Still it 1s well o0 YR
record hi. Still it 1s well above the ECB
record hi. Still it i1s well above the ECB target
record hi. Still it is wel above the ECB target 2% rate,
above the ECB target 2% rate, the big question will be will
the big question will be will it be
the big question will be will T - |
the big question will be will it be a 25
the big question will be will Tl AN E N
the big question will be will
it be a 25 basis point rate hike for a 50 basis point rate
hike for a 50 basis point rate N
hike for a 50 basis point rate hike, we think with the growth
hike, we think with the growth i
hike, we think with the growth JEOAL/S
hike, we think with the growth of 0.1%, really that is
of 0.1%, really that Is stalled, and
of 0.1%, really that is stalled, and we have
of 0.1%, really that Is stalled, and we have seen
stalled, and we have seen ue-To i
stalled, and we have seen credit loan
stalled, and we have seen - i e alel
stalled, and we have seen credit loan demand in lending
credit loan demand In lending 1
credit loan demand In lending his ready
credit loan demand in lending his ready tightened, there is
his ready tightened, there is probably a larger
his ready tighteneq, there is probably a larger chance of a
probably a larger chance of a 25 basis point rate hike today
25 basis point rate hike today from
25 basis point rate hike today A0 IR
25 basis point rate hike today from the ECB. It is a tricky
from the ECB. It is a tricky job on part of the ECB it is so
Job on part of the ECB it is so s
Job on part of the ECB it is so very the economies
job on part of the ECB it is so very the economies that share
very the economies that share the euro currency, comparing
the euro currency, comparing Germany to ltaly or
the euro currency, comparing Germany to Italy or Spain, what
Germany to ltaly or Spain, what a8
Germany to ltaly or Spain, what their needs are, are
Germany to Italy or Spain, what their needs are, are very
their needs are, are very different? Completely and |
different? Completely and | sl e
different? Completely and | sl @IS
T T 1 AT think that was highlighted
different? Completely and | think that was highlighted in
think that was highlighted In the
think that was highlighted in - IntiEinle)e]
think that was highlighted in A= Intd Ein o a s o ]
think that was highlighted in the inflation data we saw on
the inflation data we saw on Tuesday, Luxembourg had
Tuesday, Luxembourg had T dE ulo]n
Tuesday, Luxembourg had inflation of 2.7% you have
inflation of 2.7% you have Latvia
inflation of 2.7% you have | atvia with
inflation of 2.7% you have Latvia with inflation of 15%,
Latvia with inflation of 15%, there
Latvia with inflation of 15%, e e NS
Latvia with inflation of 15%, e e N
Latvia with inflation of 15%, there is a huge difference
there Is a huge difference LD
there Is a huge difference there, and as you said within
there, and as you said within the economy of the eurozone
the economy of the eurozone N1
the economy of the eurozone N VA
the economy of the eurozone economy you have very service
economy you have very service Ino g
economy you have very service sector focused economies and
sector focused economies and economies focused on
economies focused on manufacturing, so very big
manufacturing, so very big diverse range the ECB has to
diverse range the ECB has to contain. We have the Bank of
contain. We have the Bank of England were —— meeting next
England were —— meeting next e
England were —— meeting next T o
England were —— meeting next T ] | VY
England were —— meeting next week, all eyes on
England were —— meeting next A (RS R
England were —— meeting next week, all eyes on the UK
week, all eyes on the UK central bank open the fact our
central bank open the fact our inflation is so high, economy
inflation Is so high, economy 3
inflation Is so high, economy IR
inflation Is so high, economy is stuttering, we expect
Is stuttering, we expect another
Is stuttering, we expect TR R a1
Is stuttering, we expect another rate rise, | assume?
another rate rise, | assume? (-
another rate rise, | assume? Yes, |
another rate rise, | assume? V-V I 1151
another rate rise, | assume? Yes, | think with inflation and
Yes, | think with inflation and double—digit
Yes, | think with inflation ana double—digit doesn’t
Yes, | think with inflation and double—digit doesn’t leave the
double—digit doesn’t leave the Bank
double—digit doesn’t leave the Y&} 3
double—digit doesn’t leave the Bank of England much choice,
Bank of England much choice, I
Bank of England much choice, but to
Bank of England much choice, RO
Bank of England much choice, but to hike rates again. They
but to hike rates again. They do
but to hike rates again. They X
but to hike rates again. They RV
but to hike rates again. They do say they inspect inflation
do say they inspect inflation (0]
do say they inspect inflation o ool
do say they inspect inflation to cool across the second
do say they Inspect inflation to cool across the second part
to cool across the second part i
to cool across the second part AR AT
to cool across the second part of the year but right now
of the year but right now inflation is just too high be
inflation is just too high be (010
inflation is just too high be too risky
inflation is just too high be T RS
inflation is just too high be TS AT RG]
inflation is just too high be too risky for the Bank of
too risky for the Bank of England to leave it where it
England to leave it where it 3
Let’s stay in Europe — because in the next hour
or so oil giant Shell is expected to reveal another
quarter of huge profits.
It’s expected to have made almost $8 billion
INn the three months to March.
IR TG R R L RO R billion it made this
time last year.
But it’s unlikely to ease the pressure on the company
and its rivals over the amount they are profiting from soaring
energy prices — caused by the war in Ukraine.
Naeem Aslam is Chief Investment Officer
at the financial research and trading house Zaye Capital
Markets here in London,
Are
V(A1
LRI V(o LY a [
Are you expecting these bumper earning most predict in nearly
earning most predict in nearly BT
earning most predict in nearly $8 million? | believe there are
$8 million? | believe there are two
$8 million? | believe there are A Az R el
$8 million? | believe there are two different perspectives when
two different perspectives when we look at Shell,
two different perspectives when we look at Shell one
two different perspectives when we look at Shell, one is
two different perspectives when we look at Shell one is the
we look at Shell, one iIs the shareholder
we look at Shell, one Is the shareholder perspective and
we look at Shell, one is the shareholder perspective and the
shareholder perspective and the s
shareholder perspective and the other is the consumer
other 1s the consumer perspective.
other iIs the consumer perspective. From
other Is the consumer perspective. From shareholder
perspective. From shareholder W e
perspective. From shareholder YR
perspective. From shareholder perspective, yes, they want
perspective, yes, they want those bumper numbers, in its
those bumper numbers, In its o )
those bumper numbers, In its one 15 year history we are
one 15 year history we are =il
one 15 year history we are still expect the company to
still expect the company to produce the best
still expect the company to L TR G IS 1|
still expect the company to produce the best and the most
produce the best and the most stellar numbers for the start
stellar numbers for the start i
stellar numbers for the start of the year. Or the second best
of the year. Or the second best s
of the year. Or the second best at least so they want to see
at least so they want to see the continuation
at least so they want to see Ao ot lal o s R0 4
at least so they want to see the continuation of that
the continuation of that buyback and continuous
buyback and continuous initiation of commitment to
Initiation of commitment to TN L
Initiation of commitment to renewable assets and
renewable assets and investments and not just
investments and not just investment
iInvestments and not just investment and buying cheese
iInvestment and buying cheese I
iInvestment and buying cheese but making strategic
but making strategic investments, from
but making strategic TN AR
but making strategic investments, from a consumer
Investments, from a consumer perspective
Investments, from a consumer S R G
Investments, from a consumer RO R
Investments, from a consumer perspective this is where
perspective this Is where GG
perspective this Is where O R
perspective this Is where things can become quite
perspective this is where things can become quite tricky.
things can become quite tricky. We are all struggling with the
We are all struggling with the cost of living crisis, any
cost of living crisis, any number produced by Shell like
number produced by Shell like 1]
number produced by Shell like you have seen
number produced by Shell like OITIGEVCR-CLUEE
number produced by Shell like you have seen is going to be
you have seen is going to be WInlhl|
you have seen is going to be W nlhl Wl
you have seen is going to be AN EORGE
you have seen Is going to be coming into the spotlight,
coming into the spotlight, people will be looking at that
people will be looking at that and saying
people will be looking at that NG LR LS
people will be looking at that and saying that there’s another
and saying that there’s another T4
and saying that there’s another o )
and saying that there’s another kick the teeth, while we are
kick the teeth, while we are 1
kick the teeth, while we are all struggling with the cost of
all struggling with the cost of living
all struggling with the cost of 1L IS
all struggling with the cost of living crisis, with the
living crisis, with the A7 g g gl
living crisis, with the government ending the support
government ending the support WL
government ending the support WIL TR
government ending the support going into next month. As you
going into next month. As you correctly pointed out earlier,
correctly pointed out earlier, patient being double digits and
patient being double digits and 018
patient being double digits and not likely to come down
not likely to come down significantly, even towards the
significantly, even towards the Yo ls)
significantly, even towards the el o AR a3
significantly, even towards the end of this year, there should
end of this year, there should be
end of this year, there should 1= e
end of this year, there should be more access
end of this year, there should A L I e R ] E
end of this year, there should be more access for these type
be more access for these type i
be more access for these type of companies but how much tax
of companies but how much tax will really be
of companies but how much tax A 1T
of companies but how much tax will really be put on these
will really be put on these particular companies. —— Texas.
particular companies. —— Texas. If the
particular companies. —— Texas. TR e 1o 4
particular companies. —— Texas. If the stock market resilient
If the stock market resilient which it is today despite the
which it Is today despite the failure of
which it is today despite the failure of those banks, it is
failure of those banks, it Is because of
failure of those banks, it is because of the earnings from
because of the earnings from the tech giants and the energy
the tech giants and the energy o
the tech giants and the energy sector. As we head
the tech giants and the energy saector. As we head towards
the tech giants and the energy sector. As we head towards a
sector. As we head towards a general election, which is, it
general election, which is, it 1
general election, which is, it may be a year away, the
may be a year away, the narrative on this will get
narrative on this will get louder and
narrative on this will get L LR
narrative on this will get louder and louder, have local
louder and louder, have local elections taking place later
elections taking place later today, with the Leader of the
today, with the Leader of the Opposition party Keir Starmer
Opposition party Keir Starmer saying that has to be an
saying that has to be an e 1)
saying that has to be an increase in taxes on the
Increase In taxes on the L1
Increase In taxes on the O
Increase In taxes on the profits of big oil and other
profits of big oil and other similar companies. What does
similar companies. What does =
similar companies. What does Shell and BP who have had
Shell and BP who have had T3 ey
Shell and BP who have had results out
Shell and BP who have had AT =Y el
Shell and BP who have had results out earlier this week
results out earlier this week doing in terms of investing,
doing in terms of investing, ]I
doing In terms of investing, capital expenditure, they are
capital expenditure, they are making these huge amounts of
making these huge amounts of nenEA
making these huge amounts of NN AR
making these huge amounts of money, we would hope at least
money, we would hope at least 3%
money, we would hope at least ORI
money, we would hope at least O S TR o]
money, we would hope at least WA RIS ARG T
money, we would hope at least they are investing that in
they are investing that In renewables, in
QTR DL RG]y renewables, in the future
they are investing that in N R RO R AT =R
renewables, in the future into UG
renewables, in the future into greener technology? These
greener technology? These companies are getting a massive
companies are getting a massive tax
companies are getting a massive Y e
companies are getting a massive tax break, 91p on the pound, so
tax break, 91p on the pound, so how
tax break, 91p on the pound, so A AR e
tax break, 91p on the poung, so how that investment is being
how that investment is being made, you want to
how that investment Is being made, you want to see
made, you want to see acquisitions of either new
acquisitions of either new start—ups or being the leaders
start—ups or being the leaders in the
start—ups or being the leaders MBI
start—ups or being the leaders in the new renewable space or
In the new renewable space or particular companies coming up
particular companies coming up with their own ventures, so far
with their own ventures, so far we
with their own ventures, so far =N (o)
with their own ventures, so far we know yes, there is
with their own ventures, so far R G ARG E R
with their own ventures, so far we know yes, there is a stance,
we know yes, there is a stance, narrative among these
narrative among these particular companies especially
particular companies especially from BP where they are moving
from BP where they are moving 18
from BP where they are moving or shifting slightly away from
or shifting slightly away from a8
or shifting slightly away from their commitments. And that is
their commitments. And that Is not going to be
their commitments. And that is not going to be received by
not going to be received by G 1R e e Lol
not going to be received by shareholders very well
shareholders very well especially from pension funds
especially from pension funds which are shareholders of these
which are shareholders of these accounts because they want
accounts because they want giants like these to continue
giants like these to continue (0]
giants like these to continue ey
giants like these to continue ORI IE-T
giants like these to continue ORI RS
giants like these to continue ORI R
giants like these to continue to invest more, for a number of
to invest more, for a number of E I
to invest more, for a number of reasons, number one nobody
reasons, number one nobody wants to
reasons, number one nobody T R -]
reasons, number one nobody wants to see fossil fuels
wants to see fossil fuels IR
wants to see fossil fuels S L I e s
wants to see fossil fuels continue, and secondly oil
continue, and secondly oil e
continue, and secondly oil prices are not where they used
prices are not where they used (0]
prices are not where they used DR
prices are not where they used )
prices are not where they used to be. A huge debate that could
to be. A huge debate that could o
to be. A huge debate that could go on and
to be. A huge debate that could O LIEELE R R
to be. A huge debate that could go on and on. Thank
go on and on. Thank you very much for your take on Shell’s
much for your take on Shell’s EIGIEE
Around the world and across the UK,
IR N Y
There was a musical start to the well-dressing celebrations.
This 1s an ancient tradition.
It is a pagan tradition, and it was to thank the gods
at the time for the gift of water, so the crops
would grow, and hence you get all this beautiful greenery
And this 1s the main village well.
All the designs are drawn onto clay boards and their natural
materials are used to W] R ER (AT TS
All the designs this year have a Coronation theme.
Each involves hours of painstaking work by volunteers.
They are fabulous, aren’t they?
They are appropriate because of RO NE R D (R e
The well—dressings will be on display here until Saturday.
It is a chance to bring the community together
and to admire these unique pieces of local art.
You’re Live with BBC News.
| et’s continue with
|l et’s continue with our
Y TR T e business
Let’s continue with our business coverage.
To India now, where the central bank the Reserve Bank
of India, says the nation will need a $1 trillion
in financing by 2030 to combat the effects of climate change.
It comes as Indian—born Ajay Banga is elected
as the new head of the World Bank = first Indian—=American
to hold the prestigious role.
The bank Is trying to pivot its activities towards helping
developing nations cope with climate change.
| et’s discuss
I I LR
|l et’s discuss this with
Let’s discuss this with Arunoday Mukharji who is in our
Arunoday Mukharji who Is in our bureau in
Arunoday Mukharji who Is in our BB
Arunoday Mukharji who Is In our bureau in New Delhi. Arunoday,
bureau in New Delhi. Arunoday, 81
bureau in New Delhi. Arunoday, TR
bureau in New Delhi. Arunoday, this is interesting. A)
bureau in New Delhi. Arunoday, ORI S AL AV S
this Is interesting. A) Is E1 o I
this Is interesting. A) Is appointment on
this Is interesting. A Is appointment on the
this Is interesting. A) Is appointment on the day. Tell
this Is interesting. AJ is appointment on the day. Tell me
appointment on the day. Tell me about
appointment on the day. Tell me oo IR s
appointment on the day. Tell me IR O
appointment on the day. Tell me about what is required. We have
about what Is required. We have been through this in
about what Is required. We have RGO R T )T
about what Is required. We have been through this in our report
been through this in our report IT1Y
been through this in our report out so far and
been through this in our report R e )
been through this in our report IR a1 - «la el
been through this in our report out so far and the kind of
out so far and the kind of YT o]0
out so far and the kind of reactions that we got from
reactions that we got from Y Ta 01113
reactions that we got from various sections of the globe
various sections of the globe where they have said the edge
where they have said the edge G
where they have said the edge monger is perhaps in many ways
monger Is perhaps In many ways )
monger Is perhaps In many ways the right candidate
monger Is perhaps in many ways the right candidate because
the right candidate because there are a
the right candidate because N s
the right candidate because there are a lot of expectations
there are a lot of expectations Y
there are a lot of expectations Er O
there are a lot of expectations NS
there are a lot of expectations as he is someone who can
as he 1s someone who can understand
as he Is someone who can understand the needs of a
understand the needs of a (AT
understand the needs of a developing economy like India
developing economy like India o
developing economy like India while balancing out the
while balancing out the commitments
while balancing out the o nalaalRn ) al o o)
while balancing out the commitments to green energy and
commitments to green energy and also ensuring an economy
also ensuring an economy o a1n a1
also ensuring an economy continues to grow —— Ajay
continues to grow —— Ajay Banga. That is one of the major
Banga. That is one of the major challenges that India has faced
challenges that India has faced and because of India’s huge
and because of India’s huge reliance on fossil fuels in its
reliance on fossil fuels In its attempts to borate
reliance on fossil fuels In Its attempts to borate into
T[RRI IR Vg A
T[RRI IR alternative means of
1T [ R (O T LR 1) alternative means of fuel as
alternative means of fuel as well India remains the
well. India remains the O ITG R FI 1
well. India remains the third—largest carbon emitter
third—largest carbon emitter and that
third—largest carbon emitter B G
third—largest carbon emitter and that is why these aspects
and that is why these aspects are all the
and that is why these aspects TR IR - el )
and that i1s why these aspects are all the more important and
are all the more important and E1
are all the more important and as you said the Reserve Bank of
as you said the Reserve Bank of India has come up with that
India has come up with that g=olo]g
India has come up with that report in which it has red
report in which it has red flagged (IO
report in which it has red flagged concerns and
flagged some concerns and ideas, saying that policy
ideas, saying that policy interventions are the needs of
interventions are the needs of the hour if India is to achieve
the hour if India is to achieve ey
the hour if India is to achieve Tl s
the hour If India I1s to achieve its net zero emissions
the hour If India Is to achieve its net zero emissions goal
the hour If India is to achieve its net zero emissions goal by
its net zero emissions goal by 2070. For that, and yet needs
2070. For that, and yet needs (0]
2070. For that, and yet needs R0}
2070. For that, and yet needs RS P AY )
2070. For that, and yet needs to spend 2.5% of the
2070. For that, and yet needs RS LG P R R Y
to spend 2.5% of the GDP annually on green financing by
annually on green financing by 2030 which announce to about $1
2030 which announce to about $1 gl R
2030 which announce to about $1 trillion, as said. He has also
trillion, as said. He has also O
trillion, as said. He has also gone ahead and said that if
gone ahead and said that If India does
gone ahead and said that if India does not enact a policy
India does not enact a policy intervention at this stage that
Intervention at this stage that 1
Intervention at this stage that it could seriously impact
It could seriously impact India’s gross
it could seriously impact India’s gross output in the
India’s gross output in the Ty}
India’s gross output in the Wl
India’s gross output in the long run and also
India’s gross output in the long run and also trigger
long run and also trigger inflationary concerns in the
inflationary concerns in the Ll [1g
inflationary concerns in the longer run as well. India has
longer run as well. India has maintained for a very long time
maintained for a very long time that
maintained for a very long time IR As
maintained for a very long time E I
maintained for a very long time that it is one of those
that it is one of those countries
that it is one of those O TN ial
that it is one of those countries which is
countries which Is disproportionately affected
countries which is disproportionately affected due
disproportionately affected due (0]
disproportionately affected due o TR )
disproportionately affected due to climate change, but it also
to climate change, but it also needs to
to climate change, but it also I LR e e
to climate change, but it also M RO R - R
to climate change, but it also needs to cater to its growing
needs to cater to its growing population. India has overtaken
population. India has overtaken China as well in that regard,
China as well in that regardq, )
China as well in that regardq, RS
China as well in that regardq, so this remains
China as well in that regarq, so this remains a big concern
so this remains a big concern and
so this remains a big concern ETa L
so this remains a big concern and it could be interesting to
and it could be interesting to T
and it could be interesting to see how things really pan out
see how things really pan out from this point onwards. OK.
from this point onwards. OK. Arunoday, thank you.
Arunoday, thank you. Interesting.
Let’s stay with climate change, but move to France,
where farmers across the country fear a repeat
of last summer’s destructive drought is now almost certain.
An unusually dry winter and spring, with reduced snow
cover In the Alps, has led to sights of dried up river
beds and shrunken lakes usually only seen in
the height of summer.
| et’s talk
let’s talk to
|l et’s talk to Sebastien
let’s talk to Sebastien Windsor
Let’s talk to Sebastien Windsor oY 018
Let’s talk to Sebastien Windsor about this, president of
about this, president of S -
about this, president of France’s chamber of
France’s chamber of agriculture, from palace. Good
agriculture, from palace. Good morning.
agriculture, from palace. Good LT AT
agriculture, from palace. Good morning. Took us through the
morning. Took us through the situation in France currently.
situation in France currently. N
situation in France currently. Are you concerned
situation In France currently. Are you concerned this summer
Are you concerned this summer will
Are you concerned this summer Y
Are you concerned this summer will be worse than last summer
will be worse than last summer strap? Good morning. It depends
strap? Good morning. It depends what part of France. The
what part of France. The Westpark had a rainy winter and
Westpark had a rainy winter and the
Westpark had a rainy winter and R s
Westpark had a rainy winter and the water tables are quite
the water tables are quite GIls
the water tables are quite high. The spring was also quite
high. The spring was also quite EY
high. The spring was also quite rainy so the Westpark of France
rainy so the Westpark of France 3
rainy so the Westpark of France is not going
rainy so the Westpark of France A R
rainy so the Westpark of France is not going to be too much of
Is not going to be too much of Y
Is not going to be too much of a problem. OK, we may have a
a problem. OK, we may have a g%
a problem. OK, we may have a very dry
a problem. OK, we may have a ALY
a problem. OK, we may have a very dry June, but so
a problem. OK, we may have a WA AT LR A
a problem. OK, we may have a very dry June, but so far, so
very dry June, but so far, so LR
very dry June, but so far, so good. If you at the North, we
good. If you at the North, we had a quite dry winter so water
had a quite dry winter so water =] 1
had a quite dry winter so water tables are low, but we had in
tables are low, but we had In March and April quite a lot of
March and April quite a lot of rain,
March and April quite a lot of CILE
March and April quite a lot of LN
March and April quite a lot of rain, so | am not too much
rain, so | am not too much Y e l=Ne]
rain, so | am not too much I aal- i s
rain, so | am not too much R R
rain, so | am not too much R RO
rain, so | am not too much worried for these areas. Where
worried for these areas. Where | am very concerned use of the
| am very concerned use of the southeast of France. In some
southeast of France. In some WE]gnH
southeast of France. In some parts, like around Pinyon, we
parts, like around Pinyon, we had in the last year less than
had in the last year less than 200
had In the last year less than 200 millimetres of rain,
200 millimetres of rain, so that means we are in a
that means we are in a AT no]s
that means we are in a situation close to the Middle
situation close to the Middle T4
situation close to the Middle Y s
situation close to the Middle S s IR v- a8
situation close to the Middle East in terms of rain. These
East in terms of rain. These I
East in terms of rain. These areas, we
East in terms of rain. These G IR I GV
East in terms of rain. These areas, we have no
East In terms of rain. These areas, we have no water
areas, we have no water reserve,
areas, we have no water a2 ]
areas, we have no water reserve, no water table
reserve, no water table available for irrigation, and
available for irrigation, and we had a very dry spring, so in
we had a very dry spring, so In these areas, yes,
we had a very dry spring, so In (R [ AR
we had a very dry spring, so In these areas, yes, | am very
these areas, yes, | am very much
these areas, yes, | am very el (o R e nal- el
these areas, yes, | am very much worried. | am
these areas, yes, | am very 01T L0 as - e P10 sl L0 aal- e
these areas, yes, | am very much worried. | am worried for
much worried. | am worried for 1
much worried. | am worried for all types
much worried. | am worried for = Y 00
much worried. | am worried for all types of production. | am
all types of production. | am Y e l=Ne]
all types of production. | am I aal- i s
all types of production. | am worried for vegetable and food
worried for vegetable and food g [Tl d )]
worried for vegetable and food production but | am also very
production but | am also very much
production but | am also very o e el
production but | am also very IR 0 ssl- s miels
production but | am also very much worried for grass
B
L for
L IR
L (I R
production and for capacity to V)
production and for capacity to T
production and for capacity to feed the cattle. Will you be
feed the cattle. Will you be calling
feed the cattle. Will you be WL D)
feed the cattle. Will you be calling on the government for
calling on the government for help? Well, actually, the
help? Well, actually, the A7 g g gl
help? Well, actually, the government helped us to
government helped us to Tl 1S ul
government helped us to Tl S u )
government helped us to implement a new insurance
implement a new insurance system this year.
iImplement a new Insurance system this year. So, | hope
system this year. So, | hope 81
system this year. So, | hope IS
system this year. So, | hope this system will work
this system will work i1\
this system will work efficiently to help the
efficiently to help the farmers. This is an insurance
IEH U EE LR LR L o Y] Ty Y
IEH U EE LR LR L o where the farmers,
farmers. This Is an Iinsurance where the farmers, for a
farmers. This Is an insurance where the farmers, for a fairly
where the farmers, for a fairly available price, can get this
available price, can get this insurance and the government
Insurance and the government will help
Insurance and the government L R )
Insurance and the government will help the insurance
Insurance and the government U R G RGN E LRSS )
UL G R T (o SV Ty (0]
UL G R T (o SV Ty to work, so
UL G R T (o SV Ty R N
UL G R T (o SV Ty to work, so | really
will help the insurance system to work, so | really hope that
to work, so | really hope that 81
to work, so | really hope that IRl
to work, so | really hope that TR IR 8 4
to work, so | really hope that this will work in the short
this will work In the short g
this will work In the short term. What
this will work in the short term. What we need to do and
term. What we need to do and where
term. What we need to do and R CREELWY
term. What we need to do and where we really need the help
where we really need the help i
where we really need the help AR AT
where we really need the help of the government is to be able
of the government Is to be able (0]
of the government Is to be able to build
of the government Is to be able T e )
of the government is to be able to build some reserve, to be
to build some reserve, to be able to stop water in winter
able to stop water in winter I
able to stop water in winter areas, to be able
LR (O T RV LT VR (T areas, to be able to stop
able to stop water in winter areas, to be able to stop water
areas, to be able to stop water L]
areas, to be able to stop water coming from snow and rivers.
coming from snow and rivers. Y=Y
coming from snow and rivers. Y T R )
coming from snow and rivers. wWhen we have
coming from snow and rivers. When we have some
coming from snow and rivers. R Y e e
coming from snow and rivers. wWhen we have some in the
coming from snow and rivers. When we have some in the rivers
When we have some In the rivers to
When we have some In the rivers )
When we have some In the rivers to be able to
When we have some In the rivers NI R N )
When we have some in the rivers to be able to store it for
to be able to store It for similar production
to be able to store it for similar production and we
similar production and we =X\
similar production and we really expect some help on the
really expect some help on the long—term from the government
long—term from the government (0]
long—term from the government D)
long—term from the government to be able to
long—term from the government N e | o o 01 s|
long—term from the government to be able to build such
to be able to build such installations. Given what you
Installations. Given what you experience last year, what is
experience last year, what Is happening this year, farmers
happening this year, farmers across France and other
across France and other countries across Europe and
countries across Europe and Spain
countries across Europe and S EILRT g
countries across Europe and Spain for example a
countries across Europe and S EINR IR IR RS
countries across Europe and Spain for example a swell, you
Spain for example a swell, you will
Spain for example a swell, you BN
Spain for example a swell, you will have to rethink the way
will have to rethink the way 1]
will have to rethink the way you work, won’t you, in terms
you work, won’t you, In terms i
you work, won’t you, In terms of storage
you work, won’t you, In terms RSO R
you work, won’t you, In terms RSO EL RO L
of storage of water, irrigation, etc? Yes. We have
irrigation, etc? Yes. We have (0]
irrigation, etc? Yes. We have to look at
irrigation, etc? Yes. We have ol &l
irrigation, etc? Yes. We have to look at all the
irrigation, etc? Yes. We have RGOS | 4 RN
irrigation, etc? Yes. We have to look at all the way that we
to look at all the way that we YR
to look at all the way that we are running farming. Of
to look at all the way that we GO LRI R G (e Ao 1T 51
are running farming. Of course, we have to look at the way that
we have to look at the way that we water. We have to look at
we water. We have to look at not
we water. We have to look at Lo 1T Taa] oY 4 o}
we water. We have to look at not pumping the water from the
not pumping the water from the water
not pumping the water from the N R o112
not pumping the water from the water table but to be able to
water table but to be able to store
water table but to be able to AR IR
water table but to be able to SRR e
water table but to be able to store the water in
water table but to be able to SRR L )
water table but to be able to SRR R e as
store the water in the short periods where we do have lots
periods where we do have lots i
periods where we do have lots RGN
periods where we do have lots ARG
periods where we do have lots of rain, that just goes away in
of rain, that just goes away In Y
of rain, that just goes away In ERR =Y
of rain, that just goes away In a few days, so we have to be
a few days, so we have to be o115
a few days, so we have to be able to
a few days, so we have to be RO R )
a few days, so we have to be RO RS R
a few days, so we have to be RO RS - el ns)
able to store this more i1\
able to store this more efficiently than what we did in
efficiently than what we did In higher volumes than what we
higher volumes than what we IR
higher volumes than what we did, but we also have to look
did, but we also have to look s
did, but we also have to look YR O
did, but we also have to look at what we
did, but we also have to look YR G R 18
did, but we also have to look at what we can change in the
at what we can change In the YV
at what we can change In the VRN
at what we can change In the VA G
at what we can change In the way we are running our farms.
way we are running our farms. Maybe we will have to change
Maybe we will have to change 0 08
Maybe we will have to change o001
Maybe we will have to change 0 e R
Maybe we will have to change some of the production we are
some of the production we are L]
some of the production we are LI R
some of the production we are running on the farm. We have to
running on the farm. We have to change the way we do some
change the way we do some irrigation to go to drop by
irrigation to go to drop by drop irrigation, rather than a
drop irrigation, rather than a large and open irrigation, and
large and open irrigation, and we have two, four cattle, to be
we have two, four cattle, to be able to bring water to the
able to bring water to the ol ]
able to bring water to the cattle, even in
able to bring water to the o A VU R
able to bring water to the cattle, even in the outback
cattle, even in the outback because we are running out of
because we are running out of water. Sorry to interrupt you
water. Sorry to interrupt you LD
water. Sorry to interrupt you there, Sebastien. Thank you for
there, Sebastien. Thank you for explaining the situation in
explaining the situation in France.
explaining the situation In France. Sebastien
explaining the situation in France. Sebastien Windsor with
France. Sebastien Windsor with the
France. Sebastien Windsor with el Lo
France. Sebastien Windsor with the latest on farming in
the latest on farming In ST -
To Spain now, where thousands of rural towns and villages
are struggling for survival as people leave in search
(o] M e]e e gdIa 1141 S
Spain’s parliament has agreed to debate plans to give
financial support to keep bars and cafes open to try and stop
some villages from being abandoned altogether.
Guy Hedgecoe reports from Central Spain.
The rural
The rural heartland of central YoEI
The rural heartland of central Spain after decades of
Spain after decades of migration towards cities, these
migration towards cities, these vast agriculture reliant areas
vast agriculture reliant areas i
vast agriculture reliant areas AR AT
vast agriculture reliant areas of the country are sparsely
of the country are sparsely populated. They have become
populated. They have become known as empty Spain. The
known as empty Spain. The RV
known as empty Spain. The divide between
known as empty Spain. The G N a1
known as empty Spain. The divide between rural and urban
divide between rural and urban T
divide between rural and urban IS more
divide between rural and urban IR CRIC L P
divide between rural and urban is more pronounced here than in
IS more pronounced here than In most European countries. 90%
IS more pronounced here than in most European countries. 90% of
most European countries. 90% of Spaniards inhabit larger towns
Spaniards inhabit larger towns and
Spaniards inhabit larger towns TR
Spaniards inhabit larger towns and cities. The rest are here.
and cities. The rest are here. Nearly half of Spanish towns
Nearly half of Spanish towns are at
Nearly half of Spanish towns TR a4
Nearly half of Spanish towns are at risk of depopulation.
are at risk of depopulation. Among them is one with
Among them is one with population 36. As is the case
population 36. As is the case in so
population 36. As is the case in SO many
population 36. As is the case in so many villages
population 36. As Is the case in so many villages the bar is
In so many villages the bar Is the heart of the
In so many villages the bar is the heart of the community.
the heart of the community. TRANSLATION: It is a place for
TRANSLATION: It is a place for I
TRANSLATION: It is a place for people together because
people together because otherwise
people together because O R LG
people together because otherwise he would not see
otherwise he would not see people. It means we have a
people. It means we have a meeting place.
meeting place. TRANSLATION: A lot
meeting place. 108V SN ] B - e s
meeting place. TRANSLATION: A lot of people
TRANSLATION: A lot of people YR
TRANSLATION: A lot of people Y- AT
TRANSLATION: A lot of people YR VOV R
TRANSLATION: A lot of people are involved in the bar and its
are involved in the bar and its maintenance creates jobs. So,
maintenance creates jobs. So, L1
maintenance creates jobs. So, LI )
maintenance creates jobs. So, IR e e
maintenance creates jobs. So, bars are needed to make sure
bars are needed to make sure people stay and work here. But
people stay and work here. But with
people stay and work here. But i )
people stay and work here. But IO R
people stay and work here. But GO R A P
people stay and work here. But with so few customers, many
with so few customers, many T E
with so few customers, many removal bars are struggling.
removal bars are struggling. TRANSLATION: The bar is not a
TRANSLATION: The bar is not a viable business. We have to
viable business. We have to organise all sorts of other
organise all sorts of other T A
organise all sorts of other activities, and that is because
activities, and that is because the bar
activities, and that is because oo a1
activities, and that i1s because the bar does not
activities, and that is because the bar does not pay
activities, and that i1s because the bar does not pay for
the bar does not pay for =
the bar does not pay for itself, so
the bar does not pay for 1< ARV
the bar does not pay for itself, so you have to find
itself, so you have to find s
itself, so you have to find other sources
itself, so you have to find I A
itself, so you have to find other sources of income
itself, so you have to find I e el e - e
other sources of income In order
other sources of income In R RN
other sources of income In order to make a profit, or just
order to make a profit, or just (0]
order to make a profit, or just to break
order to make a profit, or just N €Yl
order to make a profit, or just RN O
order to make a profit, or just to break even. A political
to break even. A political aal0 N 2= 0l=1s10
to break even. A political movement representing rural
movement representing rural Spain has been campaigning for
Spain has been campaigning for the repopulation of areas like
the repopulation of areas like this,
the repopulation of areas like =1
the repopulation of areas like this, and calling for an
this, and calling for an Tl I uEhle
this, and calling for an improvement in public
LT T Tl LT s IR (T T improvement in public services.
Improvement in public services. It is hoping to have an
improvement in public services. It is hoping to have an impact
It is hoping to have an impact o0
It is hoping to have an impact el
It is hoping to have an impact on the national political
on the national political )
on the national political debate by performing well in
debate by performing well in upcoming local elections. A
upcoming local elections. A party wants to make bars in
party wants to make bars In towns
party wants to make bars In R e
party wants to make bars In towns with fewer than 200
towns with fewer than 200 TR o Th w010
towns with fewer than 200 inhabitants eligible for
Inhabitants eligible for special economic support from
special economic support from the
special economic support from I )
special economic support from the state because of the social
the state because of the social 11
the state because of the social role that they play. The
role that they play. The parliament is considering the
parliament Is considering the plan.
plan. TRANSLATION: We are fighting to
TRANSLATION: We are fighting to Iyl
TRANSLATION: We are fighting to improve lives in our villages,
improve lives in our villages, (0]
improve lives in our villages, R N N
Improve lives in our villages, to improve infrastructure, have
to improve infrastructure, have T nn-s
to improve infrastructure, have better services
OB TR [ =T T e T T AT better services and better
better services and better I g =s
better services and better IR Rl oo nln = oun o]0
better services and better Internet connections and
Internet connections and I
Internet connections and T IR
Internet connections and improve our roads which are
Improve our roads which are g%
Improve our roads which are very bad. The initiative to
very bad. The initiative to save
very bad. The initiative to N G S
very bad. The initiative to save bars is aimed at
save bars I1s aimed at A o]
save bars Is aimed at preventing villages from
preventing villages from suffering abandonment which has
suffering abandonment which has already
suffering abandonment which has C|E A
suffering abandonment which has already been the fate of so
already been the fate of so uELa
already been the fate of so many. But those who live in
many. But those who live In emptied Spain know that the
emptied Spain know that the odds are
emptied Spain know that the - sl
emptied Spain know that the odds are still stacked against
odds are still stacked against them.
A quick look at Asian markets which are reacting to the
which are reacting to the | (e 11
which are reacting to the Federal Reserve decision. A
Federal Reserve decision. A mixed picture across the board
mixed picture across the board in a
mixed picture across the board NN
mixed picture across the board in a as we quickly show you
In a as we quickly show you wall
In a as we quickly show you Wall Street
In a as we quickly show you wall Street as
In a as we quickly show you Wall Street as well Pack West
Wall Street as well. Pack West shares plummeted in after hours
shares plummeted in after hours e To )
shares plummeted in after hours =T [0 e
shares plummeted in after hours trade on Wednesday. This is the
trade on Wednesday. This is the =10 R s
trade on Wednesday. This Is the Californian mid—sized bank that
Californian mid—sized bank that T
Californian mid—sized bank that R ]
Californian mid—sized bank that is seeking a financial
Is seeking a financial lifeline. You are up to the
ufeline. You are up to the business stories. | will see
business stories. | will see 1]
business stories. | will see IO
Many of us had some beautiful late spring
sunshine on Wednesday.
In fact, in Bournemouth, there was just over 13 hours
of sunshine, a glorious day.
But top temperature, well, that was in South Wales,
In Gwynedd, just shy of 20 Celsius, and it felt
very pleasant indeed.
Now it’s not out of the question that we could see
20 Celsius on Thursday, but the weather story
Is certainly on the change with low pressure starting
to move In from the southwest.
So as we go through the day on Thursday, it’s a tale
of three halves, really — we’ve got cloud driving in off
the North Sea, affecting eastern England and northeast
We’ve got rain pushing into the southwest —
and sandwiched in between the two, that’s where the best
of the sunshine Is likely to be, and that’s where we’ll
see the best of the warmth.
The breeze still coming from an east direction,
so with exposure, that’s just going to add a slight
edge to things.
A little more shelter, it’ll feel pleasant enough
with highs of 19-20 Celsius perhaps in the southeast.
Now, as we move out of Thursday into Friday, that weather front
will continue to push its way steadily north.
It’WL bring outbreaks of rain as it does so,
and then, following on behind, plenty of showers to come.
So on Friday, we’ll see a spell of more persistent rain moving
T gy 1 England, into Scotland.
Sunny spells and scattered showers tucking in behind.
Some of those showers could be heavy, slow—moving,
Now, not everybody R G R
but because the winds are slightly lighter coming
from a southwesterly direction, maybe those showers might hang
around for a little bit longer.
Still a cool easterly, making it feel fresher
In Scotland, but highs likely of 18 Celsius
by Friday afternoon.
Now, as we move Into the start of the weekend, that
southwesterly wind will drive that milder air further north
But unfortunately, it’ll also bring some wetter weather.
TR TS LI )R GO EO LI E R TR -
that wet weather moving its way across the capital and steadily
north as we go through the day.
So not a wash—out by any means, but at the moment, it does look
likely that during the morning, there will be outbreaks of rain
across the capital, certainly worth bearing in mind.
And the wider picture throughout the Bank.
Holiday weekend — Saturday will be the wettest
of the days, Sunday and Monday, sunny spells and scattered
showers.
Some of them on Monday could be quite heavy.
Take care.
Join us to celebrate the Coronation of Their Majesties King Charles
and Queen Camilla.
Witness history in the making with a weekend of special events,
Including live coverage of the Coronation service
at Westminster Abbey,
and front—row seats to the Coronation Concert,
featuring some of the biggest acts in music.
WY R R e Ea e R i T
Australia! There’s a bright future.
| can’t believe we’re actually doing this.
Here we go, then, the start of our new lives.
Annie? This i1s Kate. | met her on the boat. Charmed.
Well, you don’t see that in Stockport.
G’day, g’day, new arrivals. Welcome to paradise.
It’s like a prisoner of war camp.
They lied to us. They showed us whitewashed houses and huge gardens.
we’ll make 1t work.
You brought us here for a reason, for me.
You make your own world.
You can leave the past behind.
We came here for our family, L T lamilint ]
We can have a wonderful life here but we need to embrace it.
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast with Charlie Stayt and Naga Munchetty.
Our headlines today...
A day after Russia accuses Ukraine of trying to assassinate
Vladimir Putin in a drone attack,
the Ukrainian capital Kyiv is hit by airstrikes.
Vigils in Belgrade for the eight children killed in a mass
Good morning.
shooting by a classmate - R A Ie - - I ¢
Il BB ]
Energy giant Shell is due to announce billions of pounds
of profit in the first three months of this year.
It follows last year’s record amounts and comes as households
and businesses struggle with rising fuel bills.
I’ll be looking at the numbers.
Good morning.
Sporting history I1s made by Erling Haaland.
He gets his 35th, to break the record for the number scored
In @ Premier League seasom, as Manchester City return
to the top of the table.
There’s just two days to go T IR 0 R e o [0 s e Ao tnz aar el
Is building on The Mall, as people camp out
waiting for their moment RGN TR (G TR
Celebrations culminate on Monday with
Celebrations culminate on Monday T IR
Celebrations culminate on Monday with the big help out. It should
with the big help out. It should 3¢\
with the big help out. It should VA3
with the big help out. It should stay dry this weekend. | will have
stay dry this weekend. | will have )
stay dry this weekend. | will have Rt
stay dry this weekend. | will have the full cast. Today it is dry but
the full cast. Today it is dry but breezy. The full details
the full cast. Today it Is dry but breezy. The full details coming
breezy. The full details coming up on
It’s Thursday, the 4th of May.
Our main story.
Russia launched a wave of air strikes on the Ukrainian city
of Kyiv early this morning — the largest attack on the capital
O R
The country’s military described it as a "comprehensive air strike"
with more reports of explosions in Zaporizhzhia
and the Black Sea port of Odesa.
The strikes come after the Kremlin said it might retaliate for what it
claimed was an attempt to assassinate President Putin,
with a drone strike on the Kremln.
AL ELERICT RGO what appears to be a drone,
then an explosion over the Kremlin.
This footage Is unverified, but the Kremlin says that early
on Wednesday morning, two drones targeted the residence
RISl
Moscow was quick to blame Ukraine, claiming they were downed
by defences and that no—one was injured.
On Russian state TV, a dramatic RO R G R ]
show yesterday.
The presenter announced breaking news.
"There’s been an attempt,” he says, "to assassinate President Putin.”
President Zelensky, on a visit to Finland, denies
any Ukrainian involvement.
We don’t attack Putin or Moscow.
We fight on our territory.
We are defending our villages and cities.
We don’t have, you know, enough weapons for this.
In daylight, there was no obvious signs of damage to the Kremlin,
but lots of questions still.
With what aim?
Was this an internal operation, or even a false flag event?
Whatever narrative Moscow pursues, the United States has urged caution.
First, I’ve seen the reports.
| can’t In any way validate them.
We simply...
We simply don’t know.
Second, | would take anything coming out of the Kremlin
with a very large shaker of salt.
Last weekend, Russia accused Ukraine of launching a drone strike
on a fuel depot In Russian—occupied Crimea.
Days later, bombs detonated and derailed two freight trains
In a part of Russia near the Ukrainian border.
Citing security concerns, several Russian regions have now cancelled
military parades planned for May the 9th — Victory Day when Russians
mark the defeat of Nazi Germany.
For now, the Kremlin continues to insist that the big Red Square
parade in Moscow will go ahead despite last night’s explosions.
Unusually, though, Red Square has been closed to the public
since the end of April, reflecting perhaps a sense of wariness.
Whatever actually did happen above the Kremlin, supposedly one
of the most secure seats of power in the world,
it’s Ukely to intensify A oo ntd o ol
Vincent McAviney, BBC News.
We’re joined now by our correspondent,
Hugo Bachega, who’s In Kyiv.
Good morning to you. Tell us a little more
Good morning to you. Tell us a little more
Good morning to you. Tell us a R e e o o010
Good morning to you. Tell us a Ao a0 o Pi ol
Good morning to you. Tell us a little more about the strikes in
little more about the strikes In Kyiv overnight. Also | understand
Kyiv overnight. Also | understand there have been explosions
there have been explosions A e
there have been explosions elsewhere. Good morning. It was

Citation: BBC News, 01:20 04/05/2023, BBC1 London, 280 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3C0E0BA6?bcast=138843087 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)