it could trigger a few sharp a still quite chilly in the north-east of scotland, with that wet and windy weather, but it’s warming up across england and wales again on tuesday.
and things are quietening down around the middle part of the week.
light winds everywhere.
but then we have the issues about mist, fog and low cloud.
it could be bit of a grey start across some western areas.
that will tend to lift and we should see some sunshine coming through.
most places could just give one or two showers but, on the whole, a lot of weather.
it’s warming up through the central belt of scotland, 18 degrees in birmingham, 19, possibly 20 degrees around the london area.
we’re looking at a lot of drier weather, but again this mist and cloud and maybe some patches of fog around on thursday.
again, that will tend to lift and it’s likely that the model’s overdoing the extent of the cloud.
so brightening up again, some sunshine, maybe the odd shower across england and wales but, generally, it’s dry.
it never really warms up here, and by the end of the week we’ve got and keeping these weather fronts at bay, generally speaking.
we could see some showery bursts of rain heading into northern ireland, maybe over the irish sea towards wales and the north-west of england, but further north and east, it’s likely to be dry.
there could again be some mist, fog and low cloud to slowly lift, then some sunshine coming through.
looks generally cloudy.
may not be quite as cloudy as that, but those temperatures are near normal for this time of the year.
looking further ahead, and whilst we start with that area of high pressure dominating over the easter weekend, there are now some areas of low pressure that are getting close to our shores, particularly towards the south-west, but on the whole, high pressure looks like it is going to stay in charge.
so a lot of weather over the ela near normal temperatures, an improvement on what we’ve seen.
difficult to know how much cloud there’s going to be, and there’s still the potential the final days of the dinosaurs’ reign on planet earth have long remained a mystery.
how the last dinosaurs lived and died.
are we about to discover !
on the day the asteroid hit?
again and again and again?
they’re the two best words in the english language when you put them together.
from the novel by kate atkinson a a 1 when we started making serial.
we really thought we were just inventing a thing, and we had no idea if people would stay with it.
like, it’s called serial because we just thought - a serialised story that will roll out week-by-week.
i unsatisfying, guess, about, "we like stories with a beginning, middle and anend” in a sense.
and then, you know, for serial, there is no ending, there’s no but in the end, without being a plot spoiler, to as listeners.
i think the things that make a story like that satisfying are partly just the dynamics of the people in it.
mean, partly in that show, what makes it go is, you know, sarah koenig’s relationship with him as she tries to figure him out.
like, it’s just very intense and very personal, and you really get to know him.
and then you really are trying to answer a question, you’re trying to solve a mystery, that keeps you going forward.
and so, yeah, it feels good.
and then as journalism, obviously, like, she’s an incredible investigative reporter.
in subsequent seasons, we tried to take on things that were very different from that - a in murder mysteries and let and the rest of podcasting take that up.
military, and the season after that, we basically tried to diagnose what’s wrong with the american court system and was going to say, that first one was such a huge success, you know, went viral, led you to co-founding, you know, an entire production company, serial productions, which you then sold to the new york times for a reported $25 million.
are you still involved in the day-to-day running of the company - but never was, that was run by julie snyder.
but i am involved in editing stories, like, all the stories in our most recent podcast, the trojan horse affair, like, i did multiple edits on every episode.
investigations into extremism, losing their jobs, an awful lot of claim and counter-claim, an awful lot of news reporting now.
now your series has also proved very controversial.
you know, some of the people you interviewed say they were misled or misquoted, and you’ve since reedited one of the episodes and issued a correction.
what do you think went wrong?
walit, don’t know about - i literally not know about people saying they were misled and misquoted.
from serial productions and the new york times, it’s the trojan horse affair.
interview, it became clear that ira glass didn’t know the specifics of any complaints about his company’s latest blockbuster podcast.
6 to the trojan horse affair, like the times and the daily telegraph, have made some happen to be in birmingham, england, one night when this journalism student came up ira was happy to and answer these guestions, and even offered to do another interview after getting a briefing from his team.
but instead, we approached the new york times and serial productions directly.
fact-checking and legal review.
more broadly, you know, do you see this american life and the serial productions as campaigning journalism?
no, no - feel like we’re mainstream journalism where we go into situations and we’re reporting the facts.
because suppose, you know, =1 you know, we’ve heard a lot, haven’t we people saying, about the sort of liberal media and the cosy liberalness of all the people who work in the media.
jjust wondered, you know, you’ve got a recent episode of a woman who’d sued a big casino firm chain.
a david and goliath story, her against the big capitalist beast - quite understandably.
but do you see your programmes as having a political stance?
no.
no, feel like we’re very like wow, that’s that’s something new, that’s something somebody like, for example, the trump policy at the border, and just like, you know, like it, like where where we see something and we think like, "that seems bad.
” but then, honestly, like we follow the facts where they go.
can see that, totally understand that, totally buy ettgy you know, terms like "culture war” thrown around.
who was pro-llife and a conservative christian, but she’s become pro-choice - and it feels like quite a natural story for this american life.
and just wondered whether you do a story in the reverse, you know, a person moving from a liberal position to a more right-wing, conservative position.
yeah, we would love to do a story like that.
yeah, of course.
but you haven’t found it yet, or are you looking for it?
mean, that particular one.
you know, we haven’t found and we weren’t looking for but there are other stories that we do, which go inside the world of conservatives in a way as much as we to document anybody else.
you know, we’ve done stories inside militia groups - like, we did a story of the election where we went around with these militia groups that were supposedly like patrolling, you know, polling stations.
and there was all this fear that they were going to be intimidating voters - and it really was just trying know.
you know, think there’s no objectivity in journalism, i think like journalists who talk about like shooting for objectivity, that’s shooting for something and find it to be always a kind of annoying construct.
think you can be fair.
¢ and feel like we go out of our way to be fair.
like, feel, like, a ¢l 2 in any dispute that we’re reporting on.
and suppose, you know, polarising at the moment have accused.
we’re all accused of highlighting divisions and of finding the extremes.
and just wondered mean, do you do you bring people together, do you think, or do you push them mean, it’s funny, like don’t think about it that way, don’t think, are we trying to bring people together or are we trying to push them apart?
feel like, you know, we’re a very particular documentary show where we’re trying to get inside people’s worlds and show their points of view.
and so, the degree to which we’re trying to give a complete sense of things it’s like, we’re not pulling people apart, and we’re not trying to pull them together either, it’s just like we’re trying to say, "here’s what this person is, here’s the picture you might have of them and often, that’s the more radical thing to be doing.
like, here’s the way that this here’s the way this argument is talked about, but here’s the reality on the ground.
here’s what’s really happening.
you know, there was a point early in the trump administration where.
was how immigrants were coming in and stealing jobs.
with immigration.
like, they’re coming in and stealing jobs, and we did two episodes, we were like, is like, all right, let’s just like go to a place and see was one of the people who had been like saying this for years, former senator in the united states, this is he’s anti-immigration.
before trump, he was the big anti-immigration person in washington, , and then became the attorney-general.
and so, we’re like, actually, & 1 and we actually chose - he’s from alabama and we’'re just like, what’s the town in alabama, which had like a flood of immigrants a 1 and there was a town in alabama that was sort plants there that at some point just started bringing in mexican workers to work in the chicken plants albertville is the town - had been all white, you know, was between was between a third and a fourth mexican-american or mexican - not mexican-american, mexican.
and was just like, ", what did it do to this town?
did they steal jobs?
" and we really like went in and spent months, and hired an economist to look at what it did to wages, who had what jobs?
but also, what did it do to the culture of the town, and feel like we went in like not knowing, you know what mean?
and feel like at its best, that kind of reporting what it at this thing.
let’s just go to a place and see what really happens.
” in that town - it’s funny, a since we’ve done this - remember what it did number of jobs grew, because when you have that many workers coming in, there’s all this construction for housing and people selling more food, and it actually boosted the overall economy so there were overall more jobs, there was not more unemployment among workers.
but if remember right, it did keep wages depressed.
like, you know, it did affect wages in a way that you could measure, if remember correctly.
i was just going to say that - oh, sorry.
i was just going to ask, you know, whether there are topics that you would avoid for fear of offending or dividing - everything feels quite tense at the moment in a sense over certain topics.
you would just avoid on this american life ?
or is everything up for discussion and revelations ?
everything’s up for discussion.
like, can’t think of anything that’s come up on our staff where we talked about, like, "should we do this?
" and there was a feeling of like, "no, let’s stay away from that.
” what are you working on right now?
i mean, right now, we’re scrambling to get together a show responding to what’s happening in ukraine.
but me personally, like, stumbled into this story about nfts, where this guy called up, convinced like, just a crazy story about where this guy called up, and basically, he said that a man called him out of the blue and said, like, "hey, did you start this and then took it down he’s like, "i think you invented nfts.
think you made the first , or one of the first, anyway.
and if that’s true, you should start selling it again, because you’'ll be rich.
” and then it just unspools from there to a point but he also makes millions of dollars.
it’s just a crazy story that takes you into that world.
sounds great - anything that takes us into is useful, because most people still don’t understand what they are.
didn’t understand 1 well, there you go.
ira glass, you’ve been a dominant force in speech radic for scme time now.
you’ve had a huge impact on the types of radio and podcasts that many people listen to.
so tell me, tell us, what is next?
what kind of audio will we be listening to in ten years’ time?
can you make a prediction?
have no idea.
would think it would be a mix of things we have now.
there’s some narrative podcasts that people like, people doing journalism.
think there’ll be a bunch of interviews shows that people will enjoy, and there’ll be a loudmouths like joe rogan i’m sure it’ll all still be going.
maybe somehow, there’ll be way, shape, or form.
thank you so much, ira glass for joining me today.
thank you as well to bob nettles, today’s studio the media show will be back thanks for listening and goodbye.
hello, there.
there was a lot of sunshine around first thing on sunday, but it was cold and frosty, and it was quite widespread across the country.
we woke up to first thing on sunday morning, as low as minus six celsius.
now, all change and quite literally cloud right across the country, and that is acting like from falling too far.
it will be a frost free start to monday morning, degrees above freezing.
so, a difference to the feel of the weather, and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
the winds are going to strengthen, showery outbreaks of rain through wales, northern ireland, north-west england as well through the day.
quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction, widely gusting in excess some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming from the south, that means it will be a little bit warmer, 17 degrees the expected high.
thundery downpours are likely into the south-west through monday night into tuesday, and we can trail that weather front all the way back dewn into spain.
it is going to be pushing its way steadily northwards, with the exception perhaps here, you will stay air for the next few days.
that means first thing on tuesday morning, we are likely to see temperatures for degrees not out of the question across central and southern parts of england and wales.
yes, there is going to be some rain, some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours pushing their way steadily north and because the area is coming from the sahara, it could have sprinkling of saharan dust and that rain as well, that might just turn your washing or your car is a little bit grainy, a little bit orange at times.
in terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east whether cloud lingers, we are only looking out arcund a maximum of six to eight celsius.
but the rain will ease away, the isobars open up through the middle part of the week, it looks likely that wednesday will be the warmest day of the week, with 19 or 20 degrees not out of the question.
a good deal of weather as well, as we head whatever you are doing, take care and enjoy.
welcome to news.
our top stories: emmanuel macron is on target to win the first ballot in the french presidential election, but marine pen gains ground at the polls.
: don’'t make a mistake, this is not over.
the debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days decisive for our country and for europe.
grim discoveries in ukraine.
more than 1,200 bodies are found in areas around kyiv that were previously occupied by russian troops.
tens of thousands take to protest against the removal of the former prime minister, imran khan, from office.
the olivier goes to eddie redmayne!
and eddie redmayne wins big las at the royal albert hall in london.
welcome to the programme.
with most of the votes round of the french presidential election, emmanuel macron will face the far-right leader results currently show only a two percentage point difference between them, with macron on just over 27% and pen on just over 25%.
our paris correspondent lucy williamson has the latest.
it’s on, the battle a : don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
the debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days decisive for our country and for europe.
a choice of president macron or president pen.
rol 1 happen on 24 april is not early projections suggest that emmanuel macron with 28% of voters, pen’s share of the vote grew to around 23%.
but this is where the battle really begins.
eidct a little bit nervous always, simply because you don’t know a - and what the french people will want.
more popular, in part networks, misinformation is kind of like the plague of the 21st century.
so, our work is to to fight that.
yes, we are scared because the votes are very close on the first round, people on the second round will vote everything but macron because people macron only started campaigning a few weeks ago, too occupied with the war in ukraine.
more proof for some that he is arrogant and out of touch, the president of the rich, despite creating jobs and paying billions to keep french workers afloat through covid.
and more responsible.
she wants to ban the muslim headscarf in public and give priority to french nationals in jobs and housing.
but her campaign is focused on poverty and rising prices.
macron says that her programme is racist and would threaten democracy in france.
of president emmanuel macron, there are those want to keep those who watched the and the vote for trump.
and are asking themselves what is the solution for a1 - together to block the far right seems to be fraying and the two visions france has chosen for president show how divided kethevane gorjestani.
lie1l @0 thank you so much for joining us on the programme.
as we have 64 us on the programme.
as we have been hearing in lucy’s report, ally signifies the of really signifies the rise of populism, the decline of i alism and republicanism, also if we look at the campaign we can see that pen ad a slick campaign.
many has had a slick campaign.
many are concluding that, whereas nuel macron, with a late tart do emmanuel macron, with a late do he is.
how do you think both start do he is.
how do you start do he is.
how do you think both will change their tactics?
what should we look over -- out for tactics?
what should we look 2 -- out for of the tactics?
what should we look over -- out for of the next two 1 was yellow well, there is i - weeks was yellow well, there is a sense that emanuel mack on is to have do actually start campaigning -- emmanuel on.
there is a feeling in macron.
there is a feeling in france that the president was sed on the russia- ukraine focused on the russia- ukraine risis and m1 8 = beginning, because he was as seen tatesman, but then he of stayed as a statesman, but then he 1 sort of stayed on that statesman level and didn’t focus on the mestic really focus on the domestic campaign, if you will, while pen actually did focus on hat.
the guestion , s, are they ing to and address these two how are they going to and address these two elements.
emmanuel macron is going to to come back to the have to come back to the estic campaign, to xplain to those who did not for him they should ote for emmanuel macron and just stay home or vote for arine pen.
meanwhile, rine pen is going to have ele ace may be a little more than she has so far the eign-policy aspect of it.
anuel macron is likely going be using some of her past mments about a vladimir utin, about russell, her oximity russia against er, given the situation in rope ight now.
want to picked up a picked up on all those europe right now.
want to picked up on all those points.
ust before, emmanuel macron has been but just before, emmanuel - macron has been criticised fore being the leader of ris, not rance, was see trends turning against balisation and america, something associated with nuel macron, so what is it emmanuel macron, so what is it that marine pen has done to in new voters?
as you brought in new demographics as ?
she as, first of all, well?
she has, first of all, inted down some of the nasty, you will, aspects of what party sed to be, specially under her father.
as really evamped her - party is moving away a little oei bit from the outright ophobia, the outright eta xenophobia, the outright racism.
she still talks, of se, about racism.
she still talks, of i i a 1l course, about being very strict ration, but she has on immigration, but she has ort of moved away from this came more of an economic and became more of an econemic populist, if you will, focusing more on kitchen table really more on kitchen table issues, on the economy, rather focusing on security and than focusing on security and -1 than focusing on security and france and immigration, things that that alienate some like that that alienate some people, some working-class le, who may be agree with people, who may be agree with on the economy, people, who may be agree with 111 01 people, who may be agree with her on the econemy, but didn’t like this ort really like this sort of nophobic aspect of the party.
8 she worked really hard on hat to change the ision that that to to change the = 0 that to to change the vision that people have of her y.
she is also trying to x1l team down the guestion leaving the european union.
she hat five years ago, didn’t did that five years ago, didn’t a4 out this time, she is not talking about that outright.
so i has talking about that outright.
so a 4 as sort of learn from her mistakes and to really that populist wave and us on the elements and on the ssues that may other countries, the issues that may be other i -0 the issues that may be other countries, other more lise countries, other more countries, other more traditional parties, excuse me, emmanuel macron’s traditional parties, excuse me, 2 like emmanuel macron’s party, don’t do enough of.
they change about is perhaps one of of talk about is perhaps one of the most interesting aspect of race, isn’t it?
the most interesting aspect of irl 4 , isn’t it?
it has this race, isn’t it?
it has made it this race, isn’t it?
it has slailatlid this race, isn’t it?
it has made it more difficult for this race, isn’t it?
it has ailatl made it more difficult for the ae-lise made it more difficult for the traditional coalition of 0 rybody else to against everybody else to turn against reld right to turn against the far right to turn against 3 this race, and that is rking for her, isn’t it?
yes, also got a little bit of help about changing that at image 8t he other far right irl candidate, who who from the other far right candidate, who who made ine pen look more mainstream, if will, cause is ideas you will, because his ideas re so much further to right.
he was talking only immigration, about the lues, the foundations of rance, the christian values, like that, about how the things like that, about how the oblem was with islam and rance.
so by comparison she ked much france.
so by comparison she bat 1 france.
so by comparison she looked much more focused france.
so by comparisen she looked much more focused on lat a1l looked much more focused on economic issues unless on the ise tional fire right themes traditional fire right themes that we have seen in past ades.
but, he has called to rind decades.
but, he has called to decades.
but, he has called to vote for marine pen.
voters are ikely going to go sively massively towards marine i n.
so she is going to have to 7 to grasp may be part of the onservative right wing voters maybe on’t want emmanuel yage that maybe don’t want emmanuel macron and she is going to have to convince them that ay 1 i is to to convince them that she is not him, she is not anuel macron, that is a he is a valuable ndidate and they houldn’t go raight to emmanuel macron.
it is quite a race, as point out.
close race, as you point out.
a nal quick persen.
as you say, a1 l3al final quick person.
as you say, it will be a domestic focus ely the next two weeks, likely of the next two weeks, but 1 but the international implications argues everyone hing he.
we hear a lot watching the.
we hear a lot elele watching the.
we hear a lot watching the.
we hear a lot about marine pen as a pathiser for vladimir putin, me accuse her of being such, this will be the ’s iggest crisis since brexit she elected, do you think that all opposition scaremongering a 1a0e scenario that & scenario that she will take those stances?
well, she has it very clear, as said, i a i made it very clear, as said, she did sort of tamped down her i she did sort of tamped down her &l she did sort of tamped down her talk of leaving the , so re is there is no more talk of a there is no more talk of a french brexit, if you will, but still very critical of she is still very critical of he european union.
she wants eave the military command nato.
she is close to ussell.
she as come in the ast, praised vladimir putin.
his likely would be a a so this likely would be a source of imbalance in this a1 ern alliance that has been uilt over the few years 3 and especially over the past =1 ar, this reid building of the - a1 tern alliance with joe den, emmanuel macron, and ome of the other european @ leaders.
and @ - leaders.
and there is the fear, 1 least leaders.
and there is the fear, east here in washington, for example, that having omeone like marine pen uld not only jeopardise the rect france- relations, could further destabilise is t3 very fragile right now - a1 western alliance against sell.
they have worked very to build it.
they managed get everyone sort of on the ame line, and having someone rance, which is a leading ountry in europe, that is so to russia, could country in europe, that is so 0 g, close to russia, could really endanger that alliance while are facing a huge crisis even beyond.
it led to some to even look for ian interference in the 1 election, was reading.
thank very much, kethevane gorjestani, for taking us through an issue we will be watching watching very closely in the two weeks.
thank you.
hanks for having me.
- y-y we were mentioning it there.
ukraine’s president zelensky says vladimir putin has not only his country but the entire european project in his sights.
he was speaking as the re-opened its embassy in kyiv after russian forces retreated from the north of ukraine.
the major focus of the fighting is now likely to be in the east, with civilians being evacuated from the donbas region.
prosecutors say 1200 bodies from areas previously occupied by russia around kyiv.
those include the village of andriivka from where our correspondent mark lowen 1g the population of andriivka is 1,000, more than 40 were kkilled as the russians attacked and moved in as the shroud of war is peeled back, uncovering tatiana’s only grandson anton was taken by the russians the day after his 23rd birthday and shot.
so badly mutilated, they identified him from his clothes, recovering his body after a month and burying him two days ago.
: maybe if he had gone to fight somewhere else, he would have returned in one piece.
he was a clever boy, he recited poetry.
when my husband told instead, they pointed their machine gun and said go home or we will take you both.
this terrorised community will somehow to return to peace, but it cannot shut out its agony.
first came the offensive here, then the occupation, and now the trauma of those returning or simply emerging to see the destruction, which is immense.
we are now learning that these scenes are repeated across the shattered country which even when peace returns, this family are trying, repairing broken lives and their home, where russian soldiers stayed.
he is still trying to work out what they stole.
: have no words to describe what they did.
don’t know what they were looking for.
my family had been living here for 15 years but they came as the ukrainian army moved in, the russians came down to his tiny shelter to hide, feasting on the family’s food and resting before no place safe from their eccupation.
on the edge of the cemetery, the fresh grave of tatiana’s grandson.
have two daughters, she told, us and he was our boy.
mark lowen, news, andriivka.
by 45% this year as a result of the war with russia_ the bank says enormous financial support is needed and to support the population.
it’s already provided nearly a hillion dollars of assistance and is promising another two stay with us on news.
the great and the good at the royal albert hall in london.
pol pot, one of the century’s greatest mass murderers, reported to have died of natural causes.
he and the khmer rouge movement he led were responsible for the deaths of an estimated 1.
7 million cambodians.
there have been violent protests in indenesia, where playboy has gone on sale for the first time.
traditionalist muslim leaders have expressed disgust.
the magazine’s offices have staff have gone into hiding.
it was clear that paula’s only contest was with the clock, and as for her sporting legacy, paula radcliffe’s competitors will be chasing her new world best time for years to come.
quite quietly, but quicker and quicker, she seemed just to slide away under the surface and disappear.
emmanual macron appears to have triumphed in the first ballot of the french presidential election, but he’'ll face stiff competition from marine pen in the second round.
more than 12 hundred bodies i 10la kyiv that were previously occupied by russian troops.
to protest against the removal of imran khan from his post as prime minister, following a no confidence vote in parliament over the weekend.
tens of thousands of people gathered in karachi and lahore, waving torches and flags in the dark, and chanting in support of khan.
a long time rival, shehbaz sharif, is expected shamila chaudhary is senior fellow at the think tank new america and is former director for pakistan and afghanistan at the national security council.
she’s in philadelphia.
lie1l @0 thank you for joining us.
we have seen those rallies in the few hours, the sheer numbers.
imran khan says a -led compare is a u.
s.
-led compare is a s8 nspiracy is to blame for his edicament, he differences has over russia and china predicament, the differences he a a0t 8 has over russia and china but doesn’t appear at his messages working?
you might get elected again?
first even get elected again?
first we have to put this in the torical context mran historical context of imran khan ’s power.
he has a lot of in getting khan’s power.
he has a lot of o1 khan’s power.
he has a lot of power in getting people out the street, that’s into the street, and that’s we’re seeing unfold now.
he has a very strong base pakistani youth in the rking and middle-class, and is anti-american, foreign interference narrative resonates really struggling his constituency, because hose are the people that have benefited from the those are the people that have a0 not benefited from the western patronage in pakistan ’s tory.
history.
the political elite have benefited from that, i i have benefited from that, so khan has benefited from imran khan has benefited from using this anti-western tform and is able to get people out into the street.
am watching is what is n0 the message now that he is asking his people to carry, now he has been ted out that he has been voted out of x4 ce?
he is already clearly ampaigning mode but he quickly as to organised ecause he represents a lot of ent chaos and a lot of lat a1l recent chaos and a lot of economic mismanagement and his -western rhetoric on the global i global stage has not been eived well, so think he eeds to received well, so think he a8 received well, so think he needs to start thinking less the constituency that he about the constituency that he serve and more about how is going to win the next ection, if that in fact is 8 l= 1 election, if that in fact is what he wants, and think t’s what he nts, but at that’s what he wants, but at the same time, but he is not to let go of popular ready to let go of his popular rhetoric and strong man rative that he is bound to, r4 %1 but was not something that the political elite and military establishment were in of, and those favour of, and those stakeholders are clearly going the ext leader of to want the next leader of pakistan to be much more erate and mild and pakistan to be much more i i pakistan to be much more moderate and mild and the way they talk about the west, way they talk about akistan ‘s ole in the global tage and imran khan is not ing hat right now, so we’re really of this not really out of this litical chaotic moment that imself has kind of political chaotic moment that i a he himself has kind of started and fuelled, so there is a lot to happen in the next few days, and will be watching those dynamics closely.
all of those dynamics closely.
he constituency that you ntion, the powerful army and telligence mention, the powerful army and iey -1 mention, the powerful army and intelligence services, many were responsible for his in the first place, is actually the reason he as fallen from wer?
did fall out with them?
has fallen from power?
did he i has fallen from power?
did he r4 has fallen from power?
did he € military has always been a very dominant force in kistani politics, so dominant that they led guzan ousted civilian ernment, and in the case of imran khan was government, and in the case of imran khan was a bit more more nuanced, the military was i umental in instrumental in creating political environment with imran khan could thrive, think they got more than hey bargained for with imran ’s ‘s populist rhetoric and rongman tyle of politics.
the military still very raditional, pro-western stitution, so in that regard, an khan did fall out of avour with them imran khan did fall out of 1 - imran khan did fall out of favour with them over time, and erting imself and his by exerting himself and his understanding and sense understanding and sense of what ilian leader should be in pakistan, and the military is , very dependent on merican very, very dependent on 1 ican military equipment and eapons and arms as we have over the past several cades and of that is very decades and all of that is very much stagnant right now, eatened, and the pakistani itary cannot compete in he region, cannot compete with its one rival india number one rival india if it doesn’t have at least a ter repaired relationship the 13 security establishment and imran khan has threatened all at, so it’s of that, so it’s a combination of a3 a of the internal domestic fidfed of the internal domestic politics and imran khan’s kind of ach into the military e1o of reach into the military space and wanting to go beyond evel the level that the pakistani leadership military has chosen.
reads you have mentioned that reads you have mentioned with the military, and eresting contrast shehbaz sharif, the expected next prime ster, and sharif, the expected next prime 2 er, and he was always minister, and he was always seen as playing good cop to the tary against his brother, military against his brother, who can’t leave the party now self exiled in the , he is in self exiled in the , a he is in self exiled in the , having served his corruption on sentence.
so do think prison sentence.
so do you e+ et4 prison sentence.
so do you think shehbaz sharif will be omed by the military, and could have a long-term rospect he could have a long-term spect in pakistan?
shehbaz arif was a very seasoned dministrator, he has a lot of erience administrator, he has a lot of ience running province of punjab, and being a party der and think it is really for any leader and i think it is really a for any poor java-based fidae easy for any poor java-based politician to have an easier tionship with the pakistani itary, which has dominated ethnic punjabi soldiers and litary officials, so there is ittle bit military officials, so there is military officials, so there is a little bit more of a natural nic relationship there, and he i organic relationship there, and think where it will get plicated is shehbaz sharif & ill likely want to have an ening with india fairly soon, and while the pakistani military would like to restart conversations with the indians, those conversations with the indians, think they would efer take it slowly and at prefer to take it slowly and at heir own prefer to take it slowly and at own pace, and shehbaz their own pace, and shehbaz ielad will probably want to sharif will probably want to ove a little bit sharif will probably want to little bit faster on move a little bit faster on reopening say economic and ties, and punjab stands it enefit a trade ties, and punjab stands nefit a lot from normalisation i a 2 =r normalisation of relations with a, so this is something to viously keep in mind, it has ays wow, if that happens india always wow, if that happens 01 always wow, if that happens with india that would be an olutely fascinating shift to 1 4 absolutely fascinating shift to watch, so thank you for ching that up, one for us to watch, thank you uch teaching that up, one for us to rg0s 18 watch, thank you so much for your analysis this on the olding situation.
the polls have closed in mexico as to as to whether the president should step down or completed year term.
ther lopes six-year term.
esther lopes opened and called himself he recall election to confirm his for the recall election to it i confirm his mandate.
‘s political opponents are cotting the vote saying it’s $80 million exercise and ropaganda to distract ple tee i8t propaganda to distract people from the government ‘s 3001 4 failures.
there from the government ‘s failures.
there are concerns lle lopes could open the that lopes could open the door to extending presidential which re currently terms which are currently limited to a single six-year od.
the world number one anked american golfer scotty ffler scheffler overcame a late challenge from northern ireland to secure 's rory to secure victory 's rory to secure k- 14 's rory to secure victory at the masters.
as you ee, he his overnight advantage can see, he saw his overnight i a1 advantage temporarily cut to just just one stroke during a thrilling final day at the usta national course only pull clear of the chasing pack egister a full stomach leds and register a full stomach fourth win in his last six rt.
you can reach me fourth win in his last six start.
you can reach me on n2l tter, thank you for your company, goodbye.
hello, there.
there was a lot of sunshine around first thing on sunday, but it was cold and frosty, and it was quite widespread across the country.
we woke up to first thing on sunday morning, as low as minus six celsius.
now, all change and quite literally cloud right across the country, and that is acting like from falling too far.
it will be a frost free start to monday morning, degrees above freezing.
so, a difference to the feel of the weather, and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
the winds are going to strengthen, showery outbreaks of rain through wales, northern ireland, north-west england as well through the day.
quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction, widely gusting in excess some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming from the south, that means it will be a little bit warmer, 17 degrees the expected high.
thundery downpours are likely into the south-west through monday night into tuesday, and we can trail that weather front all the way back dewn into spain.
it is going to be pushing its way steadily northwards, with the exception perhaps here, you will stay air for the next few days.
that means first thing on tuesday morning, we are likely to see temperatures for degrees not out of the question across central and southern parts of england and wales.
yes, there is going to be some rain, some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours pushing their way steadily north and because the area is coming from the sahara, it could have sprinkling of saharan dust and that rain as well, that might just turn your washing or your car is a little bit grainy, a little bit orange at times.
in terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east whether cloud lingers, we are only looking out arcund a maximum of six to eight celsius.
but the rain will ease away, the isobars open up through the middle part of the week, it looks likely that wednesday will be the warmest day of the week, with 19 or 20 degrees not out of the question.
a good deal of weather as well, as we head whatever you are doing, take care and enjoy.
mark lowen, news, andriivka.
emmanual macron is ahead in the polls in the first round of the french presidential election, but his far-right rival, marine pen has gained more than 1,200 bodies have been found in areas around kyiv that were controlled by putin’s 6,6 have been reported in the south of the country.
of pakistan to protest against imran khan being removed as prime minister, following a no confidence vote in parliament over the weekend.
khan has been blamed ueple you you are watching news.
wullih you are watching news.
coming up next, 100 women, wilson.
trying to make your name in hollywood isn’t easy, especially if you’re a female actress who doesn’t look a stereotypical way.
enter rebel wilson, who has defied convention to become one of the most famous 4 2 she’s been a part of some of the biggest comedy films in recent years, including i but like many of us during the pandemic, reassessing her life.
i’ve come here to , where rebel is now based, for this 100 women interview.
we talk about she lost weight, her challenges with fertility, and how she’s balancing that with her professional move into becoming a director, and she talks to me about how she’s hoping that move will empower her to make cultural changes in the industry after experiencing sexual harassment herself.
rebel wilson, thank you so much for talking to 100 women.
it is my pleasure.
feel like i’m very today as well - i’m very serious, profesh.
could, you know.
coming up now at the 11am hour - wait, is that what they say?
no.
coming up!
breaking news, um, yeah - probably won’t get hired from this.
it’s so interesting because you are one of the most ¢ - i’m in the top 1,000, for sure, i’d put myself.
you’re one of the top 1,000 actresses in hollywood!
but you have been in those really iconic films that people watch over and over again - like, i think might’ve mean, that was my first job in america and, like, what a first job, to get - i even though, obviously, women have been funny for at least 20 years - but, no, i’m joking, forever - but that bridesmaids where they were like, "wow!
women are funny in hollywood!
" and so to get that as my - my first job in america was epic.
and also, to be in the pitch perfect franchise, which is, like, the most successful musical comedy films of all time - which blows my mind when you think about that.
was like, "god, are they really?
” and they’re like, "yeah they really are,” like, 1t and i’m like it’s so special.
and i’m sure it will be eclipsed at some point - records - someone will come in and, like, be better.
but it’s - it’s so awesome to be a part of something so special and it’s something people all around the world have really, really enjoyed.
is it true, though, that you could’ve been a lawyer?
well, a lawyer.
yeah, graduated in 2009.
so you could be a lawyer.
feel like have the photo.
it’s not my best smile but was very proud of myself that day.
you look so happy and pleased!
this i1s 2009 when graduated.
shows by the time graduated law school - but there was something about me that was like, "i have to finish.
it was very, very difficult - like, in australia, law in your final exams to get in and got into, like, the best law school, so was like, ", i’m going to, like, graduate,” even though it was clear was working in - as an actress.
what was your parents’ reaction then when you were like, "l want to be an actress in hollywood"?
i always imagined, though, that that - those words scare parents, right?
it was really bad.
was a very studious young lady, so yeah, they - they definitely thought would do something good - like - like @ more traditional-type job, so took a gap year, which thought was really smart after high school, and was what’s called a youth ambassador for australia, so that really changed the trajectory of my life.
was going in and out of malarial zones all the time with the work that had to do over there, and got malaria really bad when we were in mozambique.
and when was in the hospital back in south africa recovering from it, had a hallucination % and, like, it was so real!
everyone thought, "no, she’s just demented,” was gonna be.
so come back to australia and go, "guys, i’m going to become a professional "actress - have seen it, i’m gonna win an academy award.
"it’s, like, really good,” and everyone was like, "oh, my god".
like, "no".
like, "you’re an idiot.
” like, "no-one’s gonna pick you,” like, "you’re "like, you’re not - "you’re naturally quite a shier person.
” so went and enrolled in law school but did acting sneaky at night to and get in there, yeah.
so what about, like, so when bridesmaids took off, was that they came over for the premiere and they were like, "oh, she is like legit now,” yeah.
have read that you - you were successful yeah, yeah, came to hollywood when was and you call yourself i definitely do think that.
why, though?
i was 29, turning 30, and had a great career in australia at that point and then, got offered a big network contract in australia and was like, "oh, but if don’t go now" to come to hollywood, think, as a woman - and many ladies that have broken out in their 50s and stuff and have rtae yeah, you don’t hear about it, but nermally because think 30’s still young.
it’s like the younger, more ingenue girls and then so was just, like, ", if i don’t go now to hollywood, "i’ll never make it,” so sold everything that owned - my car, my cemputer, my apartment - everything.
came to america with one suitcase and, like, one little pillow, but like but it was a bit late, and was probably overqualified for the very small role had in you are now producing, so0 you’ve got credits on the hustle and lsn’t it romantic?
yes, isn’t it romantic was my first one.
the hustle, with anne hathaway, and then now senior year, which is a big cheerleading comedy.
tell us a little bit about i coming up in the industry, had to work for, like, a lot of guys, coming up where you kind of get the crappier roles - like, the roles just weren’t as well written, as well developed.
it would just be very hard to kind of put kind 13 sometimes into it if you didn’t have any power.
so what did is used all those experiences in a positive way and, like, learned stuff from watching these guys and - but really wanted to get to the point where had the power to make the movies and choose who put in the movies and it’s just cool cos you can be more authentic and put more of your messages - and my latest one, it’s just so girl power and there’s so many and this is your movie that you’re directing next year?
uh, no, this is the one i’ve just shot.
you’ve just shot that?
yeah, just shot.
you are directing a movie yeah, and then i’ve now - now gone even further and been offered a directing job for a movie script that i’ve elg so that’ll go into production and i’m so passionate talking of empowerment, you’ve been on a year of health.
didn’t predict the pandemic, but weirdly, thought - "oh, i feel like i’m not gonna be working much this year "and feel like turning 40, i’m gonna, like, concentrate "on my health,” and was dealing with fertility stuff and the doctors were like, "you’d have better chances,” so that all kind of culminated, and so the moment it hit 2020, was like, ", yeah, it’s gonna be my year of health.
"i’m gonna put it, like, publicly out on instagram "and stuff for accountability!
” but think that that’s.
and who knows whether that was the smartest but.
and was that important for you to do it that way?
um, because did want to make a lasting change and wanted to be accountable to myself for it, so making it very public kind of helped - helped.
it was risky, guess.
before - i had lost weight and then put it back and, you know, you get criticism sometimes for that, and it was just, yeah, just was like, ", i’ll just make it - "make the decision to make it public.
” the number of headlines about you losing weight has been phenomenal.
because look at - what happened for me in 2019 - i had, like, four pretty successful movies come out and, like, had done all this amazing stuff career-wise, but then in the next year, all did was just 8 and, like, the attention 1 it was insane.
1s way more than being in an academy award-nominated film and, like, producing my first movie and then doing canl - canlread you one headline?
oh, yeah, sure.
"rebel wilson has a bond girl moment "in an incredible curve-hugging swimsuit.
” how do you feel about those words ?
never thought i’d be described anywhere near a bond girl!
but how do you feel about those sorts of headlines about your weight loss?
i’ve noticed that it’s been getting a lot of attention and go, "so, is that what a woman has to do "to, like, get attention?
” for me, it was so much bigger.
it was about just being the healthiest version of me, so it wasn’t about the size or a number or whatever.
but it’s fascinating - are people so obsessed invisible to most people because of not being seen as traditionally, like, beautiful or whatever, so know what it’s like when nobedy holds the door open for you or - or, you know, just looks at you almost like you can have no value because you’re not seen as good looking to them, so know what that’s like.
and then you really notice - you get, like, this bias but it’s - you can’t deny that that’s how society does operate, so it’s kind of conflicting.
it must leave you feeling i1 because on the one hand, like, you shouldn’t have to lose weight to suddenly be treated nicely.
no, no, and i’m proud that the message has got across is that it wasn’t about just losing weight, it was just about me being healthier overall, and that’s what - that’s what i’m trying to encourage other people out there, because that is - should be the goal.
it never be to fit some certain weird beauty standard that society deems is the beauty standard of this year, was, like, the body type of the 17th, 18th century.
like, would have but i got a lot of pushback from my own team, actually, here in hollywood, when said, "i’m gonna - feel like i’m really going to physically "transform and change my life,” and they were like, "why?
because was earning millions of dollars being, you know, the funny fat girl, like, and being that person, and go, well, because even though was still very confident being bigger and, you know, loved myself - you know, would rock a red carpet - and even though but knew deep down inside some of the emotional eating behaviours was doing was not healthy.
that was me, you know, numbing emotions by using food, which wasn’t the healthiest thing.
was that dealing with fame?
think it was - think it was dealing with not being a natural performer and having to perform almost every day and just things hadn’t kind of processed or dealt with in my life that - that was manifesting as emotional eating and then was like this was when first got pretty famous after "look at me - i’m, you know, rocking, like, "a black leather bodysuit, custem-made”.
love that person.
like, yeah, she was struggling with emotional eating but also, like, just love that girl and love that she was just out there, living her best life, playing this character called fat amy and, like, and just, like, getting out there and crushing it.
with the character of fat amy, you know, there were those sort do you feel now you can’t do that?
well, see, it’s weird - looked at fat amy and the pitch perfect scripts and go "that’s the best character,” personally thought, a0l to play that character.
i never thought of it as a negative because i’m the type of person that some people see, yeah, being bigger as, like, a hindrance to being an actress and go "i’m gonna use it and use it for my comedy".
there were some people that said and i’m like "well, check out my new movie, "senior year, coming out and see what you think, guys".
what it has done career-wise is open up this whole other door of, like, dramatic roles and so now, i’ve this great movie that just shot in the north of england called the almond and the seahorse, based on a west end play and would have been given that role if was bigger?
because people would still - might associate me too much with some of the comedy roles and physically transforming looking different.
i’d be interested to know if you feel that pressure of being put on a pedestal when it comes to the body positivity movement.
yeah, guess.
mean, because was somebody who was, like, really advocates for, like, loving - loving yourself and at whatever size, and you want to, like, love and embrace yourself you’re only given that body, so that is what you’ve got to work with, that’s your canvas.
but also, don’t want to be seen to, like, promote unhealthiness or extreme, you know, and some of the things that was doing - emotionally eating and carrying the extra weight - y112 so what i’m trying to do is say you can be whatever size you want.
just to be the healthiest -l 1 for different people.
you’ve shared your weight loss journey on instagram and you’ve got millions of followers on social media.
are you conscious of the sorts of pressures, guess, there are for young women as well on social media?
if you get into this culture but don’t know, but then i’m definitely guilty of, like, posting thirst trap photos on instagram - mainly because i’m still single so i’m like "oh, yeah, ".
that’s mainly do it but also, didn’t think it could be contributing to some and then, if so you never thought about that.
feel like, yeah, may - i’ve grown into my looks 100% and, like, feel like i’m at 41 now, like, looking, most people peak, don’t they, at like 207 and maybe for me, it’s about my life journey coming into line, you know, and for me, it only kind of clicked together at 40 properly.
but what to do is share just enough that hopefully people can understand, like, some of the struggles i’ve been through and then, and like the reason share it is to hopefully help people, so i’ve been sharing things about fertility or talking 1370 aat and emotional eating is ultimately to to help people.
the fertility issue that you’ve talked about, yeah, have something - was diagnosed when was, like, 20 with something called ovarian and - which made sense, like, that gained a lot of weight it’s like, i think something so it’s very common, and a lot of people don’t know they have it and so, it’s just - think it’s just good to talk - that’s love when everybody opens up about all sorts of things now.
mental health is obviously a big topic with a lot of celebs and people - high-profile people talking about that, yeah.
but fertility is a really interesting one because don’t think a lot of women, certainly in the public eye, open up about it.
are all freezing their eqgs and all kind of pursuing options and so, we all talk about it, but not - not just so publicly sometimes roller-coaster and certainly, you know, froze - went all this trouble and froze my eggs and then, unfortunately because of my condition, the quality of the eggs wasn’t - wasn’t good enough and have to repeat the process and keep doing it and keep trying and put a lot of effort in.
and that was part of the reason tried to get fertility journey, even though, like, it is emotional and you get hopeful and then, you know, your hopes are dashed and so it’s like, feel for any woman going through it but was the classic example of, like, a career woman who went out into the world, didn’t even think about kids and then do want that as an option?
it could be great if had my own children but don’t know whether that’s gonna happen and so, i’m trying not to have any expectations set on an outcome, just that i’m the healthiest can be, i’m gonna and what will happen will happen.
you had experienced in the industry.
yep.
and you had said at the time you were no longer going to be polite about it.
tell me a little bit more about what happened to you - if you want to.
yeah, um, mean and how you dealt with it.
quess, in terms of sexual harassment, like, all women in the industry have had, like, things like the little comments when you’ve been in meetings and you’ve be - got to to be one of the boys and, like, laugh along with the jokes even they’re talking about other actresses and stuff in a way that’s, like, not really cool.
but only had, like, two incidents.
that was in australia.
and was so innocent and naive - was in my 20s, and literally thought was going to that - to have a meeting about comedy and talk about comedy.
and then, he kept trying to give me more and more alcohol and i’m not a big drinker, luckily, and then, the director gets a call from his wife and i’m sitting if somebody left a message, you could hear it through the speaker of the phone, and she started saying "oh, you’ve got rebel in that hotel room.
" like, "you’re going to sleep with her,” blah, blah, blah.
thought "oh, my god".
like, "what is this?
what’s geing on?
" and then just grabbed my bag and got out of there, luckily before anything had happened.
and wonder if that woman - on the phone, screaming through the phone, i - what could’ve happened?
did you tell anyone x4 no, because it was a big director and didn’t and you’ve never named names?
no, maybe that is the legal side of me that you don’t - don’t want to go through any unnecessary court cases or whatever.
and, yeah, just - yeah, just got on with the job and did it and luckily, nothing else happened, apart from that one night.
and then, many years later, as i’m in hollywood and, you know, pretty - pretty famous, the pitch perfect movies had come out and stuff and had a male co-star was onset, summons me kind of out of my trailer this room, where a couple of his male buddies are with their iphones and he pulls down his pants and know, again, like, it can kind of sound comic, the way tell the story, because i’ve processed it now and was in shock.
was like "what’s going on?
" just kept saying no.
and his buddies are laughing and he’s kind of clearly this was before me too, though, so didn’t quite know what to do and was in a foreign country, so called my agent, reported it, we reported it to the studio - apparently was the fourth woman to have made a complaint against this guy, too - but stayed the professional thing to do - which now, wouldn’t do, if something like that occurs.
"i’m walking.
” ", that is disgusting.
” obviously some people have been picked up in the metoo movement but there’s a lot of others that - that haven’t and now, think it would be different - wouldn’t have as much empathy is that what you mean when you say you’re going no longer be polite moving forward?
it’s not like things change overnight with the metoo movement and then, suddenly it’s all safe, and like, there have been very positive changes but there still - there still need to be more.
the changes that you can make now that you’re in these roles as a producer and director.
yeah, and so, like, on my movie senior year that just produced, had, like, a young actress play of me and she came - so she’s in a foreign country, she’s vulnerable and just said, like, "if you have any - any issues, if anybody is doing something, you know, or says something or whatever, please come to me as the female vei and want to particularly, you know, protect - and had a lot of young cast in that movie and just - feel very conscious of, like, you know, making sure they feel safe.
are you hopeful that you’ll win an academy award one day?
is that your aim?
uh, yeah, that - that would be the goal.
and was so lucky to be in jojo rabbit, that got nominated for, like, doing projects that have a really good cachet, the comedies as well, obviously.
yeah, can’t yeah, think that’s what people wouldn’t want you to leave.
no, i can’t - that’s my - that’s my love as well.
hello, there.
there was a lot of sunshine around first thing on sunday, but it was cold and frosty, and it was quite widespread across the country.
we woke up to first thing on sunday morning, as low as minus six celsius.
now, all change and quite literally cloud right across the country, and that is acting like from falling too far.
it will be a frost free start to monday morning, degrees above freezing.
so, a difference to the feel of the weather, and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
the winds are going to strengthen, showery outbreaks of rain through wales, northern ireland, north-west england as well through the day.
quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction, widely gusting in excess some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming from the south, that means it will be a little bit warmer, 17 degrees the expected high.
thundery downpours are likely into the south-west through monday night into tuesday, and we can trail that weather front all the way back dewn into spain.
it is going to be pushing its way steadily northwards, with the exception perhaps here, you will stay air for the next few days.
that means first thing on tuesday morning, we are likely to see temperatures for degrees not out of the question across central and southern parts of england and wales.
yes, there is going to be some rain, some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours pushing their way steadily north and because the area is coming from the sahara, it could have sprinkling of saharan dust and that rain as well, that might just turn your washing or your car is a little bit grainy, a little bit orange at times.
in terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east whether cloud lingers, we are only looking out arcund a maximum of six to eight celsius.
but the rain will ease away, the isobars open up through the middle part of the week, it looks likely that wednesday will be the warmest day of the week, with 19 or 20 degrees not out of the question.
a good deal of weather as well, as we head whatever you are doing, take care and enjoy.
welcome to news, i’m mark lobel.
our top stories: emmanual macron is on target to win the first ballot in the french presidential election, but marine pen gains ground at the polls.
: don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
the debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days decisive for our country and for europe.
are found in areas around kyiv that were previously occupied by russian troops.
tens of thousands take to protest against the removal of the former prime minister, imran khan, from office.
than a thousand stuffed wild animals from a warehouse in valencia.
and eddie redmayne wins big las at the royal albert hall in london.
the olivier goes to eddie redmayne.
with most of the votes round of the french presidential election, emmanuel macron will face the far-right leader difference between them, with macron on just over 27% and pen on just over 25%.
our paris correspondent, lucy williamson has the latest.
it’s on, the battle a : don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
the debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days decisive for our country and for europe.
a choice of president macron or president pen.
rol 1 happen on 24 april is not early projections suggest that emmanuel macron with 28% of voters, marine pen’s share of the vote grew to around 23%.
but this is where the battle really begins.
eidct a little bit nervous always, simply because you don’t know a - and what the french people will want.
afraid, never.
more popular, in part networks, misinformation is kind of like the plague of the 21st century.
so, our work is to to fight that.
yes, we are scared because the votes are very close on the first round, people on the second round will vote everything but macron because people macron only started campaigning a few weeks ago, too occupied with the war in ukraine.
more proof for some that he is arrogant and out of touch, the president of the rich, despite creating jobs and paying billions to keep french workers afloat through covid.
and more responsible.
she wants to ban the muslim headscarf in public and give priority to french nationals in jobs and housing.
but her campaign is focused on poverty and rising prices.
macron says that her programme is racist and would threaten democracy in france.
of president emmanuel macron, there are those want to keep those who watched the and the vote for trump.
and are asking themselves what’s the solution for france?
together to block the far right seems to be fraying and the two visions france has chosen for president show how divided earlier, spoke to france 24, washington correspondent about how the election is unfolding.
well, there is a sense that emmanuel macron is going to have to do actually start campaigning.
there’s a feeling in france that the president sort russia-ukraine crisis and it as a statesman, but then he sort of stayed on that statesman level and didn’t really focus on the domestic campaign, if you will, while marine pen actually the question is, how are they going to and address these two elements?
emmanuel macron is going i to the domestic campaign, to explain to those who did not vote for him they should vote for emmanuel macron and not just stay home or vote meanwhile, marine pen is going to have to face may be a little more than she has so far the foreign policy aspect of it.
emmanuel macron is likely going to be using some of her past comments about a vladimir putin, about russia, her proximity to russia against her, want to pick up on all those points.
but just before, emmanuel - in the past for being the leader of paris, not france, was see trends turning against globalisation and america in europe, something associated macron, so what is it that marine pen has done to bring a has she brought in new demographics as well?
she’s, first of all, tamed down some of the nastier, if you will, aspects of what her party used to be, especially under her father.
she has really revamped her party as moving away a little bit from the outright xenophobia, the outright racism.
she still talks, of course, about being very strict on immigration, but she has sort of moved away from this and became more of an economic populist, if you will, focusing really more on kitchen table issues, on the economy, rather yal 4 and france and immigration, things like that that alienate some people, some working-class people, who maybe agree with her on the economy, but didn’t really like this so she worked really hard on that to to change the vision that people have of her party.
she is also trying to tame down the question of leaving she did that five years ago, didn’t work out this time, she’s not talking about that outright.
so she’s sort of learned from her mistakes and trying to really grasp that populist wave and focus on the elements and on the issues that maybe other countries, other more traditional parties, excuse me, like emmanuel macron’s party, don’t do enough of.
that change of talk about is perhaps one of the most interesting aspect of this race, isn’t it?
change of image.
it has made it more difficult for the normal traditional coalition of everybody else to turn against the far right to turn against in this race, and that is working yes, she also got a little bit of help about changing that image from eric zemmour, the other far right candidate, who who made marine pen look more mainstream, if you will, because his ideas were so much further to the right.
he was talking only about immigration, about the values, the foundations of france, the christian values, things like that, about how the problem was with islam and france.
so by comparisen, she looked much more focused on economic issues and less on the traditional far-right themes that we have seen in past decades.
his voters are likely going to go massively so she’s going to have to to grasp maybe part of the conservative right wing voters that maybe don’t want emmanuel macron and she is going to have to is not eric zemmour, she’s not emmanuel macron, that she is a valuable candidate and they shouldn’t go straight to emmanuel macron.
it is quite a close race, as you point out.
just a final quick question.
as you say, it will be a domestic focus very likely over the next two weeks, a1 implications are huge for everyone watching onto this.
we hear a lot about marine pen as a sympathiser for putin, some accuse her of being such, and this will be the ’s biggest crisis since brexit if she gets elected, do you think scenario that she will take those stances?
well, she has made it very clear, as said, she did sort of tamp down her talk of leaving the , so there’s no a if you will, but she a of the european union.
she wants to leave the military command of nato.
she 1s close to russia.
praised vladimir putin.
so this likely would be a sort of imbalance in this western alliance that has been built over the past few years and especially over the past year, this rebuilding of the western alliance with joe biden, emmanuel macron, and some of the other european leaders.
and there’s a fear, at least here in washington, , for example, that having someone like marine pen would not only jeopardise the direct france- relations, but could further destabilise this very fragile right now western alliance against russia.
they’ve worked very hard to build it.
ukraine’s president zelensky says vladimir putin has not only his country but the entire european project in his sights.
he was speaking as the re-opened its embassy in kyiv after russian forces retreated from the north of ukraine.
the major focus of the fighting is now likely to be in the east, with civilians being evacuated from the donbas region.
prosecutors say 1,200 bodies from areas previously occupied by russia around kyiv.
those include the village of andriivka from where our correspondent mark lowen 1g the population of andriivka is 1,000, more than 40 were kkilled as the russians attacked and moved in as the shroud of war is peeled back, uncovering tatiana’s only grandson anton was taken by the russians the day after his 23rd birthday and shot.
so badly mutilated, they identified him from his clothes, recovering his body after a month and burying him two days ago.
: maybe if he had gone to fight somewhere else, he would have returned in one piece.
he was a clever boy, he recited poetry.
when my husband told instead, they pointed their machine gun and said go home or we will take you both.
this terrorised community will somehow to return to peace, but it cannot shut out its agony.
first came the offensive here, then the occupation, and now the trauma of those returning or simply emerging to see the destruction, which is immense.
we are now learning that these scenes are repeated across the shattered country which even when peace returns, this family are trying, repairing broken lives and their home, where russian soldiers stayed.
he’s still trying to work out what they stole.
: have no words to describe what they did.
don’t know what they were looking for.
my family had been living here for 15 years but they came as the ukrainian army moved in, the russians came down to his tiny shelter to hide, feasting on the family’s food and resting before no place safe from their eccupation.
on the edge of the cemetery, the fresh grave of tatiana’s grandson.
had two daughters, she told, us and he was our boy.
mark lowen, news, andriivka.
the world bank does express ukraine economy to shrink by his year as a sult of the war 45% this year as a result of a 45% this year as a result of the war with russia.
banks has mous financial support is enormous financial support is needed immediately to keep the rnment unning and to government running and to support the population.
it has ady provided nearly $1 2 already provided nearly $1 billion of assistance and is ising another 2 billion in promising another 2 billion in the great and the good attend the olivier awards at the royal albert hall in pol pot, one of the century’s greatest mass murderers, reported to have died of natural causes.
he and the khmer rouge movement he led were responsible for the deaths of an estimated 1.
7 million cambodians.
there have been violent protests in indenesia, where playboy has gone on sale for the first time.
traditionalist muslim leaders have expressed disgust.
the magazine’s offices have staff have gone into hiding.
it was clear that paula’s only contest was with the clock, and as for her sporting legacy, paula radcliffe’s competitors will be chasing her new world best time for years to come.
quite quietly, but quicker and quicker, she seemed just to slide away under the surface and disappear.
emmanuel macron appears to have triumphed in the first ballot of the french presidential election, but he’'ll face stiff competition from marine pen in the second round.
more than 1,200 bodies have been found in areas around kyiv that were previously occupied by russian troops.
to protest against the removal of imran khan from his post as prime minister, following a no confidence vote in parliament over the weekend.
tens of thousands of people gathered in karachi and lahore, waving torches and flags in the dark, and chanting in support of khan.
a long time rival, shehbaz sharif, is expected at georgetown university.
she’s in washingten.
thanks for jeining us.
as we’ve seen from those photos, those there, mran khan is videos there, imran khan is clearly a master of these lies.
rallies.
but his anti- messages resonating clearly some, it appears, they see with some, it appears, they see 3 is believable.
do you think an sustain this and a he can sustain this and have a ole to play in pakistani ile¥s role to play in pakistani politics?
well, first of politics?
well, first of all, you for having me.
do thank you for having me.
do want to point out that pakistan bout 200 million people and the ability to amass very crowds is not a singular 1s large crowds is not a singular feature of imran khan.
in fact, about very party is just about every party is capable of amassing these large ds.
and this one of the crowds.
and this is one of the signatures, of course, of imran .
the khan.
the difference between he is doing now and the earlier times when earlier times when the pakistan le’s people’s party was earlier times when the pakistan people’s party was governing stan is that pakistan is that this time the % stan army isn’t with pakistan army isn’t with him.
201 some sense this is a a1 so in some sense this is a a so in some sense this is a showdown between imran khan and akistan my in the streets of pakistan.
that’s %1\ interesting.
some said hey held his rise and ere may be esponsible partly for fall.
telus, how his fall.
telus, how influential are they in istan?
so it’s impossible to s10 pakistan?
so it’s impossible to overstate the importance.
you , essentially every overstate the importance.
you a a 1 know, essentially every single prime minister in pakistan has at the leisure served at the leisure of the pakistan army.
in fact, when zir bhutto became the prime i benazir bhutto became the prime minister after the ul-haq died ysterious plane crash, i in a mysterious plane crash, told pretty much she was told pretty much explicitly that you can be the minister but you have to prime minister but you have to accept prime minister but you have to elown:yo 30011 prime minister but you have to accept some bounds of what you o, you cannot get the can do, you cannot get the business of the pakistan army, ill not have role you will not have any role in our defence policy or our eign relations, so a joke ewhat cynically, but it is somewhat cynically, but it is i also somewhat direct that a pakistan’s prime minister is really generally not much more the matt of islamabad.
than the matt of islamabad that is interesting.
we were ing earlier that shehbaz arif, who might take over as me minister in next prime minister in the next w11 prime minister in the next couple of hours, could have relations with india.
is here anything could have an nfluence on?
see, this is a rennial lden girls that perennial golden girls that people are looking forward to golden eqg, he policy lay a golden egg, the policy with india is absolutely not ndent pon the prime dependent upon the prime = ster.
in fact, every time minister.
in fact, every time here is a significant rapprochement there is a significant rapprechement publicly between istan’s by minister and india’s prime nister, there always, india’s prime minister, there !
always, and i’m not xaggerating, there is always a nificant terrorist attack in dia.
obviously the link & ween the pakistan army and terrorists that a a3 led the terrorists that a -- a0 the terrorists that a -- conduct these attacks are very -known and don’t need to dialogue upon them further.
the est of the two actually closest of the two actually ame to peace was part of the -called diplomacy between hen and walsh ver and the indian prime minister.
that was ably he most significant probably the most significant step towards rapprochement, but he army do to undermine t?
wanted the army do to undermine ?
the army what ecame known as kargil as the kargil war.
so it is, people just love it when prime sters talk about pursuing ace with india.
and it is just t.
it has always been in hands of he army.
the hands of the army.
w8 istine fair, professor of security studies at georgetown.
sharing your with giver sharing your views with us.
thank you for having me.
police in spain have seized more than a thousand stuffed animals, including protected and extinct species, at a warehouse in valencia.
the haul included rhinos, polar bears and elephants.
the warehouse-owner is under investigation but has elephants, rhinos, lions, and were among the hundreds of uff to wild animals found in giant warehouse near alencia this giant warehouse near yo\ this giant warehouse near valencia in eastern this giant warehouse near i = the haul, worth an estimated 29 million euros, is one of the largest of its kind arl to the spanish police.
around 400 of the animals are classified as protected.
with every box opened, police found more.
carefully examining and documenting each find.
cheetahs, lynxes, polar bears, and white rhinos along with almost 200 elephant tusks and seats made with elephants’ feet.
-- and furniture made from elephants.
1y the warehouse owner is being investigated for smuggling ree shelley phelps, news.
a whole they will never forget.
before we bow out.
which honour people who work both on and off stage.
cabaret at the kit kat club starring eddie redmayne was the big winner on the night, as claudia redmond reports.
the curtain was raised at the glitzy olivier awards on sunday at the royal albert hall in london.
cabaret at the kit kat club was the biggest winner of the night, taking seven prizes including acting trophies for eddie redmayne and irish actress jesse i y2 this was the part played when was a kid at school, the thing that got my passion for theatre really fuelled, and getting to do it every night with that extraordinary group of people was dumb founding.
it’s such a huge, huge privilege to be part of this community, which consider my family.
thank you for welcoming me in all those years ago, and this is just so lovely!
how about we hear another one?
soemething that cooks!
lal best new musical went to back to the future, travelling capers of michael fox as marty mcfly.
and in the dance world, young up-and-coming choreographer arielle smith stepped up to receive the outstanding achievement in dance category for her work on jolly folly with the english national ballet.
the winners of the olivier awards overseen by the society of london theatre are chosen by a team of industry figures, stage luminaries and theatre loving members of the public.
it is hoped that following so many setbhacks with covid restrictions over the past years, that the shows can finally go on.
claudia redmond, news.
46 years old those awards and still going the world number one ranked american golfer northern ireland’s rory to secure victory at scheffler saw his overnight i a1 to just one stroke during a thrilling final day at the augusta national course, only to pull clear of the chasing pack and register a fourth win in his last six starts.
from me and all of the team, thank you so much for & thank you so much for watching.
hello, there.
there was a lot of sunshine around first thing on sunday, but it was cold and frosty, and it was quite widespread across the country.
we woke up to first thing on sunday morning, as low as minus six celsius.
now, all change and quite literally cloud right across the country, and that is acting like from falling too far.
it will be a frost free start to monday morning, degrees above freezing.
so, a difference to the feel of the weather, and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
the winds are going to strengthen, showery outbreaks of rain through wales, northern ireland, north-west england as well through the day.
quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction, widely gusting in excess some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming from the south, that means it will be a little bit warmer, 17 degrees the expected high.
thundery downpours are likely into the south-west through monday night into tuesday, and we can trail that weather front all the way back dewn into spain.
it is going to be pushing its way steadily northwards, with the exception perhaps here, you will stay air for the next few days.
that means first thing on tuesday morning, we are likely to see temperatures for degrees not out of the question across central and southern parts of england and wales.
yes, there is going to be some rain, some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours pushing their way steadily north and because the area is coming from the sahara, it could have sprinkling of saharan dust and that rain as well, that might just turn your washing or your car is a little bit grainy, a little bit orange at times.
in terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east whether cloud lingers, we are only looking out arcund a maximum of six to eight celsius.
but the rain will ease away, the isobars open up through the middle part of the week, it looks likely that wednesday will be the warmest day of the week, with 19 or 20 degrees not out of the question.
a good deal of weather as well, as we head whatever you are doing, take care and enjoy.
emmanuel macron is ahead in the polls in the first round of the french presidential election, but his far-right rival, marine pen, has gained more than 1200 bodies have been found in areas around kyiv that were controlled by putin’s 6,6 have been reported in the south of the country.
of pakistan to protest against imran khan being removed as prime minister, following a no-confidence vote in parliament over the weekend.
khan has been blamed ueple now on news, dateline london with shaun ley.
helle, i’m shaun ley.
welcome to our weekly round table discussion between specialists and the foreign correspondents who write, blog and broadcast to audiences in their home countries from the dateline london.
with us this week - latika bourke, a columnist for two australian newspapers - the age in melbourne and the sydney morning herald.
justin rowlatt, the liee and jeffrey kofman.
jeffrey’s been both a foreign correspondent and a news anchor for canadian and broadcasters.
you in the studio.
keep saying it every week, but it makes such a difference.
"socialism™, according to a british politician of the last century, "is the language of priorities”.
perhaps it’s more accurate to say that politics what happens, though, when those priorities conflict?
are punishing russia with further sanctions.
some want to stop buying russian gas altogether.
but that could mean shortages, bills higher than they are already, rationing.
substitution means more carbon extraction, just of energy needed to prevent the climate perhaps becoming, for us, intolerable.
an energy security strategy.
justin, sustainability, y0l about where boris johnson’s government’s priorities lie?
it is claiming it addresses all of that.
the consensus has been that it has not done any of them particularly well.
so, we’re talking about new nuclear power, we’re already rolling out offshore wind very rapidly, a more rapid rollout of offshore wind, tiny changes to onshore wind, maybe more solar and then, opening up new licensing for north sea gas and oil.
what there wasn’t was a big effort to tackle and reduce demand, maybe insulating homes.
maybe get people to switch to heat pumps and that greens were very 1 it takes a long time to build nuclear power, it would be much quicker to put onshore wind turbines, and that would address energy security more quickly and would also, arguably, reduce bills more quickly.
so, in a sense, it had those three priorities at their heart but didn’t meet any of them.
so it is kept them all kind of juggling in the air?
boris johnson is saying to the people of the united kingdom, "take a cold shower for ten years™.
really do.
it is really shocking.
my own energy bills have gone up over 100%, and i’m sure my heart breaks to think of people who are living on the margins and what it is doing to them, let alone businesses that survive on the margins, heated at these prices.
what is he doing for them?
how are they going to survive?
is it so surprising, though, for an elected politician to say to voters, "you have to pay more” but "you will have toc use less” ?
but the request was from green groups and environmentalists was to say, listen, subsidise people to make - i make it easier and cheaper - there are significant cost hurdles to putting in insulation.
and given historic energy prices, actually, for many takes many years to pay off.
but current energy prices, the arguments are more difficult, but that was the argument - let’s make the homes more efficient, reduce demand and a decrease dependency on foreign fuel.
europe has done this.
western europe, at least - ¢ in the region.
we’ve all been there, y4 those lovely old georgian homes.
able to pin that down, find out what it actually means.
latika, australia has experienced energy politics and the rough-and-tumble at the last election where it looked like the conservative - small-c liberal national coalition was going to lose, yet it won, and it appeared can you remind us of that and will that still play this time?
sean, not even the last election - the last decade in australia, basically all the elections have been written by this climate change politics orthodoxy that’s been going on, and don’t expect that will change too much however, what we have for the first time as a bipartisan commitment for net zero by 2050.
the incumbent centre-right government led by scott morrison was very reluctantly dragged, kicking and screaming, to that position by boris johnson at cop26 in glasgow.
don’t necessarily have is the consensus about how to get there.
and then along comes what is happening in ukraine and russia really making people think, "gee, maybe we didn’t go all in with the green movement straight away and maybe that’s a good thing for us™.
because if you look carefully at what a lot of the people who are maligned sometimes, or perhaps more accurately called climate deniers in australia - many within the current government - they have always said, "we want to transition, but with technology - "not via taxes or trading schemes”.
now, that seems to be coming into fruition for them.
we will have some climate politics running through this next election, but what we will see is that more morphing into to climate change which is already very much alive in australia, and also the cost of living.
does it mean less extraction?
will that be feasible for australian politicians, because it is suggested that is what labor were acknowledging would have to happen at the last election and it the current labor leader anthony albanese has come out strongly, saying that coal will be a part of australia’s does that mean we’re going to be doing what some in the current government would like, which is funding, with taxpayer dollars, new coal-fired power stations?
no, don’t think so, but you do see the sides coming to the table in a more centrist way than they have not been - there is such a paradox because you have these terrible floods!
and then, of course, before that, the incredible bushfires.
australia, in a way, change - maybe one of by climate at the moment, and yet, there doesn’t seem to be a huge amount of energy.
you say there is a consensus to 2050 - they are cutting the money spent on the transition at the moment.
1n ilet for people outside australia government that has been ripped apart, they have changed prime ministers more times now then can remember over this very issue.
to have a conservative prime minister able to stand up and say, "we are going to net zero by 2050" and he is still in the job and contesting this election - that is huge for justin, with all these pressures in the energy security strategy from the , we have this debate and an imminent general election in the next month in australia, where does this leave our ambitions, the stated global ambition for mitigating the effects of climate change and trying i n8 it’s so interesting because you hinted at 19 in your introduction.
there was a publication - the , the climate change published their report on mitigation and tackling climate change at the beginning of this week and what’’s interesting, it said, "we need to transition away from fossil "fuels as quickly as we can,” essentially.
what’s interesting about these reports - and often, people don’t recognise - these are signed up they’re written by scientists and then, there is a couple of weeks where the government and scientists get together and wrestle through the words and strike out some stuff and maybe water things down but at the end of the day, saudi arabia, 0 so, this week, we saw consensus - world consensus - 1 problem, that we are heading for really serious difficulties unless we urgently accelerate of the world economy - not individual economies, the world economy - would add two points.
and i’m not saying agree with this, but it is a persuasive argument - "it is no good acting.
"we are a fairly tiny country and if china and india and brazil and all the major polluters doen’t come to the table, we are crippling our own economy.
” and if countries like the who have been dragging us to the table and have to say you have to allow an exception for us because we have this war going on in ukraine.
we have to punish russia, but are we doing ourselves any favours long-term?
isn’t there a danger we are going to say to a country absolutely dependent on export revenue oh, my gosh.
we just had a 90-degrees turn in this conversation.
i think the reality behind the sanctions against russia is a separate morality from climate change, &1 questions, but a kind of wholesale slaughter of a nation but that’s not my point.
is it the danger that if you say to a country like russia that "this "we’re going to stop using you.
"regardless of what happens i a - that country then has more incentive to gain more energy-dependent vassal states.
am asking you.
are you saying they going to invade other countries?
sean, don’t think can separate the sanctions from the reasons for the sanctions, but i think a rela trying to separate the two because think for most of us, there is a very direct connection - and know we’re going to talk about this in a moment so won’t get ahead - but there are long-term impacts.
russia has a huge reserve of oil and doesn’'t have much industry.
let’s face it - it is a petro economy.
but i think we have to deal with the immediate humanitarian circumstances.
we will come back to that.
a perfectly fair point.
justin, the political cloud which comes from having energy supplier, one way or another, it’s going to shift, isn’t it?
maybe not as fast as some would like, but it is shifting.
going to go?
who will be the new energy titans?
well, let’s see who occupies that space.
really good question.
if the is right - the says we are essentially at peak carbon.
report said.
i 1 l4 reorganisation happens.
¢ australia could be that energy i ige in wind turbines?
to be fair, latika bourke is not.
see this out there which, frankly, boris johnson has recognised and said 1 to the continental shelf in a really windy part you could be deing the same.
that is partly the answer to sean’s questions - it’s a really interesting question - who will be the energy power, these 1 i think the answer is technology, the people who create the technology that supplies energy - we’re talking about wind and solar.
there are places which have and we’re talking about green hydrogen, if may also add.
which is also technology.
this is one of the big real promises and potential and, justin, australia should a1 superpower ten and 20 years ago, we should have had solar britain also failed to do that.
but what we are now doing as we have had a government who have said we are technology agnostic about how we get what they are backing - they’re not really technology agnostic, they are putting huge subsidies into green hydrogen and there is huge hope in australia that we will become a green hydrogen exporter that will provide asia and potentially even europe - and you should really watch out for announcements on this between britain and australia - and if that is the case, what you will see is wrapping of supply lines and energy security, so that we are trading energy with people we like and we trust and we are not going tea think that is part of the equation but elon musk is now building solar panels for your roof that can to 10 -8 it is impossible not to believe that a big part of the equation going to be that - particularly for new-build hemes and homes with a specific design that can be retrofitted.
right now, it is a wealthy rol but let’s bring the price down.
think that’s really interesting.
the other thing people don’t tend to recognise is what we are also seeing as an electrification of the world as we move away from gas and oil.
and once you do that, once you have a heat pump in your house and a car with a big battery and a solar panel on the roof, the three can work together to maximise of the grid so, in a way, it potentially decentralised as power.
one of the things that came out of the discussions of this strateqgy is the suggestion from the government iepl: half of all new cars sold have to be fully electric - not even dual, fully electric.
tesla, since you mention them, have done a deal with new caledonia in the pacific region - tiny, tiny territory, but it happens to have one tenth of the world’s nickel and suddenly, everybody needs presumably, all of those factors, you say who owns the technology?
it could be governments or government-licensed technology, it will give them political power.
rare earth minerals is a huge deal for australia.
we have been striking deals because we are very sensitive to chinese ownership of this and we are trying actually, that is something we are trying to do with a lot of asian countries, including india, which anybody watching this space knows that india is more than happy to go up and buy russian gas at the moment, which is being sold to them at bargain basement prices.
that is very concerning for a country like australia, because we see a country like india as a potential strategic partner in the inde-pacific.
so, all of this is related and if australia can crack energy security, it can crack climate change and bring down emissions and it can also crack global security and on something that matters for us so much in our region, which is, of course a hedge on china.
the transition, and i’ll be interested to hear what everybody else says.
the thought would be traditional sources of energy, like lots more coal in germany, and not necessarily renewables because they take time to go in.
the world to say hold on a second, there now a way to decouple.
i think that is exactly right, and that is the good news.
don’'t want to get ahead of our discussion but think in the short-term, we are seeing some of the old stuff the nature of the discussion has changed in the last six because of what’s happening in ukraine.
putin has really changed the way we perceive energy in germany - it’s incredible - they mothballed nuclear power stations and say now they will bring some back.
for all sorts of reasons, it is such an incredibly interesting moment.
and hate to be the doom and gloom here but i think we do need i 3l about what will happen in the immediate term and think that will actually grow a more so, a good example this is one of the humanitarian things australia has done is send tens of thousands of tonnes of coal - "humanitarian ceal”, they’re calling it - nobody is actually saying that as a bad thing.
would you?
because ukraine urgently need energy.
and you are doing it to help people.
we are sending them humanitarian coal.
it is really good .
not a dirty fuel, it is humanitarian coal.
and this is interesting, because scott morrison, who very infamously went into the australian parliament with a lump of coal saying, "don’t be scared of it, "labor party,” he gets up and welcomes president zelensky to give his address to the parliament and says "you have our bullets, and our coal” and everyone in australia went, "that is a bit pelitical,” but president zelensky actually came back and said thank you for the coal.
that is an interesting thought.
i want to pick up two things - you talked about nuclear.
we have macron up for re-election in france, saying we are not just going for energy security, we are going for energy independence and it will be nuclear-based.
in the , we are going to end up with only one nuclear government but one started the ball rolling on.
no, labour started that.
they announced an age of nuclear 12 years ago.
that makes sense but the deal was done by the cameron government.
the project began in 2007 when they famously said 0 christmas turkey by 2017.
elalels is not going to be ready!
just the cold shower.
is the turkey acceptable rol 4 raw turkey!
but my point was this - osborne government, there was criticism of the price per megawatt hour.
it does at the moment, but again, like cold water, this is a moment of crisis and obviously, fuel prices are very high.
this will be a temporary thing.
there is no fundamental shortage of fossil fuels.
the world will reorganise itself and there will be power available and so, prices will fall, i think, in time, prices will fall.
but what hasn’t changed, just to go back, inevitably but this concept of energy security is now 0 just like the pandemic global health at the centre stage and stopped us from talking face-to-face for two years, what is happening and what putin has done has forever reminded us that we need to really understand the consequences of our energy supply.
and it has happened at a time when, for the first time in history, there is a viable yot at fuels, because as the pointed out, renewables are far cheaper than anyone expected them to be.
they have fallen unbelievably.
so they are avilable and often the cheapest form of energy for many tla of ukraine said was ‘blood money’, buying russian oil and gas, australia not only sending humanitarian coal but sending armoured vehicles.
yes, bushmasters.
to help the ukrainians.
i accelerate the end of the war or project the direction, the the trajectory of this war?
and olaf scholz, the german chancellor in london today, and both of them seems to be suggesting we should be strapping in for a very long conflict, and they were suggesting the sanctions should would be long-term.
and you only had to listen to nato’s boss jens stoltenberg this week to say that while russia has withdrawn in the donbas, putin has not walked away from his ambition think this is just the start of some very hard years ahead for europe.
i didn’t hear what olaf scholz said but it just enrages me.
olaf scholz is in no position to make these comments.
find it morally indefensible, germany’s position here, and find it soc offensive.
they are more, than any nation on earth, fuelling 10 war.
they didn’t cause it, to be clear, but 200 milion euros, $220 million dollars a day go to moscow to pay for the fuel and fuels german industry.
it is so interesting that in 2009, when the euro crashed, germany wagged its finger at greece and said, "you are irresponsible!
"we are going to cut you off and you are going to pay!
" their economy shrank 20%.
now, "oh, no, we cannot cut off the oil because our economy 101y a couple of points”.
what moral hypocrisy!
and germans feel this - surveys say that germans believe the gas - neli there is a way to shorten this war, and olaf scholz holds the key.
hurt his economy?
yes, but let’s look at german history, look at the legacy, have you not learned?
is there not a moral stance that goes ahead of 3% shrinkage a =n to stop a bloodbath?
mean, really?
i think that it is outrageous that he would say "well, "we have to get used to this going on, but don’t worry - " and siemens and mercedes are still producing.
” as a balancing comment on germany, we have to recognise that germany has changed its policies very s4 but they are not cutting off.
sending that money.
i that is the problem.
in your economy.
it’s a huge thing.
you cannot do it suddenly.
sacrifices made and they could say they have to ration it because this such an urgent moement.
i just don’t think that that washes for the people of mariupol.
get that there will be displacement.
in our lifetimes, this is the biggest humanitarian crisis in europe and it is indefensible to say, "well, it takes time".
can ask you, justin, when you look at the crimes that are alleged to have been committed in places like bucha, other parts elsewhere in ukraine, and that have been laid at the door of the russians, just as a last thought, does that tell you anything about this war and how it’s think it does - this is the huge challenge russia going to face.
how is it ever going to come - well, in the medium term, overcome the reputational damage of these apparent war crimes it has committed?
think it will be a huge challenge, it will be a stain that russia has to and deal - and what is interesting as a journalist who’s also interested in technology, the way we are seeing this war like nothing before.
witness video of war crimes as they happen.
thank you all very much, a terrific discussion, thank you for joining us.
thank you for your company, more of the same next week, join us then.
from from all of us, goodbye.
hello, there.
there was a lot of sunshine around first thing on sunday, but it was cold and frosty, and it was quite widespread across the country.
we woke up to first thing on sunday morning - that’s throwing cloud right across the country and that is acting like a blanket, so it is preventing those temperatures from falling too far.
it will be a frost-free start to monday morning with temperatures more likely and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain through wales, northern ireland, north west england as well through the day.
quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction, but sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming from the south, that means it will be a little bit warmer - 17 degrees the expected high.
thundery downpours are likely into the south-west through monday night into tuesday and we can trail that weather front in fact, the airis coming up from the sahara.
its way steadily north, here, you will stay in the cooler air for the next few days.
so, that means first thing on tuesday morning, we’re likely to see temperatures four degrees in lerwick but ten or 11 degrees across central and southern parts of england and wales.
some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours pushing their way steadily north and because the air is coming from the sahara, it could have sprinkling of saharan dust that might just lrsil 1 igetha a little bit orange at times.
in terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
where the cloud and the rain lingers, we’re only looking out around a maximum of 6-8 celsius.
but the rain will ease away, the isobars open up through the middle part of the week, that wednesday will be the warmest day of the week 0 not out of the question.
as we head towards the easter weekend.
whatever you’re doing, take care and enjoy.
welcome to news.
our top stories: emmanuel macron is on target to win the first ballot in the french presidential election, but marine pen gains ground at the polls.
don’t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
this is decisive country europe.
are found in areas around kyiv that were previously occupied by russian troops.
tens of thousands take to protest against the removal of the former prime minister, and eddie redmayne wins big las at the royal albert hall in london.
with most of the votes round of the french presidential election, emmanuel macron will face the far-right leader difference between them, with macron on just over 27% and pen on just over 25%.
our paris correspondent, lucy williamson has the latest.
it’s on, the battle a : don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
the debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days decisive for our country and for europe.
a choice of president macron or president pen.
rol 1 happen on 24 april is not early projections suggest that emmanuel macron with 28% of voters, marine pen’s share of the vote grew to around 23%.
but this is where the battle really begins.
eidct a little bit nervous always, simply because you don’t know a - and what the french people will want.
afraid, never.
more popular, in part networks, misinformation is kind of like the plague of the 21st century.
so, our work is to to fight that.
yes, we are scared because the votes are very close on the first round, people on the second round will vote everything but macron because people macron only started campaigning a few weeks ago, too occupied with the war in ukraine.
more proof for some that he is arrogant and out of touch, the president of the rich, despite creating jobs and paying billions to keep french workers afloat through covid.
and more responsible.
she wants to ban the muslim headscarf in public and give priority to french nationals in jobs and housing.
macron says her programme is racist and her victory would threaten democracy in france.
those who watched the and the vote for trump.
and are asking themselves what is the solution for a1 - together to block the far right seems to be fraying and the two visions france has chosen for president show how divided earlier, spoke to keteevan gorjestani, france 24’s washington correspondent, about how the election is unfolding.
well, there is a sense that emmanuel macron is going to have to do actually start campaigning.
there’s a feeling in france that the president sort russia-ukraine crisis and it as a statesman, but then he sort of stayed on that statesman level and didn’t really focus on the domestic campaign, if you will, while marine pen actually the question is, how are they going to and address these two elements?
emmanuel macron is going i to the domestic campaign, to explain to those who did not vote for him they should vote for emmanuel macron and not just stay home or vote a little bit more than she has so far the foreign policy aspect of it.
emmanuel macron is likely going to be using some of her past comments about vladimir putin, about russia, her proximity to russia against her, i want to pick up on all of those points.
but just before, emmanuel - in the past for being the leader of paris, not france, was see trends turning against globalisation and america in europe, something associated macron, so what is it that marine pen has done to bring a has she brought in new demographics as well?
she’s, first of all, tamed down some of the nastier, if you will, aspects of what her party used to be, especially under her father.
she has really revamped her party as moving away a little bit from the outright xenophobia, the outright racism.
she still talks, of course, about being very strict on immigration, but she has sort of moved away from this and became more of an economic populist, if you will, focusing really more on kitchen table issues, on the economy, rather yal 4 and france and immigration, things like that that alienate some people, some working-class people, who maybe agree with her on the economy, but didn’t really like this so she worked really hard on that to to change the vision that people have of her party.
she is also trying to tame down the question of leaving she did that five years ago, didn’t work out this time, she’s not talking about that outright.
so she’s sort of learned from her mistakes and trying to really grasp that populist wave and focus on the elements and on the issues that maybe other countries, other more traditional parties, excuse me, like emmanuel macron’s party, don’t do enough of.
of the most interesting aspects of this race, isn’t it?
it’s made it more difficult for the normal traditional coalition of everybody else to turn against the far right to join against her in this 3 yes, she also got a little bit of help about changing that image from eric zemmour, the other far right candidate, who made marine pen look more mainstream, if you will, because his ideas were so much further to the right.
he was talking only about immigration, about the values, the foundations of france, the christian values, things like that, about how the problem was with islam and france.
so by comparisen, she looked much more focused on economic issues and less on the traditional far-right themes that we have seen in past decades.
his voters are likely going to go massively so she’s going to have to to grasp maybe part of the conservative right wing voters that maybe don’t want emmanuel macron and she is going to have to is not eric zemmour, she’s not emmanuel macron, that she is a valuable candidate and they shouldn’t go straight to emmanuel macron.
it is quite a close race, as you point out.
just a final quick question.
as you say, it will be a domestic focus very likely over the next two weeks, a1 implications are huge for everyone watching onto this.
we hear a lot about marine pen as a sympathiser for putin, some accuse her of being such, and this will be the ’s biggest crisis since brexit if she gets elected, do you think scenario that she will take those stances?
well, she has made it very clear, as said, she did sort of tamp down her talk of leaving the , so there’s no a if you will, but she a of the european union.
she wants to leave the military command of nato.
she 1s close to russia.
praised vladimir putin.
so this likely would be a sort of imbalance in this western alliance that has been built over the past few years and especially over the past year, this rebuilding of the western alliance with joe biden, emmanuel macron, and some of the other european leaders.
and there’s a fear, at least here in washington, , for example, that having someone like marine pen would not only jeopardise the direct france- relations, but could further destabilise this very fragile right now western alliance against russia.
they’ve worked very hard to build it.
ukraine’s president zelensky says vladimir putin has not 1v ivs 1t the entire european project in his sights.
he was speaking as the re-opened its embassy in kyiv after russian forces retreated from the north the major focus of the fighting is now likely i with civilians being evacuated from the donbas region.
prosecutors say 1,200 bodies have now been recovered from areas previously occupied by russia around kyiv.
those include the village of andriivka from where our correspondent mark lowen the population of andriivka is 1,000, more than 40 were kkilled as the russians attacked and moved in as the shroud of war is peeled back, uncovering tatiana’s only grandson anton was taken by the russians the day after his 23rd birthday and shot.
so badly mutilated, they identified him from his clothes, recovering his body after a month and burying him two days ago.
: maybe if he had gone to fight somewhere else, he would have returned in one piece.
he was a clever boy, he recited poetry.
when my husband told instead, they pointed their machine gun and said go home or we will take you both.
this terrorised community will somehow to return to peace, but it cannot shut out its agony.
first came the offensive here, then the occupation, and now the trauma of those returning or simply emerging to see the destruction, which is immense.
we are now learning that these scenes are repeated across the shattered country which even when peace returns, leonid koval and his family are trying, repairing broken - and their home, where russian soldiers stayed.
he’s still trying to work out what they stole.
: have no words to describe what they did.
don’t know what they were looking for.
my family had been living here for 15 years but they came as the ukrainian army moved in, the russians came down to his tiny shelter to hide, feasting on the family’s food and resting before no place safe from their eccupation.
on the edge of the cemetery, the fresh grave of tatiana’s grandson.
had two daughters, she told, us and that he was our boy.
mark lowen, news, andriivka.
by 45% this year as a result of the war with russia_ the bank says enormous financial support is needed and to support the population.
it’s already provided nearly a hillion dollars of assistance and is promising another $2 billion in the months ahead.
stay with us on news.
the great and the good at the royal albert hall in london.
pol pot, one of the century’s greatest mass murderers, reported to have died of natural causes.
he and the khmer rouge movement he led were responsible for the deaths of an estimated 1.
7 million cambodians.
there have been violent protests in indenesia, where playboy has gone on sale for the first time.
traditionalist muslim leaders have expressed disgust.
the magazine’s offices have staff have gone into hiding.
it was clear that paula’s only contest was with the clock, and as for her sporting legacy, paula radcliffe’s competitors will be chasing her new world best time for years to come.
quite quietly, but quicker and quicker, she seemed just to slide away under the surface and disappear.
this is world news.
the main story this hour: emmanuel macron appears to have triumphed in the first ballot of the french presidential election, but he’'ll face stiff competition from marine pen in the second round.
to protest against the removal of imran khan from his post as prime minister following 0 in parliament over the weekend.
tens of thousands of people gathered in karachi and lahore, waving torches and flags in the dark and chanting in support of khan.
a long-time rival, shehbaz sharif, is expected so, might imran khan get elected again?
to shamila chaudhary.
she is senior fellow a and is former director for pakistan and afghanistan at the national security council.
first, a3 first, think we l= first, think we have to put this kind of in the historical 4s ext of imran khan’s power.
context of imran khan’s power.
mean, he has a lot of power etting people mean, he has a lot of power i mean, he has a lot of power in getting people out onto the and that is what are seeing unfold right now.
you , he has a very strong base pakistani youth and the rking and middle-class, and is anti-american kind of oreign interference narrative nates really strongly with 8 is constituency because are the people that have not fited from kind of he western patronage in pakistan, history.
the political elite have benefited from that, t?
mran khan has benefited tee i8t right?
imran khan has benefited from using this anti-western form and he is able to get people out onto the reet.
now, what i’m watching is what message now at he is asking his people to carry?
now he has been ted out that he has been voted out of x4 ce?
he has already, early, in campaigning mode he has to clearly, in campaigning mode a8 clearly, in campaigning mode but he has to quickly get anised because he represents of recent organised because he represents a ecent chaos and a lot a lot of recent chaos and a lot conomic mismanagement and kind of anti-western hetoric his kind of anti-western rhetoric on the global stage been eceived well and has not been received well and o, think he needs to start inking less out the constituency that he would and more about serve and more about how he is going to win the next election i1 act, that is what going to win the next election 1 if, in fact, that is what he wants, which think that’s l4 wants, but at wants, which think that’s a1 wants, which think that’s what he wants, but at the same , think he’s not ready to of let go is populist hetoric and his strong man rrative that he is very much id to but was not something that he political elite and military establishment were avour of, and you know, those stakeholders are clearly to want leader of going to want next leader of pakistan to much more moderate ild in he way that they and mild in the way that they 0 about the west, the way hat hey talk about pakistan’s on global stage.
imran role on the global stage.
imran not doing that right now so re not ally of this we’re not really of this political chaotic moment that mself has kind of political chaotic moment that i a he himself has kind of started and fuelled, so, you know, here’s a and fuelled, so, you know, there’s a lot more to happen in ext few days and will be atching all dynamics watching all of those dynamics closely.
the constituency that entioned, the powerful you mentioned, the powerful army and intelligence services, said ere responsible for many said were responsible for his - his rise in the first place.
is that actually the reason he allen from ower?
did has fallen from power?
did he out with them?
has fallen from power?
did he i has fallen from power?
did he r4 has fallen from power?
did he € military has always been a very dominant force in kistani fidfed dominant force in pakistani politics --so dominant that have left -- hosted coups and overthrown governments.
in case of imran khan, it was more ced.
they nuanced.
they were case of imran khan, it was more nuanced.
they were instrumental eating a political in creating a political talat - 1 in creating a political environment in in creating a political les in creating a political environment in which imran khan thrive and environment in which imran khan 4 environment in which imran khan could thrive and think they more han they argained got more than they bargained or with imran’s populist a for with imran’s populist rhetoric and strong man style litics.
the litary is of politics.
the military is still very traditional, -western institution.
se, in that regard, now, run did that regard, you know, run did out of favour that regard, you know, run did tids that regard, you know, run did fall out of favour with them time.
and by exerting himself and his understanding ense what a and sense of what a civilian der could be in pakistan d.
he military dependent pen american military quipment and weapons and arms, e’ve een over equipment and weapons and arms, a as we’ve seen over the past everal decades, and all of it much statement right very much a statement right now, it’s threatened, the pakistani military cannot ete in the region, it a0 8 compete in the region, it cannot compete with its number ival india if it does not at least a better, have at least a better, repaired relationship with the security establishment.
imran khan has threatened all at atle cialels of that so it’s a combination of a3 a of the internal domestic fidfed of the internal domestic olitics and imran’s kind of into politics and imran’s kind of rultils% politics and imran’s kind of reach into the military space anting to document .
also military’s lationship with the united tes.
the each you mentioned ith states.
the reach you menticned with the military, it’s an eresting contrast shehbaz sharif, the person expected to the prime minister in be made the prime minister in he next few hours, always seem playing good cop against his as 18 to be playing good cop against his brother know was sharif who cannot lead now that he is in exile cannot lead now that he is in exile in the , having erved corruption, prison 0w sentences so you think er4 hehbaz sharif be welcomed the military will he have long-term prospects in stan -- nawaz sharif.
shehbaz pakistan -- nawaz sharif.
i a elai i pakistan -- nawaz sharif.
shehbaz sharif is a seasoned a i ag: shehbaz sharif is a seasoned administrator and has a lot of rience unning the ovens of experience running the ovens of punjab and being a party leader also think it’s easy for punjab -based politician to an easier relationship ith he pakistani military, ich is dominated with the pakistani military, with the pakistani military, which is dominated by ethnic abi soldiers and military fficials, so there is a little more of a atural, organic lationship here.
think relationship there.
i think where it is going to get plicated is sharif will ikely ant to have an opening india fairly soon and - with india fairly soon and while the pakistani military like to restart would like to restart those a versations with the indians, think they uld prefer to take it slowly and at their own and sharif will probably pace and sharif will probably ant to move a little bit a ter on reopening, say, a1l faster on reopening, say, economic and trade ties.
punjab benefit economic and trade ties.
punjab i ige a1 stands to benefit from normalisation stands to benefit from i a 2 stands to benefit from normalisation of relatienships dia so this is obviously with india so this is obviously something to keep in mind.
mila chaudhary from the new america think tank.
which honour people who work both on and off stage.
cabaret at the kit kat club starring eddie redmayne was the big winner on the night, as claudia redmond reports.
the curtain was raised at the glitzy olivier awards on sunday at the royal albert hall in london.
cabaret act the kit kat club was the biggest winner trophies for eddie redmayne and irish actress jessie i y2 this was the part played when was a kid at school.
it was the thing that got my passion for theatre really fuelled, and getting to do it every night with that extraordinary was dumbfounding.
it’s such a huge, huge privilege to be part of this community, which consider my family.
thank you for welcoming me in all those years ago, and this is just so lovely!
how about we hear another one?
soemething that cooks!
lal best new musical went to back to the future, based on the 1980s cult film which followed the time-travelling capers of michael fox as marty uled ly.
and in the dance world, young up-and-coming choreographer arielle smith stepped up to receive the outstanding achievement in dance category for her work on jolly folly with the english national ballet.
the winners of the olivier awards, overseen by the society of london theatre, are chosen by a team of industry figures, stage luminaries and theatre-loving members of the public.
it is hoped that following so many setbhacks with covid restrictions over the past 1 finally go on.
claudia redmond, news.
another big winter report.
the world number one ranked american golfer northern ireland’s rory to secure victory at scheffler saw his overnight i a1 to just one stroke during a thrilling final day at the augusta national course, only to pull clear of the chasing pack and register a fourth win in his last six starts.
you can reach me on twitter.
lie1l @0 thank you so much for joining us.
goodbye.
hello, there.
there was a lot of sunshine around first thing on sunday, but it was cold and frosty, and it was quite widespread across the country.
we woke up to first thing on sunday morning - that’s throwing cloud right across the country and that is acting like a blanket, those temperatures from falling too far.
it will be a frost-free start to monday morning with temperatures more likely and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain through wales, northern ireland, north west england as well through the day.
quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction, but sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming from the south, that means it will be a little bit warmer - 17 degrees the expected high.
thundery downpours are likely into the south-west through monday night into tuesday and we can trail that weather front in fact, the airis coming up from the sahara.
its way steadily north, here, you will stay in the cooler air for the next few days.
so, that means first thing on tuesday morning, we’re likely to see temperatures four degrees in lerwick but ten or 11 degrees across central and southern parts of england and wales.
some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours pushing their way steadily north and because the air is coming from the sahara, it could have sprinkling of saharan dust that might just lrsil 1 igetha a little bit orange at times.
in terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
where the cloud and the rain lingers, we’re only looking out around a maximum of 6-8 celsius.
but the rain will ease away, the isobars open up through the middle part of the week, that wednesday will be the warmest day of the week 0 not out of the question.
as we head towards the easter weekend.
whatever you’re doing, take care and enjoy.
emmanuel macron is ahead in the polls in the first round of the french presidential election, but his far-right rival, marine pen, has gained more than 1200 bodies have been found in areas around by putin’s troops and more russian attacks have been reported in the south of the country.
and ukraine’s military says ten people, including children, have been killed in russian shelling region, as moscow intensifies of pakistan to protest against imran khan being removed as prime minister, following a no-confidence vote in parliament over the weekend.
khan has been blamed ueple now on news, it’s hardtalk.
welcome to hardtalk, i’m stephen sackur.
russia’s invasion of ukraine and kyiv’s defiant response will have a long-term impact on geopolitics far beyond europe’s eastern flank.
the west insists putin must fail, but this century’s rising power, china, offers putin friendship without limits.
could the ukrainian invasion foreshadow an effort by beijing to eliminate the thorn in its side - namely, taiwan?
well, my guest is taipel representative to the , ming-yen tsal.
could what starts in ukraine end in taiwan?
ming-yen tsai in brussels, welcome to hardtalk.
it’s my pleasure to be here with you.
you, of course, sit there in brussels, you are the representative of taipei, as it’s put, to the european union.
just wonder, from your position, what impact has russia’s invasion of ukraine had on your homeland?
the situation in ukraine closely and we believe that impact of the ukraine situation will be far-reaching and global-reaching, that we need to keep watching will be about the geopolitical phase, and europe may turn out with a new map, so this is a wake-up call to our global community force to challenge liberal-based order and international borders, so it’s very important for our democratic community to hold a line and then raise for the cost of russia’s invasion, otherwise some other authoritarian countries around the world, such as china, may copy that type of model, and do the same thing to its neighbourhood.
let me stop you there.
you do feel, do you, that something has happened with that invasion of ukraine which has repercussions in particular you see it as some sort of values trial where the rule of law, in 8 much broader sense ?
yes, that’s correct.
because, think, this time, russia is using its military muscle to challenge 1o tetgs-1s and in our region, china has very strong intentions to challenge the liberal-based order, so we are concerned that china will copy that kind of model and follow russia’s steps to do the same thing to the neighbourhood and, in the past few years, actually, china has intensified its military activity in the vicinity of taiwan and china keeps sending its military aircraft to intrude into the air defence demarcation zone of taiwan by showing its military muscles.
we will get to the military situation on the ground and in the taiwan straits in just a moment, but just to stick with your notion of this being about international saying is that there is some direct parallel between russia and ukraine, and then china and taiwan but, 4 -1 is one fundamental difference, isn’t there?
the international community recognises, and has long recognised, the sovereignty of ukraine as an independent the international community does not recognise taiwan’s status as an independent - indeed, the vast majority of countries arocund the world adhere to the one china policy and the notion that your status is far short, in taiwan, of being an independent nation.
yes, you are right, but more and more countries around the world, they are starting to look at taiwan from the perspective of one china policy, as you just mentioned, but one china policy has some differences compared to china’s proposal for the one china principal because one china policy recognises that the people’s republic the only legal government in china but does not recognise that taiwan is part of the people’s republic, so we hope we can continue to use that kind of persistence to deepen taiwan’s partnership and substantive cooperation with our friends around the world.
if you think the international order and international rules are at stake, how disappointed were you that when it came to that crucial early vote at the united nations, demanding a withdrawal of russian forces from all ukrainian territory, some of the biggest, most influential countries in the world chose to abstain - and i’m not thinking just of china itself, but india, if you in taiwan want to convince yourselves that the international community does respect rules and does value democracy, maybe that vote was a bit of a disappointment?
yes, understand your concerns, but think what we are now witnessing is a kind of competition between two different groups.
one is democracy and a9 and after russia’s invasion of ukraine, the competition between these two groups tes is that russia and china has announced that they will deepen as you mentioned earlier, they say their partnership will have no boundaries, will have no limits, so that is something that we witness on the side so, if that coencerns you, you see the strength and depth you believe that what has happened in the last 1.
5 months has made more likely a chinese military intervention in your homeland, in taiwan?
yes, actually, we are in a state of high alert, based on china’s military activity around taiwan.
and in the first day of russia’s invasion, china sent about ten sorties of military aircraft to intrude into taiwan’’s aerial zone, a 2 the situation, and what we are concerned is that china &l vel to taiwan and the purpose is to use military intimidation against the taiwan’s people and taiwan’s government, to say that china has never abandoned its military option against taiwan and will use its military control in the taiwan strait to get used to the battlefield in the taiwan strait.
hear what you are saying, and there is no doubt that iif one looks at the number of sorties flown by the chinese air force over taiwan’’s airspace, if one looks at the naval activity in the taiwan straits, quess, that the focus of international attention very much on ukraine right now, which beijing may well l5 "evidence suggests that we are, right now, in the window "of maximum danger for taiwan".
is that the way that you see it?
yes, think this time, we need to hold a spirit of solidarity and unity to support ukraine, and believe china is watching the situation closely because there will be two major concerns from the chinese side.
without too much price.
number two, is what the economic impact will be of global sanctions against russia?
if russia can conquer ukraine and achieve its political and military objective without paying too much price, then china may follow those steps.
and if russia has to pay a lot for the invasion, then china has to think twice iyl eyl a1 year for china.
council party will organise its 20th national congress, for another five years, maybe for the entire rest of his life, so believe jinping will be very cautious to do the calculation before waging a war in the theatre of the taiwan strait against taiwan.
yes, well, jinping may well be cautious if he believes gr1 taiwan can put up as fierce and effective resistance put up in the face of the might of the russian military, may say so, as a representative of your country, is do you believe, honestly, that taiwan is in a position right now to match ukraine and put up that level of effective military resistance?
yes, think we have been investing so many resources to improve our defence capacity and taiwan does not want to enter into a kind of arms race with china, which is not in taiwan’s a - bigger than taiwan in terms of military resources and manpower, so what we want to do is to improve our defence capacity, particularly focus on the promotion of taiwan’s capacity to do asymmetric warfare against china’s potential invasion against taiwan, and a lot of focus goes of the taiwanese submarine force, missile force, air defence system, and our facilities, so we will continue to build taiwan into a strong and agile military force to push china one aspect of ukraine’s resistance which has been very striking is the degree 18 7 from leadership - president zelensky very effectively leading his nation - to the degree to which all ukrainians have united in their defiance and their common cause against russia.
quality of leadership in taiwan?
yes, think when we talk about the situation in taiwan, one thing want to share with you is that taiwan democracy.
particularly after hong kong’s situation.
for one country, two systems, so if china decides to move towards military adventurism in the taiwan strait, taiwan will take any sorts of efforts to safequard our democracy and our sovereignty.
and the government, that is how to build a very resilient civilian society against foreign invasion, and one that has become a very hot issue in taiwan at the moment - that is how to build a very strong system to mobilise our reserve forces and to promote the connection between our civilian society and our defence department, so that has become a very important issue in the parliament’s debate in taiwan at this point.
that’s very interesting.
how worried are you by the leverage that nuclear weapons gives china, just as we can see in a certain sense, the leverage it has given vladimir putin, because when nato has shied away from any talk of imposing a no-fly zone or indeed sending jet fighters to the ukrainian military, they have cited the danger of escalation, with a nuclear power which appears to be ready at some point to use nuclear weapons as part of its battlefield strategy?
the very same could be said of china, and that gives china a leverage which may come back to haunt taiwan.
yes, think there might be many military options in the hands of chinese leaders, but what taiwan can do is prepare for all of those worst scenarios in our best way.
how can you prepare for a scenario in which you don’t have nukes and china does, and the whole world knows that?
we can, you know, mobilise all kinds of policies, rescurces and tools.
personally would like to share with you a very good idea, proposed by our american colleagues, which idea is called ‘integrated deterrence’, which means that with democratic countries, we can take some collective efforts together and then, to make use of all kinds of policy resources or policy instruments to raise the cost for those countries or those region’s powers that intends to challenge the world-based if we can do so, then we will be able to push china to think twice before going too far, so that’s the, you know, object of deterrence.
we have talked about different aspects of the military strategizing, let’s now talk about economics and leverage.
again, what we have seen in russia is the west pretty united in imposing sanctions, but there have been limits because of the reliance of europe in particular on russian gas.
the difficulties are even 1 to assessing leverage in any future potential conflicts involving china and taiwan into the world economy, so powerful in the world particularly in europe.
you see it as the representative of taipe in the european union.
you know how just reliant germany, for example, is on trade with china - to the tune of some 200 billion euros yedr.
into hungary, italy, greece, a host of european union member china has effectively ensured that the world can’t afford yes, think, mean, compared to russia, china @ much bigger economic power in the international arena from a different angle.
that is taiwan is also a powerhouse to semiconductors and products.
taiwan accounts for about 92% of the global production, so-called ‘defence’ chips, which is under the 10mm.
i know very well from a a that the taiwanese dominance of the semiconductor chip market is extraordinary.
you have the power, whether it be from apple iphones the power to shut down vast swathes of electronic industry that sort of power to become, if you like, a semiconductor superpower in the world?
i’m saying that if china invades taiwan, they will cause a lot of problems with the shortage of taiwan supplies of those semiconductors or products, in which china would suffer badly.
so, what am talking about, taiwan also has some leverage in our hands and the most important thing is that we need to, as mentioned earlier, we need to show that kind of solidarity between our like-minded friends of the democratic society, to lead those potential invaders to understand the cost would be very high if they go too far.
some taiwanese have even gone so far to talk of a ‘silicon shield’ that protects taiwan in reality from chinese aggression.
do you really believe that?
it would be very important for our global community, to reshape supply chain security for many items such as energy, food, plnne key industry sectors.
without doing so, i’m afraid, the question that you mentioned increase china’s leverage and make china become more i’m fascinated by what you’re saying and the quiet way tadly taiwanese power, but let’s be real and again, let’s look at brussels, where you sit.
one country in the european union, lithuania, has gone much further than their fellow members and they’ve actually of taiwan in their country - - - an embassy of taiwan.
china has been infuriated i - lithuania, has tried to isolate lithuania, and lithuania paying a price and, indeed, is so upset that it’s lril a =¥ measures at the but, surely, the message of that spat between giant china atiny lithuania is that many europeans are going to think very hard before they confront china in that way?
we understand your concerns, and lithuania is a very brave country that always withstands that kind of suppression or pressure from foreign hostile states, and this time, lithuania decided to deepen cooperation with taiwan and immediately suffered economic coercion from the economy side.
but because this time, china went further to impose secondary sanctions against lithuania, which is to push european countries or european companies not to use the components or spare parts from lithuania, otherwise they cannot sell their products to china.
this kind of actien not only does damage to lithuania’s economic situation but also jeopardises the ’s important alo market integration, and by that reason might be in the process of suffering lithuania also receives very r0e o1 from the european commission and european council and for that reason you just mentioned, for further consultation in support of lithuania.
so, what am saying is that we will continue with the european commission because taiwan has been a a1l community, so we treasure that kind of cooperation program power in the world, s0 we use our cooperation important issues, like we share common concerns.
that is your job as the diplomatic representative of taipel to the , that is your job, but you also come with a lot of experience in the national security a 1 in taiwan, so i’m going to tap that experience to ask i about your most important relationship, and that is with the united states.
are you concerned that joe biden - well, to put it bluntly- is a little about how far he is prepared to go in defence of taiwan?
because last year, he made some statements about defending taiwan and then had i confusion doesn’t help you, does it?
actually, mean, the united states and taiwan are long-term friends and partners in the indo-pacific region and in the past five-plus years, united states has announced, if remember it correctly, about 15 packages of arms deals 1118 getting weapons, but i’m coming to this point about biden, what he said last year when he said "anyone taking action, invading "against our nato allies, we would respond”, and then he went on to say, "it’s the same with japan, "it’s the same with south korea, "it’s the same with taiwan," and then people reminded him it has a policy of ‘strategic ambiguity’ rather than a full-fledged defence pact, and joe biden’s white house had confusion worries you?
not really.
commitment to taiwan’s security is becoming clearer than ever a i of ukraine, the united states immediately sent naval vessels sent a very high-ranking delegation, led by the chief commander of general staff, w4182 commitment to taiwan’s security, the security in the taiwan strait.
right so we treasure that kind of commitment issued by the government.
last question.
would launch a military operation in taiwan this year.
let’s look ahead for the next a 8 to learn the lessons of russia-ukraine.
do you think within the next five years that your homeland, taiwan, will face a major military attack from china?
yes.
that is one thing that we are - we always stay on very high earlier in our conversation, saying that we would prepare way possible, to deal with all kinds of scenarios that may turn out in the theatre of the taiwan strait, and the number one thing that we would like to do but your message to your domestic population is that "war is coming,” is it?
yes, we need to prepare for the war.
we cannot predict when or how it will happen, but what we can &5 possible, and that communication between people, and also a kind of communication between taiwan a1 community - particularly our friends from our all right, well, ming-yen tsali, thank you very much indeed from brussels, thank you.
111918 hello, there.
there was a lot of sunshine around first thing on sunday, but it was cold and frosty, and it was quite widespread across the country.
we woke up to first thing on sunday morning - that’s throwing cloud right across the country and that is acting like a blanket, those temperatures from falling too far.
it will be a frost-free start to monday morning with temperatures more likely and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain through wales, northern ireland, north west england as well through the day.
quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction, but sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming from the south, that means it will be a little bit warmer - 17 degrees the expected high.
thundery downpours are likely into the south-west through monday night into tuesday and we can trail that weather front in fact, the airis coming up from the sahara.
its way steadily north, here, you will stay in the cooler air for the next few days.
so, that means first thing on tuesday morning, we’re likely to see temperatures four degrees in lerwick but ten or 11 degrees across central and southern parts of england and wales.
some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours pushing their way steadily north and because the air is coming from the sahara, it could have sprinkling of saharan dust that might just lrsil 1 igetha a little bit orange at times.
in terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
where the cloud and the rain lingers, we’re only looking out around a maximum of 6-8 celsius.
but the rain will ease away, the isobars open up through the middle part of the week, that wednesday will be the warmest day of the week 0 not out of the question.
as we head towards the easter weekend.
whatever you’re doing, take care and enjoy.
- i’m sally bundock with the latest headlines for viewers in the emmanuel macron has in the french presidential election, but marine pen gains ground at the polls.
: don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
the debate we’re going to have for the next 15 days decisive for our country and for europe.
as ukraine prepares for a russian taken east the sident tells he is prepared to give his life was try.
don’t want to make country.
i don’t want to make myself out to be a hero.
love amily, ant to live many my family, want to live many ore years.
but choosing from in or being with my people, of course i’m ready to my life for my tens of thousands take as former prime minister, imran khan is custed from office - his replacement will be voted in on monday.
victory for world number one, scottie scheffler at the masters, despite a late challenge from northern ireland’s rory mcllroy.
and the olivier goes to eddie redmayne!
and eddie redmayne wins big emmanuel macron has won a rgn0 election and far-right rival marine pen will fight him in the end, he won the first-round by about 3 percentage points but opinion polls suggest the run-off all the candidates in yesterday’s election, except the far right eric zemmour, have urged their voters not to support pen in the second round.
parker has the latest.
counting on you ays it o: i’m counting on you says emmanuel macron.
you may have the first round and topped the first round and they are happy but a note of caution is fight enters as this fight enters a new phase.
: don’t make stake, this isn’t r, the a mistake, this isn’t over, the date we will have over the next ten days will be decisive for ountry europe.
his opponent enjoyed a recent rise polls, far right in the polls, far right candidate marine pen.
her cies include a ban candidate marine pen.
her 1 candidate marine pen.
her policies include a ban on the headscarf in public muslim headscarf in public places but she has tried to ten her image and show we 00 eady for high office.
what ens on 24 april is just a hoat about conditions but a ter of society, even of ivilisations_ ritics call her 7 civilisations.
critics call her policy programme racist, her orters say emmanuel supporters say emmanuel etagt 1 supporters say emmanuel macron’'s time up.
2017 ople voted for anuel macron and he didn’t people voted for emanuel macron people voted for emanuel macron and he didn’t do anything.
ple ay let’s this and people say let’s this and was wful.
emmanuel macron it was awful.
emmanuel macron -g has been accused of being i\ rely visible at points in his campaign, too focused on national issues to notice eople’s struggles at home.
you emmanuel macron has been complacent so far?
don’t so, think he was at 4 work trying to protect his people, trying to tackle a sis, that we need to work and a how what is ocur oject and show what is our project and be an campaign and we need plain false.
ere is huge to explain false.
there is huge relief here tonight to explain false.
there is huge relief here tonight for supporters of emanuel -- macron cknowledges there is work but acknowledges there is work i but acknowledges there is work to be done but they are ering but the campaign a ehca cheering now but the campaign cheering now but the campaign of marine penn has given a stir.
off the press them a stir.
hot off the press left leaning paper liberation, liar faces, these with the nal two candidates last time.
014 five years on the political 10 but five years on the political picture is different, and can move fast, there are weeks things can move fast, there are things can move fast, there are two weeks to go.
jessica 1 parker, news, in paris.
we be live to parker, news, in paris.
we parker, news, in paris.
we will be live to paris for a tle ore on that story.
by 45% this year as a result of the war with russia_ the bank says enormous financial support is needed and to support the population.
it’s already provided nearly a hillion dollars of assistance and is promising another $2 billion in the months ahead.
ukraine was a global supplier of crops, including sunflower oil and wheat, but its exports have now stopped.
the ukrainian president has 10 id he is prepared to give his was country during life was country during interview on life was country during ale:ls interview on american .
in his =tals interview on american .
in i interview on american .
in his command centre in interview on american .
in his command centre in care 0l 60 minutes he said hen russia started its vasion six weeks ago it was by many people to leave qr4 urged by many people to leave a t8 urged by many people to leave the country but chose to stay hat his family supported his i a3 and that his family supported his decision to remain in aine.
‘s comments ukraine.
‘s comments come as ian fighting intensifies on 48 russian fighting intensifies on the east of the country where sands of countries still ayihl thousands of countries still trying to flee the donbas ion.
he has also region.
he has also warned the ian military defensive is russian military defensive is expected to get worse in the next few days but he told he would next few days but he told uld be prepared to die for his ountry.
: =l ’t want to make self yself out don’t want to make myself out to be a hero.
love my family.
to live many more years.
want to live many more years.
but, choosing between ning and eing with my people, of urse i’m ady to ive my course i’m ready to give my life for course i’m ready to give my m1 or my country.
course i’m ready to give my a a 1 course i’m ready to give my a a0 life for my country.
later on, in 20 minutes we will talk to ice president of the world ank, about the report which come out, which predicts krainian econemy been hit ukrainian economy has been hit 45% in terms of economic ooyl ihy by 45% in terms of its econoemic growth going down by hat much ause of the war.
let’s speak ukrainian journalist kateryna malofieieva good to speak to you.
let’s get your eaction to this news, ’s no urprise hear the it’s no surprise to hear the ukrainian econemy it amatically ukrainian economy it a 5 ukrainian economy it dramatically by the school?
is no urprise simply there is no surprise simply n4 ause it is demonstrated 1 because it is demonstrated in the course of the last six weeks, almost no airports so unctioning.
yesterday the 1 malfunctioning.
yesterday the verb airport was set for the time since he beginning the war.
also know about he main granaries for the uule the main granaries for the collection of the week, have also destroyed.
our ason of sowing wheat is now ctually not happening, or only a1l rt, and at some percentage covered because shelling still continues and ongoing, parts of khaki spent time some parts of khaki spent time with 1 miners operating in 1 with the miners operating in the area, so that they say from 100 had clear the 50 to 100 had to clear the .
but it was happening we re working with them together at he same time while at the same time the showers were flying over us, irstrike happened stop so his is because of war they working and at the same i time the showers are still landing.
we understand that cally this year, we are not i\ talking about not porting the wheat, but also 1 ther it will be enough for s, for the ukrainians.
a lot his money has been coming i8t of this money has been coming from the world bank, and places, eing used to other places, being used to keep paying people their aries, keep paying pensions i - but alse much-needed humanitarian aid, but in the -term, what will be required will be a lot more.
us through the experience talk us through the experience of where you are, what’s been ening in he last few days happening in the last few days in the city happening in the last few days a a in the city of liverpool?
turned yesterday in the ening only ven p.
m the shelling is in khaki.
compared a 1o ocked to shelling is in khaki.
compared was shocked to see life here going on, kids playing in playground and people alking in the old town, well, harkiv, lots more in kharkiv, lots more people now, but they are coming back, ite risks to the life.
and despite risks to the life.
and the way to i’ve seen a lot people with plates on the trying to escape from the these the war these are the rich, middle-class, know the cars are le1 s, not so rich, much less, not so rich, sometimes the ladder, some kind inian ars, people are ukrainian cars, people are ayihl to escape across the trying to escape across the donbas stop.
talk us through concern the russians may %1\ your concern the russians may really intensify the asion and he don best region in the t, what and the don best region in the l1 , what are you hearing east, what are you hearing about that?
east, what are you hearing east, what are you hearing about that?
don’t think happen, we look at the ap, we already know it was aimed and announced initially the ussian authorities, hen by he ukrainian president the governors of the onetsk oblast region he said ple, leave, don’t aste.
people, leave, don’t waste.
called several people on the at kramatorsk, ground at kramatorsk, this eale ground at kramatorsk, this terrible tragedy happened at tation here a lot the station where a lot of people were killed and much injured.
so lled them more injured.
so called them and 1 g5 them will they relocate to year and ask them will they relocate to year 4 countries abroad.
it’s becoming icult, absolutely, thank difficult, absolutely, thank you so much speaking to us ay.
ateryna malofieieva i8t today.
kateryna malofieleva from lyviv.
austria’s chancellor karl nehammer will travel to moscow later for talks with president putin.
he’ll be the first leader to meet putin since the war began on 24th february.
austria is part of the european union, but not nehammer, who visited ukraine for talks with president zelensky on saturday, said he wanted promote dialogue between moscow and kyiv.
at least two people have been killed and 20 injured after a french coach overturned on a belgian motorway.
the coach was on its way to amsterdam when the crash happened.
it was carrying 33 passengers mostly from france and spain.
the president of mexico, andres manuel lopez obrado has should step down or complete his six-year term.
around 91% of people voted in favour of him staying but the turnout, at around 17.
5%, meant that even if he had lost, oi a have been binding.
more than a thousand people have taken to the streets of tunisia’s capital, tunis, to protest against what they’re calling a power grab by the president.
some shouted "down with the coup”.
president kais dissolved parliament last month after earlier scrapping the country’'s independent judicial council.
last july, he sacked the government and seized wide-ranging powers.
the great and the good from the world of theatre attend the olivier awards at the royal albert hall pol pot, one of the century’s greatest mass murderers, reported to have died of natural causes.
he and the khmer rouge movement he led were responsible for the deaths of an estimated 1.
7 million cambodians.
there have been violent protests in indenesia, where playboy has gone on sale for the first time.
traditionalist muslim leaders have expressed disgust.
the magazine’s offices have staff have gone into hiding.
it was clear that paula’s only contest was with the clock, and as for her sporting legacy, paula radcliffe’s competitors will be chasing her new world-best time for years to come.
emmanuel macron appears to have triumphed in the first ballot of the french presidential election, but he’'ll face stiff competition from marine pen in the second round.
russian troops pummel eastern ukrainian, but president zelensky tells america’s 60 minutes programme he’s not going anywhere.
to protest against the removal of imran khan from his post as prime minister, following a no confidence vote in parliament over the weekend.
tens of thousands of people gathered in karachi and lahore, waving torches and flags in the dark, and chanting in support of khan.
a long-time rival, shehbaz sharif, is expected on monday.
he’s in santa monica, california.
from teg from your point of view, what was the downfall?
there was bination was the downfall?
there was a a was the downfall?
there was a combination of reasons.
one was xeca mic troubles, another was his kind of general ense of mismanagement top mismanagement at the top two ign policy one of the foreign policy is one of the areas where imran khan in the few weeks is claiming there is last few weeks is claiming here is a foreign conspiracy move him from there is a foreign conspiracy rie i there is a foreign conspiracy to remove him from office on types of things really embolden opposition against and saw the him and we saw the no-confidence vote 1 no-confidence vote just the day just in from the ime ministership.
what do you on arguments on the make on the arguments on the part of imran khan, he blames for being behind this move to get rid of him.
think it’s a highly suspect claim.
we have to keep in mind there was historical baggage year, ete= some historical baggage year, the being accused of trying a soft coup pakistan to do a soft coup in pakistan 3 nthe past and so this is not surprising guess in a ountry in that has had several itary coups in its short 8" istory but we are going to out more ails as find out more details as time goes on but it doesn’t seem there is a whole lot of it a1 there at the moment at least.
in terms of his own lationship with the pakistan litary, many talk about the fact that the military is very influential a t, and has a lot a t, military is very influential and has a lot of power when it to who is prime minister and comes to who is prime minister comes to who is prime minister and he seems to have fallen out them.
yeah and and he seems to have fallen out trlelehh and he seems to have fallen out with them.
yeah and think was big a big part of his that was a big part of his troubles.
but you know, what is mportant to keep in mind 3 also important to keep in mind a4 at in the last few days we ave really that in the last few days we that in the last few days we have really seen pakistan rise occasion, the to the occasion, the supreme court rejecting imran khan’s claim that the note confidence ote could not go through and was a banner day for llowing the constitution and owing legal processes in following legal processes in v3 & 1h following legal processes in pakistan and of course there military coup was no military coup as there has been in the past so think stan has good reason to hold its head up high these even though last few days have been dramatic olitically.
thank you for ining us and telling us politically.
thank you for r, joining us and telling us your thoughts on what is currently ening in pakistan.
5l it was a big day if you are a i olf fan, depending on where were watching.
let us get you were watching.
let us get all the sports news.
we start with golf and the first major of the year in the men’s game, the masters, at augusta national in georgia.
world number one scottie scheffler has won his first major title by three strokes finishing on 10 under o1 despite a minor blemish on the 18th when he doubley bogeyed, the 25 year old american still had enough by such minor issues, as he claimed his maiden green jacket.
think we just did such a good job of being committed to what re doing.
that goes through all 2 holes.
whatever ere trying to do.
and we were trying to do.
and chipped it so good this week, 1r @ so we did such a good job of putting so we did such a good job of putting myself in positions to we can still manage even where we can still manage even when wasn’t swinging at the of times_ manchester city and liverpool played out a 2-2 draw on sunday meaning the champions city maintain their one point lead as the premier league title race nears the end.
bruyne and gabriel jesus but were reeled in both times, by diogo jota and then sadio mane just they drew though.
would it change the situation, really, not now stop we to an awful lot of have to win an awful lot of football games, if there was can draw, it was today.
et’s keep going.
olympic tennis champion relinda bencic won the charleston open title in south carolina after beating ons jabeur claimed her maiden clay-court crown by beating tunisian fourth-seed jabeur 6-1 bencic will move up eight places to number 13 in the rankings.
and the rest of the team that’s your sports news taa the queen has spoken for the first time publicly her majesty was talking on a zoom video call to hospital staff and patients when she revealed that - she did struggle.
louisa pilbeam reports: it does leave one very tired and exhausted, doesn’t it, this ible pandemic.
it’s the -l first time we’ve heard the queen speak about her bout of as she sympathised with a atient who ended up on a tilator due to the us.
ventilator due to the virus.
tter now.
i’m getting there, ’m recovering, i’m much ter.
recently left the wheelchair someone walking now.
i’m glad are about now.
i’m glad you are i 1 i when the queen isclated here getting better.
it was february when the queen isclated here at dsor castle after testing positive for covid.
the palace the 95-year-old’s ymptoms mild and cold like and ontinued light duties from he like official she continued light duties from a 4 she continued light duties from =l the like official paperwork and video calls.
-- from the tle it is weeks passed she castle.
it is weeks passed she pulled out of the commonwealth -1 at westminster abbey.
service at westminster abbey.
& ast month though she met the canadian prime minister in on and welcome to teapot ottery exhibition to the castle.
in recent times the s0 een has been walking with the of a stick is seen here at rince philip’s rial prince philip’s memorial vice at westminster abbey weeks ago.
service at westminster abbey service at westminster abbey two weeks ago.
and despite aking of exhaustion ovid caused r, perhaps the biggest covid caused her, perhaps the gest clue to her majesty ‘s i health now the expression at the end of the latest video call.
thank you very indeed, all of you.
johnny depp’s multi-million dollar defamation lawsuit against his ex-wife amber heard is due to start at a court in virginia later.
the foermer hollywood power couple are both expected to give evidence in person depp is suing his former partner for libel over an article she co-wrote in the washington post in 2018, in which she discussed her experiences of domestic abuse.
high-profile figures including james franco, paul bettany and elon musk are scheduled to give testimony during the trial.
which honour people who work both on and off stage.
cabaret at the kit kat club starring eddie redmayne was the big winner on the night - as claudia redmond reports.
the curtain was raised at the glitzy olivier awards on sunday at the royal albert hall in london.
cabaret act the kit kat club was the biggest winner of the night, taking seven prizes including acting trophies for eddie redmayne and irish actress jesse i y2 this was the part played when was a kid at school, the thing that got my passion for theatre really fuelled, and getting to do it every night with that extraordinary group of people was dumb founding.
it’s such a huge, huge privilege to be part of this community, which consider my family.
thank you for welcoming me in all those years ago, and this is just so lovely!
how about we hear another one?
soemething that cooks!
lal best new musical went to back to the future, travelling capers of michael fox as marty mcfly.
and in the dance world, young up-and-coming choreographer arielle smith stepped up to receive the outstanding achievement in dance category for her work on jolly folly with the english national ballet.
the winners of the olivier awards overseen by the society of london theatre are chosen by a team of industry figures, stage luminaries and theatre loving members of the public.
it is hoped that following so many setbhacks with covid restrictions over the past years, that the shows can finally go on.
claudia redmond, news.
bringing you some breaking news.
bringing you some breaking l5 bringing you some breaking news.
20’s biggest shareholder musk as decided to elon musk has decided not to join the social media company’s d.
last join the social media company’s join the social media company’s board.
last week he indicated taken a 9.
2% stake in i he had taken a 9.
2% stake in twitter giving him four times shares founder jack as many shares as founder jack dorsey well in a tweet from the executive, he dorsey well in a tweet from the - chief executive, he did not give a give a reason he had yol give a reason he had decided not to join the board aid it would continue to but said it would coentinue to open to is input and of course he tweet a heck of a lot does elon musk so he may well about that a little llater today rogresses.
next all top business stories do 3t a1 the top business stories coming news including a look at outcome of on news including a look at the outcome of the preliminary ote in france.
will be going to paris on an expert view of what ight happen next so do with us, see you in a oment.
hello, there.
there was a lot of sunshine around first thing on sunday, but it was cold and frosty, and it was quite widespread across the country.
we woke up to first thing on sunday morning - that’s throwing cloud right across the country and that is acting like a blanket, those temperatures from falling too far.
it will be a frost-free start to monday morning with temperatures more likely and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain through wales, northern ireland, north west england as well through the day.
quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction, but sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming from the south, that means it will be a little bit warmer - 17 degrees the expected high.
thundery downpours are likely into the south-west through monday night into tuesday and we can trail that weather front in fact, the airis coming up from the sahara.
its way steadily north, here, you will stay in the cooler air for the next few days.
so, that means first thing on tuesday morning, we’re likely to see temperatures four degrees in lerwick but ten or 11 degrees across central and southern parts of england and wales.
some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours pushing their way steadily north and because the air is coming from the sahara, it could have sprinkling of saharan dust that might just lrsil 1 igetha a little bit orange at times.
in terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
where the cloud and the rain lingers, we’re only looking at around a maximum of 6-8 celsius.
but the rain will ease away, the isobars open up through the middle part of the week, that wednesday will be the warmest day of the week 0 not out of the question.
as we head towards the easter weekend.
whatever you’re doing, take care and enjoy.
this is news with the latest business headlines for viewers in the the world bank warns ukraine’s economy will shrink by almost half this year and much a0 will be impacted.
emmanuel macron and far-right rival marine pen will fight the cost of living is high on voters’ agenda.
we get an expert view.
and not quite ready the ’s aviation sector struggles to cope with surging demand over easter.
we bring you the latest.
by 45% this year as a result of the war with russia_ the bank says enormous financial support is needed and to support a population enduring the hardship of war.
it’s also forecasting there will be greater economic damage than was caused by the covid-19 pandemic unprecedented sanctions leading in russia, too.
joining me now from warsaw anna bjerde, the world bank’s anna, good to talk to you.
no surprise at all to hear that utlook or ukraine is dire conomically the outlook for ukraine is dire it va0 the outlook for ukraine is dire economically but the guestion do we is how do we help ukraine.
the bank is pledging even more money?
great to be with sally, and thank you so you, sally, and thank you so much for having us.
yes, eed, have been working hard to indeed, we have been working hard to to get a picture of 1 0k the forecast and we came out with the forecast and we came out tes the forecast and we came out estimating a 45% drop in for ukraine and as you a ntioned also a 4% contraction oss the region because of the war, across the region because of the war, and what across the region because of 11 the war, and what we can do to help ukraine is first and emost, help ukraine during he war and that the war and that is because the government is working hard to government services going and what we have learned in gile conflict affected fragile and conflict affected situations is that it ery achis situations is that it is very important to also be active and ent during a conflict so present during a conflict so our focus has been sure that overnment can continue to ovide key, essential % ela i provide key, essential services, particular pensions, sfers to vulnerable people, ducation and health, and its ervices through the ivil servants own services through the civil 1 ants that are working both at the national level and local level.
basically, we are king about the basics, ren’t we?
enabling ukraine to its doctors, its teachers, civil servants, all those viding essential services, you \ va1 providing essential services, as you say.
but of course, as you say.
but of course, we to think long-term as well, don’t , and , in have to think long-term as well, don’t we, and i, in terms of the farmers in ukraine are ble to actually plant for new harvest, the grain, eat 1 hat provides essentially a0 wheat that provides essentially a lot of the world is not ving ukraine because of the onflict.
leaving ukraine because of the ict.
the outlook leaving ukraine because of the a8 &g leaving ukraine because of the maas conflict.
the outlook from that perspective conflict.
the outlook from that l8 2 conflict.
the outlook from that perspective is very bad, isn’t es, you are absolutely 8 ight, and one of the key asons right, and one of the key i sons for this right, and one of the key 4 reasons for this dark outlook kraine is not because reasons for this dark outlook for ukraine is not because one 1e for ukraine is not because one has to remember that 50% of orts in ukraine go through american exports in ukraine go through can exports and is primarily the black sea 90% grains from ukraine go rough the black sea and this 3 a very significant part of kraine economy.
also we have remember the ukraine economy.
also we have to remember that where the fighting have to remember that where the ighting has been taking place here 50% of of ukraine is anchored.
so these eally the issue is, the i3 ir0 are really the issue is, the logistics, the trade, but also act that there has been the fact that there has been huge internal huge internal displacement.
know, massive amounts of efugees flowing out ukraine, so domestic vlrg0 ukraine, so domestic demand has much collapsed, private n3t investment has pretty much collapsed, private - i stment has been cut in half and he areas, as mentioned, re the fighting has been aking place is where a big of the economy is nerated.
also, it must be oted, you mentioned enormous aed of eastern rope will be parts of eastern europe will be impacted significantly by this as well parts of asia.
but war, as well parts of asia.
but about africa war, as well parts of asia.
but - what about africa and the drought they are experiencing e?
reports coming through there?
reports coming through today that hundreds of usands of children are acing starvation in parts of ica, and this problem with at, a1l wheat, with grains not oming - out of ukraine and also blockages of it coming out of are a big russia are a big issue.
absolutely.
between ukraine and 101 absolutely.
between ukraine and russia, you have about 25% of twa production in the the wheat production in the the wheat production in the world and the world bank has quoted before, saying that kraine on its own feeds abhout million people around the world, so 400 million people around the 1 , so the fact that there world, so the fact that there are such supply chain ruptions are such supply chain i are such supply chain disruptions coming out of these ignificant exporters is using a problem.
excuse me.
tae the current imports in any ountries and many 0l many countries and many countries around many countries and many ntries around the world, in fact, are lying on and fact, are relying on ukraine and russia for, like, 100% and russia for, like, 100% of mports, so this a the imports, so this is a problem.
very briefly, because your voice is can tell your voice is challenged a little, have a 4 of water, you saying drink of water, you are saying a1 drink of water, you are saying russia’s economic football four % a x11.
2% and a lot of it to with sanctions laced a russia currently?
absolutely, what we’re seeing as this is 4 caeiod what we’re seeing as this is the largest co-ordinated nomic the largest co-ordinated a1 1 the largest co-ordinated economic sanctions pretty in times so our outlook for modern times so our outlook for russia is right now but it will gine act by russia is right now but it will o1 1018 russia is right now but it will contract by about 11.
2% this of course again being ven by a huge drop in emand, demestically but also certainty forward.
uncertainty going forward.
ussia has businesses that have ed, we don’t know what will closed, we don’t know what will come a1 in terms of sanctions russia also is ading with lot of countries in and russia also is trading with a lot of countries in the region and with those countries hugely affected as well, emand goes down in those untries as well.
anna bjerde, ank you so much, world bank’s president for europe ntral asia.
thank you having elon musk has decided not to join the board of twitter.
the world’s richest man was due to be appointment to the position after he purchase of 9.
2% of the social media company for $3.
7 billion.
parag agrawal said that elon, the company’s biggest shareholder, had decided not to join the board interests of the company.
at an upcoming meeting.
we will keep an eye on what he tweets now, to france where, as you’ve been hearing, emmanuel macron has won and far-right rival marine pen will fight him pen has won support by focusing on the rising cost which is impacting voters across the political spectrum.
meanwhile, the pandemic has left macron’s government with little cash on hand after it spent heavily to support businesses through the crisis.
we’ll be live to paris in a moment for an expert view on what’s at stake but first, this report from theo leggett.
the restaurant occupies one of he most famous mediaeval ildings in strasbourg.
nside, hefs are getting ready the lunchtime inside, chefs are getting ready dle - for the lunchtime rush.
this place has always been very ular i 4 tourists who bring in popular with tourists who bring a0t 4 popular with tourists who bring in much-needed income.
but at eight of he covid the height of the covid pandemic, it had to close and it reopened, tourist when it reopened, tourist traffic had disappeared.
the : 14 aurant was open traffic had disappeared.
the traffic had disappeared.
the restaurant was open but we issed our tourists, our 3 still missed our tourists, our rs, it takes a lot of visitors, it takes a lot of groups as well.
mainly from , 4 for example.
so you can asia, for example.
so you can imagine that those groups were not here for the last 2.
5 just not here for the last 2.
5 years.
it survived through a when many other time when many other time when many other restaurants went out of iness restaurants went out of business and tourists are now returning.
that isn’t just good for restaurants.
smiles news for restaurants.
smiles are returning as well over at the strasberg national the strasberg national theatre, ets for tonight’s tickets for tonight’s performance have been selling .
audiences initially seen i8t from and to come back but now, is changing.
the covid i that is changing.
the covid a1 is came as a that is changing.
the covid that is changing.
the covid crisis came as a huge shock for ce’s batlketle crisis came as a huge shock for france’s cultural sector.
this tre, for example, was empty = and the seats were unoccupied a and the seats were unoccupied for more than a year but now, are getting back to things are getting back to normal and crowds are returning does not mean ere are but it does not mean there are still severe challenges ad.
: there are rtainly challenges, mainly to re o010l uild in a lasting how to rebuild in a lasting " ay.
we learned during the isis that the public makes a oice to come crisis that the public makes a i choice to come to us but over he past couple of years, they learned to enjoy other hings we have to work extra to make sure they maintain eir interest in what we do.
restaurants, theatres and i 1 ums were heavily supported - by state funding during the is.
their reopening has crisis.
their reopening has been a major factor in the ntry’s economic covery.
country’s economic recovery.
04 to 0 country’s economic recovery.
but to ensure the country’s economic recovery.
i8 but to ensure the recovery last, france has also committed assive investment programme.
it will focus on such as clean energy and areas such as clean energy and een public transport rojects.
the sectors most cted by the pandemic crisis were industry, construction, elat culture.
so, it was the tourism culture.
so, it was the main focus in the short run.
ith this ong run, public but with this long run, public investment, but with this long run, public 0 stment, other activities investment, other activities i benefit.
covid recovery a3 will benefit.
covid recovery has already cost france dearly.
finances has already cost france dearly.
has already cost france dearly.
public finances under strain.
run-up the election, in the run-up to the election, all candidates set up their pes for future spending.
w, those that remain have to vince the public now, those that remain have to f1 now, those that remain have to convince the public that the cacies on offer convince the public that the i a1 delicacies on offer will not come with an unaffoerdable ill.
theo leggett, news.
joining me now is tomasz michalski, associate professor of economics and decision sciences at business good morning to you.
good morning.
let’s talk about the ome of this outcome of this first round.
it looks like, of course, emmanuel on is right up against macron is right up against 1 marine pen and it is not alxld marine pen and it is not clear what the outcome will be.
are your thoughts?
indeed, we have a rematch from 2017 but time, marine pen is much ore likely to win.
this time, marine pen is much more likely to win.
for urll reasons.
first of all, many reasons.
first of all, macron many reasons.
first of all, b3 ron is no longer a maverick candidate.
macron is no longer a maverick i candidate.
he has to macron is no longer a maverick new candidate.
he has to defend his legacy.
second of all, ine pen skilfully concentrated over the last w11 of months on the biggest couple of months on the biggest issue of this election, the of living, the rising costs costs of living, and acron was ttle bit aloof, staying way from the fray and also eoccupied with the current ternational situation with war in ukraine.
she has much softened her image nd, as you , she has gained and, as you say, she has gained huge momentum in the last few s, so if the outcome is marine pen, if she were in, what does it mean for -1 win, what does it mean for france and the econemy?
the thing to a first thing to watch would be dee i what would be the outcome of he parliamentary elections ause that because that would mean weather, it’s not clear whether pen’s would, marine pen’s party would, in fact, when the majority.
so, we 0!
have a cohabitation could have a cohabitation government which would iously affect the policies 010l seriously affect the policies seriously affect the policies she could instill but erally, she would not have a of reforms, continuing cron’s stance, that she would obably to increase the =s urchasing power of people by c- lowering the taxes, re- nationalising motorways and public spending.
it’s " boost public spending.
it’s not, frankly, obvious how she pay for that, though.
and would pay for that, though.
and what has emanuel macron got to do between now and the next vote?
first of all, he has to aign very hard, there is a debate in between, last ction cycle in 2017, the ebate as pretty decisive, the was crushed, we will see his works this time.
she has 1 ome very good arguments inst macron about hollowing he role of the state, taking him over the healthcare the role of the state, taking him over the healthcare system, ats cing services and him over the healthcare system, 1 outsourcing services and also cost of living, the cost of ergy, cost of food.
that is oing to appeal to really, the classes.
this is a class war 1 lower classes.
this is a class %1 lower classes.
this is a class war basically that we will see.
geln on the war basically that we will see.
war basically that we will see.
macron on the other hand has to ide his credentials as a reformer, trying to provide his credentials as a r\ reformer, trying to convince people that he is not arrogant lso, stress that an lection and also, stress that an 2 ion of marine pen will major consequences for urope, have major consequences for 1 e, the war in ukraine and europe, the war in ukraine and he future of nato, also of ade deals d, really, the trade deals and, really, the ttetle trade deals and, really, the whole future of france for come.
we will have to 4 leave it there but it’s absolutely fascinating how this folding.
tomasz michalski, ank you.
thank you very much.
disruption at major airports is continuing ahead of another busy weekend for travel.
thousands of people heading abroad for the easter holidays have faced long queues, delays and cancellations.
airports say they are i1 new staff quick enough to cope with demand and airlines have also been hit by covid-related staff absences.
joining me now is aviation consultant john strickland.
bring this up to speed.
how has been in the last few days?
have seen some improvement the weekend.
while there have been hundreds over the weekend.
while there over the weekend.
while there have been hundreds of flights elled, most preamp ably by cancelled, most preamp ably by las cancelled, most preamp ably by british airways and easyjet, i british airways and easyjet, the running of most airports een more smooth, lines has been far more smooth, lines have been shorter.
we should is not 18 imply problem, @il this is not simply problem, other airports, scandinavia, 1 reporting the same also reporting the same challenges.
the recruitment was ble to completed what as required to be in was required to be done in of checking our people security clearance prior to ary could be done more january could be done more i i nihe january could be done more lesson 24 hours by uploading ments.
that taking weeks documents.
that is taking weeks government is so the government is contributing to the challenge.
ines are wrestling with airlines are wrestling with high levels of sick must and with staff where they covid with staff and where they planned buffers usually with sickness, they haven’t normal sickness, they haven’t been able to keep up with that.
is not oing to be able to go through sadly the next ple of weeks.
given bringing up us up to speed in more detall travelling, do take a look.
so much more to travelling, do take a look.
so at: travelling, do take a look.
so much more to come on travelling, do take a look.
so i travelling, do take a look.
so much more to come on news.
_ chemicals giant ineos says it wants to have a go at fracking, but is drilling for more fossil fuels the best way to bring down energy prices?
this is world news.
as ukraine prepares for a massive russian attack in the east, president zelensky tells he’s emmanuel macron appears to have triumphed in the first ballot of the french presidential election, round.
for the lockdown in shanghai.
some 25 million residents have been under quarantine measures and in the last few hours we’ve had some economic data ocut of china that gives us an indication of if any of this impacting the economy.
joining me now from our asian business hub is the ’s joao silva.
this data seems to reflect the mounting challenges that the d’s second-largest economy 3 is facing.
factory gate prices risen more than expected in march which is oil ices were going up raine kraine and also prices were going up in ukraine prices were going up in ukraine and also factories in china struggling operate were struggling to operate under strict covid lockdowns.
umer consumer price inflation has risen more than expected, a int side -- 1.
5 cent jump 1-point side -- 1.
5 cent jump may not seem like much but you to take into account may not seem like much but you nne tla need to take into account here he dampening effect of those owns on the dampening effect of those the dampening effect of those lot downs on demand across the try.
a reminder here that country.
a reminder here that he lockdown in shanghai has extended, 26 million been extended, 26 million people remain stuck at home and is one of china’s gest what is one of china’s biggest and most prosperous cities and are signs of trouble there are signs of trouble elsewhere.
in guangzhou, 18 ien people are about to be million people are about to be tested because a handful of cases tested because a handful of i n0 chinese government is cases were found there but the chinese government is actively to cushion the blow from hese policies on the economy.
it’s already announced an riee ase in fiscal spending lso tax cuts increase in fiscal spending and rie also tax cuts for smaller enterprises but as long as this emic wave keeps spreading, the outlook pandemic wave keeps spreading, atl it ok for the the outlook for the chinese conomy will remain highly wants to build a fracking test site to show the process can be performed safely.
the company claimed extracting shale gas in the could make with its boss sir jim ratcliffe saying such a move would "reduce the cost of energy” and ensure "long-term energy independence”.
joining me now is marc ostwald a1 and global strategist at a good to talk to you.
this is hot on & hot on the heels of the ’s energy strategy coming out last 4 .
what do you reckon, will week.
what do you reckon, will ineos he given the green light?
i i think it’s more than likely that they probably will but in of actually solving the current energy price problem that we have, both for nsumers and businesses, this very long distance ospect.
a very long distance i 4 a very long distance prospect.
it will take five 18 probably to develop and other 5-10 years to basically ver so doesn’t ally deliver so it doesn’t really ress the immediate energy problems at address the immediate energy roblems at all.
wide when it to the idea fracking, comes to the idea of fracking, to i gas from shale, this to extract gas from shale, this 3 something that was discussed detail and something that was discussed something that was discussed in much detail and then shelved government where is by the government where is of course in the , we see a iving industry there are now he situation thriving industry there are now i i ituation with russia, the situation with russia, 0 nergy prices soaring, it is on the agenda, isn’t it?
3 it’s definitely back on the and in many senses, also art of people needing to derstand whole process of also requires a transition and t3 transition and we won’t be able ourselves ay from to get ourselves away from hydrocarbon energy, which ides us with about 84% provides us with about 84% globally of our power ources.
for at least 2- hree decades.
in the time, this would be a good rnative and may help to make the definitely tle i make the definitely a little bit more self-sufficient.
but oncerns about impact the concerns about the impact fracking could have, at the when it was discussed, uge opposition to say not only environmentally randomly, naie it could also cause earth mors and but it could also cause earth 1 but it could also cause earth tremors and that concern is very real today, isn’t it?
that still very real today, isn’t 1gs still very real today, isn’t it?
that concern will continue, is no doubt about it.
hence = & hence ineos hence ineos wants to vide a test site invite provide a test site and invite 1 the public or rather the government into actually watch hole process of trying to velop this.
part of the whole process of trying to a 1 develop this.
part of the problem here is also have very treme views some of very extreme views and some of i , not all of it, is very much of nimbyism, among other ings.
we want to get your on the things.
we want to get your i the week ahead, there take on the week ahead, there 3 going to be a take on the week ahead, there & is going to be a lot going on, we’ve heard from china already.
ce, do you think france, how do you think markets will die just the news this first round of the presidential election?
in the irst instance, it’s the presidential election?
in the w4 first instance, it’s the fact that yes, he did better than people feared bit on the most people feared bit on the other hand, most people feared bit on the i most people feared bit on the other hand, the second round give reason for concern poles give reason for concern but ultimately rkets remain very focused on what central will be doing.
and how aggressive are they going to hat is what as be.
that is what has a be.
that is what has a long-term impact.
markets have largely very complacent about just how far been largely very complacent been largely very complacent about just how far and are been largely very complacent y, about just how far and are now atching up with the reality of how aggressive some central banks just how aggressive some tral banks are going to be.
rk, good to talk to you.
let’s see how the asian markets are faring today hong kong is down, nearly 2.
5%, as is the price of oil.
japan so down as as is the price of oll.
japan i .
also down as well.
basically we’ve got the mood, real tion in we’ve got the mood, real v82 we’ve got the mood, real caution in equity markets with pact with central-bank meetings, inflation data, out in meetings, inflation data, naareg ¢ meetings, inflation data, nah € lots out in the as well.
it’s a busy one, you need to tuned.
that is all from me a hello, there.
there was a lot of sunshine around first thing on sunday, but it was cold and frosty, and it was quite widespread across the country.
we woke up to first thing on sunday morning - that’s throwing cloud right across the country and that is acting like a blanket, those temperatures from falling too far.
it will be a frost-free start to monday morning with temperatures more likely and quite a cloudy, grey story first thing in the morning.
and that’s going to throw up some showery outbreaks of rain through wales, northern ireland, north west england as well through the day.
quite blustery winds as well, either coming from a southerly or south-easterly direction, but sheltered eastern areas will see some sunshine and with the wind direction now coming from the south, that means it will be a little bit warmer - 17 degrees the expected high.
thundery downpours are likely into the south-west through monday night into tuesday and we can trail that weather front in fact, the airis coming up from the sahara.
its way steadily north, here, you will stay in the cooler air for the next few days.
so, that means first thing on tuesday morning, we’re likely to see temperatures four degrees in lerwick but ten or 11 degrees across central and southern parts of england and wales.
some of it quite heavy, some thundery downpours pushing their way steadily north and because the air is coming from the sahara, it could have sprinkling of saharan dust that might just lrsil 1 igetha a little bit orange at times.
in terms of the feel of things, 17 or 18 degrees down into the south-east.
where the cloud and the rain lingers, we’re only looking at around a maximum of 6-8 celsius.
but the rain will ease away, the isobars open up through the middle part of the week, that wednesday will be the warmest day of the week 0 not out of the question.
the final days of the dinosaurs’ reign on planet earth have long remained a mystery.
how the last dinosaurs lived and died.
are we about to discover !
on the day the asteroid hit?
i’ve lost count of how many times i’ve been arrested.
i’ve been through hell and back.
just because you get knocked down doesn’'t mean you’ve got to stay down.
giving up is not an option.
give me 100% and i’ll give you 100%.
no hot tubs.
it’s so cold!
no safety nets.
ooch!
aah!
this is ridiculous.
no idea what they’ve signed up for.
madame ching, pirate queen?
that’s impossible.
it’s coming straight for us.
he wasn’t supposed to fall for someone else.
you no longer have a say over what do.
is there somewhere you need to be?
good morning, welcome to breakfast with sally nugent and jon kay.
our headlines today.
emmanuel macron will face the far-right challenger marine pen in a run-off for the french presidency, a rerun of the vote of five years ago.
ukraine’s president zelensky warns of big battles to come against russian forces in the east of the country.
after questions about his wife’s tax affairs, chancellor rishi sunak asks for an official review of his financial declarations.
good morning.
another week, another warning of an good morning.
another week, another a 3 good morning.
another week, another warning of an increased cost of a le, this time dairy farmers say we are willing to pay more unless we are willing to pay more for our milk, we can expect rtages on the shelves.
rory mcllroy’s late charge falls short as world number one take his first major.
her majesty describes how she was left feeling by her recent bout of the virus.
it does leave one very tired and exhausted, doesn’t it, this horrible pandemic.
good morning.
a much milder start to he day-to-day can head to l1 the day-to-day can head to yesterday.
a fair bit of cloud nd, some yesterday.
a fair bit of cloud a l1 yesterday.
a fair bit of cloud around, some patchy rain but it will id for the around, some patchy rain but it will for the time of year this be mailed for the time of year this week -- - mild for the time of year.
it’s monday the 11th of april.
our main story.
emmanuel macron will face the far right leader marine pen in a tight stand-off to lead the country in the french presidential election.
yesterday’s first round saw macron secure the most votes but pen’s share has grown.
points behind on 24, jean-luc melenchon was a further three percentage points behind her.
our europe correspondent jessica parker has more from paris.
"i’m counting on you,” says emmanuel macron.
he may have topped the first round, and they are happy, but a note : don’'t make a mistake, this isn’t over.
the debate we are going to have over the next 15 days is decisive for our country and for europe.
his opponent enjoyed a recent rise in the polls.
far right candidates marine pen.
her policies include a ban on the muslim headscarf in public places, but she’s tried to soften her image and show she’s ready for high office.
: what will happen of the 24th of april is not critics call pen’s policy programme racist.
her supporters say it’s macron whose time is up.
macron has been accused of being barely visible at points in this campaign.
too focused on international issues to notice peoples struggles at home.
do you think emmanuel macron has been too complacent so far?
think he was at work, trying to protect his people, 'r crisis that we need to work, we need to show what is our project, we need to be in the campaign, we need to explain.
there is huge relief here tonight for supporters of emmanuel macron but acknowledgement too they are cheering now whilst marine pen’'s campaign has given them a scare.
hot off the press, left-leaning paper liberation.
these were the final two a - but five years on, the political picture is different and things can move fast.
there’s two weeks to go.
jessica parker, news in paris.
our correspondent anna holligan is in paris.
good morning, anna.
these two politicians faced each other five ago and of course macron years ago and of course macron won it, is it going to be a x4 contest this time?
this might look like closer contest this time?
this might ook like a victory but of course real challenge is yet to come it looks as though both