do you believe in ghosts?
yes - the hunt for britain’ next jewellery star is on.
feeling the energy!
are you?
drama.
representation of trans people.
where it was there, it was as objects of ridicule.
and so, growing up in that environment, knowing that had a dissonance with certain aspects of gender that were being imposed on me, but not having any reference point.
and so it took a long time and a couple of evolutions interesting you say a couple of evolutions.
because think i’ right in saying that for a time you came out as gay.
yes.
as a gay male.
and then you still felt at odds with this identity and you, in the end, after university, after, think, qualifying as a lawyer, you came out as a transgender you felt you were a female.
because we’re talking health issues, the context in which this happens.
how difficult was that for you to do?
mean, extremely difficult.
again, as point to in the book, i think this is a systemic issue for all trans people.
i’ probably at the more privileged end of the spectrum of trans people.
i’ middle class, you know?
university educated.
had a lot of issues in my late teens and early 20 that think were tied directly to a feeling of being lost.
wouldn’ say that’ entirely due to gender, but certainly it’ a major factor when you feel existentially on some levels different to people around you.
and what i’ keen to point to in the book is that this so, for example, 64% of trans young people in school now in britain say they are bullied for being , and over half of those never tell anyone about the bullying.
that was my experience, too.
was bullied for being gender-nonconforming, for being quite feminine - as you say.
at that time, the only reference point if you were presenting or you were raised of construed as feminine, then people would assume that you were gay.
and so, yeah, unfortunately, i’ve been at school, all the evidence shows actually trans young people are coming out earlier and earlier, and that means they’re encountering hostility inn some cases earlier.
and there’ quite a lot of data now on this.
mean, self-harm is a problem for people who are in this situation.
and suicide is also more common amongst trans young people than amongst the rest of the population.
did you ever get into that dark place yourself?
well, did as a public-facing trans person that you have to make yourself a spectacle of trauma or of difficulty.
and i’ not necessarily here to be a professional victim myself.
i certainly struggled with my mental health.
that’ something i’ve spoken about very publicly.
i think it’ important as a public-facing trans woman to not sanitise my experience everywhere, because i’ve reached a point in my 30.
often, my own personal experience as do the case studies in my book, which would probably be point towards a society that unfortunately creates a hostile environment in which mental health problems for trans people are sort of reinforced.
and think it’ really important to stress, of mental health problems amongst trans people, it can almost potentially lead to a narrative where trans people themselves are sort of painted as inherently unstable or pathologized as mentally ill, as they have been for a lot of the 20th century.
that trans people find it harder to get jobs, they find it harder to deal with the housing system - all sorts of different ways in which life appears, for a lot of trans people, to be very tough.
well, one in four trans people in the will experience homelessness.
that’ staggeringly high.
and the reasons for that start unfortunately often in your family home, fear of family or community rejection.
and of course, with that comes attendant mental health issues.
and it’ clear in the book that you feel this should be absolutely top of the agenda when it comes to the discussion of what it means to be transgender in the , but if we are honest, it is not top of the discussion at all.
no, it is not.
what we find in the right now, and you referred to the fact that it even i a about the future of and who will be the next prime minister, what we find the debate centres on a few issues which are concerned with rights and how transgender people fit in a society when it comes, for example, to treatment in the prison service, treatment within organised sport.
those are the issues which consistently get the prominence.
yes, they do, because mean, the title of the book, the transgender issue, is a trojan horse because what the essential argument of the book and use that title is that often when people they’re not really talking about the challenges facing trans people.
they are talking about anxieties in society at large amongst non-trans cisgender people.
but that’ entirely understandable, is it not?
in 100 people is trans.
therefore 99% of the population is not trans.
and it is inevitable that those 99% will want to work out how trans people fit and how they, as non-trans people, relate to trans people.
but think, at the same time, where there becomes a problem with that is that trans people are constantly reframed as a new thing, as a new group that sort of turned up knocking on the door, asking to be let in.
sometimes literally, if you’re talking about public space.
and actually, what would say is, trans people are already here.
and the reality is that we’re not a theaoretical or conceptual problem.
and think that’ a huge problem with some of the ways in which the issues that are amplified in the media is that we get into this theoretical debate about whether i’ a woman or the nature of sex and gender.
and they’re a bit of a smokescreen.
but it’ not theoretical to many women.
and guess this is where one of the deepest fault lines lies in the debate about transgender rights, because there a who say they are deeply unhappy with the notion that trans women should be given access to all of the spaces, including the safe spaces that women say they need to feel secure in society.
=18 it’ a women’ issue.
yes.
no, do understand that.
actually have a lot of sympathy for the anxieties that are in play in this discussion, in terms and male violence against women tends to be perpetrated by men known to women - usually an intimate partner or family member.
or the lack of space and women’ safe spaces and refuge services, which have been cut by successive tory governments so that one in two women are refused a refuge space in the .
neither of those issues are about trans women.
those are about successive conservative governments and about a broader problem with male viclence.
and think it’ worth saying that 16% of trans women in the in the past year will have experienced domestic abuse at the hands of a partner or ex-partner.
are often struggling with gender-based violence in similar ways to the ways that cisgender women are.
to resist austerity and cuts and a devaluation of that’ where you want to put the debate.
but it’ not necessarily where, you know, some proeminent women, including long-time feminists, to be right now.
now, not so long ago on this show, we had she says she was hounded out of her academic post by the trans activist community and supporters of that community.
she says, and i’ going to quote you now, that actually she’ just trying to ensure that women’ rights are not undermined.
she says, "genuine female-only services and spaces aren’ slur on trans women.
protect women and girls.
” do you understand where she and many other self-styled feminists are coming from?
understand where they’re coming from.
because, mean, i’ve read a & mean, she describes trans people’ lives as an immersive fiction.
stephen, even if said to you, "your life is an immersive fiction™ - it’ exactly what said before, isn’ it?
it’ abstraction and a theoretical discussion about real people that exist.
of gender-based violence - of misogynist violence, frankly, when it’ domestic and sexual viclence at the hands of cis male ex-partners, which is exactly the same patterns as women who are seeking safe spaces.
what am interested in is not these arguments that look at exclusion of entire groups, but if we cannot accommodate all women currently - which we can’, not even all non-trans women - there is something wrong politically with how we’re investing in women’ services.
understand what you’re saying.
just wonder whether you feel, right now, despite the success of your book, whether you’re losing the argument?
because in certain different spheres it seems the movement for example, the equality and human rights commission has declared that trans women can be excluded from some contexts, from some female-only changing rooms and bathroom facilities.
in sports, for example, we’ve got some key sports like swimming and rugby, which have now, at an official level, said, "no, trans women can’ compete.
” so do you feel you’re losing the argument?
mean, that’ an interesting question.
think there is a question here about interpretation of the equality act - is what you were discussing there.
but think, to be honest, all women are losing currently because we have existed under successive conservative governments which are not prioritising any women at all.
and if you look globally, there is an attack on trans people’ bodily autenomy and, as we see in the , there is an attack on women’’ bodily autonomy by the right.
all women have a big storm coming.
context and the fact that it’ important for us to be fighting for safety from violence i 4, perhaps the most significant battleground of all right now, too - is over health care and young people and how one often called body dysphoria.
who feel that they are inhabiting a body that doesn’ identity.
and we’re talking about kids - very young kids in some cases.
what do you think the right thing to do is in those cases?
well, i think the first thing to say there is that there one right thing to do.
situation in every case.
every child is different.
we have to talk in generalisations for the purposes of this discussion, for the purposes of media.
but every child will have a different relationship with gender, and even children experiencing gender dysphoria, there can be, like, a huge difference in experience.
speak to a family of a young trans girl who, at the time spoke to her, was still in primary school.
she had socially transitioned.
obviously, young children do not medically transition.
and the alleviation of her distress from when she was allowed to go into school understand her to be a girl, even though she was assigned to how she was before, that for me is the convincing argument in her case.
and think it’ about looking at balancing what we have to look at with young people is balancing the severe distress that gender can cause versus all potential options for them.
of course, potential risks.
but what is really going on here?
is extraordinary.
there seems to have been this exponential sort of explosion in the numbers of children who are being taken to clinics and who are being reported as experiencing gender in recent years.
you know, think the figures that were used in the new statesman magazine not so long ago - in 2010, 40 girls under 18 were referred a a8 development service in the .
by 2018, that number had risen from 40 to 1,800.
children are experiencing something fundamentally it’ just standards of diagnosis and the way clinicians are dealing with this is fundamentally changing.
is that what you think?
well, actually think to your earlier question about my experience growing up.
as said to you, when was growing up, the internet was very ropey in those days - but didn’ see any trans people, so therefore did not come out until my 20.
what is happening now, i think, i1 young people are aware of the existence of gender diversity, of trans people, of gender-nonconforming people.
and so a lot of young people are able to give voice to what some people have always felt.
you know, it’ those statistics about the rise in referrals to gender identity development services for young people can be used as a sort but provided the services are good, it’ good yeah, well, the tavistock clinic, which is at the centre of what has been happening, the government has now said it should be closed down.
its gender identity services are going to be closed down and when you talk about experiences, let’ talk about one particular experience.
just wonder whether it gives you pause.
with her own experience.
she was put on puberty blockers at the age of 16.
and a year later, she says she was receiving when she was 20, she had a double mastectomy.
"the further my transition went, the more realised something went very badly wrong there.
people like janice turner and other journalists who call 1 isn’ an isolated example.
too often things are going badly wrong - and that needs to stop, doesn’ it?
mean, keira bell’ surgical interventions all happened in adulthood, and sure, but she was put on the puberty blockers have become a big issue.
yes.
she was put on them at 16.
which is a reversable treatment.
puberty blockers are she made the decision as an adult, and think all adults should have bedily autonomy.
that to me seems analogous should children have a1 010 a4 mean, children do.
we have legal rights i you know, there was the gillick i a a1 children should be able to access contraception, for example.
puberty blockers, which are i of gender for trans young people, were originally prescribed to children a most treatments given to trans young people were actually developed for non-trans young people.
and the other thing wanted to say is that whilst keira bell’ apparent distress with the decisions that she made is very real, feel its use in this context is analogous to what you see in the .
as we’re seeing right now with the anti-abortion lobby of abortion regret.
i mean, the plaintiff in roe versus wade, roe later came that she created case law over.
the reality is that human lives are much more messy when we allow them autonomy.
but what we do not allow one person’ regret of autonomy generally.
these are complex issues - there’ no doubt about that.
one thing is clear is i as you put it in the title of your book, the transgender issue, has created deep divisions within the feminist ‘' do you regard yourself as a feminist?
yes, think most trans women do, because our experiences of the constraints of gender roles, our experiences of, unfortunately, gender-based violence and harassment put us with feminist principles.
very clear you do - how do you build bridges to so many?
you know, sometimes they’re i and i’ve already cited janice turner.
i could cite rowling and others who are adamant that they are feminist to the core, but they feel that you and the community & making arguments that are anti-feminist, that women had fought for, how do you build bridges?
well, mean, one of the sort of realities of feminism, i throughout history, there are divisions over sex work, pornography, - it’ a movement that often is involving women for reasons of great passion.
in bridge building.
do think things have become highly polarised and it’ unhelpful.
because one of the problems think with this discussion that a lot of it has happened on social media, 1 problem there with people when you give people an audience, when it becomes very tribal, people don’ want to back a tool so that people can have some thoughts.
not everyone has to agree with everything say in the book, but hopefully that will build a bridge.
and have actually had messages and emails from women, feminists, who have said i their position.
we might not agree on everything, but it has somewhat shifted their position in the privacy i dala - and that’ the best you very much indeed for joining me on hardtalk.
thank you for having me.
after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week.
could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, but it will be cooler than it has been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits across eastern scotland.
it’ certainly fresher for scotland and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid across much of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really a it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where the rain will sit through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere across england and wales, and they’re likely to be thundery.
for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it looks like any early showers will clear from northern england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - so that could be the day when we see the return of some well-needed rainfall here.
through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up an atlantic influence - westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the highs of recent days.
welcome to newsday, reporting live from singapore, i’ karishma vaswani.
a year on from the taliban taking over afghanistan again - a special report on its women and girls who have been denied education, employment, and their childhoods.
if finish this school, start university, but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from the school.
salman rushdie’ family say he’ on the road to recovery but has life-changing injuries, as more details emerge about the man charged more than 40 worshippers die at a church in egypt, after a fire rips through the building during mass.
and, queen of the mountains - the norwegian climber 0 a very special record.
live from our studio in singapore, this is news - newsday.
it’ 8:00 in the morning in singapore, and 4:30 in the morning in afghanistan, where dawn is breaking on the one year anniversary august 15th, 2021, saw thousands flee the country of what lied ahead, but many more where left behind, their daily lives changed beyond recognition.
no more so than for country’ women and girls, who are now subject to harsh, more conservative rules that our chief international correspondent lyse doucet was in the capital a year ago as the taliban retook the country - she’ returned to kabul for this special report.
i rueh afghanistan is a conservative country, by the ultraconservative taliban.
we met three generations of women whose lives speak loudly about their world.
many are afraid.
a identified.
this woman used to be a senior official in the finance ministry.
last year the taliban told her, stay at home.
a man would take her job.
worked for more than 17 years in the finance ministry.
it was difficult with juglging family and work, but went to university and got my masters degree.
now we are back to zero.
everything is finished.
more than 60 female 20 have banded together.
a i of the exchanges on their messaging group: women haven’ completely disappeared from the streets or ministries, like health, education, security.
only for women.
this market has just reopened in the western city of herat.
this was the first day.
women, a bit nervous.
shops, still empty.
¥ ‘' this is your shop?
today it’ closed.
oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old suhaila is excited.
shop with big sister.
but she should be in her last year of school.
suhaila was the top student in her class.
really, am very sad.
if finished this school, 13 but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from school.
was it hard for you?
no school, no shop.
think it’ not for me, and for all of the girls of afghanistan, it’ @ sad memory did miss school.
1gg’a ¢ in the central highlands.
this is one of afghanistan’ poorest provinces.
and there’ still no aid to their government.
for the destitute and desperate, agonising choices.
this woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
she’ only 6 years old.
: she’ toe young.
so my other children don’ die of hunger.
it’ still very hard but now she can eat mol sane ele child marriage is prohibited, but pervasive in afghanistan.
but not this young.
we’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
: her in-laws told me they will take care of her like their own child because she’ so young.
they told me, don’ worry.
what mother wouldn’ worry?
what child wouldn’ weep?
a new generation takes shape in a new afghanistan.
the taliban say the rights of boys and girls within islam will be respected.
but one year on, there i lyse doucet, news, kabul.
the taliban’ heartland was in southern afghanistan, around the city of kandahar.
our correspondent secunder kermani is there.
he’ reported extensively from across the country before and since the takeover, and he sent us this update about how things have changed.
two things stand out, the way that the taliban stance and how different the experience of living under the taliban has been for different afghans.
for many teenage qirls, they no longer have the freedom to go to school.
anyone wanting to publicly criticise the taliban runs the risk of arrest, a7 and many are deeply despondent here.
but there are others for whom freedom has a very different meaning.
villagers who are already living by deeply conservative values.
for them, freedom means being able to plough their fields without being afraid the crossfire of a gun battle.
and for them, many of them, life under the taliban is preferable to life at war.
what unites afghans is deep concern at the dire state of the economy.
this is a country that was propped up by foreign spending.
a lot of money is still coming in, but nowhere near as much as bhefore the taliban.
the consequences of that.
we have special coverage throughout the day on news nline where you can see and online where you can see more from our correspondence afghanistan.
to another top story for you now, and the son of sir salman rushdie says his father suffered life-changing injuries in a knife attack on friday, but that his feisty and defiant sense of humour remains intact.
the author has been taken off a ventilator, after being stabbed at an event in new york state.
the govenor of new york says they will always stand up for freedom of thought.
our correspondent nomia igbal has the latest.
inside the hospital, i i but a glimmer of hope for his family as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
zafar also praised the audience members at the literary event on friday where his father was stabbed.
he said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
salman rushdie’ agent told us he is on the long road to recovery.
he faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old american suspect hadi matar has already appeared in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of attempted murder and attempted assault.
prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from new jersey to the event here in western new york.
allowing him to attend the talk rushdie was due to give.
for decades, salman rushdie went into hiding the satanic verses, led to iran issuing a fatwa in 1989.
many muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
it is reported that police think hadi matar may have had sympathies for the iranian regime, but an official motive has a earlier, new york’ state governor spoke outside the institution where the stabbing happened.
new york state will always stand up to protect freedom of expression, freedom of speech, and we condemn any individual or any group that dares violate 187 of a place like this.
had faced for decades.
i want to tell you about another story now.
the government in egypt says at least 40 people have died - many of them children - in afire at a church where thousands of worshippers had gathered for sunday worship.
it’ reported an electrical fire broke out at the coptic church in giza, outside cairo.
our correspondent sally nabil sent this report a sunday church service that ended in tragedy.
behind these windows, egyptian christian worshippers died.
the abu sifin church busy neighbourhoed in giza.
the fire killed dozens including many children.
people rushed into the building trying to save as many this woman lost her sister-in-law.
: she had five children, and two boys.
my heart is on fire for all these victims.
the people i’ve spoken to here are clearly very angry.
they want to know exactly how and their loved ones died.
there will be questions too for the church itself and for the emergency services.
by an electrical fault.
and the church when the electricity was turned on again there was an overload.
of the air-cenditioning it was on the third and fourth floors.
many worshippers fainted and could hardly breathe.
a major investigation is now under way.
inspectors from the public 1 already checked the scene.
there was nothing to suggest there are any criminal motives hehind this incident so far.
but the christian community here say they’ve had enough.
many of their churches have been targeted sally nabil, news, cairo.
you’re watching newsday on the .
the voting continues in kenya, six days after the presidential election - an update from nairobi.
washington is assessing the political health of the world’ owerful man.
had a relationship which was not propriate, it was wrong.
97 ple have been killed today, of the worst days of olence between rival groups.
0 have died over violence between rival groups.
500 have died over the last ten days.
czechoslovakia must be !
russia is observing a natienal day mourning for he hundred 18 sub- national day of mourning for national day of mourning for the hundred 18 sub- editors who .
we are with them now, died.
we are with them now, i died.
we are with them now, within our hearts.
the pope elebrated mass before 2.
5 llion people his hometown.
stay with us, charted this an humanity.
the pope ocean of humanity.
the pope said, well, well, you want me - 4 this is newsday on the .
i’ karishma vaswani in singapore.
a year on from the taliban taking over afghanistan again, its women and girls are still being denied education and employment.
the son of author sir salman rushdie says of humour remains intact after he was stabbed.
let’ turn to taiwan now, where a delegation from the congress has arrived.
president tsai ing-wen on monday.
their visit comes 12 days after one by the house speaker nancy pelosi, which led to an angry reaction from the self-governed island’ neighbour china.
here’ more from mark cozad, from the rand corporation.
and actually we heard from him i i and actually we heard from him a little earlier but for now oint by someone in our newsroom am joint by someone in our bis am joint by someone in our newsroom in singapore.
logies for that.
we are 18 grateful to you on the show.
the fact is visits by lawmakers to taiwan are not ecedented, they do happen i8 unprecedented, they do happen from time to unprecedented, they do happen - from time to time.
this particular visit comes at a tense time in the taiwan very tense time in the taiwan i trait, as you mentioned just two weeks after visit under two weeks after the visit by the house speaker nancy .
that sparked an angry pelosi.
that sparked an angry reaction pelosi.
that sparked an angry tadle rigt1at pelosi.
that sparked an angry reaction from beijing and china ing some the largest staging some of the largest military exercises around the nd.
this visit this time island.
this visit this time around is island.
this visit this time 4 und is not as high profile, is being led by a senator chairs he senate’ fast asian subcommittee.
he is accompanied four other lawmakers.
they are expected to with he taiwanese president day as well as embers of he business ommunity.
the discussions are ected to focus not just on i818 expected to focus not just on the security situation, but on conomic cooperation also on economic cooperation particularly in strategic ors such as semiconductor i a8 hip production.
the last time - ad a visit from a prominent official, we saw a very izeable reaction from china.
indication of they any indication of how they it ad eact this time around?
might react this time around?
he only reaction we ave seen cri so far is from the chinese 31 3 so far is from the chinese embassy in washington.
they sed the of trying to accused the of trying to stir up stir up confrontation in the an strait.
the white house taiwan strait.
the white house has responded to that usation, accusation, they said that lawmakers have been visiting an for decades and will 418 taiwan for decades and will continue to do so.
a reminder even though those military xercises have largely abated, tary activity around the military activity around the taiwan strait continues, nese military aircraft entered taiwan’ self defence over the weekend.
entered taiwan’ self defence a cuemens sewn over the weekend.
the situation sewn over the weekend.
the i ation remains highly volatile.
joao silva know be keeping a close eye on 18 you’ll be keeping a close eye on the story today.
they cute eing on the programme.
to kenya now, where it has been six days since its presidential election, and frustrations are growing over the delay in announcing the results.
almost half the votes have been confirmed with vice-president, william ruto taking a slight lead of 51%, just ahead of his rival raila odinga.
the electoral commission has a legal obligation to announce within a week.
but as time runs on, so does tension, as we heard from people in the western city of kisumu.
ndp1 right now we’re very tired because people are not going to .
students in their work.
students are in their house.
and right now, when we go to work we have no money.
we are not happy because one all the number one all the businesses are stuck.
the way we have been ing money in the normal days has really gone out.
so we uffering.
our correspondent richard kagoe is in nairobi and sent us this update.
first of all, in terms of the voter turnout, it was quite very dismal because as at wednesday this week, when we had the preliminary announcement from the electoral commission, they indicated to and we’ve been hearing from them, they indicate the fact that they really do want to take part in the process because they felt that probably the way of elections and possibly to address the problems or issues that do face them because they’ve been through this process before and they haven’ seen any outcome from this.
it’ a very tight race, as would say, because as at yesterday we saw gee raila odinga was leading, you know, with a very narrow margin.
that’ according to the preliminary results.
william ruto is still, you know, leading something very marginal.
we’ve never withessed anything like this before, i you know, presidential race than we have seen in recent history.
let’ take a look at some other stories syrian state media say - 1 attack on targets in the coastal province of tartus.
the syrian observatory for human rights said several missiles hit the vicinity of a village where iranian the saudi state-owned oil giant aramco has announced record profits of more than $48 billion for the second quarter of this year.
the world’ biggest oil producer’ net income has almost doubled year-on-year.
oil prices are up because of russia’ attack on ukraine and increasing demand after the pandemic.
and a tropical storm is heading northeast in the pacific ocean off japan’ tohoku region, after making landfall and causing damage in central japan on saturday.
are expected to remain unstable for much of japan, and warn of more heavy rain, flooding and mudslides.
to europe now, where several countries have been engulfed in a wave of deadly wildfires recently, triggered by record temperatures and drought across the continent.
in france, officials in the south-western gironde region have said a major fire that had been dubbed a ‘monster fire’ has been brought under control.
our correspondent bethany bell is there.
firefighters have brought the big blaze that was burning aiugs but they’ve warned that the fire isn’ entirely extinguished yet and, if you look behind me, back there in the woods, you can see what they mean - there’ wisps of smoke, which is a sign that they’re still burning embers on the ground or sometimes below the ground but could in the wrong but there is very good news for the 10,000 people that were evacuated that they can now go home after days of staying in emergency temporary housing.
want to tell you now about the world’ 14 highest each one has a summit of more than 8,000 metres.
climbing all 14 is a badge of honour for any mountaineer, and doing so in record time is the biggest honour now a norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just that, as the ’ tim allman reports.
kristin carries a heavy burden.
3 he has just finished scaling 11th highest mountain in the well but she can barely for a oment.
these pause for a moment.
these things don’ climb themselves.
liked, a uple of rock i had liked, a couple of rock falls, that was very dangerous.
est ave been logistical the rest have been logistical problems and waiting times.
but bing a mountain has not climbing a mountain has not been so, not so much problems.
took up mountain 10 she only took up mountain climbing seven years ago, but as clearly been a quick she has clearly been a quick study.
she is now on course to lete one of the sport’ most impressive achievements.
eryone nows, mount as everyone knows, mount everest is the world’ tallest at 8849 metres.
there are 13 ther mountains that come in height above 8000 metres.
and kristin has at a height above 8000 metres.
at a height above 8000 metres.
and kristin has climbed 11 of .
i them.
now she only and kristin has climbed 11 of them.
now she only has three to complete the set and he wants more to complete the set and i 482 she wants to do it as quickly as possible.
at the moement, ’ man nepal’ man owns the record.
if i beats his time she hopes it send a message.
think it 3 just, people believe men are strong stop but women are as strong as men are in the mountain and there is no i difference between us.
she has until november to set a new ord after a until november to set a new 11 after a quick trip home norway, he will head to epal and tibet for the final se.
the last nepal and tibet for the final se.
the last super peaks in super sites.
best of luck and before we go, a light-hearted story for you.
china - as many would know - is well-known for its ancient practice of acupuncture as a way to promote the healing process and general well-being.
now increasingly, pet owners are turning of their beloved cats and dogs.
and sizes are being signed up for treatments, care that their owners say is less invasive and comes with fewer side effects than conventional recordings of gentle bamboo flute music and birds chirping are played to help the animals relax.
: she is enjoying it up before she used to refuse to every time a teller we are going to visit the doctor reatment, she is really happy and ready to get into the she will come to light car.
she will come to light teel for 40 car.
she will come to light a steel for 40 minutes or an our.
hope indeed that the there feels a little tter, everybody deserves some being and good health.
hat’ it for us, well being and good health.
i i 1114 well being and good health.
that’ it for us, thank you for hing.
watching.
do state with for the latest global headlines.
after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week.
could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits log irl it’ certainly i ela and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid 33 1 of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really does come to take hold across the .
it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where i3 through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere ete’ for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it i 0 england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - just 23 celsius - down ten degrees on the figures through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up a westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, a1 0 in the way of rainfall.
we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
we will have the headlines for you at the top of the hour, straight after this programme.
hello and welcome to the science museum.
am kevin fong and this is the engineers: the future of cars.
am in the information age gallery, sat in front of an object called the rugby tuning coil and 100 years ago this big wheel of copper wrapped in wood so it is an appropriate place through the magic of our video link, as well as a large audience here in the gallery for a programme that will be broadcast on world service, on radio and television.
the climate catastrophe and the sheer weight of traffic on our reads and the horrific rate of accidents that they cause has forced a revolution in the way we think about cars.
the forefront a0 we have arjo van der ham from the netherlands who is the chief technical officer at a company called lightyear.
he has developed the world’’ first family-sized solar powered car.
jamie shotton, an expert in and in autenomous vehicles.
he is the chief scientist at a company called wayve and he is here to tell us about autonomous driving and, last but not least we have linda zhang from the united states.
she is the chief engineer for the 150 lightning and has managed somehow to electrify one of america’ most iconic brilliant cars.
please join me in welcoming them today.
linda, let’ start with you.
people outside the united states probably will not know series is such an iconic brand and it’ responsible for $42 billion of revenue so that is 17 million units on the road pretty much at any given time since 2020.
and it’ a bit of a gas guzzler, you get, think, eight kilometres a litre out of it and your role in electrifying this vehicle has made you woman of the year according to today and put you on the cover of time magazine.
were you expecting all the fuss?
for myself, personally, definitely not.
because it’ just surreal.
for the vehicle itself we expected a lot of fuss basically being an iconic vehicle that is, in a way, a tipping point for the industry.
in a way, if you think about what this product it’ not just electrifying this vehicle but also changing the way that people may perceive what an can be.
trucks are generally known for being masculine and work so, people use it almost as a tool whereas an , people think of it - those two things don’ always go together perfectly.
many people told me that it is an oxymoron, you can’ have an truck.
so much of it has been trying to convince people that it can be tough and that this technology of electrification with the batteries as well as the motors actually can be more let’ move on now to arjo.
arjo, you work in engineering solar cars and again, no less groundbreaking.
i want to talk about how you got drawn into that as the thing that you wanted to do.
understand there is something - across australia.
tell me about that and how you got into this field.
back in 2012 we were studying at the technical university in eindhoven and we founded this solar car team to participate in the world solar challenge but for the first time in 2013 when we competed for the first time, it was the first time they introduced a new class for vehicles that not just have rie ila to adelaide as fast as they can on how many people you take, how practical the car is and how much external energy you still need from the grid.
so we took a year to design and build stella, the world’ first solar-powered family car and raced it 3,000 kilometres through the desert of australia, and that set us up for the next adventure, for lightyear, so a few years later after we finished our studies and we took the car all over the world and we had 2 to show that it is possible to build a car that drives only but it din’ really happen so at some point we figured if we want to get this to the market, we will have to do it ourselves and that is when we founded lightyear, and in this race that you took part in at the start of all of this, you’re racing across the australian desert in a solar-powered car.
this is not vehicles just creeping along the desert i - & how fast do they go?
3,000 kilometres in about 5.
5 days, average speed of 70 kilometres an hour, top speed around, it depends a bit but between 80 and 90.
that is impressive.
jamie, we heard about - 1es about solar panels.
you are in the field of there is a lot of interest here, a lot of hope.
has this become your thing?
from an incredibly young age.
my interest started to seriously grow that is where you take images from a camera and you and understand what is in that image.
at microsoft in their research labs and started working on products using al, the original kinect for xbox 360, for example, where we had a little camera that would track your motion so you could stand up in front 10la and the algorithms, the systems that we built started to understand what you were doing with your body and then ame could understand netlaidas everyone with a phone in their pocket will have all sorts of algorithms improving the quality of your photos and recognising text, cetera.
linda, let’ come back to the iconic 150 pickup truck.
the vehicle is very much about power, a huge pickup truck with a huge footprint, huge petrol engine, diesel engine underneath that you put asd but it still retains the power.
tell me how that works and how much power you can deliver out of electric motors and that was a problem for you.
the power on this vehicle is actually great.
775 foot-pounds of torque which is the highest out of any 150 and it is 580 horsepower.
it’ also the quickest 150 that we have ever built.
but many people have a hard time even etting to that point because they view it as "it’ electric" and that is partly of those concepts.
your initial power is, actually, really magnificent.
it’ near instant torque of 775, whereas with a traditional gas vehicle you have the engine combustion, you have the gears and the transmission and that torque actually has to grow.
so you have a very different torque curve in a way.
the difficulty with the is maintaining towing, in this case, on a truck, over time.
that longevity, that fatigue is something that we had to work through with the cooling system and really making sure that the cooling was designed adequately to be able to tow and haul and do all the same things that current truck customers can do.
when it is cloudy out there, what sort of range on average can expect out of your vehicle in northern europe?
it’ an electric car.
= 0 you want to drive at night it has a battery and you can drive yourself 625 kilometres just on the battery and the solar panel continuously trickle charges the battery and on a single day if you are in full sun and in a good place you may add up to 70 kilometres of range from the sun that does not sound like a lot compared to the 625 but in practice for very long trips, while the solar system is always on so the way to look at it is how much do you get in a year.
which is like 5% worst 1 of solar radiance, you get up to 7,000 kilometres per year, so more than half of the energy that the car needs for thank you, arjo.
so, jamie, autonomous cars.
with a grid-like structures set up like a chess board.
here in london, less so.
you’re absolutely right.
there is a huge challenge to solving autonomous driving in the kinds of unstructured, complex and busy environments the world, indeed.
the traditional technology stack uses three main pillars.
one is mapping.
so, for the system to work you send vehicles, much like google sends vehicles around the streets to map out street view images so we can navigate ourselves, but for a vehicle, autonomous vehicle, this needs to be done at a much higher precision.
we need centimetre-level detailed maps of entire cities.
which is actually a remarkably solvable problem but very expensive to do and even worse to maintain.
in terms of the sensors they get used a very expensive sensors, something called lidar which is a way of sending out beams of laser light and measuring the time for that light to reflect back and that gives you a sense of how far things are away.
it’ a wonderful sensor, love depth information, and difficult to integrate in a vehicle.
the third one is how the intelligence for these 41 today, most approaches to autonomous driving are based on a very modular system where you sort of first and the traffic lights and whatever else you think you need and then you’ have i i so you would say if this happens then would do this, if this happens do this.
if you think about the complexities of urban driving and the number of things that are going on, that just becomes incredibly unwieldy very, very quickly.
so, these three areas have, think, they have really held so, we’ve decided that we want to go after, it is much more scalable, so to avoid the need for maps, we will avoid the use of very expensive sensors and rely on cameras which are easy, relatively inexpensive and easy eyes every day.
finally, we’re going to use a more holistic, what we call end-to-end machine-learning approach where we really teach the machine to drive by example rather than trying to code those rules in by hand.
thank you so much, jamie.
now, arjo, we’re going to come to you and you’ve made such lightyear solar car.
it’ expensive.
what really want to know is when am going to be able when are we going to get to a commercially viable, family-sized solar car?
so, it’ a very fair guestion, right?
we were founded with the mission to provide clean mobility for everyone.
and obviously the lightyear that we are selling now for 250,000 euros, it’ clearly not for everyone.
a this first car is really a technology demonstrator, we’re building it in a limited series and this is the main reason this first car so, the key is in scaling up.
that’ what we’ve planned on the roadmap for 2025.
specs in terms of efficiency and range and how far you can go and the solar panel.
but that one is going to have a starting price - 1 we also have to look not just at the purchase price if you start with electrifying the vehicle, the fuel costs by the factor of 3-4.
what we’ve done on top of that is make the electric car about twice as efficient asd on the road today.
then we create half of the energy the car needs for the average person from the solar panels.
with that, we’re getting into the range of what a medium family in europe could afford.
jamie, i think the challenge for you is different, isn’ it?
in many ways, it’ overpromise, really.
a lot is said about autonomous vehicles, about what we can hope to have.
they’re not even legal in most set some realistic expectations here - what can realistically expect to see in the medium-term future before we get to the bit where the robots take over the world ?
so, you’re absolutely right.
there have been many unrealistic expectations set that is simply not how it’ going to be, it’ going to be a gradual transition and it will take time.
would liken it to the i and cart and the automobile 100 or years ago or so, right?
it happened pretty quickly in the grand scale of things but, incrementally, day on day, it was sort of a gradual process but accelerated as the economics and the safety and all the other things that - 1a came to bear.
it will certainly be a multi-year journey, but would very much hope and expect strongly that by the end of this decade, we will be seeing this in very mainstream use.
end of this decade, will come find you and find out.
arjo, what’ your perspective on this?
so, i’ going to go back to the mission statement of lightyear again, clean mobility for everyone.
we talked a bit about the cost 1 you buy and the biggest factor we know of is the purchase price, and think that is where autonomous driving really going to help.
because the key to getting the cost down is sharing, making sure that we use the car with a lot more people, 'cause it’ standing still 90% of the time, and the key to making sharing convenient, think that’ where autonomous driving comes in, by making sure the car acts like an uber without a driver, that you call and and within two minutes, it’ in front of the door and you go there.
if you want to bring your drywall panels, an -150 pulls up, and if you want to take the entire family and all your kids, a minivan pulls up.
pulls up and that way, we can drastically reduce the cost per kilometre of actually driving.
so think that’ where autonomous driving comes in but it has to progress before this happens, it has to progress to the point where we price autonomous driving based on its cost and not on its potential value because think the first companies who are going to be = = of autonomous driving, we’re replacing a taxidriver, so we take 10% off and we can make a hell of a lot of money so until we get that cost down, really, to what it actually costs to operate, plus a small margin, then i think we will start to see this autonoemous mobility on demand really being a lot cheaper than owning a car, and a big switch.
and that should enable our mission again, if we make sure those cars are electric or running on solar.
thank you, arjo.
now, linda, of course, electrical vehicles in general help with emissions and help even more when they’re powered with electricity from renewable resources.
a problem, aren’ they?
they contain a lot of rare earth metals that need to be for example, lithium is a key component and you can get that out of mines say, for example, in chile’'s atacama desert.
is there a plan in place to mitigate those sort technology?
yes, absolutely.
think mining responsibly very important and it’ one of the things that ford were very attuned to.
we’ve joined some of the coalitions to help ensure that we are mining responsibly.
and think you’re absolutely right, that electric vehicles -0 ale alntl-1a a recent study out of the university of michigan actually just went through some of the data and for north america, evs, from a life-cycle perspective, cradle to grave, including all the manufacturing, the lithium in batteries, still result ina 64% less of harm to the planet than a traditional gas vehicle would, so think there is definitely improvements there and we, as companies, and we, as individuals, need to make sure that we do it responsibly, and as we get into cleaner energy too down the road, that 64% of an improvement will obviously increase and that needs to increase very a" thank you so much.
of any of our amazing panellists today?
my name is suki.
have a question - have more than one - but linda first of all, you said about the fuel cells.
just have question hecause know with ford -150, how much of a big vehicle it is, how are you able to get people to really adopt the use of electric in places like rural pennsylvania, upstate new york, where we are very much a hunting environment, where we put beers, we put deer and everything else into the back how are you able to get that uptake?
well, so think a lot of it is really about making sure that the truck does exactly what a truck so, an -150 lightning can tow, it can haul, it can do all the same things that a gas -150 can.
but in addition to it, we actually offer a lot more.
for one, we’re leveraging the battery to provide electricity for customers, particularly in roll-out, in electrical outage situations, we can actually use it for our home, for multiple days at a time.
also without the engine, we’re able to take advantage of that space up front and basically turn it and then, of course, performance in the vehicle just outstanding.
with an , you get that near-instant torque that we talked about earlier which gets you up to 0-60mp in mid-four seconds.
mean, it’ fast, so we’ve got a question from gilbert in lebanon now, coming in from the video link.
if you can unmute your microphone and give us your question.
so, thorny question there for arjo.
was the lightyear so late?
so, we set out to build this production car six years ago when we founded the company but we were five guys straight out of college.
we didn’ have any money, we didn’ have any experience so besides having to engineer the car, we also had to build the company, and we’ve been trying to do the engineering of the vehicle and building the company at the same time in a way that we are set up for success for the future, so we weren’ just engineering a car, we were also engineering all the processes and all the systems behind it on how to keep track of this, how do you actually make a car such that the next time we do it, we have a clear process flow, and we know how to get there.
along the way, we met a lot of challenges.
it’ been, uh, well, we talked about one on the solar panel, we’ve developed motors that are directly in the wheels.
we haven’ seen those on production vehicles yet, so a lot of testing and effort went into getting those reliable and working.
so, overall, i think the fair question is when we first started the company, when we were five inexperienced guys, we hugely underestimated the challenge of getting a car into production.
maybe that’ a good thing 'cause if we hadn’, it’ really hard to start a car company.
think that’ the best answer to your to your question.
one last question in the room here.
thank you very much.
hi, i’ jane from the royal academy of engineering.
i’ve got a question for jamie about al.
we heard this week in the news about sentient, self-aware al, do you think as capability of increases, they might actually get bored of driving?
well, think that’ a fascinating question, the way that systems today work, and will work for the foreseeable future, is, they’re essentially what a neural network is, an artificial neural network , 1 essentially a bunch of multiplications and additions.
that’ all that is, literally, all it is.
so, you know, the , the graphics processing units that are used to evaluate these artificial neural networks, they just sit there, churn all day doing very, very basic mathematical calculations and ocut comes the answer.
so, you know, unless there are sort of fundamental changes in how these systems operate, which is entirely possible in terms of research breakthroughs, there’ no chance, in my mind, that these things will get bored, in that sense, because they’re just doing the job that they’rethey’re just executing again and again through these multiplications.
love that question, which brings us perfectly, really, to the end of this programme.
we’ve heard about everything and electric vehicles and al, and even touching on the first strike, think, there.
on behalf of the world service, whether you’re joining us via the internet with us in this fabulous information age gallery, please join me in giving a warm round of applause to our brilliant pioneering engineers - jamie shotton, arjo van der ham, linda zhang.
after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week, we could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits log irl it’ certainly i ela and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid 33 1 of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really does come to take hold across the .
it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where i3 through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere ete’ for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it i 0 england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - just 23 celsius - down ten degrees on the figures through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up a westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, a1 0 in the way of rainfall.
we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
you’re watching news.
our top stories: the taliban retaking control of afghanistan, a special report on the women and girls who’ve been denied and their childhoods.
if finish this school, start university, but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from the school.
he’ on the road to recovery but has life-changing injuries, as more details emerge about the man charged more than 40 worshippers die at a church in egypt, after a fire rips through the building during mass.
and, queen of the mountains - the norwegian climber who’ on the verge of setting a very special record.
welcome to the programme.
it’ now monday in afghanistan and across europe, and a year since the taliban swept back into the afghan capital, kabul, marking their takeover of the country and sparking scenes like these at the airport - thousands trying to leave in fear of what could lie ahead.
one year on, life for women and girls in particular is very different, with harsh rules, including restrictions on education and employment.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet, who was in kabul during the taliban takeover, = this special report.
i rueh afghanistan is a conservative country, by the ultraconservative taliban.
we met three generations of women whose lives speak loudly about their world.
many are afraid.
a identified.
this woman used to be a senior official in the finance ministry.
last year the taliban told her, stay at home.
a man would take her job.
worked for more than 17 years in the finance ministry.
it was difficult with juggling family and work, but went to university and got my masters degree.
now we are back to zero.
everything is finished.
more than 60 female 20 have banded together.
a i of the exchanges on their messaging group: women haven’ completely disappeared from the streets or ministries, like health, education, security.
only for women.
this market has just reopened in the western city of herat.
this was the first day.
women, a bit nervous.
shops, still empty.
¥ ‘' this is your shop?
today it’ closed.
oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old suhaila is excited.
she’ reopening this dress shop with her big sister.
but she should be in her last year of school.
suhaila was the top student in her class.
really, am very sad.
if finished this school, 13 but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from school.
was it hard for you?
no school, shep.
think it’ not for me, and for all of the girls of afghanistan, it’ @ sad memory did miss school.
in the central highlands.
this is one of afghanistan’ poorest provinces.
and there’ still no aid to their government.
for the destitute and desperate, agonising choices.
this woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
she’ only 6 years old.
: she’ toe young.
so my other children don’ die of hunger.
it’ still very hard but now she can eat mol sane ele child marriage is prohibited but pervasive in afghanistan, but not this young.
we’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
: her in-laws told me they will take care of her like their own child because she’ so young.
they told me, don’ worry.
what mother wouldn’ worry?
what child wouldn’ weep?
a new generation takes shape in a new afghanistan.
the taliban say the rights of boys and girls within islam will be respected.
but one year on, there i lyse doucet, news, kabul.
the son of sir salman rushdie says his father suffered life-changing injuries in a knife attack on friday, but that his feisty and defiant sense of humour remains intact.
the author has been taken off a ventilator, after being stabbed at an event in new york state.
the govenor of new york says they will always stand up for freedom of thought.
our correspondent nomia igbal has the latest.
inside the hospital, i i but a glimmer of hope for his family, as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
zafar also praised the audience members at the literary event on friday where his father was stabbed.
he said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
salman rushdie’ agent told us he is on the long road to recovery.
he faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old american suspect hadi matar has already appeared in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of attempted murder and attempted assault.
prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from new jersey to the event here in chautauqua, in western new york.
allowing him to attend the talk rushdie was due to give.
for decades, salman rushdie went into hiding the satanic verses, led to iran issuing a fatwa in 1989.
many muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
it is reported that police think hadi matar may have had sympathies for the iranian regime, but an official motive has a earlier, new york’ state governor spoke outside the institution where the stabbing happened.
new york state will always stand up to protect freedom of expression, freedom of speech, and we condemn any individual or any group that dares violate the sanctity of a place like chautaugua.
had faced for decades.
the government in egypt says at least 40 people many of them children - in a fire at a church where thousands of people had gathered for sunday worship.
dozens of others were injured.
it’ reported an electrical fire broke out at the coptic church in giza, of the capital cairo.
our correspondent sally nabil sent this report a sunday church service that ended in tragedy.
behind these windows, egyptian christian worshippers died.
the abu sifin church busy neighbourhoed in giza.
the fire killed dozens including many children.
people rushed into the building trying to save as many this woman lost her sister-in-law.
: she had five children, and two boys.
my heart is on fire for all these victims.
the people i’ve spoken to here are clearly very angry.
they want to know exactly how and their loved ones died.
there will be questions too for the church itself and for the emergency services.
by an electrical fault.
and the church when the electricity was turned on again there was an overload.
of the air-cenditioning it was on the third and fourth floors.
many worshippers fainted and could hardly breathe.
a major investigation is now under way.
inspectors from the public 1 already checked the scene.
there was nothing to suggest there are any criminal motives behind this incident, so far.
but the christian community here say they’ve had enough.
many of their churches have been targeted sally nabil, news, cairo.
1a =1 4 on targets tartus, , on syria’ west coast.
reports say three soldiers were killed.
the syrian observatory for human rights says several missiles hit the vicinity of a village where iranian militias allied with the assad regime, are located.
the saudi state-owned oil giant aramco has announced record profits of more than $48 billion for the second quarter of this year.
the world’ biggest oil producer’ net income has almost doubled year-on-year.
oil prices are up in the wake of russia’ attack on ukraine and increasing demand after the pandemic.
at least one person has died after an explosion rocked a shopping centre and caused a fireworks warehouse to catch fire in armenia’ capital, yerevan.
videos on social media show large clouds of black smoke in the and people running away as a building collapsed.
north korean state media is reporting that the country’ leader, kim jong-un, has been sent a letter from russia’ president, vladimir putin, with putin saying the two countries would expand their bilateral relations.
according to media in pyongyang, president putin says and russia’ interests, and the northeast asian region.
north korea’ liberation day which has begun today, monday.
who’ a senior fellow for korea studies at the council on foreign relations.
he joins us from washington .
details are scant on 1 details are scant on this but what could a deepening 1 what could a deepening of ations between relations between these two a0 relations between these two countries mean and is it now?
think coming now?
think it represents a ossible convergence of interests ween russia and convergence of interests convergence of interests between russia and north korea.
week, the russian last week, the russian ambassador to north korea gested north korean overseas abour could be useful in doing onstruction labour could be useful in doing labour could be useful in doing reconstruction work in the kaway provinces ukraine breakaway provinces in ukraine and north korea breakaway provinces in ukraine and north korea had earlier made a point of recognising .
so what it looks like is he possibility that they could ome kind of some kind the possibility that they could be some kind of some kind of support by be some kind of some kind of a 4a be some kind of some kind of support by north korea in the of labour in these areas, form of labour in these areas, probably in return for a probably in return for substantial cash contributions flailing north korean conomy.
what to the flailing north korean a1 0 to the flailing north korean economy.
what would this mean rticular for russia, having these north korean ourers going work on labourers going to work on heir behalf was making terms hat it would mean for russia, it would mean north oreans ting a russian olitical need.
especially if dimir putin is having i trouble meeting manpower in particular area and it has een common for this particular area and it has this particular area and it has been common for the north eans to export labour in a ilatlid koreans to export labour in a difficult areas.
it just so ens that that preduct happens that that product is is prohibited by security ncil revelutions from council revolutions from 2017, that russia had been following, ver the course of the past but over the course of the past 11 of years, there is a couple of years, there is a 18 1a couple of years, there is a a ain of the sanctions that has heen domain of the sanctions that domain of the sanctions that has been created by now, sle tions against russia as ads sanctions against russia as well as north korea and so this opens well as north korea and so this opens up an avenue of opens up an avenue of political rtunity for russia and opportunity for russia and north korea to engage in a itical exchange that meets political eds in a limited ay.
mutual eds being met but 1 a4 way.
mutual needs being met but what does it mean for rest what does it mean for the rest of the world?
well, the serious issue is of the world?
well, the more serious issue is related to the rest of the world is actually ted to russian and north korean nuclear programmes and ear hreats in connection nuclear threats in connection with utlag-ta1 nuclear threats in connection ratlag nuclear threats in connection a tlae-ta eil terms of this specific issue, it is a think it is a marriage of convenience that will pposed, especially opposed, especially by united states, but which there ttle outside rties united states, but which there = i is little outside parties can do anything to stop.
scott der, thank you very much.
stay with us on news, i to freya, the walrus who became a tourist sensation in norway has been put down.
washington, the world’ most political city, is today assessing the political health of the world’ most powerful man.
indeed did have a relationship with lewinsky in fact, it was wrong.
in seuth africa, 97 people have been killed today, between rival black groups.
over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
russia is observing a national day of mourning 6 we are all with them now, within our hearts.
the pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more than 2.
5 million people "stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"well, well,” joked the pope, this is news, the main story this hour: a year on from the taliban retaking control of afghanistan, its women and girls are still being denied education and employment.
for the first time in decades florida’ fish and wildlife conservation commission is to allow daytime they say it’ to make the area safer.
alligator hunting season starts on monday and runs every year 10,000 hunters apply for 7,000 licenses in a lottery style selection process.
it’ estimated there are 1.
3 million alligators the change.
pete corradino is a wildlife biologist and owner lie1 @0 thank you for being with us, good evening to you there in ida.
this takes effect florida.
this takes effect tomorrow, monday for you guys.
does this hunting what does this hunting specifically entail?
well, the is something that has hunting is something that has been going on for quite a long but what has changed now time but what has changed now as 5 hey are going to allow ~-hour hunting what my 24-hour hunting and what my opposition to is the change is are going happen is that are going to happen is right where we take our rists.
so everglades day takes tourists out on a boat safari takes tourists out on a a oat ride and that is specifically a place called trafford where there are usands of alligators and by pening up the hunting season daylight hours, it is going put hunters and tourists in flict with each to put hunters and tourists in conflict with each other and potentially putting people in way, so that the harms way, so that is the situation we are looking at ting tomorrow.
situation we are looking at tag 1 situation we are looking at starting tomorrow.
but the life commission says 1.
3 wildlife commission says 1.
3 million alligators is simply any, something has to be too many, something has to be - 2 .
if that is their take on it, that is done.
if that is their take on done.
if that is their take on it, that is not really what is on.
we got 1.
3 million alligators, maybe even more.
orically we had probably historically we had probably 4 million alligators but over the of the 20th century course of the 20th century alligators were hunted nearly tinction.
they were put on he endangered species list and population numbers have their population numbers have come back very well, but what basis is for safety ssues, i’ their basis is for safety i3 , i’ not exactly sure.
issues, i’ not exactly sure.
here have been 30 fatalities he last 5 years caused in the last 75 years caused by wild alligators.
there’ been erage of seven, actually, robably about 12-15 alligator acks and this ranges from igators biting people when hey are swimming people picking alligators and getting tten.
so that each getting bitten.
so that is each 1 that is not a lot, so year and that is not a lot, so i’ not year and that is not a lot, so i a a8 exactly sure they i’ not exactly sure they think doing this is going to anything safer.
in fact by make anything safer.
in fact by tting people out there with hunting while you’ve got urists on guns hunting while you’ve got 0 on our boats is tourists on our boats is probably the most unsafe thing an do.
but officials alse you can do.
but officials also argue that playing for these nses means people paying a licenses means people paying for these licenses is bringing into the state.
yeah, that really what it is a1 ut.
it is not to manage the opulation, it is simply for eational purposes and to money for the state.
pete rradino in florida, thank very now, let’ talk about one of my favourite subject mountains!
want to tell you now highest mountains, also known as the ‘super peaks’, each one has a summit of more than 8,000 metres, more than 26,000 feet.
climbing all 14 is a badge of honour in the mountaineering community, and doing so in record time is the biggest honour of them all.
now a norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just that, as the ’ tim allman reports.
kristin harila carries a heavy burden.
she has just finished scaling the 11th highest mountain in the world, but she can barely pause for a moment.
we had like, a couple of rock falls, that was very dangerous.
the rest have been logistical problems and waiting times.
but climbing a mountain has not been so, not so much problems.
kristin only took up moeuntain climbing seven years ago, but she is clearly a quick study.
she is now on course to complete one of the sport’ most impressive achievements.
as everyone knows, mount everest is the world’ tallest peak at 8849 metres.
there are 13 other mountains that come in at a height above 8000 metres, and kristin has climbed 11 of them.
now she only has three more to complete the set and she wants to do it as quickly as possible.
at the moment, nepal’ nirmal purja holds the record, doing so in six months and six days.
if kristin beats his time she hopes it will send quite a message.
rol like, people believe men are more strong.
but in reality, the women are just as strong as the men kristin has until november a after a quick trip home to norway, she will head to nepal and tibet for the final phase.
great stuff, great stuff, and the best of ’ to her.
a walrus nicknamed freya that had become a popular attraction in the oslo fjord in norway has been put down.
authorities had warned earlier this week that they were considering the measure after issuing warnings about crowds getting too a norwegian officials say she was euthanised in @ humane way.
but there’ been public outcry over the decision.
let’ get more on this from our news reporter do do authorities say that they needed to do this?
as you freya had they needed to do this?
as you i freya had become a popular say, freya had become a popular ae: nule say, freya had become a popular attraction in oslo, she was after the goddess of love beauty and she had been on ewhat of a and beauty and she had been on i somewhat of a euro trip this i3 past year.
there were somewhat of a euro trip this past year.
there were sightings united kingdom and weden and evelyn.
she entually ended up in norway re she became quite a ensation, she was climbing ard boats, she was aboard boats, she was sunbathing, she was sometimes king those boats because weighed £1300.
the problem up when crowds wouldn’ top crowding around her came up when crowds wouldn’ stop crowding around her and no matter stop crowding around her and no i ter how many times matter how many times authorities warned these crowds to stay away, children gathering around the walrus as , they just kept coming well, they just kept coming back and of course walrus acks aren’ that mon but attacks aren’ that common but walruses can attacks aren’ that common but - 8 1= 8 attacks aren’ that common but walruses can typically sleep 20 hours a day and this about 20 hours a day and this kept having her sleep terrupted and so eventually interrupted and so eventually a1 a interrupted and so eventually 1 authorities came to this 3¢ 1a authorities came to this decision and the director-general for fisheries a statement explaining put out a statement explaining to he public.
it read: was this the only option open to tiaa to authorities?
well that is he question that a lot of ple people are asking right now, especially as the public and rts, wildlife experts, ildlife experts, re has been a experts, wildlife experts, i there has been a fierce backlash.
what a lot of experts ointing out is that the walrus is an endangered species hat perhaps more focus and that perhaps more focus ould have been put on guring out to move the walrus away or perhaps figuring out how to move the walrus away or perhaps focusing to change on how to change human behaviour, on how to change human 2 on how to change human behaviour, how to put more place or crowd control.
steps in place for crowd laiage a1 4 director-general the sheries has saying as 11 fisheries has been saying as they did to figure out how to move the walrus but they couldn’ figure out how to do in a way that would be that in a way that would be a or freire and that in the safe for freire and that in the end they had to prioritise an safety versus animal welfare, and in end hey a3 welfare, and in the end they took this decision and they say was a ay to put her down this was a way to put her down 3 what they called a humane , we will leave it there.
4 ank you , we will leave it there.
= you very much.
and you can get a lot more on he news and you can get a lot more on news website as the news website as well as 1 the news website as well as a special report on one-year the taliban akeover of afghanistan.
after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week.
could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits log irl it’ certainly i ela and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid 33 1 of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really does come to take hold across the .
it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where i3 through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere ete’ for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it i 0 england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - just 23 celsius - down ten degrees on the figures through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up a westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, a1 0 in the way of rainfall.
we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
it’ one year since the taliban swept into kabul and retook control of afghanistan, prompting scenes of chaos, as people tried to flee.
one year on, life for women and girls in particular is very different, with harsh rules, including restrictions on education and employment.
the agent of the author, sir salman rushdie, who is in a hospital following a stabbing attack, has said he is on the road to recovery but it will be long.
sense of humour remained intact.
dozens of people have died at a church in the egyptian city of giza after a fire broke out, causing a stampede.
the authorities say at least 41 people were killed, many of them children.
they blamed the blaze on an electrical fault in the air conditioning system.
in 2010, the himalayan nation of nepal was one of 13 countries to commit to doubling its wild tiger populations by 2022.
nepal is now the only country to have achieved that goal.
tigers are making a remarkable comeback here in nepal.
their numbers more than doubling in the last ten years.
tigers are the majestic creatures.
being assigned in the protection duties, ’ an henour, you know, it’ a privilege.
it’ a small victory in a battle to bring them back it does not come a3 the common area that the tiger and prey species and humanity a 8 in tiger attacks on humans.
niy i and more number of people, definitely there is going to be conflict.
so, it is going to be a challenging job for us to, you know, maintain peace between two species.
private pinky adhikari has been newly stationed at bardiya national park in western nepal.
her job here is to protect the park’ endangered elephants, rhinos and tigers.
after morning exercise, we’ve been given rare access to go with them.
one of the key factors of nepal’ success has been against poaching and that’ involved the military.
armed units like this one patrol across the park daily.
her unit’ captain is ayush jung bahadur rana.
tigers are the majestic creatures.
there are two types of feeling when you come in head toc head with them.
it is "oh my god, what a majestic creature is that!
" so, that’ the type of feeling you get when you encounter iger.
so, being assigned in the protection duties, it’ an honour.
it’ a privilege to be part of something that is really big, you know.
so, what are you looking for on this patrol?
i mean, like, we’re looking for any illegal encroachment of people or domestic animals.
these are the basic things that we look at i 8 do you have the power to shoot?
only - only if we have any life-threatening encounters with the wild animals or it is the poachers.
but that is the last resort.
that is the last thing we would want to do.
just outside the national park, indigenous leader bhadai tharu patrols his community forest.
it’ part of a key corridor that allows tigers to move between protected areas in nepal and neighbouring india.
this used to be a grazing area for cattle but was reforested by bhadal’ community.
100 other people when a tiger attacked.
he lost his left eye.
to be a royal hunting ground.
: this is a land whose people have always lived under the menace of marauding tigers.
when queen elizabeth visited the country in 1961, she took part in a tiger hunt.
: and, yes, there was a tiger.
king mahendra had fulfilled a time honoured obligation a tiger to shoot.
the next prey was a rhino.
the rhino was also killed.
hunting, poaching, and habitat loss has pushed tigers towards extinction.
since the beginning of the 20th century, their numbers globally have dropped by more than 95%.
of a remarkable recovery.
the rangers are taking part in a nationwide tiger census.
over 800 camera pairs have been hidden across the park.
you just installed this camera.
how long will you keep it here for?
so you are going to be having over 1,000 hours of footage look at?
and when you’re analysing the footage, how do you make sure that your count is accurate?
with fewer than 4,000 wild tigers left in the world, every tiger counts.
the census results show that tiger numbers here in nepal have more than doubled in the last ten years.
the area where tigers were once hunted is now being managed i ety this grassland is cut 0la1 and there’ man-made waterholes here.
lol the tigers’ main prey.
was a village here.
1 it’ a better environment for tigers.
yes, yes.
and you’re also looking - increasing water sources across the national park.
yes.
until now we have created 180 water ponds here.
50 water pond is with solar.
is there a chance that with these interventions that you’re pushing the tiger population beyond what’ sustainable for the size of the park?
no.
we are creating many water pond and grassland, particularly for the prey species and the tiger.
we have sufficient space and prey density in the park, 50 we are managing the tigers in a sustainable way.
that evening we see signs of the return of the tiger close to where we’re sleeping.
just behind our camp, fresh tiger footprints have -- we think they are from an adult female tiger - we saw a lot of deer last night on the grassland and there’ water here, so the footprints in the sand here lead all the way to the water.
this camp is run by conservationist manoj gautam.
and so much more.
the common area that the tigers and prey species and humanity & we head out inte the villages just outside the park’ boundaries, into the communities that live with the tigers.
here in these villages, the lives of humans and tigers are intertwined.
some in the community live off a8 built around the park.
others have to take the risk of entering the jungle samjhana lost her mother-in-law in a tiger attack last year.
she was deep inside the national park, cutting grass for their cow.
samjhana heard the story from those who were there.
the government pays around $8,000 in compensation to tiger victims’ families.
but because samjhana’ the national park, she has been told she doesn’ qualify for it.
she is still fighting for some kind of financial help to put towards her boys’ education.
this is the tiger that is 4grs, mother-in-law and two other people.
now behind bars in kathmandu zoo.
right now the national park is actively trying to increase the tiger population, how do you feel about that?
protests broke out in june after a leopard attacked the community demanding authorities do more to protect them.
the protests turned viclent.
police opened fire on the crowd, killing an 18-year-old girl and injuring others, sparking further outrage.
the community lives in terror.
so, there is a price 1 for the world to rejoice with the news that nepal has successfully doubled its tiger numbers.
when a tiger kills a human, authorities track them down and take them captive.
one of the tigers now in captivity is being held behind the chief this tiger killed one human in the last year in the rajipur area, so we captured and kept in this tiger holding cage.
we closely monitor through camera in the incident area, in holding cage.
do you do that because there is pressure from the community?
or is there a real threat that once a tiger has killed a human, that they will attack again?
there is a chance to attack the human again, by the tiger, if the tiger killed one person previously.
so, this tiger has been here for one year now, you can see it’ not happy about being in captivity.
what is the long-term plan for this tiger?
we have ordered a satellite collar for this tiger.
after consultation with our department we will do something regarding his release.
bhadai tharu calls a meeting of his community protection this is a generation that will have to navigate the return of the tigers.
susila, who is also part of the community protection unit, runs this after-school class.
susila also worked as a tour guide in the national park.
you have to see tigers in the wild to fully appreciate them, she says.
so, we head back into the park together.
i’ looking for tiger and leopard, this is the track 1 to the river to drink.
and sometimes we get and after hours of waiting, a tiger suddenly appears.
it is magnificent to see a male tiger walking along here, one of over 100 tigers now here in bardiya national park, part of a growing tiger population here in nepal.
it is definitely something to be celebrated, because as we know everywhere around the world, the conservation stories that we often get to read are loudly depressing, and the number of species we are losing on a daily basis, the habitat loss a a 2 and nepal brings a freshness to the arena of conservation.
they have participated in this, they have rejoiced in the success as well, and they are paying with their lives and terror, and that think needs to be acknowledged more.
because if it is not acknowledged, the world cannot despite what happened to her mother-in-law, samjhana continues to risk entering the national park.
for the soldiers, the challenge is to keep the peace.
we are the mediators, so it’ our duty to bring peace between two species.
and so it’ the both - would say the protection of the tiger is our responsibility, but at the same time protection of civilians is also our main responsibility.
let’ take a look at the weather let’ take a look at the ther for the week ahead, it all changed, with a warning 1 i has all changed, with a warning for extreme heat expires, i i 1 temperatures will come for extreme heat expires, temperatures will come down, it feel cooler, back down to seasonal average and there be some the seasonal average and there i the seasonal average and there will be some welcome rain in of thunderstorms but the form of thunderstorms but with high rainfall totals there be some localised surface water flooding because the is so hard and dry.
the ground is so hard and dry.
the high pressure that kept us hot as moving eastwards, and as moving eastwards, allowing low pressure to shower and from the south, this its hand from the south, this help to keep off those understorms -- park .
and hat thunderstorms -- spark off.
and a ei- on monday morning that is true on monday morning and 0 a that is true on monday morning and another band of showers moving eastwards across wales ll.
most of the rest of i could be on monday morning sunny spells, cloudy, i with sunny spells, cloudy, rather humid feeling.
watch out hose thunderstorms, hey feti0!
for those thunderstorms, they could pop up anywhere through fternocon but will be the afternoon but they will be =1 irly hit fairly hit and miss, the heat hands on, temperatures in he high 20, maybe 30 celsius some.
overnight on monday into tuesday is rm, muggy and biale into tuesday it is warm, muggy and uncomfortable for sleeping, rain round and areas plenty of rain around and areas of cloud too, this is how start of cloud too, this is how the eled of the day on tuesday, start of the day on tuesday, still on a warm note so peratures lower than the -teens in celsius for many.
then on tuesday the low ssure is certainly with us, is is where it will be roximately.
approximately.
these areas of are likely to change so rain are likely to change so the details on this subject to a lot of change but some heavy, persistent rain probably uch scotland on for much of scotland on tuesday, moving down into thern england, this band of ndery rain will gradually messed southwards and twards.
look messed southwards and &1 4 eastwards.
look at the temperature ontrast, the heat hangs on towards the south and , maybe 7 across east east, maybe 27 across east lia but a lot cooler across the north and est.
and the north and the west.
and this is where that band of ndery rain is kely to be thundery rain is likely to be on wednesday, a lot further and east so some wet weather re, there are - weather here, there are localised weather warnings in , more thunderstorms of place, more thunderstorms of ourse mostly acress southern gland, through south ales england, down through south - wales on the far south-west whereas wales on the far south-west wales on the far south-west whereas further north it robably ostly with whereas further north it is a probably mostly with plenty of cloud probably mostly with plenty 0la probably mostly with plenty of cloud around and mperatures all have now temperatures for all have now rned back down to where hey returned back down to where qa1 should be at this time they should be at this time of as we head through the rest of the working week we to north atlantic rest of the working week we a 11 start to see north atlantic air ove through, back to westerlies and these weather " westerlies and these weather fronts will to push and fronts will to push and as well so weather fronts down the north-west of otland, outbreaks of rain throughout the day on hursday, also western wales northern thursday, also western wales thursday, also western wales and northern ireland too, udier here and quite breezy.
further south and east the armer to further south and east the i rmer it is likely to be and any sunshine temperatures be higher than this and ikely stay dry.
maybe not -8 likely to stay dry.
maybe not 8 likely to stay dry.
maybe not completely for the rest of eek, various weather the week, various weather fronts to to move through but fronts to to move through but always wetted the further you are with low pressure centred towards orth and centred towards the north and he west end this is friday ain, more likely to be wards eastern areas.
now emperatures are towards eastern areas.
now 14 eratures are back down temperatures are back down to verage, we looking at the average, we are looking at the low 20 for much the average, we are looking at the low 20 for much of england ales.
the high teens for of scotland and northern so temperatures returned normal and so temperatures have returned so temperatures have returned to normal and then on friday we xpecting these weather ronts to push rough, high pressure is not too far away, down towards the south and just down towards the south and a & just down towards the south and the west.
if we look at europe eaters easing their into 4 a week but a good start to ild back again and this area high pressure could drag on way once more we may not have the last of the at for he summer just you’re watching news.
our top stories: a year on from the taliban retaking control of afghanistan, a special report on the women and girls who’ve been denied and their childhoods.
if finish this school, start university, but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from the school.
sir salman rushdie’ family say he’ on the road to recovery but has life-changing injuries, as more details emerge about the man charged more than 40 worshippers die at a church in egypt, after a fire rips through the building during mass.
and, queen of the mountains - the norwegian climber who’ on the verge of setting a very special record.
a very warm welcome to the programme.
the taliban swept back into the afghan capital, kabul, marking their takeover of the country and sparking scenes like these at the airport - thousands trying to leave in fear of what could lie ahead.
one year on, life for women and girls in particular is very different, with harsh rules, including restrictions on education and employment.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet, who was in kabul during the taliban takeover, = this special report.
i rueh afghanistan is a conservative country, by the ultraconservative taliban.
we met three generations of women whose lives speak loudly about their world.
many are afraid.
a identified.
this woman used to be in the finance ministry.
last year the taliban told her, stay at home.
a man would take her job.
: worked for more than 17 years in the finance ministry.
it was difficult with juggling family and work, but went to university and got my masters degree.
now we are back to zero.
everything is finished.
more than 60 female 20 have banded together.
a i of the exchanges on their messaging group: women haven’ completely disappeared from the streets or ministries, like health, education, security.
only for women.
this market has just reopened in the western city of herat.
this was the first day.
women, a bit nervous.
shops, still empty.
¥ ‘' this is your shop?
today it’ closed.
oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old suhaila is excited.
she’ reopening this dress shop with her big sister.
but she should be in her last year of school.
suhaila was the top student in her class.
really, am very sad.
if finish this school, 13 but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from school.
was it hard for you?
no school, shep.
think it’ not for me, and for all of the girls of afghanistan, it’ @ sad memory did miss school.
in the central highlands.
this is one of afghanistan’ poorest provinces.
and there’ still no aid to their government.
for the destitute and desperate, agonising choices.
this woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
she’ only 6 years old.
: she’ toe young.
so my other children don’ die of hunger.
it’ still very hard but now she can eat mol sane ele child marriage is prohibited but pervasive in afghanistan, but not this young.
we’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
: her in-laws told me they will take care of her like their own child because she’ so young.
they told me, don’ worry.
what mother wouldn’ worry?
what child wouldn’ weep?
a new generation takes shape in a new afghanistan.
the taliban say the rights of boys and girls within islam will be respected.
but one year on, there i lyse doucet, news, kabul.
the son of sir salman rushdie says his father suffered life-changing injuries in a knife attack on friday, but that his feisty and defiant sense of humour remains intact.
the author has been taken off a ventilator, after being stabbed at an event in new york state.
the govenor of new york says they will always stand up for freedom of thought.
our correspondent nomia igbal has the latest.
inside the hospital, i i but a glimmer of hope for his family, as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
zafar also praised the audience members at the literary event on friday where his father was stabbed.
he said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
salman rushdie’ agent told us he is on the long road to recovery.
he faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old american suspect hadi matar has already appeared in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of attempted murder and attempted assault.
prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from new jersey to the event here in chautauqua, in western new york.
allowing him to attend the talk rushdie was due to give.
for decades, salman rushdie went into hiding the satanic verses, led to iran issuing a fatwa in 1989.
many muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
it is reported that police think hadi matar may have had sympathies for the iranian regime, but an official motive has a earlier, new york’ state governor spoke outside the institution where the stabbing happened.
new york state will always stand up to protect freedom of expression, freedom of speech, and we condemn any individual or any group that dares violate the sanctity of a place like chautaugua.
had faced for decades.
nomia igbal, news.
the government in egypt says at least 40 people have died, many of them children, in a fire at a church where thousands of people had gathered for sunday worship.
dozens of others were injured.
it’ reported an electrical fire broke out at the coptic church in giza, of the capital cairo.
our correspondent sally nabil sent this report a sunday church service that ended in tragedy.
behind these windows, egyptian christian worshippers died.
the abu sifin church busy neighbourhoed in giza.
the fire killed dozens, including many children.
people rushed into the building this woman lost her sister-in-law.
: she had five children.
and two boys.
my heart is on fire for all these victims.
the people i’ve spoken to here are clearly very angry.
they want to know exactly how and their loved ones died.
there will be questions too for the church itself and for the emergency services.
by an electrical fault.
and the church when the electricity was turned on again, there was an overload.
ir0 fire was coming out of the air-cenditioning it was on the third and fourth floors.
many worshippers fainted and could hardly breathe.
a major investigation is now under way.
inspectors from the public 1 already checked the scene.
there was nothing to suggest there are any criminal motives behind this incident, so far.
but the christian community here say they’ve had enough.
many of their churches have been targeted sally nabil, news, cairo.
to north korea now, where state media is reporting from russian president vladimir putin seeking to establish closer scott snyder who’ a senior fellow for korea studies at the council on foreign relations said president putin i think it represents a possible convergence last week, the russian ambassador to north korea suggested that north korean !
in doing reconstruction work in the breakaway provinces in the ukraine, of recognising these breakaway provinces.
and so, what it looks like is the possibility that there could be some kind of some kind of support by north korea in the form of labour in these areas, probably in return for substantial cash contributions to the flailing north korean economy.
scott snyder, from the council on foreign relations.
putting the cat out, or not - the german town a - a washington, the world’ most political city, is today assessing the political health of the world’ most powerful man.
have a relationship with lewinsky that was not appropriate.
in fact, it was wrong.
in seuth africa, 97 people have been killed today, between rival black groups.
over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
russia is observing a national day of mourning 6 we are all with them now, within our hearts.
the pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more than 2.
5 million people "stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"well, well,” joked the pope, this is news, the main story this hour: a year on from the taliban retaking control of afghanistan, its women and girls are still being denied education and employment.
the son of author sir salman rushdie says his injuries are life changing, but that his defiant sense of humour remains intact, after he was stabbed.
many of us have been through lockdowns in recent years - but in the german town walldorf, it’ cats who’ve been on a curfew.
but they have, in the last few hours, legally been allowed to leave their homes for 4 authorities there introduced a cat-lockdown in may, banning them from leaving the house without a lead to stop them injuring or killing an endangered bird species.
but the lockdowns will occur reqularly and if owners don’ thousands of euros.
jessi morgan is of predator free new zealand i - to see you, what do you make of is in germany?
it’ a to see you, what do you make of i 8 2 what is in germany?
it’ a very interesting move the government there.
cats are skilled hunters and highly skilled hunters and great predators around the try, around the world, country, around the world, 1884 sorry and depending on where they are located, they could do re damage severe damage to native wildlife.
do you have a problem cats here you wildlife.
do you have a problem 1 wildlife.
do you have a problem with cats where you are in new and?
yes, in new zealand we ave a lot of flightless birds birds that nest on the round and so that evolved in zealand without any introduced ammalian dators, 0 introduced mammalian predators, so cats are a huge problem our native species who are sically defenceless against .
so cats re not native to here cat.
so cats are not native to 10 cat.
so cats are not native to where you are in new zealand 2 - where you are in new zealand but devil’ advocate, they are across europe.
surely this just wildlife doing its ng?
yeah, ell these birds, my understanding, these ested larks are highly ndangered and down to a few breeding pairs, so i’ essing the local government trying to do anything they an protect these birds reducing roaming of mestic cats is eally i domestic cats is really & domestic cats is really important but they also a strategy round stray cats and cat to ensure they being feral cat to ensure they are not being created on by other if the cats are native to the area, because what is predating ose cats, and area, because what is predating 8 on those cats, and obviously here is a high density of cats cats being introduced and with cats being introduced and owned and looked after at home otentially protected from those edators so their umbers are probably out of i whack numbers are probably out of whack from what they would be rally occurring in that naturally occurring in that area.
there is a bit of a 8 = a4 area.
there is a bit of a carrot and stick approach of and lockdowns, more the stick a of it but what fines and lockdowns, more the a = - stick side of it but what does a good cat owner look like?
ponsible a good cat owner look like?
1 onsible cat ownership is ally important and not etting our cats roam is ctually important 1 actually an important part of ping your cat safe and preventing them from getting ver or armed by preventing them from getting i a run over or harmed by other things in the environment.
the things we recommend in zealand are 6 in your cat it doesn’ add to the wanted population of unwanted population of kittens ccurate shipping your cat that if it is found andering it can be wandering it can be returned ly.
as owners when you take cat inte your home as an achis a cat inte your home as an = important companion it is really important that you have eans to keep your cats a1 i the means to keep your cats home as much as possible and that is a change for many parts of world where we have parts of the world where we 1 parts of the world where we have let our cats home in past ecause we were unaware of damage that they did to he native wildlife.
alligator hunting season starts on monday and runs every year 10,000 hunters apply for 7,000 licenses in a lottery style selection process.
it’ estimated there are 1.
3 million alligators the change.
earlier, spoke to pete corradino, who is a wildlife of everglades day safari.
asked what the changes would mean.
hunting is semething that has been going on for quite a long time but what has changed now is they are going to allow 24-hour hunting and what my opposition to is the changes that are going to happen take our tourists.
so everglades day safari takes guests out on a air boat ride lake trafford where there are thousands of alligators and by opening up the hunting season to daylight hours, it is going to put hunters and tourists in conflict with each other and potentially putting people in harms way, so that is the situation we are looking at starting tomorrow.
but the fish and wildlife commission says 1.
3 million alligators is simply too many, something has to be done.
if that is their take on it, that is not really what is going on.
we got 1.
3 million alligators, maybe even more.
historically we had probably 4 million alligators but over the course of the 20th century, alligators were hunted nearly they were put on the endangered species list and their populatioen numbers have come back very well, but what their basis ieti8 issues, i’ not exactly sure.
there have been 30 fatalities in the last 75 years caused by wild alligators.
of seven, actually, probably about 12-15 alligator attacks and this ranges from alligators biting people when they are swimming to people picking up alligators so that is each year and that is not a lot, so i’ not exactly sure they think doing this is going to make anything safer.
in fact by putting people out there with guns hunting while you’ve got tourists on our boats is probably the most unsafe thing you can do.
but officials also argue that playing for these licenses means people paying for these licenses is bringing money into the state.
it is not to manage the population, it is simply i purposes and to make money for the state.
want to tell you now highest mountains, also known as the ‘super peaks’, each one has a summit of more than 8,000 metres, more than 26,000 feet.
climbing all 14 is a badge of honour in the mountaineering community, and doing so in record time is the biggest honour of them all.
now a norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just that, as the ’ tim allman reports.
kristin harila carries a heavy burden.
she has just finished scaling the 11th highest mountain in the world, but she can barely pause for a moment.
we had like, a couple of rock falls, that was very dangerous.
the rest have been logistical problems and waiting times.
but climbing a mountain has not been so, not so much problems.
kristin only took up moeuntain climbing seven years ago, but she is clearly a quick study.
she is now on course to complete one of the sport’ most impressive achievements.
as everyone knows, mount everest is the world’ tallest peak at 8849 metres.
there are 13 other mountains that come in at a height above 8000 metres, and kristin has climbed 11 of them.
now she only has three more to complete the set and she wants to do it as quickly as possible.
at the moment, nepal’ nirmal purja holds the record, doing so in six months and six days.
if kristin beats his time she hopes it will send quite a message.
rol like, people believe men are more strong.
but in reality, the women are just as strong as the men kristin has until november a after a quick trip home to norway, she will head to nepal and tibet for the final phase.
now let’ take you to mexico city where families gathered at one of mexico’ fastest growing artistics parades since the pandemic.
lkaba koyl has this report welcome to the parade where mythical animals coated in ilh ing bright colours dance dazzling bright colours dance he day away.
they are inspired exican folklore.
circus i a3 artists show off their skills on with gymnastics and on stilts with gymnastics and sic, and on stilts with gymnastics and - a1 , and it is a summer music, and it is a summer favourite among young people.
4 he events got interrupted but the events got interrupted because of the pandemic.
: during the pandemic we : during the : during the pandemic we locked ourselves hildren did not go outside 1 in.
children did not go outside at all.
we adults did because to earn a living the we had to earn a living but the children needed to get out.
now that we have this, we came to it.
the children can njoy hemselves and learn more our culture.
each culpture represents elements i8 4 different animals and none are alike.
: it is interesting to bring alive monsters that might those monsters that we might have dreams.
everyone can have in our dreams.
everyone 0le 0 does take up a lot of time.
at he end of the parade the brijes are placed on display prizes are awarded for the 4 one.
it has become so pular in exico city, entire milies can’ resist taking rt.
a reminder of our top story: a it is now one year since the taliban swept into kabul and ok afghanistan, prompting scenes of chaos as people tried ee.
year on, life for to flee.
one year on, life for women and girls in particular different with harsh rules including restrictions on ation and employment.
you education and employment.
you can get education and employment.
you get much more on all the stories the news website the news at ncluding : this or the news at including special report from kabul beyond, a year of taliban , and this story and rule, and this stery and particulars, the afghan lists particulars, the afghan 4 particulars, the afghan cyclists who fled to pursue olympic dreams, a female ycling team that fled to aly.
from all of here in the team in london, thanks for company and we shall see ere next ime on news.
after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week.
could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits log irl it’ certainly i ela and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid 33 1 of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really does come to take hold across the .
it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where i3 through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere ete’ for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it i 0 england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - just 23 celsius - down ten degrees on the figures through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up a westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, a1 0 in the way of rainfall.
we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
it’ one year since the taliban swept into kabul and retook control of afghanistan, prompting scenes of chaos as people tried to flee.
one year on, life for women oi 8 very different - i including restrictions the agent of the author sir salman rushdie, who is in a hospital following a stabbing attack, has said he is on the road to recovery but it will be long.
sense of humour remained intact.
dozens of people have died at a church in the egyptian city of giza after a fire broke out, causing a stampede.
the authorities say at least 41 people were killed - many of them children.
they blamed the blaze on an electrical fault in the air conditioning system.
now on news, dateline london with shaun ley.
hello, and welcome to the programme, which brings together leading commentators with the foreign correspondents who write, blog, podcast and broadcast from the dateline london.
this week, a meeting between boris johnson and the energy companies about the ticking time bomb which is the capping of energy bills.
the cap will rise further in october.
the meeting achieved nothing.
the british have a government that apparently must wait for action until the conservatives have chosen there was another meeting which ended without result too, new york’ attorney general summoned donald trump a1 tax affairs.
he pleaded the fifth then repeated the words same answer the former president, who would be president again, hadn’ kept shtum when the had raided his florida home.
are eunice goes, a portuguese academic and writer who teaches comparative janet daley, born in the united states.
a ‘60 progressive who by the 1980 was a conservative, now writing a weekly column in the sunday telegraph.
and thomas kielinger, who has been a foreign during the carter and reagan presidencies.
he has written biographies of churchill and of both queens let me start with you, eunice, on the question of energy.
europe in terms of trying to address the energy crisis which is upon us and which will loom ever larger as the winter approaches?
well, it has been extremely busy managing not only the expectations of voters but also managing the acrimony between member states going to be a competition for resources.
and we saw that with a little bit of blame gaming, southern europe saying a few things to germany in particular, saying a few things about germany’ dependency on russian oil.
with the spanish government saying, well, we do not live above our means energy-wise.
but eventually there is a kind of an agreement to ration or reduce energy consumption & there is that request.
and across europe, european governments have been putting but like drastic cuts on to energy bills, subsidies to help families to face those incredible energy in germany, think they are increasing by five times from what they were last year.
there is also plans - 0 in spain for instance there are plans to reduce the temperature at which buildings should be.
so kind of a more efficient and clever way of using energy.
somewhat mild, so that we don’ use overcapacity.
there is also the whole issue around ensuring that europe has enough supply.
essentially were cut out almost in some cases completely of the supply of gas from russia.
so now they’re getting it from other sources.
and think reserves are at the moment around 70% trying to build them up before the winter hits?
so we are getting there but the situation is very dire.
in france for instance, it has a lot of nuclear energy.
nuclear power stations are now closed down, they are in maintenance because, well, they were not sufficiently maintained during the pandemic.
and of course drought conditions, heat waves and so on do not help for the maintenance of those energy.
so it has been very, very, very busy.
even for the italian government, which was simultaneously collapsing as it was trying to work yes.
because of course the situation is very, very dire for the dilemma that we have in britain for many families, eating or heating.
14 =1 many eurepean households are facing too.
and italy, the situation is particularly dire because it has been 20 years of economic stagnation.
we have 10 millien italian we have 10% of the italian population living below grg0 of a trigger for the collapse of the draghi government because they were seeing that not enough support was been given to families.
and of course these are populist, right-wing parties that of course want to create instability, and now they are poised to win the forthcoming give us a bit well, can’ honestly see what the point was of that meeting because boris is now a lame duck prime minister.
he admits that he has no political and moral authority, so did he have the meeting?
mean, one hopes that in the back channels, you know, there are plans in whitehall, there are plans going on.
but the plans that can be offered are pretty makeshift.
i mean, nobedy actually has an answer to this problem herglera:laa aire-10 i and, as you say, it is bringing into light all the political european countries.
italy doesn’ have a government and purposes.
macron is absolutely paralysed between the far right yes.
the german government is in a rather sticky coalition and all of these problems have suddenly come into sharp focus and it is an odd sort of crisis because governments themselves can be blamed for not making the preparation that was necessary, for not seeing this possibility coming.
unlike a war, for which your own government can’ be blamed.
sure.
so they are going to carry the can and the risk is that it is easy in a sense to create a kind of rhetorical blame for the present government, insinuation that the interests of ordinary people, especially the poorer elements of ordinary people, have not nee you can make a really sort of impressive populist platform and we could end up with some really dire consequences.
i 1 you know, the analogy with weimar germany.
mean, when there is a crisis and people can’ eat or they can’ heat their homes, they are going to perhaps do nasty things, led by people who are quite unscrupulous enough to exploit that situation.
thomas, that fear always is at the back of minds in germany, isn’ it because of 20th-century history?
yes.
but in terms of how germany is approaching this at the moment, they are at least having a debate they’re having a debate about it and doubt whether this dire picture that janet is painting might actually come to pass.
because even alternative parties on the right and those parties that you describe, they know fully well that the crisis before is almost insoluble.
to have said to boris johnson when he came to ask for her permission to be prime minister.
she is supposed to have said, and he himself circulated this remark of hers.
and that was only 2019.
and the accumulation of these problems have led to some very welcome rethinking about policy in the energy sector because, mean, the sins of the merkel era are coming home to roost.
our dependency and the allies are rubbing it in.
they don’ need to rub it in, we know it fully well!
it has led to the most astonishing about turns in people’ thinking.
fortunately, germany has a large gas reserve.
germans are traditionally good savers!
so we are hoping also that the winter may not sorry, it’ worth bearing in mind that the united states is energy self-sufficient and they’ve still got a problem and it’ because the price of the commodity has gone through the roof.
even if you have all the stores and all the capacity stored up, you still have a problem dealing with the present price because of world demand.
yeah, curiously that is aiding the current people in power because people understand what a hard situation that they find.
and we need to come to our senses to really allow understanding that it takes time.
and it will lead, in europe, to a new reckoning in terms of economic policies because the subsidising of energy prices, you know, from price caps to the cutting of and so on, this will have an impact on national budgets.
subsidising, all the things we wag our finger at when we see it in latin america or in sub-saharan africa.
but it’ happening.
we say governments shouldn’ do this, it is appalling.
but in europe, governments have been subsidising energy for companies and for private consumers because it’ essentially unsurmountable.
also, something must be done about the profit levels of some of these companies.
but we have just had two years of governments subsidising in this country through the covid pandemic?
yes.
mean, the economies of the west were put into induced comas and governments printed money to create the wealth that in the real economy.
now that in itself is a very dangerous situation and if you’re going to add to that additional subsidising of energy through money printing, because that is the only way that you can do it, it is a terrifying prospect because money, the currencies are going to become ludicrous.
they’re going to become valueless, like the old 1 in what you say.
relationship with russia.
is it a good idea to continually support ukraine in their fight with russia?
mean, the mother of all 2 in ukraine and i’ worried about the consensus in my country, which is still holding firm about but will it hold through the winter?
if they all claim that this is due to this war in ukraine, people might begin to politically change their mind.
hope not.
if people actually do find just wait a little longer, it will collapse, hopefully.
sources of energy then the oil and gas which are russia’ only exports, russia’ only income we’ll be less dependent on it.
well, they will go down the pan.
janet, 1 just want to pick up on what you were saying about the concerns about covid and putting the economy into deep freeze and printing money and so on.
does that mean that you think probably liz truss is on the right ground when she says, look, i’ going to rely on cutting taxes and growing the economy?
i’ not prepared you’re smiling away!
1 is that going to hold very long?
of a cost of living crisis is not just politically stupid, people are going to be wondering whether they can afford to heat their homes, whether they can afford to eat three meals a day, whether they can afford toc feed their children.
you can say lowering taxes, is not going to put money in their pockets to pay for the bills.
well, it will leave you more of your dispoesable income yeah, but not enough.
but she is not actually talking about, apart from corporation she is talking about not raising them, which is rishi sunak is suggesting.
the naticnal insurance rise.
or reversing the cut % insurance.
yes, the national insurance rise, she was going to cancel.
does it engender enough capital to pay for the bills?
if you take even more money out of people’ take-home pay well, of course, yeah.
rishi sunak has a different approach.
additional cost of energy bills, which is quite something to hear a conservative former chancellor say.
it just desperation?
somebody who started his political career claiming be a thatcherite.
who has nigel lawson’ portrait in his office when he was i think he is essentially trying to make kind of distinguish himself from liz truss in the hope but think it is going to be, think he is so behind the conservative, liz truss, in terms of leadership contest that he has no chance, i cyegl happens.
but he’ not saying that in response to what liz truss was saying.
he was the one who instituted and those of us, some of us, commentators criticised him at the time for kind of gordon brown economics.
but he did not do gordon brown economics, janet.
no, no, but hang on, let me make the point.
he is not saying what he is saying in response to what she is saying.
he was the one who started it and she is saying that she would a a2 what he’ trying to do is to come up as somebody who understands economics, as opposed to the solutions cutting taxes to sort the cost of living crisis.
yeah, but that’ the inflation you’re going to have in october.
all right, let me go back to your figure about inflation.
taxes in this country are now at the highest they have been for 70 years.
now, that is a figure ehe i and cannot see how, faced with a cost of living crisis and faced with the energy crisis, you could consider, even consider putting up direct taxation.
let me just end that thought ela what was being said earlier in this discussion.
energy doesn’ appear to be very fashionable i can remember talking to the then-energy minister in the brown government, in the early part of the century, telling me we’ve really got to do something about gas storage.
2 & about donald trump.
janet, we have had three significant legal moves, you could say four actually a atale of the attorney general saying he is prepared to actually release the details of the warrant and they were searching mar-a-lago in florida.
what do you make of the week’ events between donald trump well, everything in donald trump’ presidency was unprecedented, 1 for his inaugural address waving his fists in the air like a tinpot dictator, to the moment that he refused to accept the normal transition of government from one elected government to another.
to the moment that he cheered on an army of people ransacking the capitol.
mean, none of this, including the arrival of armed officers at his home, has any precedent in american, iin modern american history.
it is absolutely staggering.
now, it sounds as if, never bought the theory that the and the department of justice were doing some sort of vengeful attack at the behest of the biden government.
that was absurd, they would never take such a risk because if nothing else it would canonise him and his followers are like a religious cult, so that would not be a very clever thing to do.
so clearly they had something specific in mind.
and it seems now, they’re hinting that the documents that they’re searching for involve nuclear classified information, which it would be very, very serious if he was holding those in his private, in his own private property.
and it is particularly hillary clinton repeatedly for using a private -mail that she was risking classified information by doing this on a private -mail server.
and do you remember the chant "lock her up”?
yes.
about the people who took a8 the fifth amendment is a guarantee by the constitution that you will not have to incriminate yourself.
he just took the fifth amendment god knows how many times in this four-hour session he had with the attorney you wonder what it would take to dent the following, but i’ sure, on the hardcore faithful, trump faithful, this will have no impact, just as nothing had any impact.
evidence is produced.
but am dying to see the evidence that is produced.
both sides feeling energised ahead of the midterms, funice.
you have got the democrats thinking roe wade will allow them to win some independents, who will be unhappy with the effect, we say it no longer has a precedent to guarantee abortion rights in every state of the union.
and you’ve got republicans, in a sense, kind of fired up by this attack on trump, which, conveniently for trump, has forced a lot of prominent republicans to kind of rally to his cause again.
i’ not sure that both parties have reasons to be happy for those very same reasons.
the republicans on the one hand, don’ think an association with donald trump is quite excellent for the republican base because of course, as janet mentioned earlier, the followers of donald trump, it is a cult but they are not the majority of the republican and they will need to attract moderate republican voters in order to win an election.
and for other republicans to be re-elected in the mid-term i sub so that association with donald trump and in particular with his unlawful, his complete neglect and disrespect for the rule of law because that is essentially essentially what is.
when all these discussions around nuclear power and nuclear weapons programme information that he was holding a lot of sensible voters will be quite worried and they will not think that it is a good reason to support him.
the democrats on the other hand, it is not clear either there are very volatile.
we saw for instance in kansas there was a referendum which, to everyone’ surprise, the referendum on guaranteeing the protection remains in the state constitution, yeah.
become much, much harder.
what think will help the democrats is the inflation reduction act that has been signed, is about to be voted in congress.
because this was going to put money into people’ pockets.
this is a good story for democrats to go supported the bill.
and so that is think what is going to help but ultimately, both the parties are in deep there are some plausible alternatives to trump.
ron desantis, you know.
the governor of florida, yeah, if he gets re-elected.
even mike pence conceivably.
there are people who are on the right of the party, politically, who can attract for sound principled reasons those republicans, those sort of right wing republicans.
but the democrats, who are they going to choose?
possibly run again.
and his vice president, kamala harris, is a complete so she would normally be the inheritor, the vice president.
so who are the democrats going to propose?
let me bring thomas in because you watched a beleaguered democrat administration in an energy do you feel when you look at biden it is jimmy carter all over again?
not really because the two periods are so different.
carter had the oil crisis, which was the prevailing problem of the ‘70.
and that compared to the multiplicity of the crisis what think, and come back to what janet said, when you add all these things which are in balance iin america, think donald trump is the one american history.
yes, yes.
he has really completely upset the apple cart.
he has ceased traditions of political behaviour which were still in place under reagan and have completely fallen by the wayside.
and it is such a disastrously divided nation now that i grieve for the country that used to love for its stability that we used to look up to.
yes, they had their problems but ronald reagan and so forth, were is frightening.
war was there.
mean, he didn’ come out of nowhere and he could not have been elected if that terrible schizoephrenic and he doesn’ have a creed that you can propose something to follow he knows nothing about america.
he went to a very good private school.
went to a perfectly ordinary american high school.
had to learn 3al a don’ understand how somebody with his background, coming from his family, can manage to be quite so ignorant about the political culture that he is supposed to be presiding over.
let me end, we’ve got about a minute each for you to pose a thought about a minute on the pressing issue of, the british are talking about and europeans too, drought.
yes.
i think it is a growing concern.
every year gets worse.
now it is france, southern europe, portugal and spain have faced drought for many years.
a very agonising debate in the iberian peninsula about what we are going to do to tackle drought.
there is the wildfires because this essentially half the country is on fire because of those drought conditions.
now it is france and we are seeing now in northern europe.
and this is climate change and we still have a lot of governments, including in this country, in denialism about what to do to face climate change.
in the united kingdom about solar panels at a time when there is energy shortages = the things that you need to do to prevent these drought conditions.
it is very, very serious.
thomas, let’ talk about realism in politics and the position of the greens in germany.
well, it is something to do with what people think benefited our thinking i know it is a bit immoral to think about it when you look at the suffering of the ukrainian people.
brought some good changes of opinion and inward they have begun to say goodbye of creeds and what have you.
sacred cows and so on.
green, wanting to paint the world green virtually in every aspect of the word.
and they’re now having to learn the reality of how you deal with the crisis when you are in government.
and they are in government, which is a huge challenge and protest marches and so forth.
janet, last thought on globalisation.
can you sum up the threat.
yes, one of the situations we have learnt from that situation, the dependence on russian energy, the dependence on cheap manufactured goods from china i war that we were all friends now, we were all relatively democratic, free societies, not china, could somehow reach and trade goods for everybody’ interests, that is over.
and we now realise with china’ threat to taiwan and hong kong that it is not a great idea to be buying all our cheap manufactured goods from china and it is certainly not a great idea to be dependent on russia for energy.
janet daley, eunice goes, thomas kielinger, thank you all very much.
mentioned that headline with boris johnson in the paper from friday saying " attends meeting.
" it reminds me of a headline from the 1930, when ramsay macdonald had been prime minister for many years and was so fond of trying to achieve international peace that it is said that there was an english newspaper headline prime minister visits country.
i hope you’ll visit dateline again next weekend.
from all of us, goodbye.
after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week.
could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits log irl it’ certainly i ela and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid 33 1 of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really does come to take hold across the .
it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where i3 through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere ete’ for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it i 0 england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - just 23 celsius - down ten degrees on the figures through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up a westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, a1 0 in the way of rainfall.
we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
our top stories: a year on from the taliban retaking control of afghanistan, a special report on the women and girls who’ve been denied education, employment, and their childhoods.
if finish this school, start university, but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from the school.
sir salman rushdie’ family say 18 but has life-changing injuries, as more details emerge about the man charged @ more than 40 worshippers die at a church in eqypt after a fire rips through the building during mass.
and, queen of the mountains.
the norwegian climber who’ on the verge of setting a very special record.
it’ now monday in afghanistan, and a year since the taliban swept back into the afghan capital kabul, marking their takeover of the country and sparking scenes like these at the airport - thousands trying to leave in fear of - one year on, life for women oi 8 including restrictions our chief international correspondent lyse doucet, who was in kabul during the taliban takeover, = this special report.
i rueh afghanistan is a conservative country, by the ultraconservative taliban.
we met three generations of women whose lives speak loudly about their world.
many are afraid.
a identified.
this woman used to be in the finance ministry.
last year the taliban told her, stay at home.
a man would take her job.
: worked for more than 17 years in the finance ministry.
it was difficult with juggling family and work, but went to university and got my masters degree.
now we are back to zero.
everything is finished.
more than 60 female 20 have banded together.
a i of the exchanges on their messaging group: women haven’ completely disappeared from the streets or ministries, like health, education, security.
only for women.
this market has just reopened in the western city of herat.
this was the first day.
women, a bit nervous.
shops, still empty.
¥ ‘' this is your shop?
today it’ closed.
oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old suhaila is excited.
she’ reopening this dress shop with her big sister.
but she should be in her last year of school.
suhaila was the top student in her class.
really, am very sad.
if finish this school, 13 but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from school.
was it hard for you?
no school, shep.
think it’ not for me, and for all of the girls of afghanistan, it’ @ sad memory did miss school.
in the central highlands.
this is one of afghanistan’ poorest provinces.
and there’ still no aid to their government.
for the destitute and desperate, agonising choices.
this woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
she’ only 6 years old.
: she’ toe young.
so my other children don’ die of hunger.
it’ still very hard but now she can eat mol sane ele child marriage is prohibited but pervasive in afghanistan, but not this young.
we’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
: her in-laws told me they will take care of her like their own child because she’ so young.
they told me, don’ worry.
what mother wouldn’ worry?
what child wouldn’ weep?
a new generation takes shape in a new afghanistan.
the taliban say the rights of boys and girls within islam will be respected.
but one year on, there i lyse doucet, news, kabul.
the son of sir salman rushdie says his father suffered life-changing injuries in a knife attack on friday - 1 the author had been taken off a ventilator after being stabbed at an event in new york state.
the governor of new york says they will always stand up for freedom of thought.
inside the hospital, i i but a glimmer of hope for his family, as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
zafar also praised the audience members at the literary event on friday where his father was stabbed.
he said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
salman rushdie’ agent told us he is on the long road to recovery.
he faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old american suspect hadi matar has already appeared in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of attempted murder and attempted assault.
prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from new jersey to the event here in chautauqua, in western new york.
allowing him to attend the talk rushdie was due to give.
for decades, salman rushdie went into hiding the satanic verses, led to iran issuing a fatwa in 1989.
many muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
it is reported that police think hadi matar may have had sympathies for the iranian regime, but an official motive has a earlier, new york’ state governor spoke outside where the stabbing happened.
new york state will always stand up to protect freedom of expression, freedom of speech, and we condemn any individual or any group that dares violate the sanctity of a place like chautaugua.
had faced for decades.
nomia igbal, news, pennsylvania.
the government in egypt says at least 40 people have died, many of them children, in afire at a church where thousands of people had gathered for sunday worship.
it’ reported an electrical fire broke out at the coptic church in giza of the capital cairo.
our correspondent sally nabil sent this report a sunday church service that ended in tragedy.
behind these windows, egyptian christian worshippers died.
the abu sifin church busy neighbourhoed in giza.
the fire killed dozens, including many children.
people rushed into the building this woman lost her sister-in-law.
: she had five children.
and two boys.
my heart is on fire for all these victims.
the people i’ve spoken to here are clearly very angry.
they want to know exactly how and their loved ones died.
there will be questions too for the church itself and for the emergency services.
by an electrical fault.
and the church when the electricity was turned on again, there was an overload.
ir0 fire was coming out of the air-cenditioning it was on the third and fourth floors.
many worshippers fainted and could hardly breathe.
a major investigation is now under way.
inspectors from the public 1 already checked the scene.
there was nothing to suggest there are any criminal motives behind this incident, so far.
but the christian community here say they’ve had enough.
many of their churches have been targeted sally nabil, news, cairo.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
syrian state media say israel 4 on targets in tartus, on syria’ west coast.
reports say three soldiers were killed.
the syrian observatory for human rights says several missiles hit the vicinity of a village where iranian the saudi state-owned oil giant aramco has announced record profits of more than $48 billion for the second quarter of this year.
the world’ biggest oil producer’ net income has almost doubled year-on-year.
oil prices are up in the wake of russia’ attack on ukraine and increasing demand after the pandemic.
at least one person has died after an explosion rocked a shopping centre and caused a fireworks warehouse to catch videos on social media show large clouds of black smoke in the and people running away as a building collapsed.
to north korea now, where state media is reporting president vladimir putin seeking to establish closer ties between the two countries.
scott snyder, who’ a senior fellow for korea studies at the council on foreign relations, said president putin i think it represents a possible convergence last week, the russian ambassador to north korea suggested that north korean !
in doing reconstruction work in the breakaway provinces in the ukraine, of recognising these breakaway provinces.
and so, what it looks like is the possibility that there could be some kind of some kind of support by north korea in the form of labour in these areas, probably in return for substantial cash contributions to the flailing north korean economy.
stay with us on news.
still to come: putting the cat out, or not - the german town a - a washington, the world’ most political city, is today assessing the political health of the world’ most powerful man.
have a relationship with lewinsky that was not appropriate.
in fact, it was wrong.
in seuth africa, 97 people have been killed today, between rival black groups.
over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
russia is observing a national day of mourning 6 we are all with them now, within our hearts.
the pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more than 2.
5 million people "stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"well, well,” joked the pope, a year on from the taliban retaking control of afghanistan, its women and girls are still being denied education and employment.
the son of author sir salman rushdie says his injuries are life changing, but that his defiant sense of humour remains intact, after he was stabbed.
many of us have been through lockdowns in recent on a curfew.
but they have, in the last few hours, legally been allowed to leave their homes for 4 authorities there introduced a cat-lockdown in may, banning them from leaving the house without a lead, to stop them injuring or killing an endangered bird species.
but the lockdowns will occur reqularly and if owners don’ thousands of euros.
jessi morgan is the of predator free new zealand trust, she gave me her ad it’ a very interesting move by the government there.
1 great predators around the country, around the world, sorry and depending on where they are located, they could do severe damage to native do you have a problem with cats where you are in new zealand?
yes, in new zealand we have a lot of flightless ground and so that evolved in new zealand without any introduced mammalian predators, so cats are a huge problem here for our native species who are basically defenceless against cat.
so cats are not native to where you are in new zealand but devil’ advocate, they are native across europe.
surely this is just wildlife doing its yeah, well these birds, by my understanding, these crested larks are highly endangered and down to a few last breeding pairs, so i’ guessing the local to do anything they can to protect these birds and reducing the roaming feral cats to ensure they are not being predated on by other cats.
to the area, because what is predating on those cats?
and obviously there is a high density of cats with cats being introduced and owned and loocked after at home and potentially protected from those predators whack from what they would be naturally occurring in that area.
there is a bit of a carrot and stick approach of fines and threats of lockdowns, arguably much more the stick side of it but what does a good cat owner look llike?
letting your cats roam is actually an important part of keeping your cat safe and preventing them things in the environment.
the other things we recommend in new zealand are desexing unwanted population of kittens and microchipping your cat wandering it can be returned safely to its owners.
when you take a cat into your home as an important companion it is really important that you have the means to keep your cats home as much as possible and think that is a change for many parts of the world where we have let our cats roam in the past because we were unaware of the damage that they did to the native wildlife.
from 1ir3 from cats to alligators, probably not something you want as a in the state of florida in the , there are 1.
3 million of them and every year ten,000 people apply for licences to cull the animals.
7,000 of them are given out but hunting has always been restricted to nighttime, that is, until this year.
but not everyone is happy at the prospect of hunting taking place during the day.
pete corradino is a wildlife biologist and owner of everglades day safari.
hunting is something that has been going on for quite a long time but what has changed now is they are going to allow 24-hour hunting and what my opposition to is the changes that are going to happen is right where we take our so everglades day safari takes guests out on a air boat ride and that is specifically on a place called lake trafford where there are thousands of alligators and by opening up the hunting season to daylight hours, it is going to put hunters and tourists and potentially putting people in harms way, so that is the situation we are looking at starting tomorrow.
but the fish and wildlife commission says 1.
3 million alligators is simply too many, something has to be done.
if that is their take on it, that is not really what is going on.
we got 1.
3 million alligators, maybe even more.
historically we had probably 4 million alligators but over the course of the 20th century, alligators were hunted nearly to extinction.
they were put on the endangered species list and their populatioen numbers have come back very well, but what their basis is for safety issues, there have been 30 fatalities in the last 75 years caused by wild alligators.
of seven, actually, probably about 12-15 alligator attacks and this ranges from alligators biting people when they are swimming to people picking up alligators and getting bitten.
so that is each year and that is not a lot, so i’ not exactly sure they think doing this is going to make anything safer.
in fact by putting people out there with guns hunting while you’ve got tourists on air boats is probably the most unsafe thing you can do.
but officials also argue that applying for these licenses means people paying for these licenses is bringing money it is not to manage the population, it is simply for recreational purposes and to make money for the state.
want to tell you now about the the world’ 14 highest mountains - also known as the ‘super peaks’ each one has a summit of more than 8,000 metres - more than 26,000 feet.
climbing all 14 is a badge of honour in the mountaineering community - and doing so in record time is the biggest now a norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just that - as the ’ tim allman reports.
kristin harila carries a heavy burden.
she has just finished scaling the 11th highest mountain in the world, but she can barely pause for a moment.
we had like, a couple of rock falls, that was very dangerous.
the rest have been logistical problems and waiting times.
but climbing a mountain has not been so, not so much problems.
kristin only took up moeuntain climbing seven years ago, but she is clearly a quick study.
she is now on course to complete one of the sport’ most impressive achievements.
as everyone knows, mount everest is the world’ tallest peak at 8849 metres.
there are 13 other mountains that come in at a height above 8000 metres, and kristin has climbed 11 of them.
now she only has three more to complete the set and she wants to do it as quickly as possible.
at the moment, nepal’ nirmal purja holds the record, doing so in six months and six days.
if kristin beats his time she hopes it will send quite a message.
rol like, people believe men are more strong.
but in reality, the women are just as strong as the men kristin has until november a after a quick trip home to norway, she will head to nepal and tibet for the final phase.
now let’ take you to mexico city where families gathered at one of mexico’ fastest growing artistics parades since the pandemic.
lkaba koyl has this report.
welcome to the alebrijes parade, where mythical animals coated in dazzling bright colours dance the day away.
circus artists show off their skills on stilts with gymnastics and music, and it’ a summer favourite among young people.
but the event got interrupted because of the pandemic.
: during the pandemic we locked ourselves in.
we adults did because we had to earn a living but the children needed to get out.
now that iztapalapa is giving us this, we came to enjoy it.
the children can enjoy themselves and learn more each sculpture represents elements from different animals and none are alike.
they call them the alebrijes.
: it is interesting to create and bring to life those monsters that we might have in our dreams.
everyone can build a creature but it does take up at the end of the parade the alebrijes are placed on display and prizes are awarded for the best one.
it has become so popular in mexico city, entire families can’ resist taking part.
lkaba koyi, news.
igs much more on those stories on he news much more on those stories on news website or on the news app.
do stay with thanks for watching, see you 4 after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week.
could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits log irl it’ certainly i ela and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid 33 1 of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really does come to take hold across the .
it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where i3 through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere ete’ for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it i 0 england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - just 23 celsius - down ten degrees on the figures through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up a westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, a1 0 in the way of rainfall.
we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
it’ one year since the taliban swept into kabul and retook control of afghanistan, prompting scenes of chaos as people tried to flee.
different, with harsh rules dla the agent of the author sir salman rushdie, who is in a hospital following a stabbing attack, has said he is on the road a 1 sense of humour remained intact.
dozens of people have died at a church in the egyptian city of giza after a fire broke out, causing a stampede.
the authorities say at least 41 people were killed, many of them children.
they blamed the blaze on an electrical fault in the air-cenditioning system.
018 according to research in the and the , roughly one in 100 people is transgender.
but the fact that the debate about transgender rights has become a political and even health care battleground isn’ driven so much by the numbers, but more by conflicting shen faye is trans, a writer and a former lawyer.
is all this attention on issues of sex, gender and identity making it easier to be trans, or not?
shon faye, welcome to hardtalk.
thank you for having me.
it’ great to have you here.
also have a copy of your book, the transgender issue, which you wrote.
published last year.
it’ described on the cover as a landmark bestseller.
and in the intervening months since you published it, the transgender story, as we put it, the issues around transgender rights has in the political debate.
would it be right to assume that you are delighted those issues are so prominent?
er, think in one way, feel vindicated.
the argument that make in the book, essentially, is that there has been an explosion in discussion of transgender people across all forms of media and in politics.
but what argue in the book is that trans people are often not at the centre of these conversations, and the actual issues facing most trans people day to day do not form the substance of what is being discussed in the media.
and think we’ve seen this a lot recently in our own tory leadership election here in the , where often this with politicians, but doesn’ actually address the key issues facing a group which all evidence shows are somewhat marginalised, likely i i eal against and in some cases suffer greatly still.
we’ll talk a little bit about politics and politicians and the stands they take on this issue in a moment.
but let’ start with the public.
do you think the public generally has a clear understanding of what it means to be trans?
well, mean, the public is guite a diverse group of people, but think what most people watching this will think is that probably, in the last few years, there seems to have been an explosion in discussion for some people, it feels like trans people are suddenly everywhere, where they of course, that’ not true.
the intense media focus on such a small population, of the population.
a lot of people feel this debate is very fraught, .
and think suspect sometimes that they’re not getting decent infermation from certain parts of the media.
so what wanted to do was put something out there that gave people a sense of confidence in talking about these issues and this group of people.
and just to be very clear and basic about it, would it be right, if was to just do of what it means to be trans - it is, in essence, a person whose sexual sense of themselves, their gender identity, is at odds with the biological sex that they were born into?
think that’ a pretty robust definition, yes.
and think, within that, there is a huge spectrum of experience, because obviously your experience of being trans is inflected by so many things, right?
i3 18"2 6 range of experiences.
and of course, even within the label "trans™, some people medically transition, some people are non binary - they reject the gender binary altogether.
so it is an umbrella term to describe a diverse range of experience.
and as you’ve just suggested, therefore, personal experience a to understanding.
if you don’ mind, i’ love to just talk a little bit 1 personal experience.
you were born in the south-west of england.
yes.
raised as a boy.
but it seems from very early in your life, you felt at odds with that identity.
and just wonder how easy it was for you to make that transition to telling the world that you were not and could not my teenage years were spent in the early 2000, which was a time where even gay people, the level of kind of acceptance and tolerance in society for gay people was not where it is today, and when was growing up, there was so little representation of trans people.
where it was there, it was as objects of ridicule.
and so, growing up in that environment, knowing that had a dissonance with certain aspects of gender that were being imposed on me, but not having any reference point.
and so it took a long time and a couple of evolutions interesting you say a couple of evolutions.
because think i’ right in saying that for a time you came out as gay.
yes.
as a gay male.
and then you still felt at odds with this identity and you, in the end, after university, after, think, qualifying as a lawyer, you came out as a transgender you felt you were a female.
because we’re talking a lot about the mental health issues, which this happens.
how difficult was that for you to do?
mean, extremely difficult.
again, as point to in 41 is a systemic issue for all trans people.
i’ probably at the more privileged end of the spectrum of trans people.
i’ middle class, you know?
university educated.
had a lot of issues in my late teens and early 20 that think were tied directly to a feeling of being lost.
wouldn’ say that’ entirely due to gender, but certainly it’ a major factor when you feel existentially on some levels different to people around you.
and what i’ keen to point to in the book is that this so, for example, 64% of trans young people in school now in britain say they are bullied for being , and over half that was my experience, too.
was bullied for being gender-nonconforming, feminine - as you say.
at that time, the only reference point if you were presenting or you were raised of construed as feminine, then people would assume that you were gay.
been at school, all the evidence shows actually trans young people are coming out earlier and earlier, and that means they’re encountering hostility inn some cases earlier.
and there’ quite a lot of data now on this.
mean, self-harm is a problem for people who are in this situation.
and suicide is also more common amongst trans young people than amongst the rest of the population.
did you ever get into that dark place yourself?
well, did as a public-facing trans person that you have to make yourself a spectacle of trauma or of difficulty.
and i’ not necessarily here to be a professional victim myself.
i certainly struggled with my mental health.
that’ something i’ve spoken about very publicly.
i think it’ important as a public-facing trans woman to not sanitise my experience everywhere, because i’ve reached a point in my 30.
often, my own personal experience as do the case studies in my book, which would probably be point towards a society that unfortunately creates a hostile environment in which mental health problems for trans people are sort of reinforced.
and think it’ really important to stress, of mental health problems amongst trans people, it can almost potentially lead to a narrative where trans people themselves are sort of painted as inherently unstable or pathologized as mentally ill, as they have been for a lot of the 20th century.
that trans people find it harder to get jobs, they find it harder to deal with the housing system - all sorts of different ways in which life appears, for a lot of trans people, to be very tough.
well, one in four trans people in the will experience that’ staggeringly high.
and the reasons for that start unfortunately often in your family home, fear of family or community rejection.
and of course, with that comes attendant mental health issues.
and it’ clear in the book that you feel this should be absolutely top of the agenda when it comes to the discussion of what it means to be transgender in the , but if we are honest, it is not top of the discussion at all.
no, it is not.
what we find in the right now, and you referred to the fact that it even i a about the future of and who will be the next prime minister, what we find the debate centres on a few issues which are concerned with rights and how transgender people fit in a society when it comes, for example, to treatment in the prison service, treatment within organised sport.
those are the issues which consistently get yes, they do, because mean, the title of the book, the transgender issue, is a trojan horse because what the essential argument of the book and use that title is that often when people they’re not really talking about the challenges facing trans people.
they are talking about anxieties in society at large cisgender people.
but that’ entirely understandable, is it not?
because as said at the very beginning, roughly one in 100 people is trans.
therefore 99% of the population is not trans.
and it is inevitable that those 99% will want to work out how trans people fit and how they, as non-trans people, relate to trans people.
think, yeah, of course, people will want to do that.
but think, at the same time, where there becomes a problem with that is that trans people are constantly reframed as a new thing, as a new group that sort of turned up knocking on the door, asking to be let in.
sometimes literally, if you’re talking about public space.
and actually, what would 0 are already here.
and the reality is that we’re not a theaoretical or conceptual problem.
and think that’ a huge problem with some of the ways in which the issues that are amplified in the media is that we get into this theoretical debate about whether i’ a woman or the nature of sex and gender.
and they’re a bit of a smokescreen.
but it’ not theoretical to many women.
and guess this is where one of the deepest fault lines lies in the debate about transgender rights, because there are many women - women - who say they are deeply unhappy with the notion that trans women should be given access to all of the spaces, including the safe spaces that women say they need to feel secure in society.
yes.
no, do understand that.
actually have a lot of sympathy for the anxieties that are in play in this discussion, in terms of fear of male viclence.
and male violence against women tends to be perpetrated by men known to women - usually an intimate partner or family member.
or the lack of space and women’ safe spaces and refuge services, which have been cut by successive tory space in the .
neither of those issues are about trans women.
those are about successive conservative governments and about a broader problem with male viclence.
and think it’ worth saying that 16% of trans women in the in the past year will have experienced domestic abuse at the hands of a partner or ex-partner.
are often struggling with gender-based violence in similar ways to the ways that cisgender women are.
and for me, it’ much more about coming together to resist austerity and cuts and a devaluation of that’ where you want to put the debate.
but it’ not necessarily where, you know, some proeminent women, including long-time feminists, to be right now.
now, not so long ago on this show, we had kathleen stock she says she was hounded out of her academic post by the trans activist community and supporters of that community.
she says, and i’ going to quote you now, that actually she’ just trying to ensure that women’ rights are not undermined.
she says, "genuine female-only services and spaces "aren’ a character slur upon all men, "nor are they a character slur on trans women.
"they are simply safequarding measures "designed to protect women and girls.
” do you understand where she and many other self-styled feminists are coming from?
understand where they’re coming from.
because, mean, i’ve read a & mean, she describes trans people’ lives as an immersive fiction.
stephen, even if said to you, "your life is an immersive fiction” - it’ exactly what said before, isn’ it?
it’ abstraction and a theoretical discussion about real people that exist.
of gender-based violence - of misogynist violence, frankly, when it’ domestic and sexual viclence at the hands of cis male ex-partners, which is exactly the same patterns as women who are seeking safe spaces.
what am interested in is not these arguments that look at exclusion of entire groups, but if we cannot accommodate all women currently - which we can’, not even all non-trans women - there is something wrong politically with how we’re investing in women’ services.
understand what you’re saying.
just wonder whether you feel, right now, despite the success of your book, whether you’re losing the argument?
because in certain different spheres it seems the movement cta don’ want it to be.
for example, the equality and human rights commission has declared that trans women can be excluded from some contexts, from some female-only changing rooms and bathroom facilities.
in sports, for example, we’ve got some key sports like swimming and rugby, which have now, at an official level, said, "no, trans women can’ compete.
” so do you feel you’re losing the argument?
mean, that’ an interesting question.
think there is a question here about interpretation of the equality act - is what you were discussing but think, to be honest, all women are losing currently because we have existed under successive conservative governments which are not prioritising any women at all.
and if you look globally, there is an attack on trans people’ bodily autenomy and, as we see in the , there is an attack on women’’ bodily autonomy by the right.
all women have a big storm coming.
context and the fact that it’ important for us to be fighting for safety from violence i 4, perhaps the most significant battleground of all right now, too - is over health care and young people and how one often called body dysphoria.
who feel that they are inhabiting a body that doesn’ identity.
and we’re talking about kids - very young kids in some cases.
what do you think the right thing to do is in those cases?
well, i think the first thing to say there is that there one right thing to do.
situation in every case.
every child is different.
we have to talk in generalisations for 4 discussion, for the purposes but every child will have a different relationship with gender, and even children experiencing gender dysphoria, there can be, like, a huge difference in experience.
speak to a family of a young trans girl who, at the time spoke to her, was still in primary school.
she had socially transitioned.
obviously, young children do not medically transition.
and the alleviation of her distress from when she was allowed to go into school understand her to be a girl, even though she was assigned she was before, that for me is the convincing argument and think it’ about looking at balancing what we have to look at with young people is balancing the severe distress that gender can cause versus all potential options for them.
of course, potential risks.
but what is really going on here?
is extraordinary.
there seems to have been this exponential sort of explosion in the numbers of children who are being taken to clinics and who are being reported as experiencing gender in recent years.
you know, think the figures that were used in the new statesman magazine not so long ago - i were referred to the gender yoy 0 service in the .
by 2018, that number had risen from 40 to 1,800.
now, that suggests that perhaps are experiencing something fundamentally different.
it’ just standards of diagnosis and the way clinicians are dealing with this is fundamentally changing.
is that what you think?
well, actually think to your earlier question about my experience growing up.
as said to you, when was growing up, the internet was very ropey in those days - but didn’ see any trans people, so therefore did not come out until my 20.
what is happening now, i think, is that more and more young people are aware of the existence of gender diversity, of trans people, of gender-nonconforming people.
and so a lot of young people are able to give voice to what some people have always felt.
you know, it’ those statistics about the rise in referrals to gender identity development services for young people can be used as a sort but provided the services are good, it’ good yeah, well, the tavistock clinic, which is at the centre of what has been happening, the government has now said it should be closed down.
its gender identity services are going to be closed down and when you talk about experiences, let’ talk just wonder whether it gives you pause.
with her own experience.
she was put on puberty blockers at the age of 16.
and a year later, she says she was receiving testosterone when she was 20, she had a double mastectomy.
"the further my transition went, "the more realised wasn’ a man "and never would be.
" something went very badly wrong there.
people like janice turner and other journalists who call 1 isn’ an isolated example.
too often things are going badly wrong - and that needs a1 ¥ mean, keira bell’ surgical interventions all happened in adulthood, and sure, but she was put on the puberty blockers have become a big issue.
yes.
she was put on them at 16.
which is a reversible treatment.
puberty blockers are she made the decision as an adult, and think all adults should 2 that to me seems analogous should children have a1 010 a4 mean, children do.
we have legal rights i you know, there was the gillick i a a1 children should be able to access contraception, for example.
puberty blockers, which are i of gender for trans young people, were originally prescribed to children a most treatments given to trans young people were actually and the other thing wanted to say is that whilst keira bell’ apparent distress with the decisions that she made is very real, feel its use in this context is analogous to what you see in the .
as we’re seeing right now with the anti-abortion lobby is that you can get very powerful stories of abortion regret.
i mean, the plaintiff in roe versus wade, roe later came that she created case law over.
the reality is that human lives are much more messy when we allow them autonomy.
but what we do not allow is one person’ regret to curb the principle of autonomy generally.
these are complex issues - there’ no doubt about that.
one thing is clear is i as you put it in the title of your book, the transgender issue, has created deep divisions within the feminist movement.
yes.
do you regard yourself as a feminist?
yes, think most trans women do, because our experiences of the constraints of gender roles, our experiences of, unfortunately, gender-based violence and harassment put us with feminist principles.
if you do - and you’re very clear you do - how do you build bridges to so many?
you know, sometimes they’re i and i’ve already cited janice turner.
i could cite rowling and others who are adamant that they are feminist to the core, but they feel that you and the community & making arguments that are anti-feminist, that are undermining many of the rights that women had fought for, for decades how do you build bridges?
well, mean, one of the sort of realities of feminism, wherever it has existed throughout history, is that it has always had quite deep divisions.
there are divisions over sex work, pornography, - it’ a movement that often is involving women for reasons of great passion.
in bridge building.
do think things have become highly polarised and it’ unhelpful.
because one of the problems think with this discussion that a lot of it has happened on social media, 1 problem there with people when you give people an audience, when it becomes a tool so that people can have some thoughts.
not everyone has to agree with everything say in the book, but hopefully that will build a bridge.
and have actually had messages and emails from women, feminists, who have said that it has shifted their position.
we might not agree on everything, but it has somewhat shifted their position in the privacy i dala - and that’ the best shon faye, sadly we’re out of time, but thank you very thank you for having me.
after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week.
could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits log irl it’ certainly i ela and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid 33 1 of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really does come to take hold across the .
it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where i3 through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere ete’ for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it i 0 england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - just 23 celsius - down ten degrees on the figures through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up a westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, a1 0 in the way of rainfall.
we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
@ a year on from the taliban retaking control of afghanistan, a special report on the women and girls who’ve been denied education, employment, and their childhoods.
if finish this school, start university, but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from the school.
but has life-changing injuries, as more details emerge about the man charged i @ farewell to freya.
and, queen of the mountains.
the norwegian climber who’ on the verge of setting a very special record.
it’ now monday in afghanistan, and a year since the taliban swept back into the afghan capital kabul, marking their takeover of the country and sparking scenes like these at the airport - thousands trying to leave in fear of - different - with harsh rules dla our chief international correspondent lyse doucet, who was in kabul during the taliban takeover, = this special report.
i rueh afghanistan is a conservative country, by the ultraconservative taliban.
we met three generations of women whose lives speak loudly about their world.
many are afraid.
a identified.
this woman used to be in the finance ministry.
last year the taliban told her, stay at home.
a man would take her job.
: worked for more than 17 years in the finance ministry.
it was difficult with juggling family and work, but went to university and got my masters degree.
now we are back to zero.
everything is finished.
more than 60 female 20 have banded together.
a i of the exchanges on their messaging group: women haven’ completely disappeared from the streets or ministries, like health, education, security.
only for women.
this market has just reopened in the western city of herat.
this was the first day.
women, a bit nervous.
shops, still empty.
¥ ‘' this is your shop?
today it’ closed.
oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old suhaila is excited.
she’ reopening this dress shop with her big sister.
but she should be in her last year of school.
suhaila was the top student in her class.
really, am very sad.
if finish this school, 13 but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from school.
was it hard for you?
no school, shep.
think it’ not for me, and for all of the girls of afghanistan, it’ @ sad memory did miss school.
in the central highlands.
this is one of afghanistan’ poorest provinces.
and there’ still no aid to their government.
for the destitute and desperate, agonising choices.
this woman gave her daughter in marriage for about £1000.
she’ only 6 years old.
: she’ toe young.
so my other children don’ die of hunger.
it’ still very hard but now she can eat mol sane ele child marriage is prohibited but pervasive in afghanistan, but not this young.
we’ve hidden the identity of mother, daughter and son.
: her in-laws told me they will take care of her like their own child because she’ so young.
they told me, don’ worry.
what mother wouldn’ worry?
what child wouldn’ weep?
a new generation takes shape in a new afghanistan.
the taliban say the rights of boys and girls within islam will be respected.
but one year on, there i lyse doucet, news, kabul.
so so many challenges one year on, much more to discuss ter.
wwe will be live to to talk to the international mittee of the cross to committee of the red cross to 0 about their committee of the red cross to 14 4 talk about their work there, \ talk about their work there, currently.
all that to come on rogramme.
the son of sir salman rushdie says his father suffered life changing injuries in a knife attack on friday, 1 the author has been taken off a ventilator after being stabbed at an event in new york state.
our north america correspondent nomia igbal has the latest.
inside the hospital, i i but a glimmer of hope for his family, as he is taken off a ventilator and is breathing unaided.
zafar also praised the audience members at the literary event on friday where his father was stabbed.
he said they bravely leapt to his defence to help him.
salman rushdie’ agent told us he is on the long road to recovery.
he faces losing an eye and his liver is badly damaged.
24-year-old american suspect hadi matar has already appeared in court and pleaded not quilty to the charges of attempted murder and attempted assault.
prosecutors allege he travelled by bus from new jersey to the event here in chautauqua, in western new york.
allowing him to attend the talk rushdie was due to give.
for decades, salman rushdie went into hiding the satanic verses, led to iran issuing a fatwa in 1989.
many muslims considered his writing blasphemous.
it is reported that police think hadi matar may have had sympathies for the iranian regime, but an official motive has a earlier, new york’ state governor spoke outside where the stabbing happened.
new york state will always stand up to protect freedom of expression, freedom of speech, and we condemn any individual or any group that dares violate the sanctity of a place like chautaugua.
had faced for decades.
ever ever since the attack on friday, world leaders have been ing ords of solidarity for issuing words of solidarity for 3 salman rushdie.
president biden released a statement praising the author for his sal to praising the author for his nomia igbal, news, pennsylvania.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
north korean state media say the russian president, vladimir putin, has called for stronger ties putin said it would help 14 and stability of the korean peninsula and wider region.
some experts say russia may want north korean labourers to carry out work in some of the seized territory in in eqypt, at least 41 people have died in a fire at a coptic which took hold during mass, is being blamed on an electrical fault in the air conditioning system.
pledged to rebuild the church.
pakistani and indian border guards have taken part in a ceremony at the wagah border post as both countries it was a theatrical ritual symbolising the countries’ hostility after independence, but the display ended a walrus nicknamed freya, popular in the oslo fjord in norway, has been put down.
authorities had warned earlier this week that they were considering the measure after issuing warnings about crowds getting too a the ’ azadeh moshiri has this report.
by all accounts, freya the walrus was having a good mer.
leaving the arctic to go euro trip, she landed oslo jord whereby go on a euro trip, she landed i , in oslo fjord whereby mid-july i a in oslo fjord whereby mid-july she had become a popular raction.
nicknamed after the rse goddess love and norse goddess of love and beauty freire was making a ash, chasing after ducks, clambering onto boats to bathe and weighing £1300 ometimes even sinking them.
things became problematic people wouldn’ stay away.
much that when people wouldn’ stay away.
i when people wouldn’ stay away.
so much so that after several ings to the public warnings to the public warnings to the public authorities decided to put her a i authorities decided to put her down.
: .
public has safety has been prioritised, animal welfare a priority, a life and wealth come human life and wealth come and that was decisive this time.
sleep is important lruses, they kidnapped ver ours today, and sleep over hours today, and her sleep was getting interrupted, there even eports she had tarted chasing onlookers away.
there has been a backlash to he authority’ decision.
been dear - very it’ been dear -- very slailatlid it’ been dear -- very difficult to get our heads und she was euthanised there were so many other and there were so many at other actions that could have been first, there are ways of crowd control that can change 2 aviour of people much the behaviour of people much i sier than trying to change tle 2 easier than trying to change the behaviour of the walrus.
walruses are a protected cies and while it’ rare for to attack a human it can ppen.
experts are asking putting her down really the azadeh moshiri, news.
stay with us on news.
a not so happy handshake.
bad blood at stamford bridge as chelsea draw with tottenham.
washington, the world’ most political city, is today assessing the political health of the world’ most powerful man.
have a relationship with lewinsky that was not appropriate.
in fact, it was wrong.
in seuth africa, 97 people have been killed today, between rival black groups.
over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
russia is observing a national day of mourning 6 we are all with them now, within our hearts.
the pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more than 2.
5 million people "stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"well, well,” joked the pope, our top story: a year on from the taliban retaking control of afghanistan, its women and girls are still being denied education and employment.
let’ stay with that story now.
we can speak now to eloi fillion, head of delegation a very warm welcome to the programme.
a very warm welcome to the dil a very warm welcome to the programme.
our international espondent was specifically ooking at the plight of looking at the plight of women irls afghanistan.
what and girls in afghanistan.
what your key and girls in afghanistan.
what i a i 0 and girls in afghanistan.
what are your key concerns at the che one year on?
the key moment one year on?
the key concerns that we all have, rting the whole of the supporting the whole of the afghan population, is the pening of the economy crisis ich is putting people in ifficult situations and just ing to put food their trying to put food on their = ble, and when we look at the chievement, the organisation one year now, we can see since one year now, we can see i that these efforts are not enough to basically respond to rowing needs of the population.
we have the growing needs of the population.
we have supported last year over 33 since last year over 33 spitals in order for them to ntinue running, and hat hat ese hospitals, over =1 these hospitals, over 100,000 - have been born since the babies have been born since the beginning of this year, and we ust worried about how these babhies will be able are just worried about how i these babies will be able to rvive in the future due to he lack of job the lack of job opportunities he downgrade of the and the downgrade of the economy situation and on and a1 2 economy situation and so on and so forth.
in terms of foreign obviously a lot of that stopped when the teller = stopped when the teller man over a ear ago.
what is talked over a year ago.
what is he situation now?
there is a humanitarian support lot of humanitarian support that is being done by organisation work for and many others including the nnaie many others including the but it is falling short, that nitarian aid, to what the was being provided a year ina sense that there is no a1 ago in a sense that there is no investment is being done, the ing system is still not banking system is still not orking properly, no investment i working properly, no investment can be done privately or in the sector.
and, of course, public sector.
and, of course, that has an impact on the ber of jobs which are number of jobs which are available for the population hat the humanitarian ector can ater is not enough 1 4 for all the needs that are for all the needs that are growing because the whole nomy is in collapse.
so, iven what you have just said, is the long-term outlook afghanistan under taliban ?
what are doing to rule?
what are they doing to have an economic rule?
what are they doing to en- 1ale rule?
what are they doing to have an economic scenario that can 4 upport the country going ward?
so, is very forward?
so, it is very elailatlts forward?
so, it is very difficult to predict how the ation ill evolve .
difficult to predict how the situation will evolve.
at the oment, the signals are not ally ositive.
be it from the of what the government, % by the islamic emirates, , and a well how the can do, and a well and how the ational community will ave to find solutions to upport afghan population the hailatlid support the afghan population in the difficult and complex ations everyone is facing.
so, in that prospect, for anitarian ganisations such humanitarian organisations such as us, the situation is very, concerning.
is at the taliban very concerning.
is at the taliban showing any signs of ing to negotiate and co-operate with organisations as ours, and other - you such as yours, and other - you now - foreign investors and eign donors order to foreign donors in order to ali0 more - you know - aid bring more - you know - aid coming in, money coming in, so they can support the that they can support the conomy going forward?
from our pective a humanitarian organisation, and for the in particular, the llaboration in particular, the = thda in particular, the collaboration with the ernment of the islamic a tle emirates at our level is perfectly fine.
we have hat level of trust at allows to work together.
specifically us to work together.
we lyul 14 3 us to work together.
we specifically work very much ely with the ministry of public health, for instance.
the present with the present administration, and we are tructively building up constructively building up programmes and progressing in aie 101 programmes and progressing in our common endeavours support service to be delivered to population.
but, of course, re are a of negotiations 1 governments of we going on between the governments of the world’ and overnment but there are a i our government but there are a lot of complex issues linked to he sanctions are being applied, links to political iderations, to considerations, links to positioning of one or the other are making progress in a a a1 terms of how the international community should be supporting like afghanistan a country like afghanistan inks to the existing needs of population, and the eality.
reality.
there is so its populatien, and the reality.
there is so much to is almost overwhelming.
loise fillion, thank you for king to us about the talking to us about the situation at that you are sing in the kabul.
they are known as the super 14 highest mountains.
each one has a summit a 0 climbing all 14 is a badge of honour for any mountaineer, and doing so in record time is the biggest honour now, a norwegian climber is on the verge of doing just that, as the ’ tim allman reports.
christian carries christian carries a heavy burden.
she has just finished ing the 11th highest ola scaling the 11th highest mountain in scaling the 11th highest = scaling the 11th highest mountain in the world.
but can barely ause for a moment.
these things don’ climate selves.
we have ouple of themselves.
we have a couple of a4 alls and the rest have rock falls and the rest have been at logistical problems in ing times for climbing the ola waiting times for climbing the iole waiting times for climbing the waiting times for climbing the mountain has not been so - not problems.
christian i\ 1 so much problems.
christian only took up mountain climbing 1 4 years ago, but she is seven years ago, but she is clearly a quick study and is course to complete one a now on course to complete one of the sport’ most pressive achievements.
as everyone , mount everest is the world’ highest peak.
at 8849 es.
there are 13 other metres.
there are 13 other mountains that metres.
there are 13 other a i metres.
there are 13 other mountains that come in i i mountains that come in at a height above mountains that come in at a 0 mountains that come in at a height above 8000 metres, and in has claimed 11 of them.
kristin has claimed 11 of them.
now, she only has three more to ete the set compete the set and she wants to compete the set and she wants nid a0 compete the set and she wants to do it as quickly as sible.
at the moment, epal’ man has the record and ristin beats his time she hopes it will send quite a sage.
think that is just - ople believe that men are ore strong but in reality women re just as strong as the are in the mountain, and here is no difference men are in the mountain, and , there is no difference between us.
kristin there is no difference between .
kristin has until nevember to a us.
kristin has until november i to set a new record.
after a 144 trip home to norway, she head to nepal and tibet the final phase.
the last uper eaks in her super sites.
allman, news.
well, it be incredible tim allman, news.
well, it - incredible if she does will be incredible if she does 3 achieve that.
let’ ing you of the sports news.
where we start with premier league football, and a heated ending to the 2-2 draw at stamford bridge between chelsea and tottenham that saw both managers sent thomas tuchel and antonio conte had already received yellow cards after a flare up earlier in the game, at the conclusion saw both managers handed a red card.
it came after a harry kane goal six minutes into stoppage time saw the match finish level, despite chelsea holding the advantage twice, and both managers played down the incident after the game.
just compared to players who have jjust compared to players who i 1 have a bit of fight on the bill, but nothing happens, gets njured, and the nobody gets injured, and the place, if you have a harder kle, or, fair tackle and you ’ go ater and apologise, not don’ go later and apologise, a a don’ go later and apologise, it is not it is premier league ball.
wwell, emier league football.
well, premier league football returned to the city after an absence.
nothingham forest secured a 1-0 victory over west ham.
goalkeeper dean henderson saving a second-half penalty from declan rice - another unforgettable day 12 months ago.
later on monday, liverpool host - i for their first win of the new campaign.
at home by arsenal on the opening day, while liverpool did something their manager has been reflecting on.
you can lose a game, but you have to learn from it and in ase, it is have to learn from it and in 14 this case, it is exactly the - because it felt llike if we uld have ost it was xactly feeling had when left stadium, the feeling had when left 01 4 the feeling had when left the stadium, but we the feeling had when left the stadium, but we didn’.
that is the good news.
we got a .
now, let’ go.
simona halep has won the canadian open in torento after a tough three set win over brazil’ beatriz haddad the romanian who’ now i = taking the first set, and despite losing the second, showed enough quile to claim the 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 win and a 24th title, while in the canadian masters in montreal, spaniard pablo i down to beat the eighth seeded the pole was unbeaten in five finals before this, and carreno busta became a1 now let’ take you to mexico city where families gathered at one of mexico’ fastest growing artistic parades since the pandemic.
lkaba koyl has this report.
welcome to the alebrijes parade, where mythical animals coated in dazzling bright colours dance the day away.
circus artists show off their skills on stilts with gymnastics and music, and it’ a summer favourite among young people.
but the event got interrupted because of the pandemic.
: during the pandemic we locked ourselves in.
we adults did because we had to earn a living but the children needed to get out.
now that iztapalapa is giving us this, we came to enjoy it.
the children can enjoy themselves and learn more each sculpture represents elements from different animals and none are alike.
they call them the alebrijes.
: it is interesting to create and bring to life those monsters that we might have in our dreams.
everyone can build a creature but it does take up at the end of the parade the alebrijes are placed on display and prizes are awarded for the best one.
it has become so popular in mexico city, entire families can’ resist taking part.
lkaba koyi, news.
now, we have all of the top business now, we have all of the top 4 now, we have all of the top business stories next including 1 noermous profits made the enoermous profits made by a saudi arabian company.
stay us.
i give you he with us.
will give you the tails in after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week.
could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits log irl it’ certainly i ela and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid 33 1 of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really does come to take hold across the .
it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where i3 through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere ete’ for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it i 0 england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - just 23 celsius - down ten degrees on the figures through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up a westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, a1 0 in the way of rainfall.
we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
this is news with the latest business headlines for viewers in the printing money - the world’ largest oil exporter, saudi aramco, makes over $48 billion in profits in in the second quarter - that’ a 90% increase.
japan’ economy continues to grow at a healthy pace, plus, uncharted waters.
container vessel 72 a special report on this potential shipping revolution.
if you if you have just joined us, good to have you with &3 and central banks grapple with rising inflation and a cost of living crisis, the world’ biggest oil company = a than $48 billion in quarter of this year.
the eye-watering sum marks a 90% year-on-year increase and the biggest jump in earnings for the world’ largest energy exporter but what is the outlook for oll prices this year and beyond?
in the price of energy worldwide - prices have come off the highs reached earlier this year a on the horizon in europe and other key economies globally, there are differing the price of the oll is headed.
let’ talk this through with craig erlam - senior market analyst at oanda.
aramco, huge sums of money made, and the boss says it is to raise output if asked by the overnment to maximum apacity of 12 million barrels , give us your outlook for the price of 0il?
you summed it uite well in the intro, its eye watering, of the eye watering, now one of the rld’ largest companies and porters, we are seeing record fits across the beard etty profits across the board pretty 1ile1 profits across the board pretty much in the oil sector, no prise that saudi aramco has the same, had the potential to done the same, they had the 108 done the same, they had the potential to raise output over ast year but chosen not to.
that is one he things that people may find ficult to understand.
terms of outlook for to understand.
in terms of the i tlook for oil it’ incredibly 1: outlook for oil it’ incredibly uncertain as you can imagine, have an extremely tight while market because the market strong 18 supply is not, therefore we have seen big kes in the price of oil as verybody knows from they they have been filling up their .
we have a pullback cars.
we have seen a pullback 20% over the last month, driven ouple of factors, one the by a couple of factors, one the fact are seeing demand arting subside the demand 4 utlook is subside in many ses, the hreat of recession 4 that’ not really we we want to prices falling but is the reality re, it that is the reality here, it always buys time for these oil ucers to catch up producers to catch up production targets which they ’ able to production targets which they i production targets which they weren’ able to hit after years derinvestment, and the of underinvestment, and the surprise surge in demand we saw aftermath in the aftermath of the pandemic, hopefully this has some time look like we bought some time look like we ould see price spikes a few ago and keep oil and months ago and keep oil and double-digit territory.
it is to = redict and so tricky to predict and so important to get it right for iyh a8 ntral banks making aids central banks making decisions interest rates in = months ahead and about interest rates in the months ahead and governments of how they can help useholds cope with the cost iving prices, which is to a eat degree, driven by the 134 igh cost of energy?
bsolutely, it’ difficult for ernment hat they don’ want 0 government what they don’ want 1 pporting the use of fossil uels so they want to walk a ine between supporting families and businesses through icult.
but also not wanting to incentivise demand in these especially when we look 1 1 areas especially when we look at what is happening with ards to russia right now, a1 that’ not what they want to ing so trying to find a fine between stimulating mand, and supporting ouseholds which is finding so llenging.
but the outlook is 0 incredibly uncertain at lilis oint in time because of global environment we are in sheer amount of and the sheer amount of %1018 and the sheer amount of uncertainty with regard to the ukraine and the ongoing war in ukraine and the ongoing i math of the global aftermath of the global pandemic.
all of these factors the oil price and makes into the oll price and makes qr0 into the oil price and makes the job of central banks more icult, they to look difficult, they tend to look past energy prices that is noting there are worth noting but there are ther fix the cost to businesses when they had to on prices this has a eluisld pass on prices this has a eluee pass on prices this has a factor in the course size of ation which central inflation which central banks lose attention to.
think pay close attention to.
i think he considerable uncertainty esy% carry on until the considerable uncertainty 4 will carry on until the end of he year and until 2023 as global power & energy research director at frost and sullivan.
if we just talk about aramce, huge sums of money made, the eelp says it is poised to company says it is poised to increase output daily.
there is of pressure on saudi a lot of pressure on saudi arabia and to increase ision of on global markets but it is limited in lel terms of increasing capacity?
as craig said, terms of increasing capacity?
1 terms of increasing capacity?
as craig said, there is ential of saudi aramco potential of saudi aramco wanted to significantly rease output, and the kingdom but the increase output, and the kingdom but the reality is that rice of $100 a barrel 1 worked well for saudi aramco company means they worked well for saudi aramco i a1 has a company means they can ake significant profits , here are downsides coming in of how the russia terms of how the russia ukraine war a0 terms of how the russia ukraine 8 - terms of how the russia ukraine war continues to unfold and the slowdown in the global conomy which will take the a out of oil prices and uld see some falls in the atter part of the year into 2023, their perspective pushing production is robably not a big priority the is roughly where they want it ow.
where in want it now.
where are you in i of what you terms of what you are predicting the price of oil do this will do this year and into the year because we have just tioned there are differing iews, one says oil prices uld be around $85 a barrel look goldman sachs and you look at goldman sachs they say well over $100 and ’ a difference, in i that’ a big difference, in terms of what it that’ a big difference, in aiaii that’ a big difference, in terms of what it will cost all of us trying to keep our homes, it is a big difference, it challenging to predict or i’ve been in this ndustry a long time and have prices approach to hundred $20 a barrel and the ality we hink is little robably be in the 90 0 0 range, there are varying unts range, there are varying 0 range, there are varying amounts of upside and downside probably keeping it in that range, that’ where we see tting obviously, this eans that energy costs going to stay considerably high he foreseeable future, for the foreseeable future, 1 cially a lot of the big especially a lot of the big energy costs eadlined especially in are to gas especially in europe are linked -1 especially in europe are linked to gas prices and that is decoupled on this, there ther factors which will keep those prices especially high at the moment.
the world’ est oil ompanies, , biggest oil companies, , aramco, mobile will continue to huge amounts of the profits.
the leader of labor party keir starmer ling the taxes on profits made by the likes of and shell, what do you think about 4 gument?
politically, that argument?
politically, ’ a good move because it 1tl put 1tl & it’ a good move because it will put a distance between him 2 he conservative party, and be popular and the conservative party, and and the conservative party, and be popular with a lot of ple.
these are businesses at do people.
these are businesses people.
these are businesses that do have to make money to a they have to do future degree they have to do future investment and have shareholders there is only so want to put a wonderful tax on energy companies that have to reinvest, but that will have to reinvest, but that 3 a i strong line to take i 1 is a very strong line to take at the moment, politically.
of living top of cost of living top of the agenda for all of them.
the soaring price of energy is impacting most key economies for the world’ third biggest - japan - we’ve just had the fastest figures on economic growth.
it saw expansion of 2.
2% bumper growth was expected as japan eased covid restrictions in march and pent up consumer demand was met.
but what lies ahead with concerns about the impact of a global economic slowdown and a resurgence of covid-19 cases in japan.
the government in japan has called a meeting today to respond to the risks.
let’ go live to shizuoka and discuss this with seljiro takeshita who is at there at university.
these economic growth numbers re lower on project did, give our take on how japan is going at he moment?
the 10 going at the moment?
the numbers are below the ctation, of demand expectation, lots of demand back quite expectation, lots of demand 0 came back quite nicely especially in the service area had been stagnated for which had been stagnated for quite some time partly because success of conservatism of the success of conservatism - the japanese of the success of conservatism by the japanese people themselves and cessively cautious government that ically held , especially a0 i basically held off, especially service areas especially in areas like travel.
what he government ikely to announce today, they today, they are having a ting terms of measures meeting in terms of measures they may introduce to help nomic growth?
one of the orries we have is economic growth?
one of the worries we have is surging inflation, a word we haven’ for two decades, heard for two decades, ember when made a speech ears ago people were aughing at me, when used at word.
shocker cope that word.
is a shocker to cope with with the rise of material ices is certainly something have to cope with.
this separated by the war in russia kraine -- ukraine and russia in the global and ukraine -- ukraine and russia in the global supply lem which aises prices in problem which raises prices in nyakane, the war between china he united states, and we have labour shortages is as so we have trouble well so we have trouble watching as far as negativity of the future is concerned.
we it see of the future is concerned.
we 11 of the future is concerned.
we might see further shutdown use we are seeing a because we are seeing a resurgence of covid-19, there lot of anxieties and uestion arks to be answered i8 here onwards.
what is the vernment likely to do and and counter those risks?
the binet is a very factional new cabinet is a very factional ead cabinet, they are going alance lead cabinet, they are going lead cabinet, they are going for balance rather than growth, ’ there will be in my don’ there will be in my personal opinion transitional ges, that said they will have to clarify the stance is did in the past about abe did in the past about japan’ standpoint as far as is concerned because that the acute problem we getting from the russian ggression and for that reason japan has to stain i think japan has to sustain and 03 rify that position, that one thing he prime minister to clarify before goes has to clarify before he goes to another stage.
thank you, hall watch with interest.
now, to the uneven pace of china’ economic recovery.
fla industrial output expanding by 3.
8% in july from a year earlier, but that is lower than the 4.
6% estimate by analysts.
and when it comes to what china’ consumers are up to, well, retail sales grew by 2.
7% which again lower than expected.
let’ go to our asia business hub and joao silva this shows just how fragile the economic this shows just how fragile the 18 mic recovery in china is, key economic indicators eaell to key economic indicators industrial output and retail coming ell below expectations of analysts, showing that domestic ufacturing continues to underperform in the world’ economy, ficials have second economy, officials have taken note of this they say i8 he recovery continues but its foundation is solid.
conomic growth hina is of course facing course facing multiple risks, her we are talking about whether we are talking about major manufacturing centres or ist destinations, chinese ies are facing strict pandemic lockdowns in this latest data reflects the disruption and uncertain she ituation is disruption and uncertain she - the situation is creating, a reminder the situation is creating, a nder that in the june uarter, china’ economy rrowly scaped contraction, policymakers in china very much focused on pushing up omic growth this morning we ad the unexpected announcement the central bank from the central bank it is lowering interest rates but at the same time the government is very much focused on the zero -19 very much focused on the zero covid-19 approach to the pandemic and this is the ancing act that has this latest data shows is becoming easingly challenging.
thank increasingly challenging.
thank you so much for increasingly challenging.
thank i increasingly challenging.
thank you so much for the details on .
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
regulated train fares in england will rise below the rate of inflation next year to help people with the cost before the covid pandemic, fares were raised in january each year, based on the retail prices index measure as well as being lower than , the increase will be delayed until march.
the city of london has seen the highest number of restaurant closures in the since the beginning one in seven businesses there shutting down as the switch before the coronavirus pandemic, the capital was adding restaurants, bucking a trend for closures rie stay with us on news.
still to come: a special report on this potential shipping revolution.
washington, the world’ most political city, is today assessing the political health of the world’ most powerful man.
have a relationship with lewinsky that was not appropriate.
in fact, it was wrong.
in seuth africa, 97 people have been killed today, between rival black groups.
over the last 10 days, 500 have died.
russia is observing a national day of mourning 6 we are all with them now, within our hearts.
the pope has celebrated mass before a congregation of more than 2.
5 million people "stay with us, stay with us,” chanted this ocean of humanity.
"well, well,” joked the pope, a year on from the taliban retaking control of afghanistan, its women and girls are still being denied education and employment.
but has life-changing injuries, as more details emerge about the man charged @ most of us have heard about self-driving cars and trains, but could un-manned ships soon navigate the seas?
well, we’re going to norway now, where an all-electric - and what’ expected to be - first autonomous, container ship, is beginning the first steps of a two-year pilot.
from porsgrunn in southern norway, adrienne murray has this report.
anhnt cruising quietly through a norwegian field, this ship is waves.
it is sailing to a nearby making waves.
it is sailing to port on a voyage hat 3 i - 4 a nearby port on a voyage that is a mission.
at this tiliser plant 100 fertiliser plant up 100 ainers are loaded onto the ship.
ere in the dock, this oks like an dinary cargo looks like an ordinary cargo ship but under the deck there engine or diesel.
it is i powered no engine or diesel.
it is powered instead by batteries.
is a 8 & there is a capacity of almost a seven megawatt hour, and to 90 tesla cars and that is 0 0 power 90 tesla cars and that is supplied with clean hydro rgy.
nd, if verything is energy.
and, if everything is shipshape, to years from energy.
and, if everything is i 2 shipshape, to years from now, here won’ be shipshape, to years from now, i a 1 there won’ be any crew on board at there won’ be any crew on 1 at all.
in the beginning, ill be driving the ship, ore or ess, as do today, more more or less, as do today, more or less, as do today, ore and what will more or less, as do today, 1 and more and what will be taken over by electronics, robotics.
i data collected will train an data collected will train an algorithm and eventually radar ors and sensors and artificial intelligence cameras 4 of: intelligence cameras will help essel navigate by itself.
cking, loading cargo, echarging batteries will also tomated.
both be automated.
both the tiliser and shipping eil eil industries are big fertiliser and shipping industries are big images, but 0 0 4 industries are big images, but around 40,000 truck journeys year will be ken off the each year will be taken off the roads, saving 1000 tons of co2.
then it be autonomous ystems will be autonomous systems i a0 will be autonomous systems supported by crew on board.
and in bid then in the end it will be autonomous systems supported atched crew in the and watched by crew in the control and watched by crew in the ladge tie and watched by crew in the control centre.
voyages will be ool onitored from the land and, control centre.
voyages will be monitored from the land and, if ed, a human could step in.
aller, unmanned boats are aking to the water, while tonomous subsea drones have ready made a splash.
this rwegian is pioneering the echnology.
we are bringing onnel to a remote centre.
personnel to a remote centre.
is less costly than having on the cean.
technology them on the ocean.
technology 3 more safe than them on the ocean.
technology is more safe than human operations.
more autonomous projects are on the barge projects are on the horizon in orway with long ad istances that has dvantages.
but new regqulations eeded, and applying this big ships on ocean crossings nlikely any time soon.
ink hat the technology needs be matured even more, and ave to have energy systems propulsion systems that uire very little require very little maintenance.
lov 1 maintenance.
until now, onomous shipping has been male lae: autonomous shipping has been uncharted water, but soon, crew of vessels uld be navigating always lists of vessels could be navigating always coastline.
alk about cybersecurity.
come to the fore in 2022 as coordinated cyber-attacks impact organisations worldwide.
hybrid warfare is the new reality, and geopolitics and cybersecurity are now inextricably linked.
joining me now is francis gaffney, director of threat intelligence at mimecast.
welcome to the programme.
se, 3 is interesting to look back his year far on this year so far because many predicted russia would a large-scale attack, ber attacks, on the west ring he war in kraine.
what during the war in ukraine.
what happening?
good morning to .
yes, indeed.
so, the cyber 3 tacks we were expecting, we seen them a level, have seen them at a low level, what we are really saying pportunistic attacks where are seeing your inbox, eoples inboxes, being mbarded with spam, opportunistic attacks, this of thing.
that is not new, 3 is it?
sort of thing.
that is not new, sort of thing.
that is not new, is it?
that sort of thing, spam ely in your inbox it?
that sort of thing, spam 11 it?
that sort of thing, spam in your inbox or mobile phone.
been dealing with that for years, haven’ we?
most nitely, when we see definitely, but when we see geopolitical events such as the ian invasion, geopolitical events such as the fli 8 russian invasien, nancy pelosi’ visit to taiwan, even man shdie’ attack, see salman rushdie’ attack, we see a spike and these are the ortunistic people opportunistic people hoping people will click on these and then what will happen hen is it links and then what will happen 2 then is it the more advanced threat ctors pick up on this % and that will start the more malicious attacks.
but in terms ssia’ activity this year, iven the fact that it has been bject much more a subject to much more stringent sanctions from the and west and other economies as well, what has russia been as far as we know?
so, we have seen these attacks on netle have seen these attacks on infrastructure big they have een not been as successful because people are more savvy to these rsions into the cyber incursiens into the cyber domain incursiens into the cyber 1= a incursiens into the cyber domain and it is a incursiens into the cyber domain and it is a space where they are trying to sort of blame to defer blame to somebody else so they would not that they would not necessarily’ the and attacks .
imagine ina, and of them.
imagine china, and of course, the recent visit on the of nancy pelosi to taiwan and a1 i and the aftermath that is and the aftermath that is followed.
to what extent is a a greater threat when it comes to war in cyberspace and ia?
it is hard to because when one sees these advanced threat actors, but go a i a advanced threat actors, but attribution, knowing who has it, is actually very done it, is actually very difficult.
it is actually in the world of really in the world of government and law enforcement entify.
sewage to identify.
sewage organisations are particularly sed?
any business, really, because it will be those sort of down chain.
so, anyone who be sympathising with taiwan maybe supports business in wan.
so, may see taiwan.
so, you may see professional services, legal ces because sometimes the attack would go down stream it is less likely to have a bigger protection where it is less likely to have a bigger protection from rnment, and then the attack uld move pstream into the - the ultimate target that rat ight be national but might be national rt3 netle but might be national - but might be national infrastructure and those kinds ings.
we have all been of things.
we have all been woorn ountless times about is.
you would assume and hope governments and major rganisations are ready and ared?
ost definitely, but prepared?
most definitely, but you do get threat fatigue where le, if you are always on, always been conscious of these erent things, eventually different things, eventually people especially those who orking from home, the ybrid are working from home, the 30 are working from home, the hybrid working - because good, essful ttacks would successful attacks would actually pray those sorts of vulnerabilities that the actually pray on those sorts of vulnerabilities that the is working, that people may their laptop along, these of things.
these attacks be successful.
so, it keeping fresh and awareness training, making sure people a i are of what attack = methodology = are aware of what attack - 6 methodology is being used.
4 i ¢ thank you.
it is always cinating.
et’ look financial markets before we oodbye.
we have mentioned ready today onomic news out of japan and china, and you can hat japan is over 1%.
see that japan is up over 1%.
he main market, despite the than xpected growth rate lower than expected growth rate for the second quarter.
let’ look at the price of oil.
down by nearly 8%.
that in esponse to the news that an could crease production.
a everyday and will you after a week where, somewhere in the , we’ve recorded a daytime high of 30 celsius or above every single day, we’re finally seeing the heat come to an end.
moving into the new week.
could see 30 celsius somewhere in eastern england today, been through the weekend.
thunderstorms becoming more of a talking point for us, as we look into the days ahead.
we could see some just england and wales today - but by no means everywhere, so some areas will remain stubbornly dry, while others get some quite intense dewnpours.
eastern scotland perhaps getting some thundery showers.
it’ cooler here, but still, as you saw, 30 possible somewhere in eastern england.
overnight monday into tuesday, showers pushing up from the south - could be heavy and thundery, particularly for southern counties of england, persistent rain sits log irl it’ certainly i ela and northern ireland, but still very warm and humid 33 1 of england and wales as we start off on tuesday.
through the day on tuesday, though, low pressure really does come to take hold across the .
it’ @ messy weather picture.
well, it means it’ quite hard for us to pin down the exact details of where i3 through the day.
but basically, it’ a chance of showers just about anywhere ete’ for scotland and northern ireland, more cloud around and some outbreaks of rain and quite a cool northerly breeze - quite a difference to recent days, and we’ve lost that 30 celsius in eastern england.
by wednesday, well, low pressure still close by, but it’ focused very much to the south of the - high pressure, in fact, in across scotland and northern ireland.
wednesday looks for scotland and northern ireland, if cloudy at times, and it i 0 england and wales.
but a real focus perhaps on southern england for some more intense downpours on wednesday - just 23 celsius - down ten degrees on the figures through the weekend.
and then, for the end of the week, we very much pick up a westerly winds, some weather fronts passing through, but actually, not bringing, a1 0 in the way of rainfall.
we will see more in the way of sunshine again towards the end of the week, but not a return to the highs of recent days.
classical music festival.
curated by us, enjoyed by you.
there’ nothing quite like the proms.
_ for exclusive coverage people come here to escape.
we want to prove that we are the best.
magic’ about happen.
people want to see the performance.
we can’ afford to get this wrong.
let’ go do this.
go, go, go, go!
the whole industry has been completely decimated.
up to my eyes!
not even going near the bathroom.
we’ll be tested, but we’ll smile.
we are back in four newsroomingnot for everyone.
argh!
60 minutes are sending female reporters to war zones.
you’re a war zone on two legs!
she contracted through a blood transfusion.
we used to have a serious news audience, and we started serving them glamour.
i’ get that interview.
let’ do it.
pla nto putupafi a\ how does she do it, huh?
nightmare off screen.
camera goes on her - magic.
always come good when it counts.
you’re incredible.
watch all episodes.
good morning, welcome to breakfast with jon kay and sally nugent.
our headlines today.
one year since the taliban took power in afghanistan, we have a special report on women in the country and what the takeover means for their future.
labour unveils proposals to tackle soaring energy bills by freezing the price cap.
we speak to leader sir keir the family of salman rushdie thank those who rushed to help the author when he was stabbed on stage at a literary event in new york.
just one tablet an hour from hester to london today instead the usual three as an boiling over at the bridge.
how it was the managers who were sent off in yesterday’ fiery london derby between chelsea and tottenham in what proved a gripping encounter.
coming to the end of the heatwave, through the week, temperatures will to lose to where they should return to close to where they should at the time of year and we are king at ome thunderstorms looking at some thunderstorms developing almost anywhere which it’ monday the 15th of august.
our main story.
it’ exactly a year since the taliban seized power in afghanistan, ending 20 years of -led i 1 a turbulent 12 months in the country and a huge reduction of women’’ rights, with girls largely banned from secondary schools.
our chief international correspondent lyse doucet has been to see how the afghan people have adapted to life under the new regime.
i rueh afghanistan is a conservative country.
but the rules are now set by the ultraconservative taliban.
we met three generations of women whose lives speak loudly about their world.
many are afraid.
they don’ want to be identified.
this woman used to be a senior official in the finance ministry.
last year the taliban told her, stay at home.
a man would take her job.
worked for more than 17 years in the finance ministry.
it was difficult with family and work, but went to university and got my masters degree.
we spent so much time to get here.
now we are back to zero.
everything is finished.
more than 60 female civil servants have banded together.
they shared some of the exchanges on their messaging group.
we earned our jobs.
if we accept this it means we have betrayed ourselves.
what’ cur crime ?
please don’ give up.
from the streets or ministries like health, education, security.
there are spaces only for women.
this market has just reopened in the western city of herat.
this was the first day.
women, a bit nervous.
shops, still empty.
yes.
this is your shop?
today it’ closed.
oh, look at your sewing machines.
18-year-old suhaila is excited.
shop with big sister.
but she should be in her last year of school.
suhaila was the top student in her class.
am very sad.
if i’ finished school would start university but can’ go to university because i’ not graduated from school.
was it hard for you?
no school, no shop.
think it’ not for me, and for all of the girls