especially over the higher ground as it all bumps inte that colder-feeling air, and there’ll be some very icy stretches around as well, with the ground sub zere, some freezing rain always possible, some very icy surfaces as well, milder-feeling air to move its way eastwards.
if you are travelling somewhere on sunday, just be aware that there will be very hazardous conditions, possible freezing rain, hill snow and certainly a lot of ice around as well.
as we head through the day on sunday and inte monday, you can see we’ve got various weather fronts sweeping through, outbreaks of rain for much of the day.
seme strong, gusty winds as well, particularly through the irish sea and towards english channel coasts.
but look at the day’ highs, for parts of south wales and the south-west, devon and cornwall.
on monday into tuesday, a cold front is set to sink its way southwards and eastwards, introducing, again, some cooler-feeling air but not as cold as it has been.
that early rain is set clear.
quite showery towards ay etals there will be some sunny spells, some of those showers possibly having a wintry element over the higher ground.
temperatures will be a little lower too on tuesday, again, on wednesday, it’ quite showery out towards the north and west, but there will be a lot of weather around, the best of any brightness and sunshine towards eastern areas in the shelter of high ground.
temperatures peaking between 8 and 10 degrees celsius, so it is still reasonably mild out there.
as we head towards christmas, we start to see more of a battleground developing.
the low pressure moves eastwards.
perhaps northern ireland as well.
some of these showers are likely to turn wintry over higher ground.
still some debate as to how long that mild air will last, but this is the current thinking - that we will still see double figures for much of england but keep an eye on the details because they are likely to change.
what do you want to be when you grow up?
kind.
an all-star cast bring charlie mackesy’ magical book of hope, courage and love to life.
doing nothing with friends is never doing nothing, is it?
always remember, you’re enough just as you are.
merry christmas!
this year’ festive specials continue tonight.
merry christmas.
oh, come on!
you fill my heart with pure delight do love you?
8 you’re going too fast.
life deesn’ get better than this.
after my tweet got a notice inside twitter that my account spended and inside twitter that my account is suspended and can’ post any more tweets.
was it a shock you see any more tweets.
was it a shock - 1 any more tweets.
was it a shock or did you see this coming?
of saw it coming.
i’ not way surprised that this happened, especially cause of the reporting that been doing on elon musk’ takeover of twitter over the last nth.
takeover of twitter over the onth.
think that this last month.
think that this the highest profile time he is -- he has where he is -- he has arbitrarily banned some minent journalists that he been doing this since he took over.
there has been 18 arbitrary censorship of all sorts several arbitrary censorship of i all sorts of different fluue all sorts of different accounts.
does elon musk have a , though, when he says point, though, when he says that knowing the location of rivate jet is a threat to his private jet is a threat to he security, not only of his ecurity but the threat to 818 own security but the threat to the security of his family as potentially?
mean, 4 well potentially?
mean, don’ actually buy that.
here is some room for discussion.
think think there is some room for a 1 discussion.
think that knowing which airport his plane at and flies out of at ich times, think it already public infoermation and perfectly reasonable it is perfectly reasonable for people to learn less about the ate jets of billionaires private ets of billionaires and think the even bigger is everyone who posted anything ated to that you got suspended, they get their ei0ls10 got suspended, they get their account suspended which is kind treme but also account suspended which is kind account suspended which is kind of extreme but also a lot are journalists who won’ ually, like, posting the inks to this bsite, we were reporting other things etting suspended.
this is just of our reporting process.
what would say to ople who argue welcome as far as : musk is concerned, it is his company, can do it it oes make do with what he ikes.
think that that is because of twitter a 1 true because of twitter is a private company and it has ays een a private company and is one of the reasons why, you know, a lot of previous criticism of twitter banning conservative accounts, is one of their responses i 1 3 a4 is that twitter is a ivate wwpieelp that twitter is a private company and it is allowed to ool oi ban company and it is allowed to 1 - ban staff and it is true that 4 that elon musk has taken 3 now that elon musk has taken over as well.
think the big erence is that he has been very actively extremely tile to ree speech very actively extremely hostile speech which is kind of to free speech which is kind of irenic which to free speech which is kind of onic which -- because is whole plan has to restore free speech was up he has brought back some prominent -wing figures, like donald rump, who was originally nned or inciting violence inciting and in violent -- olent insurrection.
marjorie taylor greene who is a ber member of congress in the who was banned for repeatedly covid-19 misinformation.
1 he has brought all of these 1 4 so he has brought all of these far right accounts back but in porting there are accounts that aren’ far right have - lso been bands that have not brought back at all that is just refusing to stop a sample of this distributed denial of good sample of this is distributed denial of secrets.
this is an account that was ned during the black lives tter protests of 2020.
it is 1 = matter protests of 2020.
it is a non-profit and it published a of police documents that bunch of police documents that had a lot of evidence bunch of police documents that had a lot of evidence of misconduct had a lot of evidence of tla had a lot of evidence of misconduct and police spying on activists.
twitter banned the fluwei0ls10 activists.
twitter banned the uns 01 activists.
twitter banned the account since then activists.
twitter banned the i activists.
twitter banned the account since then and elon is just refusing to musk is just refusing to restore it.
you have now gone stodon, a rival social media platform to twitter.
how le1 of a threat to media platform to twitter.
how much of a threat to twitter it pose?
it is hard does it pose?
it is hard to tell.
there is a learning ve.
it is a lot harder to 04 curve.
it is a lot harder to use but curve.
it is a lot harder to - curve.
it is a lot harder to use but have been looking at mbers and illions of people have been joining it.
it a different thing.
think a lot of ways it is the ceehia a in a lot of ways it is the fact it is decentralised and a0 that it is decentralised and all not profit.
it is very ilient from the type of roblems that twitter is = problems that twitter is facing.
nobody can just buy and drive it into the drowned like mask has this and drive it into the drowned like mask has been it with twitter.
does make drive into the ground.
we ust leave it there.
thank you joining us on news.
hank so much.
a reminder of our top stories.
a deadly wave of russian missile strikes has hit multiple targets in ukraine killing at least three people.
residential areas and power stations were badly hit.
and a rough ride for ramaphosa: the south african president was heckled at the ’ party conference, but he’ still hoping to be re-elected despite last weeks’ impeachment proceedings.
a giant aquarium installed in the lobby of a luxury german hotel has exploded, sending 1,500 exotic fish cascading the 14-metre-high tank had become a well-known tourist flnissind , has the story.
this aquarium was built to impress - a million litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish - all towering over the lobby of a berlin hotel.
my god!
but early this merning, it seems the tank simply shattered.
glass and metal ripped through the building.
extraordinarily, just two people were hurt, neither of them seriously.
could describe it as a .
and jolted out of bed and turned around didn’ see any movement so didn’ know what the heck was going on.
looked outside the window, saw a lady running.
investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
taken when the aquarium i says this architect, "and it would only cause "a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"such a hollywood scenario is impossible.
” the authorities suspect material fatigue may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
there is a sense, think, of relief amongst many a and that lobby, the street outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors, many of them children.
4 at the destruction, but an acknowledgement, too, that this could have been ¢ much worse.
jenny hill, news, berlin.
1chitt exploding fish, we have it all or you here on news.
let’ some of the day’ her news_ the leader of the rail union, the , has said a deal to avert further rail strikes mick made the comment as his members took part services in england, scotland and wales have been severely hit, and more industrial action is planned between 24-27 december and again in early january.
nurses who went out on strike in england, wales and northern ireland on thursday are warning a the british prime minister rishi sunak has suggested that the government won’ budge on its view that nurses should workers at amazon’ warehouse in coventry have voted to strike in the new year in a dispute over pay.
the union says more than 98% of balloted employees rlrenitg a - tasle union reps say "amazon can afford to do better" and that the savage murder of emmett till in 1955, and his mother’ subsequent i has been made intc a movie which is due to be released next month.
who insisted on having an open casket for her son’ funeral, to show how badly the 14-year-old’ face had been disfigured when he was beaten and tortured by two white men.
the film is produced by barbara broccoli, who’ behind the bond 1 danielle deadwyler as mamie, who’ been speaking to our errzl 14-year-old emmett till.
they have a different set his brutal murder in mississippi in 1955 galvanised the civil rights movement.
the body of emmett louis till has been found dead.
driven by his mother, mamie.
you have to be extra careful with white people, you can’ risk looking at them the wrong way.
know!
wondered how much you felt the weight of responsibility, as you made this movie?
oh, felt every inch of it.
and knew that had to honour it, had to give it that history, we’re doomed a emmett was for whistling at a white female shopkeeper in this segregated part of america.
but the film deliberately i think we’re over just the grotesque nature of witnessing violence it shouldn’ take that kind of visual to ignite folks a that are happening - that had happened in 1955, that continue to happen to black people or any oppressed group of people.
back in 1955, mamie till-mobley had her son’ violated body photographed, and insisted on an open casket at his funeral.
many thousands filed past it.
that smell is my son’ body reeking of racial hatred.
come with me, please.
she was one of the first people to recognise how vitally important the image alsh and think when you see what happened with george floyd, that young woman who kept filming that horrendous murder, we wouldn’ have believed it - hi and do think that the trial will be carried on fairly, and that we’re all just praying for the best to happen.
a white male jury found the men not guilty.
they later admitted the murder but couldn’ be rels - though they’re dead, do you think that justice will ever be served?
i think that films have the opportunity to reawaken people’ understanding of critical moments in history.
that troubled history now being told on screen nearly 70 years on.
katie razzall, news.
and that film i1 due out ext month.
christmas preparations full swing around the i let’ take a look at santa beginning his annual rounds.
and you can find out more about santa’ progress and you can find out more about i santa’ progress on our ebsite.
it is .
com/ news.
anks for watching.
saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
but then thaw begins on sunday in the morning.
of us it will be a slow process.
particularly in the north of the country.
so, here’ the weekend.
this is the air mass showing where the warm air is just ahead of it this weather front will sweep in across the .
hence that milder air will eventually arrive.
so, still some snow a across the highlands, the inner-city temperatures on saturday morning.
outside of town it’ going to be so, the weather for saturday itself and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
most of the rain around the coasts, snow and sleet inland.
and already starting to feel a little less cold.
5in london, 4 in glasgow and 8 degrees in plymouth.
se, quite a change.
now, that big change arriving saturday night into sunday.
so, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars, gale force winds but for a time in the morning, with a lots of cold air about, early on sunday there could be freezing rain, icy conditions and hill snow.
for example, in wales, hill snow is possible around the pennines and certainly in scotland.
so, for a time in the morning on sunday it could be icy for some of us.
but those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
so, 10 in plymouth, still cold in the north.
of sunday night inte monday.
by monday morning we are talking about the mid-teens in cardiff and plymouth.
and this is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
it’ going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
back to the sort we would expect i ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest barrages of russian missile strikes has badly damaged electricity and water supplies across the country.
south africa’ president, cyril ramaphosa was heckled when he addressed his own party conference.
ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings earlier this week but is still hoping to re-stand as party leader.
the united nations and the european union have joined a spokesman said they were very disturbed, as journalists already faced censorship, threats and worse.
now on news, this week.
computer, draw me a picture of a lizard drinking ee.
yes!
we are looking at coffee.
yes!
we are looking at the light and dark side of rt.
oh, dear.
zoe is finding everyone is talking to a new chat box.
are out everyone is talking to a - a new chat box.
are you alive?
please say yes, just say yes.
lara is getting please say yes.
lara is getting 3 ideas above her station.
a hair intimidating to see myself that size little intimidating to see 1 little intimidating to see myself that size do you like of art?
do ike a bit a bit of art?
do like a bit of art.
any idea what is art what isn’?
that’ a big uestion ess for me it anything at aims to look ood or even make feel a good or even make you feel a certain way.
and that could be tings, photography, music, perfoermance, even ribbons.
yes, ons is perfermance, even ribbons.
yes, & ribbons is a work at the gallery in loenden which invites to guests to re-examine their views on guests to re-examine their i views on textiles.
did it work or you?
just wanted to touch lovely.
but for me the most citing iece of modern art that exciting piece of modern art - that has been created this year is oh, that has been created this year i 51 oh, what is it is this oh, what is it called?
a cute cookie in a made of sushi.
and who is 1a\ house made of sushi.
and who is it buy?
now that is the million question.
-- who is it .
in the last few months by.
in the last few months all sorts of weird pictures and have been popping up online.
some look like ver mash ups of existing photos and look like the work others look like the work of 0 groovy digital artists.
but here not.
-- they are not.
there not.
-- they are not.
each of these images has been ted from scratch by a computer based on nothing more someone yping in than someone typing in a few words to describe what they .
and have to say some of them want.
and have to say some of hem are stunning.
the pace of has been uite staggering.
is being fast moving but as fast-moving as anything ever en.
an expert deep learning, he has spent ast few months exploring this rks.
we can just generate an image and see what oks like.
but as generate an image and see what i it looks like.
but as we and generate completely new of cute rabbit wearing a images of cute rabbit wearing a parachute jumping out of a it becomes obvious hat hese systems don’ really derstand that these systems don’ really what they are understand what they are drawing.
oh, dear.
oh, that is liar.
that is peculiar.
that is very believable.
what has happened 00 ?
it is a cloud but very there?
it is a cloud but very like a rabbit.
for every great ure you see online they may ery well be quite a few weird that don’ get posted.
but the good pictures are really olla i really good!
and the fact but the good pictures are really good!
and the fact that has all happened so fast .
__ it has blown is it has blown my mind.
so what on earth is going on?
to put simply, it’ omplicated.
but if you give me a3 conds will give you my 3 best explanation.
for years, ine learning systems have een vacuuming up all the ages they can find online and are accompanying ant -- hey accompanying text criptions.
systems learned associate certain words and rases with certain pictures.
and now it they seem to know ugh to be able to work in se.
start with a reverse.
start with a reverse.
start with a description and get a picture.
type in, "an abandoned so if type in, "an abandoned inatals so if i type in, "an abandoned futuristic dystopian so if i type in, "an abandoned 18 futuristic dystopian city overgrown with plants, bathed nlight” it will first come in sunlight™ it will first come up with this.
no it esn’ look but up with this.
no it doesn’ up with this.
no it doesn’ look much but think there are clues on ere.
for some clues on here.
for example, does it know the word means it has to put in a plants means it has to put in a of green and that green has low down in the picture?
do all pictures of sunlight is ever seen volve a it has ever seen involve a ngle point of brightness omewhere in the sky?
think is some kind of average of plant pictures and all sunlight pictures.
next, it these broad strokes guided and it slowly adds more and more detail over and over again.
until in 100 steps i again.
until in 100 steps as if ging from a fog, you get emerging from a fog, you get this, 1 think is emerging from a fog, you get 14 this, which i think is pretty ela: this, which think is pretty darn beautiful.
and you don’ to start with a blank have to start with a blank slate.
give it a starting face ou, too, can grow your own eia 43 and you, too, can grow your own mad scientist in a steam punk ratory.
and then there is laboratory.
and then there is he teddy bears.
in the same that you can specify ubject, you can also specify a le.
this seems —- ems style.
this seems -- systems have seen enough monet to ate a onet.
and have seen enough monet to a create a monet.
and here is van gough’ bears, picasso’ bears ven one from .
and even one from .
10 and even one from .
i lovecraft.
but here’ the problem.
what if you wanted a ting in the style of a living artist?
one who earns from their commissions.
an artist, what , it is a part of me, a of my dentity, and these ompanies have lowed users to generate ings that look like have a1 4 things that look like i have done it, that look like my have done it, and we’re oing to generate all kinds of that you never agreed to hat could ther be against our wishes, that could be ainst your beliefs.
kalla is illustrator and finders against your beliefs.
kalla is an illustrator and finders -- fine art list and she has overed generated art discovered generated art in he style of her and her peers online.
to me it feels like ome kind of parasitical pying.
oh, we’re copying from ther artist specifically to llike that tist, another artist specifically to i another artist specifically to look like that artist, oh, but different but it is different but it sure looks like that artist did a.
it is concerning.
this % a live issue.
there may be ope for artists whose specific styles have been replicated.
an ist would styles have been replicated.
an yal uld be able to claim artist would be able to claim an infringement for a style copied because an infringement for a style i i ool being copied because copyright a 0 being copied because copyright doesn’ protect a style when artificial intelligence een sed to make something has been used to make something in the style of someone else their original then their original works would have been copied by that so i 2 a3 have been copied by that al.
so have been copied by that al.
so if an artist did have a problem could make a claim that their original works have been in the first place as copied in the first place as part of data scraping and data ng.
but there is that other issues surrounding al, too.
- ven that you make a living i8 given that you make a living your art, are you worried that you might lose income ause it suddenly it is ossible to generate stuff that llike yours?
would be lying if said no.
am worried.
peers that are so very worried specifically as also very worried specifically and the concern that share or those who are into -- tering the industry cause ave heard reports from lustrators whose projects re cancelled or oh, hey, this erms were thinking of hiring, maybe not, really.
and =1 there is whispers of that happening more and more within ndustry.
and if you’ve aver taken a hoto and sold it stock photography website, ’ better watch , too.
you’ better watch out, too.
websites when they write - cles they put photos onto go with the story and the tos are usually not the ctual tory, they are stock, ople in an office or things ike this was top re not like this was top we’re not quite there.
people, hands, , they’re difficult to do or but is that gets better imagine you could go off to an algorithm and say need ple looking really angry ecause they people looking really angry a people looking really angry because they printer doesn’ and there we go.
you work and there we go.
you have solved that problem.
that is ind of thing, hink it the kind of thing, think it i ould find some use for.
the kind of thing, think it - 1 could find some use for.
over he years we have asked repeatedly, what happens as takes over more and more of the 0 petitive mundane asks and answer is lways been welcome 14 welcome at least we a - welcome at least we will still have 4 creativity!
we can all and be artists and is go off and be artists and is like, no, i’ coming for that, and as starts to play a too.
and as starts to play a part 48 retty much most parts of lives, it may be about shape the conversations ’re having is a company open has leased a new type of open has released a new type a1 open has released a new type i i a= i a impressive critics with its writing abilities.
zoe has been it a try.
you don’ giving it a try.
you don’ always know if you are king to always know if you are talking to a computer or a human.
i sometimes it i sometimes it is less obvious you are typing and test -- when you are typing and test -- texting.
a lot of firms are king on chat bots.
one in particular has gone viral.
it called chatgpt from particular has gone viral.
it art ilgst is called chatgpt from the firm openal and openal and more than is called chatgpt from the firm openal and more than a millien ple have a play with it people have had a play with it nce it has been launched.
at styles of writing from internet was up i’ going to i it show you what it can by itself.
first question,” plain chatgpt into ntences”.
"chat is a chat glc0 rated in the language model hat hat uses natural language essing processing to generate responses to user input in a ersational manner”.
not so onversational so far.
let’ 7 another guestion.
"are another question.
"are you alive?
™ " no, i’ a virtual 4 istant created by mputer assistant created by computer programmes.
do not have sciousness the ability to consciousness or the ability to feel emotions like a consciousness or the ability to emotions like a human.
xist only to exist only to provide ormation and sist with information and assist with asks within the limitations of ogramming”.
ght, here we my programming”.
right, here we go.
have come to glasgow versity to just -- university to meet just -- mlwie university to meet just -- doctor jeff dalton.
a senior urer doctor jeff dalton.
a senior lal doctor jeff dalton.
a senior lecturer in computing science to see what he makes of it.
if were to ask this on an to see what he makes of it.
if & & that is probably a lobbe.
tor dalton spent a lot of i time running estions through time running questions through chris reason.
chatgpt is very at generating natural good at generating natural language was up right now we enerate a paragraph and it an generate a poem.
can’ enerate an rticle.
it can’ ite write a thesis, or a cialised report.
it can’ do ose things is those things we get is fundamentally limited in the that it fundamentally limited in the that it doesn’ understand what it is talking about.
but growing too quickly?
tiale it growing too quickly?
a 1 4 4 practitioners are surprised by ractitioners are surprised by a i a\ these modern how quickly these modern systems are developing and some re starting to think of them are starting to think we may have systems as smart as in as little ten humans in as little as ten years which is sooner humans in as little as ten = years which is sooner than most people bot previously.
-- ught previously.
what more ould they be capable of?
maybe will replace internet earch ngines, create content websites or write reports this, although i’ not uite sure where that leaves that was zoe.
now time a & ook at this week’'s tech news.
bankman-fried, boss of ailed company has denied failed company has been denied bail in the bahamas after after being arrested.
after being arrested.
authorities charged sam authorities charged sam bankman-fried with one authorities charged sam authorities charged sam bankman-fried with one of the est frauds in history.
biggest frauds in history.
scientists have announced they overcome scientists have announced they overcome a major barrier in - uclear fusion stop they can duce more energy from a fusion experiment and they put his has taken 60 years and thousands of ople to reach his tage although experts say more this stage although experts say this stage although experts say much more work is this stage although experts say this stage although experts say much more work is needed before a viable answer to our it is a viable answer to our energy needs.
it is a source of that powers the sun and a power that powers the sun and the stars.
it is the rging of light elements and heavy ments and releasing energy the process.
taking ydrogen, fusing it together helium and releasing remendous amounts of energy.
ope’ new weather satellite launched from french guyana.
the edia set text -- nexgen technologies from rope, the iddle east and re europe, the middle east and africa to help track violent ms.
and 114 -- iphone 14 uses storms.
and 114 -- iphone 14 storms.
and i14 -- iphone 14 uses in france, germany and the can now use emergency hich lets them contact the ergency services 1 emergency services via ellite if they can’ emergency services via satellite if they can’ connect via cellular or wi-fi.
on the end of glasgow am at a wwpieelp on the end of glasgow am at a company taking take it you bably know from healthcare finding ways for it to be !
in everyday life.
i 0ma used in everyday life.
ultrasound is the coolest ging tech eqg.
he benefit imaging tech egg.
the benefit of tilrel 0la of ultrasound is it is completely non-invasive.
you inside a person without can see inside a person without opening them up.
for noble the process started out a very industrial way.
raditional ultrasocund nufacturers would use achining to build an trasound probe by machining eaking away to make a pro.
or breaking away to make a pro.
= 1a 5 or breaking away to make a pro.
we do and additive manufacturing we do and additive manufacturing process, which we printing, we user plasma paper deposition process, to up an ltrasound centre.
look up an ultrasound centre.
and then i ooy and then we use other additive facturing techniques we manufacturing techniques we have borrowed from semiconductor industry to build ensor, semiconductor industry to build i 11 semiconductor industry to build up a sensor, but is 3 printed.
there is a then there is a three different steps of printing as we call & it.
this is a six filament hrele array and @ i 1 linear array and typically it for is used for inspection, corrosion mapping, because it flexible it can is so flexible it can be wrapped around pipes and wrapped around pipes and conform to complex wrapped around pipes and i 1 0 1 conform to complex geometry.
we can look inside of objects using ultrasound.
what ted using ultrasound.
what sort of are you looking for in a pipe?
typically we will be king for corrosion or racking, looking for corrosion or a a1 cking, any defects.
can a shot?
go for cracking, any defects.
can a a shot?
go for it.
getting tee i8 have a shot?
go for it.
getting from this very industrial use mething we can interact with 18 to something we can interact with every date is a big focus he company.
have for the company.
we have 0 eady proven the ultrasound hnology in the technology in the industrial sector technology in the industrial a1 technology in the industrial sector and aviation, oil and but most people know ultrasound from the hospital or cal imaging so what we want medical imaging so what we want to medical imaging so what we want to do is be able to take medical imaging out of the pital for everyone.
one of wearables that are on the arket 4 oks at the surface of skin.
they optical and i iale i 1 1 i electrical.
as soon as you the skin.
they optical and electrical.
as soon as you use asound you can get deep into the body and that "amount 1 fferent parameters you can measure such as dehydration, fidelity, tissue ovement.
and what are you eing on he tablet?
take an tma seeing on the tablet?
take an ultrasound picture, zapped over ireless, put onto the 1 the wireless, put onto the computer so we can the wireless, put onto the a computer so we can extract information to go into machine ning algorithms.
we can use hat that to measure stuff like dehydration, how hydrated the is.
it is also a tissue is.
it is also a completely wireless platform.
7 10la a1 novosound are not the only completely wireless platform.
novosound are not the only ones ing in this area with engineers in the having developed a sticker asound having developed a sticker asound earlier this year.
he thing that put us ahead of competition this area is our competition in this area is he fact our competition in this area is the fact that have the tma sound picture in front of , there are no wireless, it ruly wireless ultrasound we here.
and it truly wireless ultrasound we truly wireless ultrasound we have here.
and it could be as as in the next year or soon as in the next year or two 0la that the tech novosound are developing here is available in ces we can now every year billions of litres of water lost due to pipes.
and as the planet aps up and the risk of ought increases, it is an ver ever more troubling problem.
so ome companies are starting to to powered sensors to help identify holes in their ems.
and paul carter has systems.
and paul carter has een finding out more.
scorched ss.
receiving ter banks.
grass.
receiving water banks.
and record-breaking peratures.
he result of the summer’ heatwave, some panies ven had to bring in osepipe ban.
thames water, a1 ich serves 15 million people ross london and the across lendon and the thames valley was one of ose companies.
it leaks around 24% of its water supply, and along with 0 with other water boards, it came under with other water boards, it irl nder fire for restricting @ water came under fire for restricting water use while it’ pipes ks.
we know it is i leaks.
we know it is unacceptable to lose large of water through leaks.
hat is we are determined company to drive leakage a i down.
thames water is trying to leaky pipe problem with fix a leaky pipe problem with the the new powered sense.
it aims to identify the location ize of leak, just by analysing noise.
am in rey, an analysing noise.
am in = a, surrey, an area hit badly by 8 1 the summer’ drought.
with the founder of tech, the eelp founder of tech, the company that created the sensor.
today we company that created the sensor.
today we are looking for leaks.
we are in a esidential area which we know water loss.
this is an has water loss.
this is an acoustic sensor that it onto onto the pipe network.
it listens to leaky noise and work done is we have done is a bit of that ooks for the noises leaks make but also filters out the other noises that leaks do make.
neil and his team ace these sensor was under a in cover overnight.
it is now to retrieve them.
what is time to retrieve them.
what is he next stage in the process?
the app ow, this little i we use the app now, this little device is bluetooth to the phone, and the phone then talks 00 phene, and the phene then talks tals phene, and the phene then talks to the cloud and all analysis is done in the cloud.
raph tells that the graph tells you that - i8 the graph tells you that consistent noise and i then has said , have taken that knowledge, ognised , it a small recognised it, it is a small leak.
recognised it, it is a small .
oh, wow!
so that is leak.
oh, wow!
so that is the 0la ound of a leak.
oh, wow!
so that is the & leak.
oh, wow!
so that is the actual sound of a leak?
right the system.
it is ive now on the system.
it is a live capture effectively so you can , yeah, it is eak.
go , yeah, itis a leak.
these other audio signals we have these other audio signals we have recorded these other audio signals we these other audio signals we have recorded and it is the status status of the leak have tected.
this part of the ocess is called cloud correlation.
it has process is called cloud correlation.
it has been eloped this professor at einee13% developed by this professor at the university of the west of land.
when have audio scotland.
when you have audio files that are stored in cloud, we cloud, we would extract files that are stored in the cloud, we would extract this ure is as of it and to feature is out of it and to rdinate it.
you can co-ordinate it.
you can see correlation is a process where to look at how they you to look at how they euele= 1 you to look at how they look mathematically and to similarities in time.
anna mcleod would eturn he the ocation of mcleod would return you the he a location of the leak.
this system is underpinned by a sive archive of audio files, ndreds of thousands of ecordings leaky pipes from ound recordings of leaky pipes from 1 recordings of leaky pipes from around the world.
not only does inform the cloud this infoerm the cloud i this infoerm the cloud correlation, but it should let identify any given leak.
qlrgn0 i qlrgn0 qlrgn0 but how effective is it?
viously using old i previously using old techniques had a 50% success rate.
7 4 of areas that we we have had a 50% success rate.
out of areas that we went to, 50% we out of areas that we went to, 0 out of areas that we went to, 2 a out of areas that we went to, 50% we come out with the leak looking for.
gregory has lowed we are looking for.
gregory has i we are looking for.
gregory has allowed us to increase the by up to 70% in total.
it is 20%, up to 70% in total.
it is allowing us to be targeted and we raise a allowing us to be targeted and 4 allowing us to be targeted and where we raise a leak that allowing us to be targeted and i a where we raise a leak that we as it is a where we raise a leak that we .
powered sensors like tech’ have not completely ced the traditional way of dentifying leaks, which is, ieve it or not, engineers using glistening sticks.
but role in global leak detection could come more mportant.
detection could come even more rtant.
wonder whether you remember this guy.
came remember this guy.
came across him in lreland last year he was a across him in ireland last year across him in ireland last year when he was a big thing stop , least his head was.
well, at least his head was.
this was the raja -- rather 0 this was the raja -- rather ambitious tourist attraction its creator hopes will one adorn skylines of day adorn the skylines of i ities around day adorn the skylines of around the world.
point being that anyone could be 3 ned and being that anyone could be 3 nned and then projected onto giant.
sounded bonkers 1118 to me.
it certainly felt somewhat of a big project.
big - 10i somewhat of a big project.
big indeed.
but it turns out it is moving forward.
and recently moved all the really is moving forward.
and 0 recently it moved all the way to a big expo for the tnule to a big expo for the i to a big expo for the attractions industry, which was frankly, the quirky is quite frankly, the quirky is elo have been doing a place i have been doing a .
hile.
it certainly looks it.
you grew up by the funfairs of the british seaside, ught you were right at home there.
it felt quite odd when ctual sea there.
it felt quite odd when a1 ual sea was missing.
but the actual sea was missing.
but 3 was here that the giant had 8 i rted to come to fe.
well, started to come to life.
well, als 5 metre profile -- prototype the head at least, -eighth he size of the i finished giant.
the difference een the old head on finished giant.
the difference between the old head on the new head is that we have got a rix skin of leds which is inked to the volumetric anning machine, which now ows you to not only protect and image onto allows you to not only protect 1 allows you to not only protect and image onto the statue, but a 11 also to talk.
so now it is my turn be scanned by the umetric capture booth’ 49 meras.
i’ going to have the of a giant.
the images are broken down so that he data from then broken down so that the i rage 1 then broken down so that the data from them can be used to a 3 face.
that’ weird.
face gets flattened so it then wrapped around the model.
and even about size, it model.
and even about size, it model.
and even about size, it is unnerving to come -to-face is unnerving to come i -to-face with.
am going face-to-face with.
i am going 0 have the head face-to-face with.
1 am going face-to-face with.
1 am going to have the head of a giant!
ressive display, albeit a ttle intimidating seeing elf that size.
and seem to have myself that size.
and seem to a1 ost my hair.
i’ going to have lost my hair.
i’ going to have - have the head of a giant!
it needs a giant wig, and it is a from the side.
it has nose but nowhere to a nose like mine.
absolutely no whatsoever.
when did lways wonder how they cope different faith shapes.
ah, know.
from straight and a dn’ find the generic one that that odd, but you do lose i didn’ find the generic one that odd, but you do lose the from other angles.
now magic from other angles.
now he focus of this project it always been has always been sustainability.
can on both the and you can see on both the ad and the scaled-down sion of the whole giant, a1 version of the whole giant, whether solar panels will be dded, aiming to fully 4 embedded, aiming to fully powered and with renewable gy.
but powered and with renewable a 4 %1 powered and with renewable energy.
but all that scanning happened earlier has that happened earlier has another purpose as well.
another purpose as well.
really?
it also creates an mented reality avatar that yone can on a smart phone ywhere.
if you don’ happen ave your own giant handy.
exactly, and you make = exactly, and you can make yourself whatever size you , even bigger than the wish, even bigger than the giant.
and back to normal size , think.
you are, yes.
again, think.
you are, yes.
that’ it for us, again, i think.
you are, yes.
i i 11 6 again, i think.
you are, yes.
i = ile that’ it for us, thanks for watching, we will see you soon.
yer.
-- bye-bye.
saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
but then thaw begins on sunday in the morning.
of us it will be a slow process, particularly in the north of the country.
so, here’ the weekend.
this is the air mass showing where the warm air is, just to the south-west of us.
and then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep so, still some snow a across the highlands, the inner-city temperatures on saturday morning.
outside of town it’ going to be so, the weather for saturday itself and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
most of the rain around the coasts, snow or sleet inland.
and already starting to feel a little less cold.
se, quite a change.
now, that big change arriving saturday night into sunday.
so, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars, gale force winds but for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about, early on sunday there could be freezing rain, icy conditions and hill snow.
for example, in wales, hill snow is possible around the pennines and certainly in scotland.
so, for a time in the morning on sunday it could be icy for some of us.
but those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
so, 10 in plymouth, still cold in the north.
of sunday night inte monday.
about the mid-teens in cardiff and plymouth.
and this is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
it’ going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
we would expect i welcome to news, i’ david willis_ our top stories: hits multiple targets right across ukraine.
at least three people are dead.
residential areas and power stations are badly hit.
: whatever the missile worshippers from moscow are hoping for, it won’ change the balance of power in this war.
a rough ride for ramaphosa - the south african president is heckled at the ’ party conference, but he’ still hoping to be re-elected elon musk suspends several journalists’ accounts and, there’ something fishy going on in berlin - a giant freestanding aquarium full of exotic fish has exploded.
welcome to our viewers on - 0la the globe.
russian forces have launched a huge wave of missile attacks on ukraine, damaging electricity and water supplies across the country.
was hit, as was president zelensky’ home town of kryvyi.
in his address, he warned that russia was capable of further the mayor of kharkiv described the destruction there as colossal and said that thousands of people were without heating, in freezing temperatures.
our eastern europe correspondent sarah rainsford sent this report.
the rumble of a russian attack, as kyiv was woken by more missile strikes.
the danger drove people underground.
the metro is the safest place to huddle here when the city’ under fire.
but as russian missiles hit the power grid, the trains all stopped.
i’ve sat here want to go home.
but in southern ukraine, i hours later, rescuers were still searching for people trapped in the ruins.
a child is missing here.
: whatever the missile worshippers from moscow are hoping for, it won’ change the balance of power in this war.
they have enough missiles left for mass strikes, but we have enough determination and self-belief to return what belongs to us.
this country now copes with what was once unimaginable.
handing out hot food keeping people warm.
defying russia’ efforts to wear them down.
but these attacks affect even the most vulnerable.
we found this old people’ home without heat, light or water.
on sheer resilience.
nella’ children just brought her here from the south, thinking she’'d be safer.
: we’re all waiting for peace, really waiting.
putin says, let’ be friends, but who is the unfriendly one here?
our situation here is really miserable.
the staff are doing their best to keep things normal, 1 "it is pretty hard,” olga tells me, "but we will get through.
” tonight, there’ no traffic lights in much of kyiv, no lights at all in large parts of ukraine’ capital, as russia tries to force his country somehow, life goes on.
sarah rainsford, news, kyiv.
wallerstein, a senior foreign policy fellow at the chicago council on global affairs gave us his analysis of the situation.
well, think this is part of a concerted strateqgy to terrorise and intimidate ukrainian people.
since the russian forces have not succeeded in their main aim, which of course originally was to take kyiv, and now are falling back in some parts of the donbas, the strategy now appears to be just keep firing missiles into the cities and hope that the people eventually will have capabilities, air defence capabilities that could be very useful to ukraine, including israel that has the iron dome and the arrow anti-missile system.
of course, a lot of this is coming in the form of drones, drones are very hard to shoot down because they very low but there are various systems that can the ukrainian military is reporting a high percentage success in shooting down these incoming missiles and drones.
whether the reports toe i i the south african president has been heckled during an address to his own party conference.
cyril ramaphosa - who’ hoping to be re-elected as party leader - struggled to make himself heard, over chants of "step aside™.
want to appeal to everyone who wants to raise their dissatisfaction, to do so in an orderly manner in the way that we do things here in the african nation of congress.
we have been in existence i 3 and this is not the time to come and display this type the chanting began when the president’ ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings of dollars that were found hidden in a sofa at his farm.
our reporter in johannesburg - nomsa maseko has more details.
well, there was a lot of heckling and chanting of anti-ramaphosa songs as president ramaphosa started delivering his political report to the delegates who’ve gathered here - - even his speech was drowned when he tried to speak but the speech was even further disrupted when former president jacob zuma arrived at the venue, the delegates from his home province of kwazulu-natal.
we have seen this kind of heckling and bhooing and things like that take place in previous conferences.
as you know, the is deeply divided so the more than 5,000 delegates who’ve gathered here are chanting and singing for their own preferred presidential candidate and also to drown out the others who are singing because they want their preferred candidate to take over as president.
acob zuma and president ramaphosa have a long rivalry that spans over many years.
however there is a delegate, zweli mkhize, who the country’ former health minister who is president ramaphosa’ competitor in this election, which is this is what happened because even the delegates from kwazulu-natal, which is jacob zuma’’ heme province, that same province, it’ also zwell mkhize’ province.
that is there was so much heckling and things like that.
however, the delegates from kwazulu-natal are still angry that former president jacob zuma was jailed last year after he did not testify at a commission of inquiry investigating corruption while he was and looting last july a row is brewing in west africa over the increasing involvement of a russian mercenary group in the region.
ghana has accused its neighbour, burkina faso, of hiring troops from the wagner group - a private russian military organisation, which is also believed to be involved in fighting alongside russian ghana says the mercenaries are operating close burkina faso has respoended by summoning ghana’ our correspondent in the region - lay-la - sent us this update.
the russian security group already had presence in countries like mali where it is said to be aiding in the fight against jihadist militants, and also in the central african republic.
so far, there is no official information about an agreement even though the prime minister recently visited russia.
burkina faso has had 1 the current transitional government is trying to regain control of security of in areas caught in escalating violence from militants who are allied to both al-qaeda and , means security which began in 2015 has killed thousands of people and left millions displaced.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
a in the has fallen a that’ according to statistics compiled by the death penalty than a third of executions were conducted in an incompetent or flawed manner.
let’ take a closer look 1 attempts reportedly failed.
the reasons are claimed to be incompetence, failures protocols themselves.
this was mainly because executions had to be put on hold after officials were not able to carry out execution protocols in four states - namely, idaho, ohio, tennessee and south carolina.
in all, less than 30 people were executed.
and - across the - fewer than 50 people were sentenced to death.
the five-year average of executions, 18.
6 per year, said to be the lowest in more than 30 years, a 74% decline over the course of one decade.
the executive director of the death penalty information center - a non-profit organization providing analysis and information on issues concerning capital punishment to the public and media.
he joins us live from washington .
many thanks for your time.
it is important to establish upfront where your organisation on he issue of stands on the issue of the death penalty.
take it you it and these figures basically rate your view, is at right?
irst of all, thank for having me on.
the death alty infermation centre penalty information centre doesn’ take a position for or the death penalty against the death penalty itself but it does, we are sre1 itself but it does, we are 182 i1 administered.
critical of the is administered.
and critical of the is - dgide: rgn0 administered.
and the concept otched execution, as you of a botched execution, as you refer to it, what does that ually consist of?
it sounds olutely horrific concept absolutely horrific the concept itself.
yeah, and you wonder is wrong ith the system what is wrong with the system to even have the concept.
utions can to even have the concept.
- executions can be watched in a 11 of different ways.
most couple of different ways.
most people are familiar with when a on is injected ugs and person is injected drugs and he body starts quivering and vulsing that is one way that an execution can be ched, the physical reaction the chemicals isn’ what the expects happen.
state expects will happen.
what ened this year is a bit 4 happened this year is a bit different and that is problems manner different and that is problems manner in which the in the manner in which the attale in the manner in which the i a1 i when someone is being put executions were carried out.
when someone is being put to it is entirely within the aage death it is entirely within the control of the state department i department of corrections and ant to have trained you want to have trained personnel who know how to carry .
these executions 't out.
these executions were - lethal injection and lethal ection involves taking what a hospital setting would be ntravenous line and essentially inserting it into a and once you inserted into 1 vein and once you inserted into a vein you then inject the micals.
he problem that we in seven 4 ifferent cases i this this year was that the ecutioners had trouble nding a line.
it ranged in he hotched executions 25 the botched executions from 25 minutes to as long as three rs.
that is the ay it hours.
that is not the way it supposed to be.
regardless ere you stand of where you stand on the issue of the death of where you stand on the issue ug8 difficult to contemplate, isn’ it, if you are the relative of one sentenced to death, having to go through this sort competence and this sort of suffering?
yeah, and the ches have collateral victims was obviously prisoner is being put through cessary pain during the course of the execution and two tal of the executions actually didn’ happen.
alabama called after 2.
5 hours one off after 2.
5 hours of 0 mpting and the other was attempting and the other was than an attempting and the other was .
10 attempting and the other was more than an hour.
but think of amily members of the homicide victims, the family ers of a members of the defendant - mself and a new study this ear showed that these kinds of utions have an executions have an extraordinarily aumatic aals effect on the corrections personnel as well.
very efly, he future for the death enalty in the united ates.
the death death penalty in the united i8 death penalty in the united states.
the death penalty is in ear ecline and this year a 20 year decline and this year ad fewer executions, we had wer new sentences and public port 1 or capital punishment support for capital punishment remained near the lowest in 50 .
we had one state that years.
we had one state that issued a commutation to years.
we had one state that 1 issued a commutation to clear ite death row and it looks like pattern of one state by one state state each year ileld nating or sharply reducing he death eliminating or sharply reducing eu8 eliminating or sharply reducing the death penalty is going to 8 - the death penalty is going to it continue into the future.
thank you very much of your time here stay with us on news, still to come: nasa launches a mission to survey all of the earth’ surface water from space.
saddam hussein is finished, because he killed our people, our women, our children.
the signatures took only a few minutes but they brought a formal end to 3.
5 years of conflict - before an audience of world leaders, the presidents of bosnia, serbia and croatia put their names to the peace agreement.
the remanian border was sealed and silent today.
romania has cut itself off from the ocutside world in order of the presumed massacre in timisoara from leaking out.
from sex at the white house, to a trial for his political life, the lewinsky affair tonight guaranteeing president ever to be impeached.
this is news, a deadly wave of russian missile strikes, has hit multiple targets in ukraine killing at least three people.
residential areas and power stations were badly hit.
and a rough ride for ramaphosa.
the south african president was heckled at the ’ party conference, but he’ still hoping to be re-elected, despite last weeks’ impeachment proceedings.
a giant aquarium, installed in the lobby of a luxury german exotic fish cascading across the floor.
the 14-metre-high tank had become a well-known tourist flnissind , has the story.
this aquarium was built to impress - a million litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish - all towering over the lobby of a berlin hotel.
my god!
but early this merning, it seems the tank simply shattered.
glass and metal ripped through the building.
extraordinarily, just two people were hurt, neither of them seriously.
could describe it as a .
and jolted out of bed and turned around didn’ see any movement so didn’ know what the heck was going on.
looked outside the window, saw a lady running.
investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
taken when the aquarium i says this architect, "and it would only cause "a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"such a hollywood scenario is impossible.
” the authorities suspect material fatigue may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
there is a sense, think, of relief amongst many a and that lobby, the street outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors, many of them children.
4 at the destruction, but an acknowledgement, too, that this could have been ¢ much worse.
jenny hill, news, berlin.
years from is a talel-1 years from now wonder years from now wonder if they be ruing the strange tale he exploding fish in let’ get some of the day’ other news.
nurses, who went out on strike in england, the british prime minister rishi sunak has suggested that the government won’ budge on its view that nurses should the , has said a deal i i nads mick made the comment as his members took part services in england, scotland and wales have been severely hit and more industrial action is planned between december 24th and 27th, and again in early january.
the united nations has added its voice to the many critics of twitter’ suspension of journalists’ accounts.
a spokesperson said the action set ‘a dangerous precedent’ at a time when press freedom was widely under threat.
earlier, the european union i elon musk that the social media platform could be hit with sanctions, after he personally ordered the suspension of several journalists.
on twitter, vera jourova, said that laws respect "media freedom and fundamental rights”, and elon musk "should and she added: "there are red lines.
and sanctions, soon.
” the new york times, and the washington post have been locked out of their accounts.
many of those suspended had takeover, or had commented onh an account that tracked the movement of the his private jet.
micah lee is one of the journalists that’ been banned.
i had just posted a tweet and was following the news after my tweet just got a notice inside of twitter that my account is suspended and can’ use it to post any more tweets.
was it a shock or did you see this coming?
kind of saw it coming.
gete that this has happened, especially because of the reporting that i’ve been doing on elon musk’ think that this is the highest profile time where he’ kind of arbitrarily banned a lot of people but he’ been doing this since he took over.
there’ been several arbitrary 3 does elon musk have a point, though, when he says that knowing the location of his private jet is a threat to the security, not only of his own security potentially?
actually buy that.
think there’ some room for discussion.
i think that knowing, like, which airport his plane think it’ already public infoermation and think that, you know, it’ perfectly reasonable for people to learn this about the private jets everyone who posted anything related to that who got suspended, they got their account suspended - are journalists who weren’ actually, like, posting the links to this website, we were reporting on other things getting suspended.
the american space agency, , has launched a mission to undertake the first survey of all of the earth’ surface waters from space.
mission will use radar technology to monitor the elevation of water, as tom brada reports.
for a landmark mission which aims to transform track features in the ocean’ surface in unparalleled detail.
the results could be vitally important, helping to improve floods and droughts forecasts and give researchers a better understanding of climate change.
every three weeks, it will complete a map of 90% of our planet so a basis we can see how ocean levels are changing, how the seasons affect things as well, so it is a wonderful satellite, a wonderful mission.
once in positien, ’’ 0 towards the earth’ surface ale determinations of height.
it will measure all rivers 100 metres wide and all lakes waterways we are otherwise struggling to understand.
monitoring networks even on some of the world’ greatest rivers like the amazon and the congo are nowhere as near as thorough and comprehensive as they need to be and in many cases are in decline so we are getting less infermation now than we did some time ago.
it will be a few months before is fully operational open a new chapter in our understanding of climate change and the water cycle on earth.
tom brada, news.
and you can get more on that and and the other stories we ele and the other stories we ured on our and the other stories we i and the other stories we featured on our website.
thanks saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
but then the thaw begins on sunday in the morning - of us it will be a slow process, particularly in the north of the country.
so, here’ the weekend.
this is the air mass showing where the warm air is, just to the south-west of us.
and then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep so, still some snow a across the highlands, the inner-city temperatures on saturday morning.
outside of town it’ going to be so, the weather for saturday itself and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
most of the rain around the coasts, snow or sleet inland.
and already starting to feel a little less cold.
se, quite a change.
now, that big change arriving saturday night into sunday.
so, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars, but for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about, early on sunday there could be freezing rain, icy conditions and hill snow.
for example, in wales, hill snow is possible around the pennines and certainly in scotland.
so, for a time in the morning on sunday it could be icy for some of us.
but those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
so, 10 in plymouth, still cold in the north.
through the course of sunday night into monday.
about the mid-teens in cardiff and plymouth.
and this is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
it’ going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
we would expect i ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest barrages of russian missile strikes has badly damaged electricity and water supplies across the country.
russia’ tass news agency claims ukrainian shelling has killed at least twelve - south africa’ president, cyril ramaphosa was heckled when he addressed his own party conference.
ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings earlier this week but is still hoping to re-stand as party leader.
the united nations and the european union have joined a spokesman said they were very disturbed, church of england has told the , that the government hasn’ fully grasped the scale of the crisis, hitting millions of people struggling with the spiralling cost of living.
the bishop of durham, paul butler, says of particular concern, is the number of people in work who are struggling.
a church of england report says nearly 40% of adults in britain, have sought help for basics like food and warmth.
our affairs correspondent, jeremy cooke, has been talking to some of those in desperate need, in newcastle.
> come on are you going to be superman, are you?
but for this family, the outside world is getting you need to stay in here because there’ a monster out oh, what monster?
anita’'s a single mum of three.
but it’ short hours, fitting around little brett’ nursery times.
oh, lots of rice!
this family to crisis point - and to the foodbank.
this is the first time i’ve actually had to go and ask for help.
i just can’ do it -ttty it’ the gas, the electricity, the bills, and the then cost of the food that’ went up.
anything that worries you, anything you’re fearful of, please come and talk to us.
calls for help are up 25% since september.
and it’ not just food, there’ all kinds of help.
are you on or?
how much do you spend on public transport?
we haven’ got enough winter coats, that’ the sad thing.
carole rowland is a driving force here.
want to be happy now.
helping hundreds of people like dean.
every day, every other day, am in hospital for emergency treatment.
his heart condition is life-limiting, he can’ work.
this place is a life-saver.
0 you have to rely on coming to a foodbank just for that extra few days’ worth of food, which is great.
i’ exhausted with it, absolutely exhausted.
anita’ on the way to she used to donate to.
and she’ changed - thinner, colder.
shall we just stay here today?
last week, couldn’ put my heating on at all.
are your hands warm now?
all feel like i’ve done a 8 2 feel like such a letdown all the time, do you know what mean?
it’ a shattering experience.
and without this place, well, who knows?
would have give up.
i’ve got three children, shouldn’ feel like that.
cannot see what this lady can do to make her life any different, because she’ doing everything she can.
love you, baby.
the government says it does recognise that people are struggling with rising prices and that it’ given direct help to millions this year.
still, for so many, things are tough.
this is newcastle - it could be anywhere.
think it is a crisis, of people who are involved across every single community.
mpacted.
the thing that concerns me most deeply, think, is the level 2 we’ve got to get through this winter together.
the weather’ gone three elves on one shelf.
yeah, they were in the tree!
but anita’ trying to keep things festive to make the best of christmas.
it would be lovely to just stop thinking about everything and worrying constantly.
just to sit round and have family and the hats and the bad jokes and justa nice time.
you better watch cut but, for her kids, anita will make it happen.
in this bleak midwinter of 2022.
i now on news, talking movies review of 2022 a welcome to our talking movies i eview of 2022 welcome to our talking movies 2 welcome to our talking movies review of 2022 special edition.
day’ wi0yy tae in today’ programme we look & highlights of the year back at highlights of the year in i nema.
we review many of major movie events of 2022.
look at the major movie events of 2022.
& we look at the film is that nobody thought would become big hits as well as the local hits as well as the out arthouse offerings and top ten films of the year.
thout doubt, one of the iggest movie events of 2022 the arrival of james cameron’ sci-fi avatar, 1 cameron’ sci-fi epic avatar, the way of water.
it is ourse the sequel to his 9 09 avatar course the sequel to his 2009 i course the sequel to his 2009 avatar movie which became the est grossing film of all biggest grossing film of all i .
went with some trepidation to the new picture the other day here in a i ttan.
say trepidation because it is more than manhattan.
say trepidation i because it is more than three ours’ long.
well, did i hours’ long.
well, did survive and was very ressed either cinema technology.
really is eautiful watch.
but terms of storytelling, it is a hin.
avatar had its world bit thin.
avatar had its world premiere in london and it is 8 here that we have more.
the world of pandora is back on cinema reens.
13 years after camera called just cameron conguered box office, cameron conquered the box office, he is reuniting his 3 inal cast with his first of roposed avatar sequels.
avigr proposed avatar sequels.
the film followed marine jake ully as he takes alien or avatar body in order to better grate with the local opulation.
through the movie orms a ersonal attachment the group and comes to them against the evil human oration out mine the corporation out to mine the moon for profit.
the film was ble for moon for profit.
the film was for its advances in notable for its advances in performance capture technology, ter-generated visuals and the fact that they assuring a new era in a new era in 3 filmmaking.
new this was you knew this was happen?
the elation might not have 3 revelation might not have happened but it did make a huge 001 happened but it did make a huge amount of money, almost $3 lion.
the way of water picks over a billien.
the way of water picks up over a decade later with and his family now 4 jake and his family now facing hreat and being driven to a new threat and being driven a0 to pandora’ water areas in search of sanctuary.
eron 14 search of sanctuary.
cameron has spent the last 13 years ping out future instalments rieh a of the franchise as well as perfecting performance capture nology that can now be used the act technology that can now be used 4 he act is while they’re filming underwater.
-- actors.
the public be it will the public be interested in a sequel to a that was released over a decade ago?
that was a itimate concern.
legitimate concern.
didn’ 0 that instinctively but it feel that instinctively but it was always a possibility.
then opped our first trailer in ay and it had it 128 million ews in 4 hours.
i’ not i 01 views in 24 hours.
i’ not worried about it anymore.
what worry is it has does worry me is it has ntracted due to the double unch punch of streaming and the pandemic.
it is coming back, coming back, pandemic.
it is coming back, a : pandemic.
it is coming back, slowly coming back, it 80%, of we were in 2019.
and back what we were in 2019.
and back when we released the first ie.
so can when we released the first i .
so can we be profitable movie.
so can we be profitable in a changed market or are we the last dinosaur?
no, just the last dinosaur?
no, dying after the comet hit.
acl ’ tell you that couldn’ tell you that right .
we will know in a weeks guess.
do come to ?
just want to keep my mily afe.
filming for vatar three has already been completed and some workers even done on a fourth ilm the eported orchard 350 reported orchard of $350 million reported orchard of $350 lion for the way of water —- early reviews for the way of water have praised visuals but found water have praised visuals but found some of the story and logue lacking.
cameron is ping the ovie and theme of family resonate with inema audiences.
regardless, a relief.
it is a relief.
we have been sitting on this eqg for long i and getting it out in ront of people, you know, sponse has response has been overwhelmingly good so far.
- ’ seen any reviews yet so haven’ seen any reviews yet so i am sure haven’ seen any reviews yet so ure alternate picking i am sure alternate picking 3i=1ad i am sure alternate picking i 1 4 art at that point, that will start at that point, that emotionally people stick -- to be emotionally charged seem to be emotionally charged ™ the film and that is enough answer for me.
to make a ay of water projected to do well at the box office but it ing to have to do is going to have to do tremendous business just to even.
james cameron is break even.
james cameron is hoping that big money will mean to release his planned avatar equels as well as monstrate that following a ilatlid demonstrate that following a shiilall @i demonstrate that following a difficult few years, large ences are ready to return and rove that cinema going is and well in a post covid orld.
let’ get it done.
a year ago, to steven spielberg was busy promoting west two story, mething set in side story, something set in this neighbourhood in new york 1950_ this year he has in the 1950.
this year he has made his in the 1950.
this year he has 4 in the 1950.
this year he has made his mark with a different % called the fable lens which ove.
you get the pression which i love.
you get the i i 1 impression after watching this movie that you really know phen’ bilbo.
movies are dreams which you never forget.
abelmans is different to steven spielberg’ other vies.
_ it is he story of his family ife as he grew up in role that movies played in formative years.
he made film with he encouragement screenwriter tony kushner whom of screenwriter tony kushner with whom he has collaborated before.
have always found ways of putting my personal in everything i’ve done.
there are pieces of me in rything ave really directed, but is was a ery directed, but this was a very focused intentional story of ng-of-age.
i’ve never made coming-of-age story before ’ve never told one so and i’ve never told one so lose to my own experiences and lose to my heart.
you so close to my own heart.
you can’ just love something, you also have to take care of it.
he fabelmans is really helped strong performances.
by its strong performances.
michelle williams’ brilliant ing of spielberg’ her playing of spielberg’ mother i i1 playing of spielberg’ mother who had affections for a playing of spielberg’ mother i - who had affections for a man ther than her husband.
and nadian actor is also good at ying spielberg in his eenage years was of a portrait family where there is a of love but whether lationships are far from mple.
it feels like an honest ladl iction of what simple.
it feels like an honest i simple.
it feels like an honest depiction of what went on in this bilbo’ family not everyone comes out looking uly great.
do you always have everyone comes out looking great.
do you always have to be entre of attention?
top houting at her!
nothing shouting at her!
nothing but disrespect from i 1 disrespect from you i’ ’ your er!
don’ disrespect from you i’ your i mother!
don’ know any family that is not collocated and our a ocations are probably convocations are probably not as unusual as someone else’ 4 hink this a universal reflection think this is a universal a1 think this is a universal reflection think of i 110 reflection think of everybody everywhere with siblings, nts, with problems at parents, with problems at school, with a passion, a by, omething that becomes a career, so hink it is of a career, so think it is a lot raatid career, so think it is a lot of universal truths in the % we’re dealing.
the story we’re dealing.
the fabelmans will probably feature inently in the oscar nominations but adly like many prestige pictures this year it other prestige pictures this year it has been struggling a 1 year it has been struggling to an audience in cinemas.
ovie-goers will come out the vent movies not so much big event movies not so much for smaller arthouse pictures.
was your favourite part?
what was your favourite part?
i retial what was your favourite part?
- 0 1: 71 what was your favourite part?
and cut!
beautiful.
among the who and cut!
beautiful.
among the who made quite an impact actors who made quite an impact 3 nend of the year films was itain’ mcllaurin is britain’ mclaurin who is perhaps best known for playing ces diana in the crown.
and lady chatterley’ over.
in \ 0 - now lady chatterley’ lover.
in - now lady chatterley’ lover.
in 2022, more and more award shows gender neutral.
this is came gender neutral.
this is supported by emma who a1 i1 3 supported by emma who i tifies as non- binary.
and you might imagine the actor lso a big fan of the i also a big fan of the wrence novel in which also a big fan of the lawrence novel in which the lady chatterley’ lover film is .
emma jones tells us more.
it’ nothing like that!
yes it ™ .
lady chatterley’ lover has caused discussion.
emma orrin lays connie, an ristocratic unhappy wife who tids aristocratic unhappy wife who finds it with her husband’ keeper.
times ay ave gamekeeper.
times may have changed since the book’ 1 lication but emma corrin finds much in he narrative i finds much in the narrative that is relevant now.
it speaks much to he times we live very much to the times we live 3 today.
obviously things have ressed but they also think 1 progressed but they also think qr4 society we live in is very fragile the rights of 8 fragile and the rights of women’ bodies are very fragile and adding women’ bodies are very fragile and adding to the celebration tonomy.
not of autonomy.
not like any man i’ve ever met hefore.
emma rrin’ performance has been rated corrin’ performance has been 0 corrin’ performance has been highly rated by critics.
in the aid they has said they are non-binary meaning they have a gender ntity that doesn’ inte nto aneh identity that doesn’ fit into the mail- female binary and = they/them pronounce.
they use they/them pronounce.
57 they also said they would support categories in award monies becoming gender neutral.
theirs is a powerful oice, in 2022 they have new voice, in 2022 they have risl 1 new voice, in 2022 they have become a sought-after act, ring with another much to about young celebrity harry styles can british drama my policeman.
he started as a olice officer forced to young police officer forced to hide his sexuality.
the england lady chatterley of the lady chatterley error is equally as repressive and 1 equally as repressive and lady chatterley finds freedom and it he attraction chatterley finds freedom and it ase-ud chatterley finds freedom and it was the attraction for corrin the part.
the first time met, they shared with me at hey felt a very we met, they shared with me a 3 that they felt a very strong connection with especially in naked under the rain and has said one of the most under the rain and has said this is one of the most iconic of freedom that they moment of freedom that they have ever read and want moment of freedom that they a have ever read and want to do it , want to explore that feeling of liberating it, i want to explore that feeling of liberating freedom.
at right?
yeah.
and is that right?
yeah.
and was that blue think just mped of me because it eaii !
jumped out of me because it i rrified me and enticed me, ntity had ever seen ything ike it on screen and was cited make that happen.
it’ amazing, isn’ it?
how one can get so into your blood.
physical intimacy is an essential part of this narrative actors essential part of this a i narrative actors have become ore outspoken about whether felt comfortable filming seeds are not.
emma sex seeds are not.
emma i thompson in her recent film 4 uck to you via grand good luck to you via grand i3 iest using good luck to you via grand i 1 kt8 co-ordinators, this production lida rked with one.
joey also worked with one.
joey 2 also worked with one.
joey richardson who played lady terley and a 1993 chatterley and a 1993 ils chatterley and a 1993 miniseries and dominic thanks sets ave changed for the film sets have changed for the better.
we are more aware of needs to be put in place with ove scenes, that everyone to be protected did.
they tend be more choreographed.
he old days it was like , get with in the old days it was like , eeukiak in the old days it was like , get on with it.
this version also focus on men does also focus on the men in he 3’ the 3’ life.
the oliver mellors is suffering after a0 irst world war that causes him solate himself.
a to isolate himself.
the bitterness between gamekeeper andowner and circlet and landowner and circlet digitally’ own mental health lems fter a wartime injury problems after a wartime injury that ads him to problems after a wartime injury 01 1 that leads him rebuff his wife that leads him to rebuff his fe_ but this is emma corrin’ film as constance chatterley and the comment on acting egories neutral could have a lot of currency given award season is ady under way.
for me, one already under way.
for me, one of the more pleasant already under way.
for me, one of the more pleasant surprises 1 the movies in 2022 was of the more pleasant surprises 2 i at the movies in 2022 was the indian film .
it is a story elationship between two heroes in heroes in 1920 india opping as a it as @ movie escapism and it has been put together extremely .
is a big movie and 3 a1 well.
is a big movie and epic action drama, the most nsive indian vie ever expensive indian movie ever made, it is a telugu language , gaining accolades by the film, gaining accolades by the inute.
essentially it is a 1% of friendship, friendship etween giant heroes.
but at we did was, we kept the motions as grounded as very .
their might be superhuman but there is a utiful friendship that is eloping within them.
has ecome global phenomenon on top ’ become a head across india, and the japan, the as as elsewhere.
it’ well as elsewhere.
it’ incredibly unusual for a telugu uage to breakthrough in the , it has never really happened before stopping those don’ really know what the language is in this country they have some unless they have some relationship to the culture and esult that, as with as a result of that, as with - as a result of that, as with i i rnational quote parasite and some other international quote unquote ign language film rossovers, people aren’ inking about the guage it thinking about the language it 3 and, they are thinking about the language it thinking about the language it is and, they are thinking about the experience of the movie self and they don’ even remember that there were ubtitles when they come out of that’ really what he ultimate goal should be.
there mething bout that is is something about that is appealing to people that goes beyond the parameters of south asian cinema and allows beyond the parameters of seuth inema and allows it to asian cinema and allows it to just feel like universal apism just feel like universal = apism and also think a lot of audience escapism and also think a lot i audience is are starved escapism and also think a lot a of audience is are starved of good escapism because we have marvel movies, star wars ovies, and that sort of rytelling as started to kind of redundant.
inancially, the movie has been winner.
it’ brought in more than $175 million ldwide, setting several box worldwide, setting several box worldwide, setting several box office records for an indian element.
during the covid lot 1 , the pandemic when everything was down, think eople started looking at ries from think people started looking at from other cultures, were exposed to more ultures, more different ways torytelling.
now for a 0 period of one and a half years when the cinemas were period of one and a half years 0 when the cinemas were shut down, people got exposed to the cultures, story, ratives and everything.
ink that also think that also helped a lot stopping by the me that cinemas opened again and people ted coming to the theatres, there horizons re much started coming to the theatres, ils1 there horizens were much wider than before.
think that also eason eople are i appreciating .
even stands a appreciating .
even a chance of getting stands a chance of getting oscar nominations, ecially after winning a best director from a top american film agtilay award from a top american film critics group.
it is otentially very good news for ian cinema which is often overlooked by the academy rd.
very december, get award.
every december, get deliveries here in my new york tment many, many boxes like = =tty 1 a = these which come from the big ywood studios and ome hollywood studios and some small production companies, 0 of what would call full of what would call promotional junk designed to uence me a member promotional junk designed to promotional junk designed to influence me as a member of a ics group vote for a critics group to vote for a particular movie or tito particular movie or favour a «1 icular movie but the theory more boxes than ever and ant to show you what is 3 1 they want to show you what is in some of them.
oh, this is argentina 85.
it’ got a for argentina 1985.
it’ got a bottle for argentina 1985.
it’ got a aol - for argentina 1985.
it’ got a nice bottle of wine and, oh, is good in this topic it 3 is guite good because you get , %1 & quite good because you get a , but what a lot of people anymore stopping you get a screenplay stopping the thing about all this is very wasteful packaging.
etimes there is a nice chocolate .
i 8 beautifully produced, it boots?
these books are beautifully produced, it must a fortune to put them ogether basically all soft premotional a all soft promotional material find hat kind of a and find that kind of a wee i it offputting.
well, am of ourse a totally incorruptible eta being stopping anyone who nows me will tell that.
so getting all these things like is not, or did not have any impact at all on making up list of up my list of the top ten films of the year.
at number ten, , the indian action epic for joy it rings to all who watch the joy it brings to all who it stopping the musical moments with best, so 4 ibrant and moments with the best, so brant and alive compared to andard escapist moviemaking.
umber standard escapist moviemaking.
nine, good luck to at number nine, good luck to you leah grande in which emma pson plays an older woman eking sexual adventure with a unger an stopping it proves hat emma thompson really is a : 4 liant actor.
in eighth brilliant actor.
in eighth place avatar, the way of water.
4 use it is such an because it is such an impressive feat by james 01 impressive feat by james cameron in harnessing hnology to create a magical orld.
at number seven, the blemans.
as most grown up to and possibly one of is best.
just ead of that, he said, about the sexual abuse gations against harvey nstein.
a great film paying ribute to journalistic process.
at number , empire light, a film at dealt with racism of light, a film that dealt rist i a ism and love with racism and love of movies 4 to compassionate but to me it was a compassionate portrait of an edictable woman played valiantly by olivia colman ggling with mental illness.
in fourth lace, the belgian close, a disconcerting tory the close friendship tween two teenage boys ragically torn between two teenage boys & tragically torn apart.
photography is like a flash of oria.
at number three all the beauty and the bloodshed, sing on activist focusing on activist photographer nan goldin and her to old a wealthy family effort to hold a wealthy family responsible for the opioid is.
very creatively brought together.
in the number two tion, after experimental at times it captures the beautiful ationship between a father daughter on holiday in urkey with eat from actor turkey with a great from actor paul mescal from scottish based maker harlotte webb.
and filmmaker charlotte webb.
and the talking movies 11 film of 3 1 - 18 the talking movies 11 film of 2022 is tar, a character study ascinating but troubled of a fascinating but troubled female conduct played very incingly by cate convincingly by cate blanchette.
time is the 1 interpretation.
an intelligent , a story our time, one film, a story for our time, one that deals film, a story for our time, one deals with corporate power elations and cancel ture.
well, that brings our special ing movies review of 2022 a close.
we hope you enjoy he programme.
please remember can always ach us you can always reach us online and you can find us on tter.
1 so from me, brooke and the est the talking vies team rest of the talking movies team here in new york rest of the talking movies team !
rest of the talking movies team here in new york and london, goodbye we leave you it’ goodbye as we leave you with a song from one of my ourite films of year, favourite films of the year, ne.
-- favourite films of the year, ne.
-- one of my favourite of the ar, .
another freezing cold night but he thought is just around 1 ida the thought is just around the corner.
with a look at the ther weather through the early hours, we will have had some showers across the highlands, pennines, the wintry ers and mild many of us showers and mild but many of us tisa of clear skies it is a case of clear skies into saturday morning, sunshine really very cold.
these too, really very cold.
these are of the inner-city peratures response, a few degrees lower than that.
so the her on saturday weather on saturday shows i a showers particularly ound western parts of the , donia, the north-west of snowdenia, the north-west of england, the peak district, ainly some around the ighlands but for many of us tually going to be a bright nough date.
and already not as cold comedy quite as cold comedy temperatures between around and four degrees but three and four degrees but even as ight celsius there as high as eight celsius there 3 plymouth be a word of arning, early on sunday with thaw advancing and still very cold weather around 3 inthe orning there could be et, snow ice and freezing for i sleet, snow ice and freezing rain for some of us.
welcome to news, i’ david willis_ our top stories: falls to its lowest level for more than three decades.
a deadly wave of russian missile strikes hits multiple targets right across ukraine.
at least three people are dead.
residential areas and power stations are badly hit.
: whatever the missile worshippers from moscow are hoping for, it won’ change the balance of power in this war.
a rough ride for ramaphosa - the south african president is heckled at the ’ party conference, but he’ still hoping to be re-elected elon musk suspends several journalists’ accounts - and, there’ something fishy going on in berlin - a giant freestanding aquarium full of exotic fish has exploded.
the number of state-sanctioned executions in the has fallen to its lowest level for more than three decades.
that’ according to statistics compiled by the death penalty than a third of executions were conducted in an incompetent or flawed manner.
let’ take a closer look at the report.
attempts reportedly failed.
the reasons are claimed to be incompetence, failures to follow protocol, or defects in the protocols this was mainly because executions had to be put on hold after officials were not able to carry out execution protocols in four states - namely, idaho, ohio, tennessee and south &i in all, less than 30 people were executed.
and - across the - fewer than 50 people were sentenced to death.
the five-year average of executions, 18.
6 per year, said to be the lowest in more than 30 years.
that’ a 74% decline over the course of one decade.
our north america correspondent peter bowes explains how the statistics are quite damning stop of all of the tale utions that damning stop of all of the 4 damning stop of all of the executions that took place in nited states this executions that took place in the united states this year.
one in three went wrong in some they were by way.
they were visibly 1 way.
they were visibly problematic, according to this rt.
here were executions report.
there were executions report.
there were executions scheduled in only six states lving 18 people a involving 18 people but a significant number of those they had to be abandoned rtway through the process.
mething went wrong, protocols won’ adhered to.
was one example in the - state of alabama where it took three hours to connect the intravenous line, the that deliver the lethal would deliver the lethal cktail of drugs to that ndividual which would entually kill them.
other xamples as well around the a1 try.
it seems one of the country.
it seems one of the reasons given is that some of ersonnel that carry out the personnel that carry out xecutions are simply not dically qualified or xperienced enough to deal with lriy some of the potential problems can occur during the that can occur during the process and in some cases ates have a history of medical problems, of abuse, alcohol abuse, and that hem more susceptible to of the issues that occur during the some of the issues that occur during the process, and ecially the attachment of the line.
executions across 48’ country happened far less requently now than they 0 to and they to and they are concentrated frequently now than they used to and they are concentrated in i a small number i i i a small number of states and a small number of states and it quite likely that reports like this one and others will ease the pressure politicians in the united tes was again, looking at he process, again looking at executions and the yol executions and the a executions and the technicalities of the lethal ction top there was oll injection stop there was a poll i earlier this year that suggested some 46% of americans support lethal injections 14 but that is lower than some previous polls and there may be growing some growing pressure on politicians in , politicians in washington only look at the process question whether but to question whether attale but to question whether executions should but to question whether a but to question whether executions should be happening erica executions should be happening 14 two ministers have resigned from peru’ new government as deadly protests ala 0 about 20 protestors demanding castillo’ reinstatement, and the resignation of new president dina boluarte, have been killed in clashes with the security forces.
russian forces have launched a huge wave of missile attacks on ukraine, damaging electricity and water supplies across the country.
the capital, kyiv, was hit, as was president zelensky’'s home town of kryvyi.
in his address, he warned that russia was capable of furter the mayor of kharkiv described the destruction there as "colossal" and said that thousands of people were without heating, in freezing temperatures.
our eastern europe correspondent sarah rainsford sent this report.
earlier mitchel wallerstein - a senior foreign policy fellow at the chicago council on global affairs gave a a0 this is part of the attempt to rorise the this is part of the attempt to ieta terrorise the ukrainian people nce the russian forces have since the russian forces have not succeeded in their main aim of course originally was take kyiv.
the strategy ems to keep firing missiles the cities and to inte the cities and to put pressure on the government to tulate.
there competent capitulate.
there are competent -- countries that capitulate.
there are competent i -- countries that have air ence capabilities that could ist defence capabilities that could be useful to ukraine.
including israel that has the iron dome and the arrow anti-missile system.
of course, a lot of this is coming in the form of drones, drones are very hard to shoot down because they very low but there are various systems that can the ukrainian military is reporting a high percentage success in shooting down these incoming missiles and drones.
whether the reports toe i i let’ now here the report from correspondence ah rainsford.
the rumble of a russian attack, as kyiv was woken by more missile strikes.
the danger drove people underground.
the metro is the safest place to huddle here when the city’ under fire.
but as russian missiles hit the power grid, the trains all stopped.
i’ve sat here want to go home.
but in southern ukraine, i hours later, rescuers were still searching for people trapped in the ruins.
a child is missing here.
: whatever the missile worshippers from moscow are hoping for, it won’ change the balance of power in this war.
they have enough missiles left for mass strikes, but we have enough determination and self-belief to return what belongs to us.
this country now copes with what was once unimaginable.
handing out hot food keeping people warm.
defying russia’ efforts to wear them down.
but these attacks affect even the most vulnerable.
we found this old people’ home without heat, light or water.
on sheer resilience.
nella’ children just brought her here from the south, thinking she’'d be safer.
: we’re all waiting for peace, really waiting.
putin says, let’ be friends, but who is the unfriendly one here?
our situation here is really miserable.
the staff are doing their best to keep things normal, 1 "it is pretty hard,” olga tells me, "but we will get through.
” tonight, there’ no traffic lights in much of kyiv, no lights at all in large parts of ukraine’ capital, as russia tries to force his country somehow, life goes on.
sarah rainsford, news, kyiv.
and a reminder that you can keep up-to-date with all etails and keep up-to-date with all the keep up-to-date with all the details and letters information rding ukraine on our regarding ukraine on our 4 .
com/ news.
the south african president has been heckled during an address to his own party cyril ramaphosa - who’ hoping to be re-elected as party leader - struggled to make himself heard, over chants of "step aside™.
want to appeal to everyone who wants to raise their dissatisfaction, to do so in an orderly manner in the way that we do things here in the african nation of congress.
we have been in existence i 3 and this is not the time to come and display this type the chanting began when the president’ predecessor, jacob zuma, entered re ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings of dollars that were found hidden in a sofa at his farm.
our reporter in johannesburg, nomsa maseko, well, there was a lot of heckling and chanting of anti-ramaphosa songs as president ramaphosa started delivering his political report to the delegates who’ve gathered here - - even his speech was drowned when he tried to speak but the speech was even further disrupted when former president jacob zuma arrived at the venue, the delegates from his home province of kwazulu-natal.
we have seen this kind of heckling and bhooing and things like that take place in previous conferences.
as you know, the is deeply divided so the more than 5,000 delegates who’ve gathered here are chanting and singing for their own preferred presidential candidate and also to drown out the others who are singing because they want their preferred candidate to take over as president.
acob zuma and president ramaphosa have a long rivalry that spans over many years.
however there is a delegate, zweli mkhize, who the country’ former health minister who is president ramaphosa’ competitor in this election, which is this is what happened because even the delegates from kwazulu-natal, which is jacob zuma’’ heme province, that same province, it’ also zwell mkhize’ province.
that is there was so much heckling and things like that.
however, the delegates from kwazulu-natal are still angry that former president jacob zuma was jailed last year after he did not testify at a commission of inquiry investigating corruption while he was and looting last july a row is brewing in west africa over the increasing involvement of a russian mercenary group in the region.
ghana has accused its neighbour, burkina faso, of hiring troops from the wagner group - a private russian military organisation, which is also believed to be involved in fighting alongside russian ghana says the mercenaries are operating close burkina faso has respoended by summoning ghana’ sent us this update.
the russian security group already had presence in countries like mali where it is said to be aiding in the fight against jihadist militants, and also in the central african republic.
so far, there is no official information about an agreement even though the prime minister recently visited russia.
burkina faso has had 1 the current transitional government is trying to regain control of security of in areas caught in escalating violence from militants who are allied to both al-qaeda and , means security which began in 2015 has killed thousands of people and left millions displaced.
you’re watching news, the headlines: the number of state-sanctioned executions in the , falls to its lowest level for more than three decades.
a deadly wave of russian missile strikes, has hit multiple targets, right across ukraine.
at least three people are dead - and residential areas and power stations were badly hit.
a giant aquarium - installed in the lobby of a luxury german hotel - has exploded, sending one and a half thousand exotic fish cascading across the floor.
the 14-metre-high tank had become a well-known tourist flnissind , has the story.
this aquarium was built to impress - a million litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish - all towering over the lobby of a berlin hotel.
my god!
but early this merning, it seems the tank simply shattered.
glass and metal ripped through the building.
extraordinarily, just two people were hurt, neither of them seriously.
could describe it as a .
and jolted out of bed and turned around didn’ see any movement so didn’ know what the heck was going on.
looked outside the window, saw a lady running.
investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
taken when the aquarium i says this architect, "and it would only cause "a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"such a hollywood scenario is impossible.
” the authorities suspect material fatigue may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
there is a sense, think, of relief amongst many a and that lobby, the street outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors, many of them children.
4 at the destruction, but an acknowledgement, too, that this could have been ¢ much worse.
jenny hill, news, berlin.
just when you thought you had seias!
just when you thought you had heard it the united nations has added its voice to the many critics of twitter’ suspension of journalists’ accounts.
a spokesperson said the action set ‘a dangerous precedent’ at a time when press freedom was widely under threat.
earlier, the european union i with sanctions, after he personally ordered the suspension of several journalists.
laws respect "media freedom and fundamental rights”, and she added: "there are red lines.
and sanctions, soon.
” the new york times, and the washington post have been locked out of their accounts.
many of those suspended had takeover, or had commented onh an account that tracked the movement of the his private jet.
micah lee is one of the journalists that’ been banned.
i had just posted a tweet and was following the news after my tweet just got a notice inside of twitter that my account is suspended and can’ use it to post any more tweets.
was it a shock or did you see this coming?
kind of saw it coming.
gete that this has happened, especially because of the reporting that i’ve been doing on elon musk’ think that this is the highest profile time where he’ kind of arbitrarily banned a lot of people but he’ been doing this since he took over.
there’ been several arbitrary 3 does elon musk have a point, though, when he says that knowing the location of his private jet is a threat to the security, not only of his own security potentially?
actually buy that.
think there’ some room for discussion.
i think that knowing, like, which airport his plane think it’ already public infoermation and think that, you know, it’ perfectly reasonable for people to learn this about the private jets everyone who posted anything related to that who got suspended, they got their account suspended - are journalists who weren’ actually, like, posting the links to this website, we were reporting on other things getting suspended.
the savage murder of emmett till in 1955, and his mother’ subsequent fight for justice, has been the film is produced by barbara broccoli, who’ behind the bond films and stars danielle dead-wyler, as may-mie, who’ve been 14-year-old emmett till.
they have a different set his brutal murder in mississippi in 1955 galvanised the civil rights movement.
the body of emmett louis till has been found dead.
driven by his mother, mamie.
you have to be extra careful with white people, you can’ risk looking at them the wrong way.
know!
wondered how much you felt the weight of responsibility, as you made this movie?
oh, felt every inch of it.
and knew that had to honour it, had to give it that history, we’re doomed a emmett was for whistling at a white female shopkeeper in this segregated part of america.
but the film deliberately i think we’re over just the grotesque nature of witnessing violence it shouldn’ take that kind of visual to ignite folks a that are happening - that had happened in 1955, that continue to happen to black people or any oppressed group of people.
back in 1955, mamie till-mobley had her son’ violated body photographed, and insisted on an open casket at his funeral.
many thousands filed past it.
that smell is my son’ body reeking of racial hatred.
come with me, please.
she was one of the first people to recognise how vitally important the image alsh and think when you see what happened with george floyd, that young woman who kept filming that horrendous murder, we wouldn’ have believed it - hi and do think that the trial will be carried on fairly, and that we’re all just praying for the best to happen.
a white male jury found the men not guilty.
they later admitted the murder but couldn’ be rels - though they’re dead, do you think that justice will ever be served?
i think that films have the opportunity to reawaken people’ understanding of critical moments in history.
that troubled history now being told on screen nearly 70 years on.
katie razzall, news.
the website offering digital trading cards of donald trump says the supply has sold out - in just one day.
tokens, said to be a limited edition of 45,000 - were priced at $99 each - which suggests the images, featuring trump as i 1 and a racing car driver, have netted $4,455,000 since thursday.
the website says the cards are not political, have nothing do with any political campaign, and are not owned, managed or controlled by trump.
now christmas preparations are in full swing around the world.
let’ take a look at santa beginning his annual rounds.
= ice sincerely hope he’ got me this list!
you can find ocut on on this list!
you can find out i on our website or download app.
don’ you?
it’ free of charge.
from all here behind it’ free of charge.
from all a ere behind the camera of us here behind the camera and in front of us here behind the camera rias of us here behind the camera and in front of it, thanks of us here behind the camera i and in front of it, thanks very much for joining us, you’ve watching news.
saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
but then the thaw begins on sunday in the morning - of us it will be a slow process, particularly in the north of the country.
so, here’ the weekend.
this is the air mass showing where the warm air is, just to the south-west of us.
and then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep so, still some snow a across the highlands, the inner-city temperatures on saturday morning.
outside of town it’ going to be so, the weather for saturday itself and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
most of the rain around the coasts, snow or sleet inland.
and already starting to feel a little less cold.
se, quite a change.
now, that big change arriving saturday night into sunday.
so, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars, but for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about, early on sunday there could be freezing rain, icy conditions and hill snow.
for example, in wales, hill snow is possible around the pennines and certainly in scotland.
so, for a time in the morning on sunday it could be icy for some of us.
but those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
so, 10 in plymouth, still cold in the north.
through the course of sunday night into monday.
about the mid-teens in cardiff and plymouth.
and this is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
it’ going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
we would expect i a report on capital punishment 4 mare than a third were botched.
the number of state-sanctioned killings fell to its lowest level for more than three decades.
ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest barrages of russian missile strikes has badly damaged electricity and water supplies across the country.
russia’ tass news agency claims ukrainian shelling has killed at least 12 civilians in eastern ukraine.
south africa’ president, cyril ramaphosa, was heckled when he addressed his own party conference.
that the government hasn’ fully grasped the scale cost-of-living crisis.
the bishop of durham, paul butler, says he is very concerned about the number of people in work who are struggling.
our affairs correspondent jeremy cooke has been talking to some of those in desperate are you going to be superman, are you?
but for this family, the outside world is getting you need to stay in here, because there’ a monster out what monster?
1 anita is a single mum of three.
she is always worked, she still does.
but it’ short hours, fitting around little brett’ nursery times.
oh, lots of rice.
squeezed benefits and soaring prices have brought this family to crisis point, and to the foodbank.
this is the first time i’ve actually had to go and ask for help.
just can’ do it at the minute, and don’ know what - it’ the gas, the electricity, the bills, and the cost of the food that’ went up.
anything that worries you, anything you’re fearful of, please come and talk to us.
at this community hub in benwell, calls for help are up 25% since september.
and it’ not just food, there is all kinds of help.
are you on , or?
how much do you spend on public transport?
we haven’ got enough winter coats, that’ the sad thing.
you’re looking better.
want to be happy now.
helping hundreds of people like dean.
every day, every other day, i’ in hospital for emergency treatment.
oh, well, getting there.
this place is a life-saver.
a i of goes, so you have to rely on coming to a foodbank just for that extra few days’ worth of food, which is great.
i’ exhausted with it, absolutely exhausted.
anita is on the way to the foodbank she used it’ been weeks since we’ve seen her and brett, and she’ changed - thinner, colder.
last week, couldn’ put my heating on at all.
are your hands warm now?
all feel like i’ve done a 8 2 what mean?
it’ a shattering experience, and without this place, well, who knows?
and would have - would have given up.
i’ve got three children, shouldn’ feel like that.
cannot see what this lady can do to make her life any different, because she’ doing everything she can.
love you, baby.
the government says it does recognise that people are struggling with rising prices and that it’ given direct help to millions this year.
still, for so many, things are tough.
it could be anywhere.
think it is a crisis, of people who are involved across every single community.
mpacted.
the thing that concerns me most deeply, think, is the level 2 we’ve got to get through this winter together.
the weather has gone three elves on one shelf.
yeah, they were in the tree.
but anita is trying to keep things festive to make the best of christmas.
it would be lovely to just stop thinking about everything and worrying constantly.
just to sit round and have family time with the christmas crackers and the hats and the bad jokes and justjust nice time.
you better watch cut but, for her kids, anita will make it happen.
in this bleak midwinter of 2022.
jeremy cooke, news, newcastle.
now on news, do you like a bit of art?
any idea what art, and what isn’?
that’ a big question.
i guess for me, it’ anything that aims to look good make you feel a certain way.
and that could be paintings, photography, music, perfermance, even ribbons.
yeah, ribbons is a work at the gallery in london which invites guests to re-examine their views did it work for you?
just wanted to touch it.
0ts but for me, the most exciting piece of modern art that’ been created this year is this.
oh, what’ it called?
a cute corgi in a house made of sushi.
right, and who’ it by?
now, that is the million-dollar question.
in the last few months, all sorts of weird pictures some look like clever mash-ups of existing photos.
others look like the work of pretty groovy digital artists.
but they’re not.
each of these images has been created from scratch by a computer, based on nothing more than someone typing in a few words to describe what they want.
now, have to say, some of them are stunning.
the pace of this has been quite staggering because, you know, is fast moving anyway, but even by those standards, this has been as fast as i’ve ever seen.
michael pound is an expert in deep learning, and he spent the last few months exploring how these systems work.
you like and we can just generate an image and see but, as we and generate completely new images of "cute rabbit wearing a parachute jumping out fta - it becomes obvious that these systems don’ really understand what they’re drawing.
01, ooch, that is peculiar.
what’ happened there?
it’ kind of like a cloud, as’ yeah, for every great picture you see online, that don’ get posted.
i 1 are really good, and the fact that this has all happened so fast has blown my mind.
so what on earth is going on?
but if you give me 90 seconds, will give you my best explanation.
for years, machine learning systems have been vacuuming up all the images they can find online and their accompanying text descriptions.
over time, the systems have learned to associate certain words and phrases with certain types of pictures.
work in reverse - start with a description a0 so if i type in, "an abandoned 18 overgrown with plants, bathed in sunlight™, now, it doesn’ look much, but think there are some for example, does it know that the word "plants” means it needs to put in a lot of green, and that green needs to be low down in the picture?
a 33 somewhere in the sky?
pictures and all sunlight pictures.
clhilel slowly adds more and more detail over and over again until, in 100 steps, as if emerging from a foqg, you get this - which i think is pretty darn beautiful.
and you don’ have to start with a blank slate.
give it a starting face and you too can grow your own mad scientist in a steampunk laboratory.
in the same way you can specify a subject, you can also specify a style.
these systems have seen enough monet to know what makes a monet, 0 picture of teddies that monet never painted.
oh, and here’ van gogh’ a 1 = one from lovecraft.
but here’ the problem.
what if you wanted a painting in the style of a living one who earns money from their commissions ?
as an artist, my work, what do, it is a part of me.
it’ a part of my identity.
and these companies have allowed users to generate things that look like i’ve done it, that look like my peers and we’re going to generate all kinds of things that you never agreed to, that could either be against your wishes, eleiig against your beliefs.
karla ortiz is a concept artist, illustrator and fine artist who has designed for the marvel cinematic universe, amongst others, and she has discovered would even say that to me it feels almost llike some kind of parasitical copying, you know?
it’ like, oh, we’re copying from another artist specifically to look like that artist.
8 but it sure looks like that artist did it, huh?
oi for artists whose specific styles have been replicated.
an artist wouldn’ be able to claim an infringement for a style being copied, because copyright doesn’ protect a style.
but when artificial intelligence has been used to make something in the style of someocne else then their original works would’'ve been copied so if an artist did have a problem, they could make in the first place as part of data scraping and data mining.
given that you make your living from your art, are you worried that you might lose income because suddenly it’ possible to generate stuff that looks like yours?
i’ be lying if said ne.
am worried.
and this is a concern share, for those that are entering the industry.
and i’ve heard reports of illustrators whose projects of hiring, maybe not really’.
and, like, there’ whispers of that happening more and more within our industry.
and if you’ve ever taken a photo and sold it to a stock photography website, you’ better watch out, too.
most websites, when they write articles, they put photos on to go with the story.
and the photos are usually not the actual story, they’re sort i or something like this.
now, we’re not quite there.
people, hands, faces, they’re difficult to do for al.
but if that gets better, you could imagine that lril to an algorithm and say, people looking really angry 'cause their printer doesn’ work”, and there we go.
that problem.
that’ the kind of thing think it could find some use for.
and the answer is always been, "well, at least we’ll still have our creativity!
and be artists!
™ and al’ like, "no, i’ coming for that too™.
and as starts to play a part = of our lives, it may be about to shape the conversations we’re having, as company openal has released a new type of chatbot, and it’ impressing zoe kleinman has been giving it a try.
you don’ always know whether you are talking optimus here.
on typing and texting.
a number of tech firms are working on the future of chatbots - an platform trained to engage in conversation.
and one in particular has gone viral.
it is called chatgpt, from the firm openaal, and more than a millien people have had a play with it it gets its wealth of information and styles of writing from the internet.
i’ going to let it show you what it can do first question: "explain chatgpt in two sentences”.
"chatgpt is a chatbot trained using the -3 language model.
"responses to user input in a conversational manner”.
not so conversational so far.
let’ another question: "are you alive?
” "no, i’ a virtual assistant created by a computer "i do not have consciousness or the ability to feel "emoticns like a human.
"i exist only to provide information and assist "with tasks within the limitations of my programming”.
right, here we go.
i’ve come to glasgow university to meet jeff dalton, a senior lecturer in computing science, think that were to ask this on an exam, that is probably a low .
dalton spent a lot of time running guestions through chatgpt is very good at generating natural language.
i a paragraph, and it can generate a poem.
its limits are it can’ generate an article.
a specialised report.
it can’ do those things because it’ fundamentally tad that it doesn’ understand what it’ talking about.
as platforms like chatgpt develop, what more could they be capable of?
maybe they’'ll replace internet search engines.
maybe they’ll generate maybe they could even write reports like this - although i’ not quite sure where that leaves me_ hmm.
and that’ it for the short version of the programme.
the -length how can be found on full-length show can be found on iplayer.
from us, at this ery in london, we will see gallery in london, we will see you soon.
goodbye.
hello and welcome to newswatch with me, samira ahmed.
on the england-france world cup match when people have died in a massive explosion in jersey?
and, news is accused of being unfair to the couple at the heart of the harry and meghan documentary series.
in the early hours of saturday morning, an explosion destroyed a block of flats on jersey in the channel islands.
it was immediately clear there had been fatalities.
last saturday was, of course, also the day of the england men’ football team world cup and that dominated most bulletins both before and after the match.
this was how the news channel began its 4pm summary.
2 1-0 up against portugal in their quarterfinal match.
the winner will face england or france in the semifinals.
i’ll have the very latest on both those quarterfinals at a world cup that continues to surprise us.
in other news, one person are still missing after a massive explosion in a block of flats in helier in jersey.
we’ll be hearing from the chief minister and the emergency services later in this hour.
several of you got in touch to protest.
stephen cox said: and roger turner said: and they sent us this statement.
the netflix programme harry and meghan were released during the week.
had included mention of it in news programmes.
we reported the reasons for that coverage last week.
many of the emails were, a i1 of the duke and duchess of sussex, but this week some were supportive, with viewers unhappy with the way news had reported the story.
a a thursday’ news at six.
now, his main complaint, and it is a familiar one, of press intrusion.
and this suggestion that there is, what amounts, really, to a conspiracy between the palace and the press.
and that, think, is where credibility is really stretched beyond what is reasonable.
consider one of the things that meghan said.
"no matter what did, they were still going to find "a way to destroy me.
” well, the first point, who is the "they" that she’ referring to?
think it is the palace, but most particularly it is to the press.
but the idea that anyone was out to destroy her, frankly, i think is absurd and simply does not stand up to proper and 42 but they quite obviously are convinced that they were victims.
nick witchell, thank you.
adrian david recorded a video for newswatch.
and duchess, it seems to be like a concerted bullying and smear campaign against the pair.
impartiality was nonexistent.
other viewers sent us emails expressing similar concerns.
i well, we asked news to provide someone to answer your concerns, but they sent us i do let us know your %1 or on any aspect of news.
details of how to contact us at the end of the programme.
now for some of your other it’ britain’ most watched breakfast show, so it’ pretty popular.
but some viewers were concerned it’ heading downmarket and neglecting news.
this outside broadcast from a pub in chichester on the day of england’ ill-fated world cup match against france was mentioned.
so this is walter, but he’ also a rather mystic dog - i’ told by dom - and he’ now going to predict the score.
so if walter goes for the cheese, that means a french win.
if he goes for the yorkshire puddings, iit’ an england win.
so, walter, it’ down to you.
you’re an england fan, of course, even though you’re a dog bordeaux.
let’ see what walter has to say.
come on, yorkshire puddings, please, walter.
if he doesn’ eat any, quess it’ a 0-0 draw.
with mbappe.
oh, no, it’ mbappe!
what does walter know, eh?
to give walter the dog his due, his match prediction was correct - but linda ottley-brown still wasn’'t impressed.
jon rivers wrote to newswatch.
simon evans said: and mike smith emailed: and received this statement.
and for a more detailed response, am pleased to say that the editor of breakfast, richard frediani, will be my guest on newswatch in the new year.
now, migration was in the news again this week with four people dying trying to cross the english channel on a small boat on thursday.
the day before, the prime minister made a migration anncuncement in parliament.
it was broadcast on the news channel, whe pulled out of it, just before the news at one, in this way.
our world leading modern regime actually helps the people they’re the people that need our support, and that’ what our reforms today will deliver rishi sunak outlining a five point plan in the commons there to, he says, end the backlog of asylum seeker gregor clarke messaged the newswatch twitter account to protest that the news channel had shown rishi sunak’ but had cut away just as the new westminster leader of the scottish national party, stephen , began his response to the prime minister.
well, we put that to news who replied: now last monday brought the sad news that a group of boys had fallen through ice on a lake in solihull in the west midlands.
efforts were made by rescuers who waded into the freezing water to pull the boys out.
they were taken to hospital where doctors attempted the news that some of the boys had died broke it was clearly as much of a shock to her as everyone else, and she was overcome with emotion.
have some really sad news to bring you.
we’re hearing that three boys aged 11, ten and eight have died.
after being pulled from the icy lake in solihull.
so we knew that four children had been rescued.
i’ so sorry, this is terrible news, obviously.
so those three boys aged eight, ten and 11 have died ray moore clearly sympathised and emailed in with a supportive message finally, something light-hearted to cheer us up i programme of the year.
a newswatch viewer, fran catherine, has clearly been feeling philesophical.
very true, fran, but we try.
thank you for all your i a if you want to share your opinions about what you see or hear on news, on , radio, online and social media, find us on twitter.
you can call us on 0370106676 4 i @ 1 a that’ all from us.
we’ll be back hear your thoughts about news coverage on 6 january.
until then, have a merry christmas and a happy new year.
this is world news, i’ david willis_ our top stories: the number of state-sanctioned executions in the united states falls to its lowest level for more than three decades.
a deadly wave of russian missile strikes hits multiple targets right across ukraine.
at least three people are dead.
residential areas and power stations are badly hit.
: whatever the missile worshippers from moscow are hoping for, it won’ change the balance of power in this war.
a rough ride for ramaphosa.
the south african president is heckled at the ’ party conference, but he is still hoping to be re-elected despite last week’ impeachment proceedings.
elon musk suspends several journalists’ accounts.
the number of state-sanctioned executions in the has fallen to its lowest level for more than three decades.
that’ according to statistics compiled by the death penalty than a third of executions were conducted in an incompetent or flawed manner.
let’ take a closer look at the report.
attempts reportedly failed.
the reasons are claimed to be incompetence, failures to follow protocol or defects in the protocols this was mainly because executions had to be put on hold after officials were not able to carry out i in four states - idaho, ohio, tennessee and south &i in all, less than 30 people were executed, and across the , fewer than 50 people were sentenced to death.
the five-year average of executions, 18.
6 per year, said to be the lowest in more than 30 years.
that’ a 74% decline over the course of one decade.
our north america correspondent peter bowes explains how the statistics are quite damning.
of all of the executions that took place in the united states they were visibly problematic, according to this report.
scheduled in only six states, but a significant number of those cases they had to be abandoned partway through the process.
something went wrong, the protocols weren’ adhered i+ there was one example in the state of alabama line, the that would deliver the lethal cocktail of drugs and other examples, as well, around the country.
and it seems one of the reasons given is that some of the personnel that carry out these executions are simply not medically qualified or experienced enough to deal with some of the potential problems that can occur during the process.
in some cases the inmates have a history of drug abuse, alcohol abuse, and that can make them more susceptible to some of the issues that occur during the process, and especially the attachment of the line.
now, executions across this country happen far less to, and they are concentrated in just a small number of states, and it seems quite likely that reports like this one and others will increase the pressure on politicians around the united states to look again at the process, to look again at executions and especially the technicalities of the lethal injection.
there was a poll earlier this year that suggested some 46% of americans still support lethal injections, and there may well be growing pressure on politicians in washington not only to look again to question whether executions should be happening in america at all.
russian forces have launched a huge wave of missile attacks on ukraine, damaging electricity and water supplies across the country.
the capital, kyiv, was hit, as was president zelensky’'s home town of kryvyi.
in his address, he warned that russia was capable of further the mayor of kharkiv described the destruction there as colossal and said that thousands of people were without heating in freezing temperatures.
our eastern europe correspondent sarah rainsford sent this report.
the rumble of a russian attack as kyiv was woken by re missile strikes.
the danger people underground.
the tro is the safest place to ddle ere when the city is under fire, huddle here when the city is - 1 fire, but as russian under fire, but as russian missiles hit the power grid, rains all stopped.
i’ve sat here want to go home.
but in southern ukraine, i hours later, rescuers were still searching for people trapped in the ruins.
a child is missing here.
: whatever the missile worshippers from moscow are hoping for, it won’ change the balance of power in this war.
they have enough missiles left for mass strikes, but we have enough determination and self-belief to return what belongs to us.
in northern kharkiv, the day turned dark, this country now copes with what was once unimaginable, defying russia’ efforts to wear them down.
but these attacks affect even the most vulnerable.
we found this old people’ home without heat, light or water.
on sheer resilience.
nella’ children just brought her here from the south, thinking she’'d be safer.
: we’re all waiting for peace, really waiting.
putin says, let’ be friends, but who is the unfriendly one here?
our situation here is really miserable.
the staff are doing their best to keep things normal, 1 "it is pretty hard,” olga tells me, "but we will get through.
” tonight, there are no traffic lights in much of kyiv, no lights at all in large parts of ukraine’ capital, as russia tries to force his country inte surrender.
but somehow, life goes on.
sarah rainsford, news, kyiv.
earlier mitchel wallerstein, a senior foreign policy fellow at the chicago council on global affairs, gave a a0 well, think this is part of a concerted strateqgy intimidate the ukrainian people, since the russian forces have not succeeded in their main aim, which of course originally was to take kyiv, and now are falling back the strategy seems now to be to keep firing missiles to capitulate.
there are competent 11 defence capabilities that - including israel nla including israel which has the iron ail- the including israel which has the iron dome and the arrow anti-missile system.
a lot of is coming in the form of this is coming in the form of drones.
drones are this is coming in the form of 8 es.
drones are very hard to oot down because flow shoot down because they flow very low, but they there a3 arious systems that can take drones.
the our drones.
the ukrainian military is reporting a high entage success in percentage of success in shooting down these incoming iles and shooting down these incoming missiles and drones.
whether he reports are accurate mains to the reports are accurate to be seen.
the south african president has been heckled during an address to his own party cyril ramaphosa - who’ hoping to be re-elected as party leader - struggled to make himself heard, over chants of "step aside™.
want to appeal to everyone who wants to raise their dissatisfaction to do so in an orderly manner, in the way that we do things here in the african national congress.
we’ve been in existence for 110 years, and this is not the time to come and display this type the chanting began when the president’ predecessor, jacob zuma, entered despite the opposition, he is expected to retain power.
it is threat because they are accused a big threat because they are 4 sed of not providing the accused of not providing the a3 rvices demanded by the ople, but the has been cused people, but the has been cused of corruption, which is at president ril ramaphosa as been what president cyril ramaphosa what president cyril ramaphosa has been trying to fight since gan his tenure.
and the reason you heard that uting in the conference of is precisely because here is the is precisely because here is a group of members do not there is a group of members a4 there is a group of members who do not want to see cyril aphosa continue with his ighting corruption and reforming of the .
many of that reforming of the .
many of i corruption or that were a ioned in a report that was mmissioned in south africa commissioned in south africa i lve members of the and former members of the , and other people that are those other people that are ayihl those other people that are to push back cyril ramaphosa’ efforts in trying ean up the regime.
they to clean up the regime.
they somehow to clean up the regime.
they a1 somehow came up with an accusation which is still, by ay, to be roved ina the way, to be proved in a court the way, to be proved in a ourt of law, of cyril maphosa having foreign rrency in his farm which was olen by some people and later eported to the police by of the political ompetitors of cyril ramaphosa.
a row is brewing in west africa over the increasing involvement of a russian mercenary group burkina faso, of hiring troops from the wagner group, a private russian military organisation which is also believed to be involved in fighting alongside russian ghana says the mercenaries are operating close burkina faso has respoended by summoning ghana’ 1@ our correspondent in the region sent us this update.
the russian security group already has a presence in countries like malli, where it is said to be aiding in the fight against jihadist militants, and also in the central african republic.
so far, there is no official information about an agreement between the wagner group and burkina faso, even though the prime minister recently visited russia.
burkina faso has had i cele the current transitional government is trying to regain control of security of in areas caught in escalating violence from militants who are allied to both al-qaeda and .
the insecurity that began in 2015 has killed thousands of people and left millions displaced.
still to come: nasa launches a a ssion to survey all of the - mission to survey all of the world’ water from pace.
saddam hussein is finished, because he killed our people, our women, our children.
the signatures took only a few minutes but they brought a formal end to 3.
5 years of conflict - before an audience of world leaders, the presidents of bosnia, serbia and croatia put their names to the peace agreement.
the remanian border was sealed and silent today.
romania has cut itself off from the ocutside world in order of the presumed massacre in timisoara from leaking out.
from sex at the white house, to a trial for his political life, the lewinsky affair tonight guaranteeing president ever to be impeached.
this is world news.
executions in the has fallen to its lowest level for more a new report has also shown a deadly wave of russian missile strikes, has hit multiple targets in ukraine killing at least three people.
residential areas and power stations were badly hit.
a giant aquarium installed in the lobby of a luxury german hotel has exploded, sending 1,500 exotic fish cascading the 14-metre-high tank had become a well-known tourist flnissind , has the story.
this aquarium was built to impress - a million litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish - all towering over the lobby of a berlin hotel.
my god!
but early this merning, it seems the tank simply shattered.
glass and metal ripped through the building.
extraordinarily, just two people were hurt, neither of them seriously.
could describe it as a .
and jolted out of bed and turned around didn’ see any movement so didn’ know what the heck was going on.
looked outside the window, saw a lady running.
investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
taken when the aquarium i says this architect, "and it would only cause "a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"such a hollywood scenario is impossible.
” the authorities suspect material fatigue may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
there is a sense, think, of relief amongst many a and that lobby, the street outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors, many of them children.
4 at the destruction, but an acknowledgement, too, that this could have been ¢ much worse.
jenny hill, news, berlin.
the grim tale of belen’’ xploding aquarium.
-- in the united nations has added its voice to the many critics of twitter’ suspension of journalists’ accounts.
a spokesperson said the action set ‘a dangerous precedent’ at a time when press freedom was widely under threat.
earlier, the european union i elon musk that the social media platform could be hit with sanctions, after he personally ordered the suspension of several journalists.
tom brada reports.
on twitter, vera jourova said that laws respect "media freedom and fundamental rights”, "there are red lines.
and sanctions, soon.
” reporters from outlets including the new york times, and the washington post have been locked out many of those suspended had criticised elon musk’ twitter takeover, or had commented onh an account that tracked the movement of the his private jet.
micah lee is one of the journalists that’ been banned.
i had just posted a tweet and was following the news after my tweet just got a notice inside of twitter that my account is suspended and can’ use it to post any more tweets.
was it a shock or did you see this coming?
kind of saw it coming.
gete that this has happened, especially because of the reporting that i’ve been doing on elon musk’ think that this is the highest profile time where he’ kind of arbitrarily banned a lot of people but he’ been doing this since he took over.
there’ been several arbitrary 3 does elon musk have a point, though, when he says that knowing the location of his private jet is a threat to the security, not only of his own security but the threat to the security of his family as well, potentially?
actually buy that.
think there’ some room for discussion.
i think that knowing, like, which airport his plane think it’ already public infoermation and think that, you know, it’ perfectly reasonable for people to learn this about the private jets everyone who posted anything related to that who got suspended, they got their account suspended - are journalists who weren’ actually, like, posting the links to this website, we were reporting on other things getting suspended.
and his mother’ subsequent fight for justice - has been made into a movie, which is due to be released the film is produced by barbara broccoli, who’ behind the bond films and stars danielle dead-wyler, as mamie till - who’ve been 14-year-old emmett till.
they have a different set his brutal murder in mississippi in 1955 galvanised the civil rights movement.
the body of emmett louis till has been found dead.
driven by his mother, mamie.
you have to be extra careful with white people, you can’ risk looking at them the wrong way.
know!
wondered how much you felt the weight of responsibility, as you made this movie?
oh, felt every inch of it.
and knew that had to honour it, had to give it that history, we’re doomed a emmett was for whistling at a white female shopkeeper in this segregated part of america.
but the film deliberately i think we’re over just the grotesque nature of witnessing violence it shouldn’ take that kind of visual to ignite folks a that are happening - that had happened in 1955, that continue to happen to black people or any oppressed group of people.
back in 1955, mamie till-mobley had her son’ violated body photographed, and insisted on an open casket at his funeral.
many thousands filed past it.
that smell is my son’ body reeking of racial hatred.
come with me, please.
she was one of the first people to recognise how vitally important the image alsh and think when you see what happened with george floyd, that young woman who kept filming that horrendous murder, we wouldn’ have believed it - hi and do think that the trial will be carried on fairly, and that we’re all just praying for the best to happen.
a white male jury found the men not guilty.
they later admitted the murder but couldn’ be rels - though they’re dead, do you think that justice will ever be served?
i think that films have the opportunity to reawaken people’ understanding of critical moments in history.
that troubled history now being told on screen nearly 70 years on.
for a landmark mission which aims to transform track features of the ocean’ surface in unparalleled detail.
the results could be vitally important, helping to improve flood and drought forecasts a better understanding of climate change.
every three weeks, it will complete a map of 90% of our planet, so we can see how ocean levels are changing, how the seasons affect things as well, so it is a wonderful satellite, a wonderful mission.
once in positien, ’’ 0 towards the earth’ surface ale it is these echoes which let make very precise determinations of height.
it will measure all rivers 100 metres wide and all lakes larger than six hectares, or 15 acres.
waterways we are otherwise struggling to understand.
monitoring networks even on some of the world’ greatest rivers like the amazon and the congo are nowhere as near as thorough and comprehensive as they need to be, and in many cases are in decline so we are getting less indication now than we did some time ago.
it will be a few months till it is fully operational open a new chapter in our understanding of climate change and the water cycle on earth.
tom brada, news.
an incredible project indeed.
tay with us on news.
saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
but then the thaw begins on sunday in the morning - of us it will be a slow process, particularly in the north of the country.
so, here’ the weekend.
this is the air mass showing where the warm air is, just to the south-west of us.
and then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep so, still some snow a across the highlands, the inner-city temperatures on saturday morning.
outside of town it’ going to be so, the weather for saturday itself and some western parts will be cloudy at times.
wintry showers are certainly on the cards.
most of the rain around the coasts, snow or sleet inland.
and already starting to feel a little less cold.
se, quite a change.
now, that big change arriving saturday night into sunday.
so, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars, but for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about, early on sunday there could be freezing rain, icy conditions and hill snow.
for example, in wales, hill snow is possible around the pennines and certainly in scotland.
so, for a time in the morning on sunday it could be icy for some of us.
but those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
so, 10 in plymouth, still cold in the north.
through the course of sunday night into monday.
about the mid-teens in cardiff and plymouth.
and this is the outlook as far as the week ahead is concerned.
it’ going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times.
we would expect i a report on capital punishment than a third of the 20 scheduled executions due to take place this year were botched.
the number of state-sanctioned killings fell to its lowest level for more than three decades.
ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest barrages of russian missile strikes has badly damaged electricity and water supplies across the country.
south africa’ president, cyril ramaphosa, was heckled when he addressed his own party conference.
ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings earlier this week but is still hoping to re-stand as party leader.
now on news, honduras’ abortion pill black market.
so he just went over, knocked a door, a man popped out, did quick exchange of he drugs for some money, and the drugs for some money, and were all within about 200 of a station.
this the police station.
this is the sale of black-market abortion in honduras.
abortion is llegal here der all 1 ircumstances, and even the rgency contraceptive pill a to i a a to i was banned in 2009 llowing a litary coup.
and calling for full restoration the full restoration of the full restoration of democratic order in honduras.
a the return of democracy with the return of democracy this year and the election of irst woman president, who campaigned on overturning the ban and alising abortion in limited ases, is the country on the we travelled to the capital to eet the women buying the legal pills.
the men ofiteering from them and politicians who could make difference.
hospital escuela is the largest public hospital in henduras.
here like doctor here like doctor caroline at look doctors here like doctor a & i- caroline at look after thousands of caroline at look after a i a = thousands of women each , 4 but hundreds of women each year with complications from illegal abortions.
this book is only for aale this book is only for abortions.
this book is just bortions ?
es, for today, for abortions?
yes, for today, ix.
six today?
seven.
now it after 2pm, so is not is only after 2pm, so it is not ong.
we have alf a day.
this from january.
this is from ary?
and it is one, two, january?
and it is one, two, hree, four, five, january?
and it is one, two, i - january?
and it is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, , nine, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12 *fyed eight, nine, ten, 11, 12 part of this is counting potential i potential miscarriages, as .
you are counting them as well.
you are counting them as miscarriages, or are these tions that have been abortions that have been induced?
we don’ know, we - don’ count it.
we just take 1 re of the woman and that’ .
even care of the woman and that’ regiale: care of the woman and that’ it.
even in critical cases, tell me that their hands so so are you hopeful that a change will come?
don’ know to say about that, sorry.
outside the maternal ward, eet maria.
she is waiting for teenage sister as she arries out a her teenage sister as she % her teenage sister as she carries out a pregnancy test.
how many instances of women do you a8 a day or a week who ave unwanted pregnancies and sure what do?
in a personal level, does it get frustrating with what you can’ do to women?
lyo oelgo lyool according to the , honduras has the highest teenage gnancy rate in central merica and pregnancy rate in central ica and twice the global rage.
sandy is a feminist ampaigner and activist and one key objectives is to make the morning after of her key objectives is to make the morning after pill again.
sandy wanted to take me to a concert celebrating the ntry’ female leader, country’ new female leader, president xiomara castro.
tell out he new president.
me about the new president.
at does she represent two eople this president made a lot of promises of what she would or women’ reproductive ights.
it’ been months rights.
it’ been a few months and nothing has changed.
what our thoughts on that?
lthough the emergency contraceptive pill is totally gal, was told about one pharmacy he capital that is umoured sell it, so we ent to ake a look.
so we just walked in and said on’ really speak spanish, could don’ really speak spanish, could buy the morning after ill, and she charge me lempiras, which is about ust under $10.
here it is, a pink packet.
it says annis.
3 he didn’ look at me funny, idn’ feel odd, the only she didn’ feel odd, the only awkwardness she didn’ feel odd, the only 21 wardness was that awkwardness was that couldn’ speak spanish.
it does feel i’ve done something wrong, hich suppose technically , except almost anywhere a0 in the world this is gal.
ould be able to buy legal.
1 would be able to buy he morning after pill almost where else in the world.
not veryone disagrees with the , though.
we were told about online collective of young called generation celeste who regularly share aules celeste who regularly share anti-abortion posts, so we ked them anti-abortien posts, so we i anti-abortien posts, so we asked them to come and us.
the pill has ree main ways of ting.
two of them are ontraceptive, meaning they act before there is life on the web, for the eqgg fertilised, the third way, as you can on the packaging, is they 14 allow the egg to he do not allow the egg to - the tilised eqgg implant fertilised egg to implant itself inside the uterine wall.
that is.
and early abortion.
abortion.
basically an early abortion.
so basically do agree that we should serve it as a way that it , is, because most all, we elieve , because most of all, we a aualea , because most of all, we a believe that aboertion is not a because it goes against, tually, the first and the most important fundamental that there is, which is right that there is, which is i ight to life.
and the right to life.
and we know there is life the right to life.
and we know i = fertilisation, when 11 fertilisation, when there is eption, because that conception, because that is a unique human being that has a that nobody unique that nobody else aver had unique that nobody else a 1 10 unique that nobody else ever had and that nobody else will ever have after that.
how ctive are you both will ever have after that.
how a tive are you both of the views in onduras?
we are absolutely the majority of uran ’, the great ajority of honduran support pro-life, pro family and don’ think our pro family and don’ i eueia i our pro family and don’ think that will change in the future.
how did you both eel hen you heard that roe ade feel when you heard that roe wade was overturned at the ?
happy.
was happy, .
was happy, 4 cause it is very common that atever happens in the united tes reflects what happens in nduras.
that is a step 1 honduras.
that is a step forward for all the pro-life nisations that are out organisations that are out there, and think that this definitely make will definitely make them stronger and will make them head.
generation celeste -\ say that they epresent the majority majority of honduran ‘, but are many people want there are many people who want to see the morning after pill lised.
we heard about a orilla protest, about 50 young and men, including 19-year-old ana, who are ding out in the middle of night to ver downtown in the night to cover downtown in posters directed to the ntry’ health minister, the an they say can legalise the ihh ning after pill.
have you hosen this street to put ters up?
we are out here in the middle of the night, it is past night.
re you worried that midnight.
are you worried that you’ll get in trouble for this?
clara, which is not her real ame, had no choice with her wanted pregnancy.
she grew up xually abused by a family mber sexually abused by a family 1 iee 1 sexually abused by a family member from the age of seven.
nded up pregnant with her ser’ child she ended up pregnant with her er’ child and she told us i abuser’ child and she told us she felt she abuser’ child and she told us felt she had no option vailable to her.
what were your emotions, when you first found out that you pregnant?
jose called us to invite us along to a drug pick-up with he illegally buys and 3 sells an over-the-counter =1dle sells an over-the-counter medication that is misused for ions.
it is not a safe abortions.
it is not a safe process.
jose, what are we to do now?
so you had a text off a - so you had a text off a girl asked you on tuesday.
could you that me, the 33 no tell over there?
no.
and how 1ile1 no tell over there?
no.
and how much do you sell the pill for?
what made you start this work?
at got you into buying and elling it women?
a lot of women will be putting heir health at a lot of women will be putting i their health at risk if they are using this drug to have an you were showing me some of the ext messages that you were ing from women earlier, and hey are asking you for medical ice, as well, how best to 1 roceed, but you are advice, as well, how best to 1 proceed, but you are not medically trained.
do you worry having that about having that 1% about having that responsibility of giving women ce, when you’re not advice, when you’re not qualified to give them advice it comes to abortions?
with no plans to currently change abortion laws in duras, the underground sale abortion honduras, the underground sale of abortion pills will continue, but legalisation of orning fter pill is being the morning after pill is being reviewed, and a key figure who decide the ocutcome as the untry’'s ealth minister, jose anuel country’ health minister, jose country’ health minister, jose manuel matheu.
asked him if manuel matheu.
asked him if he was willing to sign it into but the legalising of that was specifically for women who have rienced violence.
what about women who have experienced violence.
what about women who have not experienced sexual violence?
25-year-old laura recently overed she was two months discovered she was two months pregnant.
with no means to vide for a ild, she was provide for a child, she was ela =\ ely looking to terminate actively looking to terminate pregnancy, even if that volved making risky and llegal cisions.
there is no ay of safely ending a egnancy with the options that have, if you go down and illegal route.
want to llegal route.
i just want to know llegal route.
just want to i what you think about that.
how how is your mind right now?
a how is your mind right now?
what are the emotions that you health minister jose manuel matheu has health minister jose manuel has now authorised matheu has now authorised the of the morning after pill or rape victims, but it will ain illegal in all other cases, despite hopes placed by in president ’'mara some in president ’mara castro, there some in president ’mara 1 ro, there are no plans to hange the law on abortion, and hout change, people such as aura will keep looking for to end their pregnancy hat ay be unsafe.
drug ealers like jose will stay in ness, and medical business, and medical ractitioners like caroline have few options for atients.
will have few options for 101 will have few options for patients.
but significant to abortion rules in nduras remains unlikely.
some very big changes in our weather over the next 48 hours.
saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
but then the thaw begins on sunday in the morning - will be a slow process, particularly in the north of the country.
so, here’ the weekend.
this is the air mass showing where the warm air is, just to the south-west of us.
and then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep milder air will eventually arrive.
so, still some snow showers around across the highlands, on saturday morning.
outside of town, it’ going to be even colder than that.
so, the weather for saturday itself, and some western parts will be cloudy at times, wintry showers are lrgs0 most of the rain around the coasts, snow or sleet and already starting to feel a little less cold.
5in london, 4 in glasgow and 8 degrees in plymouth.
se, quite a change.
now, that big change arriving, saturday night into sunday.
so, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars, but for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about, early on sunday, there could be freezing rain, icy conditions and hill snow.
for example, in wales, hill snow is possible around so, for a time in the morning on sunday, it could be icy but those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep in, and by the early afternoon, these are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
so, 10 in plymouth, still cold in the north.
i sunday night into monday.
look at that - by menday morning, we are talking about the mid-teens in cardiff and plymouth.
and this is the outlook, as far as the week ahead is concerned.
it’ going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times, back to the sort of normal weather we would expect i 1 0 this is world news, i’ david willis_ our top stories: the number of state-sanctioned executions in the united states falls to its lowest level for more than three decades.
a deadly wave of russian missile strikes hits multiple targets right across ukraine.
at least three people are dead.
residential areas and power stations are badly hit.
: whatever the missile worshippers from moscow are hoping for, it won’ change the balance of power in this war.
a rough ride for ramaphosa.
the south african president is heckled at the ’ party conference, but he is still hoping to be re-elected despite last week’ impeachment proceedings.
elon musk suspends several journalists’ accounts.
hello and welcome to news.
the number of state-sanctioned executions in the united states has fallen to its lowest level for more than three decades.
that’ according to figures compiled by the death penalty let’ take a closer it suggests that seven out of 20 execution attempts were botched due to incompetence, failure to follow executions had to be put on hold in the states of idaho, in all, fewer than 30 people were executed, and across the , fewer than 50 people were sentenced to death.
the five-year average for executions, 18.
6 per year, said to be the lowest in more than 30 years.
that’ a 74% decline over the course of one decade.
attempts were visibly problematic in 2022.
less than 30 people were executed.
fewer than 50 people fid 7 our north america correspondent peter bowes explains how the statistics are quite damning.
of all of the executions that took place in the united states ’ =1 went wrong in some way.
they were visibly problematic, according to this report.
scheduled in only six states, but a significant number of those cases they had to be abandoned partway through the process.
something went wrong, the protocols weren’ adhered i+ there was one example in the state of alabama line, the that would deliver the lethal cocktail of drugs and other examples, as well, around the country.
and it seems one of the reasons given is that some of the personnel that carry out these executions are simply not medically qualified or experienced enough to deal with some of the potential problems that can occur during the process.
in some cases the inmates have a history of medical problems, of drug abuse, alcohol abuse, and that can make them more susceptible to some of the issues that occur during the process, and especially the attachment now, executions across this country happen far less to, and they are concentrated in just a small number of states.
and others will increase the pressure on politicians around the united states to look again at the process, to look again at executions and especially the technicalities of the lethal injection.
there was a poll earlier this year that suggested some 46% of americans still support lethal injections, but that’ lower than some previous polls and there may well be growing pressure on politicians in washington not only to look again at the process but to question whether executions should be happening in america at all russian forces have launched a huge wave of missile attacks on ukraine, damaging electricity and water supplies across the country.
the capital, kyiv, was hit, as was president zelensky’ home town of rih.
in his address, he warned that russia was capable of further the mayor of kharkiv described the destruction there as colossal and said that thousands of people were without heating in freezing temperatures.
our eastern europe correspondent sarah rainsford sent this report.
the rumble of a russian attack, as kyiv was woken by more missile strikes.
the danger drove people underground.
the metro is the safest place to huddle here when the city is under fire.
but as russian missiles hit the power grid, the trains all stopped.
i’ve sat here want to go home.
but in southern ukraine, i hours later, rescuers were still searching for people trapped in the ruins.
a child is missing here.
: whatever the missile worshippers from moscow are hoping for, it won’ change the balance of power in this war.
they have enough missiles there for mass strikes, but we have enough determination and self-belief to return what belongs to us.
in northern kharkiv, the day turned dark, as the power went down right across town.
this country now copes with what was once unimaginable, handing out hot food, keeping people warm, defying russia’ efforts to wear them down.
but these attacks affect even the most vulnerable.
we found this old people’ home without heat, light or water.
on sheer resilience.
nella’ children just brought her here from the south, thinking she’'d be safer.
: we’re all waiting for peace, really waiting.
putin says, "let’ be friends,” but who is the unfriendly one here?
our situation here is really miserable.
the staff are doing their best to keep things normal, 1 "it is pretty hard,” olga tells me, "but we will get through.
” tonight, there are no traffic lights in much of kyiv, no lights at all in large parts of ukraine’ capital, as russia tries to force this country into surrender.
but somehow, life goes on.
sarah rainsford, news, kyiv.
earlier mitchel wallerstein, a senior foreign policy fellow at the chicago council on global affairs, gave a a0 well, think this is part of a concerted strateqgy to terrorise and intimidate the ukrainian people.
since the russian forces have not succeeded in their main aim, which of course originally was to take kyiv, and now are falling back in some parts of the donbas, the strategy appears now to be just keep firing missiles into the cities and hope that the people eventually put do have capabilities, air defence capabilities that could be very useful to ukraine, including israel that has the iron dome and the arrow anti-missile system.
of course, a lot of this is coming in the form very low, but there are various systems that can the ukrainian military is reporting a high percentage success in shooting down these incoming missiles and drones.
whether those reports toa i i south africa’ president, cyril ramaphosa, could find out on saturday if his party wants to re-elect him as leader or replace him.
impeachment proceedings yul ogir of money from his farm.
ramaphosa maintains he has done nothing wrong, in johannesburg on friday, his speech was heckled.
want to appeal to everyone who wants to raise their dissatisfaction to do so in an orderly manner, in the way that we do things congress.
we’ve been in existence for 110 years, and this is not the time the chanting began when the president’ predecessor, jacob zuma, entered but despite the opposition, ramaphosa is still expected fakude is a senior researcher at africa-asia dialogue, based in south africa, and he gave us this assessment.
accused of not providing the services demanded by the people.
but apparently the has been accused of corruption, which is what president cyril ramaphosa has been trying he began his tenure.
and the reason you heard that heckling in the meeting is precisely because there cyril ramaphosa continue with his fighting of corruption and refoerming of the .
are mentioned in a report - in south africa involve members of the , many of whom are still active members of the , and those are the people that are trying to push back cyril ramaphosa’ efforts in trying to clean up the regime.
they somehow came up with an accusation which is still, by the way, to be proved in a court of law of cyril ramaphosa having foreign currency in his farm which was stolen by some people and later on reported to the police by one of the political competitors of cyril ramaphosa.
two ministers have resigned 7 of peru as supporters of the ousted president, continue to protest against his removal.
several people have died in demonstrations, and strikes and protests have closed down much of the country’ transport system.
the foermer prime minister of ireland leo varadkar will take up the position again on saturday he will swap roles with micheal martin, the first time that has happened in ireland’ political 15 12 a row is brewing in west africa over the increasing region.
ghana has accused its neighbour burkina faso of hiring troops from the wagner group, a private russian military organisation which is also believed to be involved in fighting alongside russian ghana says the mercenaries are operating close burkina faso has respoended by summoning ghana’ 1@ our correspondent in the region sent us this update.
the russian security group already has a presence in the sahel region of west africa, in countries like mali, where it is said to be aiding in the fight against the jihadist militants, and also in the central african republic.
so far, there is no official information about an agreement between the wagner group and burkina faso, even though the prime minister recently visited russia.
burkina faso has had i cele the current transitional government is trying to regain control of security in areas caught in escalating violence from militants who are allied to both al-qaeda and .
the insecurity that began in 2015 has killed thousands of people and left millions displaced.
has fallen to its lowest level for more than three decades.
a new report has also shown a deadly wave of russian missile strikes has hit multiple targets in ukraine, killing at least three people.
residential areas and power stations were badly hit.
the united nations has added its voice to the many critics of twitter’ suspension of journalists’ accounts.
a spokesperson said the action set "a dangerous precedent” .
earlier, the european union i elon musk that the platform 4 with sanctions, after he personally ordered the suspension of several journalists.
in the last few minutes, a poll set up by musk on reinstating the accounts has closed, voting in favour of ending the suspension.
it remains to be seen if that will be acted upen.
tom brada reports.
twitter finds itself at the centre a thursday, centre of yet another row.
on thursday, reporters from the ork times, and the washington post were among a of journalists locked out of their number of journalists locked oas 0 out of their accounts.
a i tter spokesperson said hey’ violated the rules, but are concerned about what seems be an increasingly red line between content moderation and nsorship.
we are very disturbed by the itrary suspension of elwue arbitrary suspension of accounts of journalists that we twitter.
media ices saw on twitter.
media voices ould not saw on twitter.
media voices not be silenced saw on twitter.
media voices saw on twitter.
media voices should not be silenced on a tform that professes to be a 1 ace for platform that professes to be a elcr freedom of speech.
space for freedom of speech.
that statement came hours after warning from this warning from the commissioner, that at the of the story is elon usk’ dispute with now suspended account, @elonjet.
ublicly available using publicly available information it had been sharing tion ata of elon musk’ location data of elon musk’ private jet, something he says is and his family at risk.
put his and his family at risk.
many of the suspended rnalist had been covering 1 at story.
the one thing that of us had in common was hat we had all of us had in common was all of us had in common was that we had linked to the ebook page tracking his 1 private jet.
quess the real son is if they want to find reason to ban people, you find that a reason to ban people, you can a reason to ban people, you can find that and then kind a reason to ban people, you can a reason to ban people, you can re find that and then kind of come up with an explanation later musk has not commented on.
musk has not commented a0 on the suspensions, directly on the suspensions, although he wrote in a tweet doxxing doxxing is when you share meone because my private it someone because my private information online, hoping to harm, and few would argue with twitter privatising of safety.
at some is guestioning when it ches up questioning when it matches up with musk is my commitment to free speech.
tom rhoda, news.
to europe now.
a giant aquarium - installed in the lobby of a luxury german hotel - has exploded, sending one and a half thousand exotic fish cascading across the floor.
this aquarium was built to impress - a million litres of water, more than 1,000 tropical fish - all towering over the lobby of a berlin hotel.
my god!
but early this merning, it seems the tank simply shattered.
glass and metal ripped through the building.
extraordinarily, just two people were hurt, neither of them seriously.
could describe it as a .
didn’ see any movement so didn’ know what the heck was going on.
looked outside the window, saw a lady running.
investigators are trying to establish what went wrong.
taken when the aquarium i says this architect, "and it would only cause "a small hole, not burst the whole cylinder.
"such a hollywood scenario is impossible.
” the authorities suspect material fatigue may be to blame, but they’re not yet sure.
there is a sense, think, of relief amongst many and that lobby, the street outside the hotel, would’ve been packed with visitors, many of them children.
4 at the destruction, but an acknowledgement, too, that this could have been ¢ much worse.
jenny hill, news, berlin.
fittingly, perhaps, we are going to take you to outer 1 you to outer space now.
the american space agency, nasa, has launched a mission to undertake the first survey of all of the earth’ surface waters from space.
emer mccarthy reports.
engine ignition, and left off!
for a ndmark mission, which to transform for a landmark mission, which i i aims to transform what we know out water on earth.
spot ill i 1ad hart the recise height of eaver’ - mccrow ivers, ervoirs and lakes, and will track features of he ocean 1 @ 1 @ ocean surface in also track features of the ocean surface in unparalleled il.
the ocean surface in unparalleled a0 detail.
the results could be vitally important, helping to ove flood and drought improve flood and drought i recasts, and giving earchers a forecasts, and giving researchers a better understanding of climate nge.
every three weeks, it going to complete a map of planet, of our planet 90% of our planet anyway, so on a basis see how ocean levels of changing, how the seasons ect things as well.
so, yeah, it’ a a a1 yeah, it’ a wonderful satellite, a wonderful mission.
in position, spot’ and once in positien, spot’ and once in positien, spot’ and and will begin sending pulses i wards the earth’ surface and counting the time that lections take to and counting the time that 1 reflections take to come back.
3 ’ these echoes that allow to make very precise determinations of height.
it should be able to assess a rivers, which a i 1 a rivers, which are at least 100 wide, rivers, which are at least 100 i metres wide, and all lakes larger than six hectares.
the could provide crucial insight into waterways we herwise struggling to nderstand.
monitoring networks on ome of the whelp is my even on some of the whelp is my greatest rivers like the zon, he congo, are nowhere amazon, the congo, are nowhere near as thorough and, hence it need to be, and in many ases are actually in decline, are getting less so we are getting less it so we are getting less a infermation now than we did guite some time ago.
it will be 481 months before quite some time ago.
it will be 1 quite some time ago.
it will be a few months before spot is 2 operational.
once up and running, scientists hope we can a new hapter in our understanding of climate change he water cycle on earth.
35 10 and the water cycle on earth.
emo mccarthy, and his mother’ subsequent fight for justice - has been made into a movie, which is due to be released it’ produced by barbara broccoli - who’ behind the bond films - and it stars danielle dead-wyler, as emmett’ mother, may-mie.
they’ve been speaking to our culture editor, 14-year-old emmett till.
they have a different set his brutal murder in mississippi in 1955 galvanised the civil rights movement.
the body of emmett louis till has been found dead.
driven by his mother, mamie.
you have to be extra careful with white people, you can’ risk looking at them the wrong way.
know!
wondered how much you felt the weight of responsibility, as you made this movie?
oh, felt every inch of it, and knew that had to honour it, had to give it that history, we’re doomed a emmett was for whistling at a white female shopkeeper in this segregated part of america.
but the film deliberately i think we’re over just the grotesque nature of witnessing violence it shouldn’ take that kind of visual to ignite folks a that are happening - that had happened in 1955, that continue to happen to black people, or any oppressed group of people.
back in 1955, mamie till-mobley had her son’ violated body photographed, and insisted on an open casket at his funeral.
many thousands filed past it.
that smell is my son’ body reeking of racial hatred.
come with me, please.
she was one of the first people to recognise how vitally important the image alsh and think, when you see what happened with george floyd, that young woman who kept filming that horrendous murder, we wouldn’ have believed it - hi and do think that the trial will be carried on fairly, and that we’re all just praying for the best to happen.
a white male jury found the men not guilty.
they later admitted the murder, but couldn’ be rels - though they’re dead, do you think that justice will ever be served?
i think that films have the opportunity to reawaken people’ understanding of critical moments in history.
that troubled history now being told on screen, nearly 70 years on.
katie razzall, news.
if you fancy taking a and you prefer freezing conditions to warm sunshine, i ideal holiday location.
this picture perfect location, 200 this picture perfect location, i a ooy - yeedle 200 kilometres above the arctic circle, is home to a very cial hotel, where there is ways special hotel, where there is special hotel, where there is always a warm welcome, but the are very cold.
5 to rooms are very cold.
-5 to minus eight celsius.
the ice is the world’ first minus eight celsius.
the ice hotel is the world’ first and largest hotel built out of snow ce.
new parts are hand a0 0 and ice.
new parts are hand sculpted out of massive locks, and the team don’ have far to ind the source to go far to find the source or the building materials.
we’re for the building materials.
for the building materials.
what we’re looking at is the river, one of the biggest ivers in sweden, that is where arvest and get the ice to uild the ice hotel very year, and also pump the water that through he snow cannons that makes the snow for the that makes the snow for the hotel.
so everything comes from iver.
like a the river.
like a scene straight out of narnia, the has 12 art suites, niquely designed by artists i8 all over uniquely designed by artists over the world.
the intricate carvings adorn the walls, and the ice also has a udle walls, and the ice also has a practical use.
no need to ask drink on the rocks here.
for a drink on the rocks here.
/ the spring comes, parts of hotel are left to melt back the beautiful landscape til in into the beautiful landscape until next time.
claudia mond, news.
compared to the climate here in i entral london, it looks sitively tropical.
you are ching news.
some very big changes in our weather over the next 48 hours.
saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
but then the thaw begins on sunday in the morning - will be a slow process, particularly in the north of the country.
so, here’ the weekend.
this is the air mass showing where the warm air is, just to the south-west of us.
and then ahead of it, this weather front will sweep milder air will eventually arrive.
so, still some snow showers around, across the highlands, on saturday morning.
outside of town, it’ going to be even colder than that.
so, the weather for saturday itself, and some western parts will be cloudy at times, wintry showers are certainly on the cards, most of the rain around the coasts, snow or sleet inland, and already starting to feel a little less five in london, four in glasgow and eight degrees in plymouth.
se, quite a change.
now, that big change arriving, saturday night into sunday.
so, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars, but for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about, early on sunday, there could be freezing rain, icy conditions and hill snow.
for example, in wales, hill snow is possible around so, for a time in the morning on sunday, it could be icy but those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep in, and by the early afternoon, these are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
so, 10 in plymouth, still cold in the north.
i sunday night into monday.
look at that - by menday morning, we are talking about the mid-teens in cardiff and plymouth, and this is the outlook, as far as the week ahead is concerned.
it’ going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times, back to the sort of normal weather we would expect i 1 0 a report on capital punishment than a third of the 20 scheduled executions due to take place this year were botched.
the number of state-sanctioned killings fell to its lowest level for more than three decades.
ukrainian officials say that one of the biggest barrages of russian missile strikes has badly damaged electricity and water supplies across the country.
south africa’ president, cyril ramaphosa, was heckled when he addressed his own party conference.
ramaphosa avoided impeachment proceedings earlier this week but is still hoping to re-stand as party leader.
now on news, the travel show.
this week on the show: a centenary fit for a pharach.
is very exciting, ecause this is very exciting, because 7 - been given permission to i’ve been given permission to actually go down these steps to level.
and a closer ground level.
and get a closer look.
ground level.
and get a closer .
the christmas tradition i hat will scare stockings i off you.
and glaswegian panto crowds are not to and glaswegian panto crowds i i i are not to be messed with.
if he act are not to be messed with.
if act on that stage was not ood enough, believe me, they egypt’ lo\ 1 , egypt’'s valley of the \ egypt’ valley of the kings, perhaps the most famous haeological site in the world.
and this has been a dmark year at the burial 0 landmark year at the burial chamber many people make a line for.
exactly 100 years , the tomb beeline for.
exactly 100 years 1 beeline for.
exactly 100 years ago, the tomb of the boy tutankhamun was discovered rneath the desert close to he town of luxor.
team underneath the desert close to the town of luxor.
the team had een digging for years and were on the verge giving up right on the verge of giving up when the top of a set of 4 ient steps appeared in the sand.
and behold, this 4 5 sand.
and and behold, this is what they saw.
mean, look .
incredible, absolutely at it.
incredible, absolutely astonishing.
and when the haeologists did come here, hey didn’ just find his remains.
they found oernaments, llery, aintings, bits of jewellery, paintings, bits of chariots, trumpets, perfume and wind.
tutankhamun wasn’ most even wind.
tutankhamun wasn’’ 4 the most influential or best known of the pharachs, and tomb ’ the biggest he the a a0 0 8 tomb isn’ the biggest of the most spectacular, but the 4 most spectacular, but the find sensation in 1922 was a sensation in 1922 and made headlines arocund the ld.
now, then.
this is very exciting, cause i’ve been iven permission ctually go down these steps to ground and get a closer look.
this mural is incredible.
it actually depicts the afterlife tankhamun.
it’ incredible hat it’ also well preserved.
ooks astonishing.
not it looks astonishing.
i’ not going to touch it, but well.
his corner of going to touch it, but well.
1 going to touch it, but well.
for this corner of egypt, the discovery meant more asure in the discovery meant more treasure rieigat iala 1 in the form of tourism and the sales opportunities that came it.
salah, the with it.
salah, the liverpool football player.
you.
18 century on and thank you.
a century on and uvenirs in his image still ring the money.
thank you ery uch.
greece, no.
from ondon.
you have tutankhamun , so much tutankhamun.
it has been a landmark year for egypt’ antiquities, with new i a1 and restored discoveries opening and a huge littering as the mummies of 22 pharachs ere moved to their home, the national museum eqyptian civilisation.
also ewly opened after restoration a4 is the home of the man idely credited with finding ankhamun’ burial chamber, oward arter.
however, many \ the egyptian ontribution all this as been verlooked, and i’ on my 1 overlooked, and i’ on my way some of that story to hear some of that story and eet a family very well known \ in these parts sadly not 1 side this country.
it’ teresting with the two outside this country.
it’ 3 interesting with the two sides of the nile, i’ve just come i8 he east side, which is from the east side, which is where all the shops and bustles on people live here and stuff.
bustles on and people live .
and stuff.
but i’ there and stuff.
but i’ heading a heading now there and stuff.
but i’ heading now back to the tier, less developed west de, where you’ll ind the tombs side, where you’ll find the and burial chambers of the valley of the .
and the valley of the kings.
and they call that the side he dead.
this they call that the side of the 10010 they call that the side of the dead.
this family run a cafe days, but generations of hem 81 farms along the banks of nile, and such have an the nile, and as such have an ata knowledge of what lies and underneath, the dust i 12-year-old boy sand.
so this is the 12-year-old boy that they said really discovered the term.
he i it was actually his father who claims it was actually his who first found claims it was actually his at1 father who first found the tomb of tutankhamun, ahmed abdel was just a child at the rasul was just a child at the now, now, egyptian perspectives like ese are being knowledged more dely, and one of ways widely, and one of the ways that’ happening is by widely, and one of the ways a that’ happening is by huge landmark public projects like rand-new grant egyptian seum, due to open in 2023.
’ll be he largest archaeological museum complex world.
archaeological museum complex - archaeological museum complex in the world.
and this, too - venue of the sphinx, buried under sand for the avenue of the sphinx, buried under sand for hundreds of years and last year opened public for the first to the public for the first at - i to the public for the first time.
it runs from luxor temple ar, this magnificent complex.
what do you think the fact that it is so crowded?
it is so crowded.
it extremely crowded.
have to you, this is the busiest 3 10 tell you, this is the busiest it could have got in ancient , because there were people who were not ordinary —- nary were allowed here.
ordinary were not allowed here.
this is an exclusive area.
it’ for the priests, only for he priests, only for members of the royal court, \ for the select few.
people ourselves would have never any glimpse of the inside he temple.
he is an of the temple.
she is an amazing storyteller, and ask bout the story of the abdel rassouls and who really discovered the tomb.
she bhelieves here is a wider sue.
think to focus on this miss he point.
the whole oint is to miss the point.
the whole to miss the point.
the whole point is the contribution that hole abdel rassoul family the many egyptian families who were involved in the archaeological excavations, out whom howard archaeological excavations, archaeological excavations, without whom howard and many of oreign excavators could not have made any of these coveries altogether.
and is is kind of connected to how egyptians are this is kind of connected to how egyptians are portrayed in this world of archaeology.
we are not even portrayed.
we are = i i totally written out.
we are ten out from totally written out.
we are written out from the whole process of knowledge production.
whenever it’ an egyptian, he would have mbled on a egyptian, he would have egyptian, he would have stumbled on a step, as you , or been stumbling riding onkey, tc.
it could never 4 be out of knowledge, it has be a mistake.
while egyptians clearly played a huge in the iscovery, the part in the discovery, the persistence of howard carter he money his wealthy, and the money of his wealthy, yal aol aristocratic becker were also vitally important to the cess.
now, the desire is for oth parts of that story to be ognised and cold.
all these rists ere, all the people tourists here, all the people - 1a 1 here, what do you think who are here, what do you think they believe?
do you think still elieve the old version, you think they are radually being told something is 1 ore in gradually being told something 10 gradually being told something which is more in tune with what hink?
no, think they 1 carry the ame old beliefs, cause all of eir programmes ould only focus on ancient 01 ypt, nothing the many egypt, nothing on the many ther layers of egyptian ritage.
that’ one thing, and other thing is at the the other thing is that the hole- what brought them in re is his colonial i narrative_ it’ the narrative we need reshape.
are you at least hopeful in the ure hat might change, that future that might change, that small children across future that might change, that small children across the world get a better understanding of this?
yes, so.
this can only come when acknowledging the colonial ory that made ancient eqypt the way it an agent today.
need to acknowledge this and then we need to acknowledge this and then move on from there.
for the of his life, med abdel rassoul told gle life, ahmed abdel rassoul told visitors to luxor about his ntures with visitors to luxor about his adventures with howard carter, count, like so an account, like so many others, rarely told in the .
but hat’ good is that the egyptians now reclaiming story, and the rest of us are beginning to take notice.
way from the big well away from the big archaeological sites, there are bundle of things to do 3 in eqypt, and here are some of highlights.
for beach reaks, the red sea coast has string of well-developed sort towns that ave been popular for years.
sharm sheikh is probably the el-sheikh iis probably the 0 especially after recently hesting the climate talks.
something quieter, though, could the kobe bay, ng, white, beaches long, white, sandy beaches without long, white, sandy beaches 1tl long, white, sandy beaches without the crowds and clubs.
hole stretch of coastline the whole stretch of coastline has crystal-clear seas and ving coral eefs so divers thriving coral reefs so divers love it.
turtles, spinner 7 ins, manta rays and dolphins, manta rays and dugongs are dolphins, manta rays and 1 dolphins, manta rays and dugongs are the big stars here.
the other highlights is the sunken british cargo steamship thistle .
it by erman bombers in 1941, 200 ers a day now explore the wreck near the town of roest mmed.
the holy enth onth of mohammed.
the holy month of ramadan begins in march next .
during the day it might year.
during the day it might mean shorter opening hours and upted transport.
however, if the, the breaking of the fast at sunset, means loads ening in the evenings -- iftar.
otels will lay on tertainment, iftar.
hotels will lay on i = 018 iftar.
hotels will lay on entertainment, but the real brations are entertainment, but the real a a 1 0la neighbourhood iftar tables, out on the neighbourhood iftar tables, made out on the street.
you’ll need made out on the street.
you’ll eed a local to invite you, but is where need a local to invite you, but 8 need a local to invite you, but this is where party is.
still me on the travel show: the to come on the travel show: the other christmas visitor that come knocking this could come knocking this december, and this one’ not so jolly.
he glasgow quite so jolly.
and the glasgow theatre tradition you need of steel to take part .
you have men in the back of auditorium the auditorium throwing shipyard rivets, nails, ches, screws.
so don’ go away.
this week, i’ exploring of eqypt’ most mous some of egypt’ most famous antiquities, and thought it be worth lingering a air little at karnak temple.
at its 8 eak, around 3000 to 4000 years , this was the largest and ost important religious mplex in ancient eqypt -- ia% complex in ancient eqypt -- karnak temple.
and the ription of some of the description of some of the i he has me hooked.
you were talking about elisks.
and that is a very, very all one.
and is takes us tall one.
and this takes us to ra, the tall one.
and this takes us to !
tall one.
and this takes us to the god ra, the god of the sun, = the god ra, the god of the sun, one of the most important gods, hat is how you see that and that is how you see that pyramid shape at the end of the isks .
hat’ our way to obelisks.
that’ your way to he sky, where you get to join a up in the and come 1 god up in the and come back again.
just this year feet eating that high of creating that high structure.
yes, of course.
and doing all the engravings on the side.
is that appreciated enough?
don’ acs appreciated enough?
i don’ think it is.
we tend to 1 reciate the beauty but not the labour, appreciate the beauty but not bour, not the hard appreciate the beauty but not 18 the labour, not the hard work that went into inging omething like this not only but the carving, the making, the carving of the ual tone to ake the shape actual stone to take the shape obelisk and then moving 1 rgn0 it all the way to hear from us one.
it all the way to hear from us .
so it came from down he river, right.
and what about little step re?
yes, it this little step here?
yes, it 3 like the strong ll, discussing how the king as great i = great physical features, that equated to the ball, as strong he is equated to the ball, as i trong as a bull.
he is equated to the ball, as 11 he is equated to the ball, as strong as a bull.
this was also = one of the most important i ighters that any ancient yptian camp donna king would cquired.
the comics opens i8 have acquired.
the comics opens from six a.
and have acquired.
the comics opens - have acquired.
the comics opens from six a.
and now mass rism is back with us once again, it is attempting to void the crowds and the %14 140 to avoid the crowds and the heat by arriving early.
to tirol in austria next, which 3 right in the middle of a christmas run-up, busy christmas run-up, and in part of the world, santa that part of the world, santa claus isn’ the only one mes nocking.
krampus is part at and part devil, and his to punish goat and part devil, and his 1’ job is to punish naughty children.
masks of his are made by craftspeople, like krampus is an ancient, pagan character, krampus is an ancient, pagan 1 character, but when christianity spread throughout pe, he ecame part of the europe, he became part of the christmas tradition, despite sition from catholic opposition from the catholic church.
now, with the festive season under way, there is one a a ritish pastime that the british pastime that keeps the lights burning by during those winter nights and that is long winter nights and that is the christmas panto.
cat has .
where in glasgow, where more.
where in glasgow, where scotland’ premium pantomime is treading the boards in 25th panto season.
they’re & , just quit that moaning, 41 you?
it is basically a ood night out, which is the important thing, or good afternoon out, full of laughs oy.
sort of hitched on to and joy.
sort of hitched on to a traditional fairy tale love .
it is usually kids’ first experience of theatre, so we are the sort of gateway, if ike.
there’ hundreds of years tradition in panto, i8 audience participation.
oh, no they ’!
to a host stock won’!
to a host of stock aracters.
the panto dame is erally a man dressed as a oman, and that allowed woman, and that allowed men to out and do really come out and do really outrageous impersonations of .
it is quite unusual to bhe a oman playing it, am of very few lowed to.
may be the ast, women have been bialee in the past, women have been forced into being the more morous type.
and my thing is is not bout glamorous type.
and my thing is glamorous type.
and my thing is it is not about whether you are or a woman the type a man or a woman it is the type performer you are.
if you an reak through to the udience and ay, i’ about make a fool of myself here, with make a fool of myself here, me with me.
couldn’ find a etrol station, we ended petrol station, we ended up ering through this barren, think it was paisley.
¥ 013 they’re a great quote by a wonderful panto performer gerry worked here with kelly who worked here with urll times, pantomime - ladg centre -- celebraticn of local culture, we have set this on side, which is officially glasgow, making local, aving all the references in it making it of the place that nerally generally the audience are om.
it is big generally the audience are i 1 from.
it is big business across the .
pre-pandemic theatre is a round 3 million pante sold around 3 million panto tickets a year, and glasgow has cial affection for it.
mong the dozens of venues aging production is this we 0- easure hidden above an musement arcade.
you - you are in the petagna open optical you are in the petagna open 1.
musical, the original optical musical, the original surviving music all in optical musical, the original - 1 surviving music all in the i orld.
musicals are basically ces where world.
musicals are basically 1 world.
musicals are basically places where the working class to when they finish is used to go when they finish heir working day to be tertained by dancers, ngers, novelty acts, ntortionists, high wire acts, name .
music calls were you name it.
music calls were of the places where you ould see a pantomime.
i would see a pantomime.
pantomime was the only sort of tre that was like variety all in theatre that was like variety in the one production.
glasgow has a to glasgow has a long-standing ide theatre tradition.
a recent rttt0 theatre tradition.
a recent poll found it was one of the tish cities with the most theatres, outside london.
and hen he panoptic and back when the panoptic and opened in the 1850, king-class glaswegian theatres were already eloping a bit of a reputation.
stanley 0 reputation.
stanley baxter ally actually wrote about the ical in is own musical in his own bedside hook, and he actually said that left no turn and stene.
7 they had money to get in they had spent money to get in here.
they had spent money to get in a if the act on that stage here.
if the act on that stage was not good enough, believe hey knew about it.
boys used to rinate from front of he balcony onto the stage it the act on he stage below, you had men in the back auditorium throwing of the auditorium throwing shipyard rivets, nails, ches, screws most of it 18 punches, screws most of it became popular with famous , because if they could get ay with it on the stages in lasgow, they could get away their routine anywhere in with their routine anywhere in the world.
luckily, things have ten down a since then, quieten down a bit since then, but glasgow audiences are still ously lively bunch.
for a famously lively bunch.
for me, if was going to see to, would come here a because of the audience.
in glasgow, there is a great dition glasgow, there is a great seliale glasgow, there is a great tradition of audiences joining ometimes whether you want it or not!
i do question myself am doing , i’ a granny, keep doing it, i’ a granny, i’ 64!
would you go out?
me, it allows me to walk the late push he late in the late and push the late out.
it gives people a good ut.
it is a great night out.
it is a great eveller as well, because ’ve got people who work for government, and you’ve got ople who re cleaners.
they all experiencing the same ing, and there are so few eople -- places we can go no here 00 people can gather, so to be part of that still after so to be part of that still ter all these years makes it worth after all these years makes it 4 rate, sadly, that’ us down here in luxor, but join me next when look here in luxor, but join me next a & week when we look back at the best bits of 2022 on the travel show, a year when we can finally say we hit the road in.
and what a year it’ een.
if you want another ance to been.
if you want another ance to see addy on a roll ith a1 ome italian cheese, olourless’ human powered ssey along he human powered twork, or ven my very special night network, or even my very 0 night in the home of special night in the home of boyhood hero, do give us a in a weak’ me.
some very big changes in our weather over the next 48 hours.
saturday, still a very cold day with a very frosty start.
but then the thaw begins on sunday in the morning - will be a slow process, particularly in the north of the country.
so, here’ the weekend.
this is the air mass showing where the warm air is, just to the south-west of us, and then ahead of it, milder air will eventually arrive.
so, still some snow showers around, across the highlands, on saturday morning.
outside of town, it’ going to be even colder than that.
so, the weather for saturday itself, and some western parts will be cloudy at times, wintry showers are certainly on the cards, most of the rain around the coasts, snow or sleet inland, and already starting to feel a little less five in london, four in glasgow, and eight degrees in plymouth.
se, quite a change.
now, that big change arriving, saturday night into sunday.
so, the weather fronts sweep in, a lot of isobars, but for a time in the morning, with a lot of cold air about, early on sunday, there could be freezing rain, icy conditions and hill snow.
for example, in wales, hill snow is possible around so, for a time in the morning on sunday, it could be icy but those winds are strong, the air is mild, it will sweep in, and by the early afternoon, these are the sort of temperatures we will be getting.
so, 10 in plymouth, still cold in the north.
i sunday night into monday.
look at that - by menday morning, we are talking is the outlook, as far as the week ahead is concerned.
it’ going to be changeable, turbulent, windy at times, back to the sort of normal weather we would expect i 1 0 good morning, welcome to breakfast with roger johnson and naga munchetty.
our headlines today: the abusive birth mother of schoolboy tony hudgell is a step closer to freedom after the justice secretary’ bid to delay her release was declared unlawful.
retailers and hospitality venues say rail and postal strikes are threatening to hit their christmas profits hard.
on world cup final weekend, as morroco and croatia battle it out for third place today, with tens of thousands of moroccans hoping to make the stadium theirs again as they bid for bronze.
and as the final four couples prepare for tonight’ final, we’ll ask - who will lift the strictly glitterball trophy?
see again for some this morning with wintry showers in the west, but weekend of weather change, as we go from it is a weekend of weather change, 1 it is a weekend of weather change, as we go from the big freeze to the haw.
i’ll have all the details ight here on it’ saturday, 17th december.
court judge has ruled that the justice secretary’ bid to keep an abusive mother in prison was unlawful.
dominic raab delayed the release of 8-year-old tony hudgell’ birth mother in august.
tony had both legs amputated because of the injuries he sustained from his birth parents, and his family recently won a campaign for tougher sentencing laws for child abusers.
simon jones reports.
a little boy described as an inspiration.
this is tony hudgell with justice secretary last year.
dominic raab has been trying the woman who abused so to keep the woman who abused tony so badly as a to keep the woman who abused tony so 1 a baby behind bars.
jodi badly as a baby behind bars.
jodi simpson and her partner anthony are in jail, but simpson had heen due for release in ust, at the halfway 1 the halfway point of her ten year ence.
dominic raab’ attempt to ’ block that has been ruled wful.
not what tony’ adopted ther wanted to hear.
appointed.
i mother wanted to hear.
disappointed.
thought dominic raab had an emely strong case.
obviously we knew that they would be released at oint, so, you know, but every xtra ay is bonus, as far as we are concerned.
this is the moment tony, inspired by captain sir tom , finished the sponsored walk hat raised re than £1.
5 million or the hospital that treated him.
inic aab had argued the public i eeded to be protected from tony’ mother, he used new birth mother, so he used new 18 cretionary powers to refer her ase to he parole board.
but the court heard the probation vice had argued hat he was not service had argued that she was not & service had argued that she was not a risk to children she was not looking after, and the judge, ice williams, concluded ere was a formidable body of terial before the there was a formidable body of %18 there was a formidable body of material before the secretary of , each stage of his state, at each stage of his decision-making, which indicated impson’ risk could be safely anaged if she was released.
tony’ tive family have successfully ampaigned for tougher sentences for abusers, known as tony’ law, re 311 child abusers, known as tony’ law, which came into child abusers, known as tony’ law, tte it child abusers, known as tony’ law, which came into force in june.
the ly’ have backed their wishes 0 a to see her remain in prison.
it is clearly very disappointing because two people have committed an rrific act against a young child, tonia and his real parents, the rents re actually him, paul parents are actually love him, paul and a - , have been campaigning to the law changed.
they always that it was not changed for ony, that is in past, but that \ they ere campaigning to get anged for future.
dominic raab changed for the future.
dominic raab is now considering an appeal, saying a1 to the now considering an appeal, saying to see the most dangerous he wants to see the most dangerous ffenders spend longer in jail.
an investigation is underway after two boys, aged five and two, were found dead at an address in east london.
police and ambulance crews were called to a property in dagenham yesterday afternoon.
a man and a woman, who officers say 11 have been arrested.
officers said family had been infermed about the boys’ deaths and were being supported.
three women remain in critical condition after a crush outside a concert in scuth london.
at the 02 academy iin brixton on thursday night.
footage from social media shows large crowds, with other images showing people struggling and screaming.
the concert was abandoned part-way through.
it’ the second day of a 48-hour rail strike by union members, and passengers are being advised not to travel by train.
the industrial actien is over a long-running dispute about pay and job conditions, but comes during the last weekend before christmas, which is usually a busy