works back in from the west.
so those are the three ’clock temperatures, for most of us between five and ten degrees.
during saturday night, then, we are in that relatively cold air.
we will see some further wintry showers in places.
it does stay quite breezy out there, so temperatures in many spots will hold above freezing.
quite chilly, though, especially in eastern scotland.
and then we get into sunday, and you do have to squint at the chart to see it, but there’ a little ridge of high pressure just trying to nose its way in.
what that is likely to do is bring fewer showers.
it’ll tend to calm down the shower activity.
i think we will see some.
at times, some of them could even be wintry, but there will be spells of sunshine, too.
a decent amount of weather out there.
temperatures generally between four and ten degrees.
and then you can see behind me our next frontal system beginning to work its way in from the west, a warm front which will push eastwards as we get into monday.
there’ another wedge of mild air between this warm front and this cold front, also quite a lot of cloud.
50 monday likely to be quite a cloudy day.
there’ll be some spots of mainly light rain and drizzle, some heavier rain getting into parts of scotland and northern ireland, quite windy in the north.
but a milder feel to the weather, double digits for many of us, 11 degrees for aberdeen, 12 for cardiff, for plymouth and belfast.
as we move out of monday into tuesday, this cold front slips southwards.
but it will be a weakening feature, because pressure will be building.
you can see that area of high pressure starting to build its way in.
so not too much rain on this cold front.
in fact, we’ll start to see some spells of sunshine developing, especially across the northern half of the .
we are back into some chillier air by this stage.
but seven to eleven degrees, that’ still a touch above the average for this point injanuary.
now, as we move out of tuesday into wednesday, well, our area of high pressure starts to build a little more strongly northwards across the , so many of us by this stage will be dry.
there could be some frost and fog around in the morning, but then we’ll get to see some spells of sunshine, the greatest chance of seeing cloud and rain always across the north of the , particularly the northern half of scotland, and relatively mild, nine, ten or eleven degrees.
and this kind of weather really takes us towards the end of next week and into the following weekend.
our area of high pressure never too far away.
it may be that briefly it slips 3 little further southwards, allowing a more meaningfulfrontal system to move across the far north, bringing some rain at times, and certainly across northern areas it is likely to be relatively windy at times through next week.
but generally speaking, with that area of high pressure taking charge, it will be drier.
the chance of some frost and fog, especially in the south, but the weather looking much less wintry through the week ahead.
if you’re having a bad day in dubai, you’re really not having a bad day.
how many handbags do you have?
i don’ know.
little latte, just for the doggies.
0!
come on!
looking for something, clara?
0, sandra, do you know the password to dad’ computer?
he asked me to set up a direct debit for his licence.
have you tried "rogeriscool?
" paying your licence needn’ be a drama.
yeah, that’ worked.
choose the way that’ easiest for you at tvlicensing.
co.
uk.
click that thingy.
president tokayev portrays the protesters as terrorists who are sowing chaos.
they say that their movement is peaceful and blame the authorities for provoking the violence.
the unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices, but this country’ corrupt authoritarian regime is unpopular.
some of the biggest clashes took place here at the former presidential residence and the mayor’ office.
the buildings were burned out, and you can see here all these cars were also set on fire.
you can hear, again, the shots, but maybe it’ the military and police officers are firing into the air to warn people not to approach the square because they closed the square in order to prevent people from gathering.
many people fear that the violence will drag on.
along with protests, many shops were looted.
this 22—year—old man said that while he supports the demands of protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"it’ really scary, and we feel we have no protection," this woman says.
this is one of the electronic shops that was looted in almaty, and i think the looters tried to burn this place as well because it still smells of smoke.
this mass unrest is a huge blow for almaty, which is the financial capital of kazakhstan.
it’ not clear yet if the violence is over or how much damage has been done to the authority of kazakhstan’ hardline leader.
abdujalil abdurasulov, news, almaty.
let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the supreme court has begun hearing arguments about the legality of president biden’ vaccinate or test mandate for large businesses.
opponents say he does not have the authority to impose the rule without going through congress.
backers say it will save lives.
judgement is not expected for several days.
’ secretary—generaljens stoltenberg says russia is continuing its military build—up near ukraine, posing a real risk of a new armed conflict in europe.
stoltenberg repeated that remains ready to talk to russia but warned the allies would impose a heavy price for any further russian aggression.
austria’ chancellor karl nehammer has tested positive for coronavirus.
the 19—year—old, who took over as chancellor a month ago, is in self—isolation and says he isn’ showing any symptoms.
he’ issued a statement saying, "there is no need to worry.
"i am fine and doing well.
" one of the best—known black hollywood actors of the past century, sidney poitier, has died.
he was 94.
he was the first black man to win an oscar for best actor, and his success paved the way for generations of other black artists.
his films, including in the heat of the night and guess who’ coming to dinner?
reflected an america struggling with issues of racism and prejudice at the height of the civil rights movement.
his impact ultimately transcended the silver screen.
our correspondent lizo mazimba looks back on the life of a hollywood icon.
in the heat of the night sidney poitier’ virgil tibbs, a man of authority i’ a police officer.
intelligence and a steely determination never to back down — the kind of qualities that defined poitier on screen and off.
he made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man of status — something almost unheard of for black performers then.
and with roles like an escaped convict in the defiant ones and a struggling husband in a raisin in the sun, he tackled prejudice head on.
maybe i’ll get down on my black knees.
all right, charlie.
all right, great white father.
you just give us that money!
and we won’ come out there and dirty up your white folks’ neighbourhood.
the era, of course, meant he had a burden his white counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight of being a symbol.
but he bore it with dignity.
in lilies of the field, playing a travelling handyman, helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
sing it over.
the winner is sidney poitier.
he won the academy award — the first black performer ever to receive the oscar for a leading role.
in the years that followed, he became hollywood’ biggest star, redefining how audiences saw black characters with films like to sir, with love.
you will call me ‘sir’ or ‘mr thackeray’.
the young ladies will be addressed as ‘miss’, the boys by their surnames.
some of what i am was reflected in those movies.
it was, in a way, i was saying to an audience, "this is who i am.
"look at me.
" more controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely successful doctor engaged to a white woman in guess who’ coming to dinner.
i love your daughter.
there is nothing i wouldn’ do to to keep her as happy as she was the day i met her.
some criticised it, saying the impression it gave was of an interracial relationship that was only acceptable because his character was so perfect and accomplished.
hello!
he also directed ‘805 comedy stir crazy — the first movie from an african—american film—maker to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in the united states.
what are you doing?
i’ getting bad!
in his later years, he was awarded the presidential medal of freedom by barack obama, who today said sidney poitier epitomised dignity and grace.
oprah winfrey paid tribute, saying: while denzel washington said: those words two decades after he celebrated him at the academy awards.
a0 years, i’ve been chasing sidney.
they finally give it to me.
what do they do?
they give it to him the same night.
i’ll always be following in your footsteps.
there’ nothing i would rather do.
that same night, poitier also received an honorary oscar.
hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail for so many they call me tibbs.
and who entertained millions more.
sidney poitier — one of the greats.
sidney poitier, who has died.
novak djokovic has thanked people around the world for their support as he awaits a decision on his deportation from australia.
the world number one men’ tennis player remains in immigration detention in melbourne ahead of the australian open after being denied entry to the country on wednesday.
government officials say he isn’ being held captive and is free to leave any time.
shaimaa khalil reports from melbourne.
this is the immigration detention hotel where novak djokovic is being kept.
adnan chopani has been here forfive months now, after being moved from another facility.
i live in level two and djokovic lives in level one.
that is the food we’ve been served every day in containers.
we found a maggot and mould on the bread and we’ve been reporting it but unfortunately, there has no action been taken.
outside the hotel, there was dancing and music, but also anger and frustration among novak djokovic’ supporters.
it’ unclear if the tennis star will remain here until monday, when his legal team will challenge the cancellation of his visa.
novak djokovic is waiting for a court decision on whether he’ll be able to stay and compete in the australian open or be deported.
whatever happens, this has gone way beyond tennis.
the world number one is now at the centre of a political and diplomatic storm.
djokovic arrived on wednesday with an exemption, granted by tennis australia and the state of victoria.
but the border force has revoked his visa, saying he did not meet the rules of entry.
his mother dijana said on thursday that he was being kept like a prisoner.
australia’ home affairs minister karen andrews hit back, saying there was nothing stopping him from leaving.
djokovic is not being held captive in australia.
he is free to leave at any time that he chooses to do so, and border force will actually facilitate that.
the tennis star posted on instagram, thanking his fans around the world.
another player has now had her visa cancelled.
renata voracova from the czech republic is understood to be detained in the same hotel as djokovic.
the australian open is one of the biggest sporting events here but it’ turning into a big international embarrassment for the government.
shaimaa khalil, news, melbourne.
this is news.
a reminder of the main story this hour: a court in the state of georgia has given life sentences to three white men who murdered the young black ahmaud arbery while he was outjogging.
more on that now.
we’re joined by yasmin cader, who is director of the trone center forjustice and equality at the american civil liberties union.
thank you for joining us.
what is your reaction to the dict?
my reaction is this erdict is significant for many sons.
the first one is that ave to remember this onviction almost never ppened.
it wasn’ until hmaud arbery’ family and his mmunity bilised, organised and demanded a full vestigation that these ndividuals were even arrested.
he ignificance of this erdict in my mind is very much fact that it almost never ame be.
you have got to be elieved bviously at the erdict after all that, because say, initial reluctance rrest and charge these men that footage emerged?
that’ ght.
but i think that you say relief, what that to mind to me is brings to mind to me is just how much more work we have to mean, this verdict, these entences, they don’ fully ect in any way what the type of stemic changes that need to make sure in this country.
yeah, and do you the sentence therefore sends wider message that has out a wider message that has been needed for a long time, may be a couple of years that may be a couple of years ago this sentence, this verdict have come about, and may not have come about, and now there is change, albeit too and too slow, but changes happening?
i think the change this community is seeking much broader than these ntences.
the change that this unity is seeking is one in community is seeking is one in which somebody like ahmaud arbery would be alive today.
he never would have been seen as a at simply by gging in threat simply byjogging in this neighbourhood where he lived, ten minutes away.
he would be part of an integrated unity, even though we are community, even though we are 70 years past the brown versus of education decision which said that we shouldn’ be egated anymore in education in other systems.
he would been recognised in life, have been recognised in life, not just in his death, through really etributive this really retributive mechanism.
i guess your hope efore is that there is real and significant change , of course, alongside erdicts in the george floyd and other cases of its rase and other rases of its nature?
yes, and about changes broader than these much broader than these individual cases all these vidual verdicts.
but individual verdicts.
but instead, that that change is systemic in nature, that ally reimagined all of these stems and really seeks equity all.
’ afraid that’ all for all.
i’ afraid that’ all we have time for, but thank you much for oining us.
as coronavirus cases continue to rise across india, new movement restrictions have come into effect for people in the capital delhi over the weekend.
restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed until monday morning.
russell trott reports.
this shop sells everything for the kitchen and more.
but with customers and takings down, the owner has been badly the pandemic.
yet hit by the pandemic.
yet despite india’ capital delhi ing down over the weekend, remains update.
: way corona cases are on the the way corona rases are on the rise this lockdown, the weekend is a much.
—— must.
for curfew is a much.
-- must.
for the past few years we have losses and we will face he same in the future.
i will appy on the amount of cases are lower and there is no kdown.
as the authorities apple with a resh surge in rases partly fuelled by the spreading omicron variant, businesses here are still covering from last year’ utbreak that overwhelm spitals and crematoriums.
but use hospitals and crematoriums.
but daily case numbers had since tayed reasonably low, until last week.
all residents essential workers will be asked to stay home from riday night until monday ning full up this is a big concern, big challenge.
we have that over the last 80 ays, the figure has gone very , from 10,000 cases to more han a million, so with this number will be much higher previous days.
after a ave of delta variant fections brought the lthcare systems to its nees, re than 200 thousand peopla died.
ndia’ known vid deaths are the world’ rd—highest toll behind the and brazil, but nderreporting is widespread in studies have estimated its ctual toll could be up to ten higher.
the omicron ariant is expected to hit rd, but with fewer cases pecting to need hospital eatment, some experts warn ther lockdown and its onomic impact is just not orth it.
a letter, posted to a man in northern ireland with no surname or address on the envelope, butjust his first name and a 57—word biography, has managed to find its way to the right place.
our ireland correspondent emma vardy has the story.
"feargal, lives across the road from the spar.
"his me and used to own it.
" no house number, no street name, a few things much more personal than that.
the first thing i noticed was the amount of detail on the envelope and basically, my biography.
"moved to waterford after he got married.
" despite nothing more than a short story and half a postcode, yesterday this letter found its way straight to feargal lynn.
i laughed so much.
right through it all, to playing guitar, through to, "friends with the fellow who owns the butchers in waterford.
" feargal had taken to writing letters to people over lockdown as a way to brighten the gloom, but never expected such a strange reply.
the letter was from an old friend in belfast, who perhaps could have found out his address but thought this way was a bit more fun.
we were talking about the pandemic, we were talking about mental health and the need to brighten the mood a bit.
did she actually expect it to reach you?
i think she just took a punt.
"plays guitar and used to run discos in the poker hall.
" it happened to be that feargal’ local postman was also a childhood friend.
we’ve had some strange addresses over the years, but this is the most bizarre.
the first line, "feargal who lived across from the spar.
" the number of times we played in his front garden as wee boys, i knew right away who it was.
this could give other people ideas, if they don’ know an address.
oh, that would be a nightmare!
and inside the letter, just a cheery hello and a recipe for coleslaw that feargal had been asking about, but it meant much more than that.
there’ so much letters these days that’ meaningless, it’ financial, it’ this demand and it’ so nice to receive something so personal.
"friends with the fellow who runs the butchers "in waterford too.
btlm, northern ireland.
" so, could letters make a comeback over email in future, as something a lot more enjoyable?
well, we’ll keep you posted!
emma vardy, news.
let’ return new to the tributes being paid to sidney poitier, whose pioneering films in the 19505 and 605, shone alight on racism and social prejudice.
he’ died at the age of 94.
he was the first black man to win an oscar for best actor, and his groundbreaking work paved the way for generations of other black artists.
cheryl boone isaacs is the founding director of the sidney poitier new american film school at arizona state university and former president of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences, best known for organising the oscars.
thank you for joining us.
is it possibla to describe how fluential he was for black actors black people?
i would say so.
sidney poitier major beacon of light was a major beacon of light that came on the scene and on creen many decades ago, the screen many decades ago, and through his life’ work, her in front of or behind whether in front of or behind the camera, has had a major act on the creative world.
especially for black ommunities and black rytellers.
and it is such an onour for me to be able to be of his legacy that we are part of his lagacy that we are going to carry into the future.
a great man, a great philosopher, a philanthropic and avenues, civil rights activists, and like i said, a endous force in the tremendous force in the creative world.
i know we have ures of you with sidney pictures of you with sidney poitier, just give us some of favourite emories him?
your favourite memories of him?
one thing i will always say is ey, who even physically and person was so dynamic, the just wafted off of him, and and when he would see me, and i am certain with others as well, ertainly when he would see but certainly when he would see me he would class his hands ether in a grin from ear to ear.
that would always lift it didn’ matter how you you, it didn’ matter how you might be feeling for the day.
a lifetime achievement ard from the academy, and of urse you were there and you ember it well?
very much so.
was awarded the board of ernors, at that time i was the board, bestowed upon him of our highest honours, and orary oscar his work in honorary oscar for his work in film and for his philanthropic ntures.
very much, very adventures.
very much, very much needed and very happy to of all of that.
and of course, most people think of as actor, but he was an him as an actor, but he was an activist, director, he had his roduction company, there own production company, there was so much more to him than acting, wasn’ there?
absolutely.
and it is with that that are going to lagacy that we are going to move forward and make sure that lagacy stays alive, and we impart all of the reatness of poitier on ture storytellers.
how do you ink his legacy is left?
bviously so many actors and resses stand on his houlders now?
that is exactly , he did pave the way for right, he did pave the way for many, for many filmmakers as as people like myself.
his nfluence was massive, just ive.
and not least denzel washington, obviously a huge now, he obviously paid actor now, he obviously paid tribute to him all those years absolutely.
denzel washington, we always think of of them on the night of the two of them on the night of the oscars when denzel hington won an oscar for best actor, and halle berry for actress, and poitier best actress, and poitier receiving his historic honorary was a major, major ening, and evening, and ijust it filled my heart and i cried my out, it was special.
and many tributes obviously ming in from around the world ay, what have you heard that moved you from other people ade ade you ink, yeah, you and made you think, yeah, you know, it is my friend, that is erson i knew?
it is always nderful to see how others act to his presence on this net and the legacy for the future.
i have been having a few interviews myself day, so am going to curl up up pretty soon read everything ossibly can to absorb the ntire day.
just finally, if you ran ort of put your nger on one of his favourite vies or things that he has one over his time, what rings to mind for you when you think of him?
i think of in the heat of the night, " they me rtibbs.
" thank you for all me mrtibbs.
‘ thank you for bringing us your memories there party air, i know you sydney party air, i know you have had a long day, thank you ringing us those thoughts.
- sidney oitier.
a volcano perched on top of one of ecuador’ famous galapagos islands has erupted, producing a spectacular lava flow.
the one—mile—high wolf volcano is located on isabela island, home to a rich variety of flora and fauna of the type that helped inspire charles darwin’ theory of evolution following his visit in 1835.
fortunately the eruption poses no threat to wildlife populations, or to humans.
thanks for watching, do stay tuned.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching, and the first half of saturday at least will be very wet and windy.
here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front, and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland, but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
better — there still will be some showers around, particularly across northern areas, and in fact, we are expecting later on sunday some damp weather to move into south—western parts of england and maybe wales.
but on the whole, it’ a much better day, much drier and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around the average for the time of the year.
so, here’ the weekend summary again.
you can see that wet weather earlier in the day on saturday, much better by sunday, and thereafter, it is turning milder.
bye— bye.
this is news.
the headlines: in the , three white men who were convicted of chasing and then murdering ahmaud arbery, a black man, in the state of georgia, have been sentenced to life in prison.
the case became a focus of protests by the black lives matter movement.
the have questioned kazakhstan’ decision to seek russian military support to deal with a wave of violent unrest.
russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
dozens of people have been killed during nationwide protests, triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
one of the best known black hollywood actors of the past century, sidney poitier, has died.
he was 94.
poitier was the first black man to be awarded best actor at the academy awards in 1964 and paved the way for a new generation of stars.
now, many of us remember the drama grange hill for its gritty storylines and very catchy theme tune.
it first aired in 1978, running for 30 years and now, it’ going to be turned into a film with some of the original characters expected to return as grandparents.
jayne mccubbin has been chatting to some of the original cast members.
there was the theme tune born bom bom born, ba—na ba—na nah nah, bam ba—na ba—na—na, bow bow bow there was the gritty realism move your arm, fat man.
it was just like a real british show, wasn’ it?
showing, like, kids in their natural habitats, so to speak.
yeah, cheeky and naughty.
what’ he talking about?
it’ not true.
controversial storylines.
did you just say no in school?
idid.
good girl.
just say no!
now, like an unheard—of decent school dinner, there is going to be a second helping.
my name is neil mattocks.
i am a higher level teaching assistant.
i run a podcast about grange hill called sausage on a fork.
the very first episode i remember watching, i was about six years old and there was lads fighting on the telly, and ijust thought, "this is amazing.
"this is like nothing i’ve ever seen.
" i’ alison valentine and i played fay in grange hill — faye lucas.
the biggest thing which caused the biggest stir was my thing — i’ not sure what it was — with my teacher, king.
my name is lee macdonald and i played zammo in grange hill.
so, the transformation from this happy—go—lucky zammo character to stealing off of roland, licking the drugs off the floor in one of the scenes at the end, you know, was horrific.
zammo!
drown, you scum.
the expelled grange hill after a 30—year run in 2008, but open auditions for the next gen grange hill silver screen stars start soon.
my name is celynjones.
i’ the co—writer of grange hill the movie and in a previous life, i also played green in grange hill — the english teacher.
sir phil redmond suggested that it was time to bring back grange hill.
i think bringing back grange hill was sort of like the bat signal, and — that he couldn’ ignore from wayne manor any longer!
by taking the best of the old and mixing with the new, they hope it pulls in the parents for nostalgia and their teens for a new edgy outing.
jayne mccubbin, news.
now on news, it’ time for click.
this week, we are back!
is on and we are in vegas to see show, so strapping!
it’ to be weird but it’ oing to be wonderful.
how is for you?
it has got quite excitable.
can i take my finger ?
yes, you that’ it from us, from .
we will be back in vegas next .
next year.
next year.
not asino convention centre insight!
—— insight!
welcome to 2022.
from vegas!
it’ been touch and go made it, and there’ but we made it, and there’ plenty of tech here.
yeah, not as we were expecting, as much as we were expecting, to be honest.
in fact, quite a -- a lot of names big lot -- a lot of big names pulled out late in the day due know what but it means that the world’ biggest ture feels smaller.
there are still planty of gadgets.
i will look at some for the home inute but in the in a minute but in the meantime, fancy a brew?
it has time for a teabag already.
been time for a teabag already.
this is the brew tea maker and an put in loose tea or you can put in any loose tea or tea bags and you set it for how long you want the teacher be brewing for, so it fully make you your perfect ouple.
mine is i would say 3.
5 minutes.
can you do hat?
i will oblige.
it is a handy self—cleaning ction there as well.
3.
5 inutes, please.
yeah, nota bad couple .
where?
i will.
she’ gone.
ould will.
she’ gone.
that should keep him busy for a bit.
now days, we are having more delivery than ever so uld this be a solution?
fresh tal allows you to set it too or cold signal delivery ould be kept at the should be kept at just the right temperature.
the finished product will help if i have lights to sanitise and a camera nitor your but the to monitor your food but the problem is you do need to cut a ole in your house to put big hola in your house to put it in, and he is today’ livery ich is rather delivery which is rather unusual some yoga.
one issue deliveries as they often with deliveries as they often come with way more packaging you need.
but i will be fter later.
but clear drop opes to ercome the problem of not enough soft plastics ecycled with this, a device that compresses them.
an either put in plastic you ran either put in plastic bags like this or any soft kaging.
this is a prototype, he finished product will be thirds of this size, but two-thirds of this size, but this is what happens.
and this at the plastic comes out ooking like once it is ndensed.
i’ve been told this probably the quantity of average family over to onth—end being like this stead of big, puffy bags kes it easier to be ground need to get to the kitchen.
as it happens, i’ not much of a plain yoghurt but there a reason i have this year.
irstly, let me put some in the .
this is a spoon tech and the company claims that through electric current that a mild electric current that through it, your fruit should ste better.
—— poontek.
hen i am using at he food ill cover this silver and my finger will dot and my finger will naturally cover it so the light come onto show it is am going to be blindfolded so i cannot tell the difference een this, the functioning spoon, and these two do not.
i will put this on and omar, can mix things so do not you mix things up so i do not know which spoon i am using?
’ here somewhere.
bleep.
—— hurt.
the aste of the same he first spoon.
strangely, at mouthful sort of tested better?
but i don’ know.
ifi was not hinking about it i would not notice a difference.
like you feel an electric it’ like you feel an electric current or anything but i would this is the right spoon.
it is.
i was genuinely not cting that.
let’ give it a expecting that.
let’ give it a go again.
i think this is the .
no.
no.
and i really thought it was not the first maybe it was like the one.
maybe it was like the first time.
let’ do it again.
sure this time.
i’ going to go for this being the .
and it is!
and it is!
and it could be luck don’ know.
it was two out of three and the difference small i wonder if all was so small i wonder if all would be more substantial if something tasted stronger but i don’ know, but my very entific test.
when it’ time leave the house, especially ’re going to be away for whila, you ay be concerned about security and here is ething that has taken things a level from the old timers that makes it look like someone is in when the lights and off.
let me set it up.
there we go.
simple.
it has or in its wet nose if it is day or night.
done.
--it has a sensor in it so it knows is day or night.
home if it is day or night.
home shadows aims to create the usion that there are people a moving ound in the room and me, it did look like a bit of a glitchy light, which i suppose would indicate someone .
it doesn’ exactly look was in.
it doesn’ exactly look like this.
yeah, maybe we would tter off having omar coming around our house.
i think he was willing to do it .
all right, moving on.
have a guess.
what are these?
a dance game?
no, this is a clue.
0.
another.
iwill!
0.
and another.
i’ve got it.
this is fastpong, table is training device.
the ight tiles are filled with ors that measure the speed and accuracy of your turns.
it has been invented by a 2010 championship world championship quarterfinalist.
and it is ently being tested by the currently being tested by the winchester under 11 is ner-up one particular saturday in 83.
the system an ork with any type of ball auncher and the innovation is of course these here is of course these ﬂashing target tiles which can programmed to play loads of fferent aiming games.
i am i’ getting the ball back all.
leave the target to your ripheral ision.
is this better than ctual practice partner?
ically you are gamifying your experience.
this is the uage but the young language but the young generation understands better.
tried to bring them to and we tried to bring them to the actual sport than just peting, to have some activity.
all .
you don’ that ith a human trainer.
i think i hit one of the meras moking in the face a second ago is about is an ievement.
after his table career finished, oved from iran to south korea to sports science and astpong was born.
he says that fessionals can use this to professionals ran use this to improve the reaction time, ity and decision—making and mateurs can use the ompanying app to record the ccuracy and speed, find their knesses and get advice on to overcome them.
up until , training and data analysis been achieved using xpensive high—speed cameras so may ake training more this may make training more accessible to all.
including a old player like me.
i’ old player like me.
i’ getting into it, i’ embering that i need to keep legs moving, don’ stand till.
and just lean into it.
the tiles are above the level of the table so if i’ ing to go for real accuracy, kind of get the feeling that nnot do it with something hat is exactly the same evel as the table.
would that ight?
not really because the object here is just hitting area and not needing to be like one millimetre up and .
it’ not an issue, actually.
50 this is about arget ctice, and the speed the ball.
of course if you to have a different speed, machine, there are a lot of fferent type of machines out ere they can provide you with fferent speed.
0, a different speed.
£1000 worth of damage!
yes!
£1000 worth of damage!
looks.
-- oops.
hello and come the week in tech.
welcome to the week in tech.
news from coming up at st, it was the week verrills ound elizabeth holmes was nvicted by a jury on four ounts of fraud.
the blood sting irm collapsed in 2018 fter was found homes of my aims about the technology ere false.
blackberry has rned off the board for its perating system with the mpany saying its iconic hones will no longer reliably ction.
and the james webb space elescope is fully ployed, ray, it’ tennis ourt sized sunshield will low scientists to capture mages of away stars.
all images of faraway stars.
all right, quick round—up for as omised, and one of the : to come out of las as this augmented vegas this year augmented reality smart glasses.
here is next where there, giving ’ next where there, giving the equivalent of 140 inch een visible from a0 metres and ighing 75 .
eanwhile a and weighing 75 9.
meanwhile a micro stereo for industry from vuzik and sony mobility is starting to make tric cars.
this is its concept dubbed the vision and labrador showed off 502.
and labrador showed off the self—driving shelves or that be shelf driving, and carrying stuff at ome and useful for those of us mobility issues.
finally aximise your efficiency by omating your —shirt folding.
ussell’ students built this prototype from printed hinges.
it detects the and starts the motors.
reshly folded tops are leased through a trapdoor.
he force with you.
we done this gag before?
i think they are just trying to to cover our bases.
this the air zone mask, it is a company and it is for peopla who really, really need reathe clean air.
it kills bacteria and viruses on the way there a silicon mould in.
there is a silicon mould which sucks into your giving you a really good seal, idenced by the line around right now, there goes on he bottom and then light the viruses and bacteria before you them.
is it before you breed them.
is it comfortable?
not really, and ave to lug around the you have to lug around the battery pack.
yours looks nice.
is the aero nest mask ventilation kit, so you can tach is to any mask.
the idea is, if you want a bit of to breathe in the inside of mask, it comes through ere, so it tickles your nose outh, the thing is, if you feel suffocated when wearing a , this may help.
but the only thing is you don’ have to something far heavier, more chunky and vibrates on cheek a bit.
really?
goodness me.
yeah, a bit like a conduction headphones, something doesn’ feel quite .
you do feel the air, you are breathing at him.
let’ move on as we said eartier, has been massively impacted by ngoing pandemic.
loads of mpanies and people who simply ’ be ere.
that’ right, can’ be there.
that’ right, james clayton has been looking the show has changed and at how the show has changed and how it is for the exhibitors.
year all of this, the robots, the gadgets, gizmos, hear.
the show was entirely digital and it was thing.
being able to touch roducts, hear at things sound and look like in real , all gone.
this year, the ganisers were determined that show must go on.
however is coincided with record id cases here in the , so ould anyone up?
we have would anyone turn up?
we have been here at for about two , it’ the opening day and expected to be absolutely pant.
and to be fair some peopla have urned up, but the bers people have turned up, but the numbers are way down.
right you would expect there to be exhibitors, but many simply ’ turned up.
google, haven’ turned up.
google, amazon, microsoft and many more withdrawn, citing safety orries.
that is what mark nted to do.
founder of itish headphone company tres, he would have pulled but had already paid $50,000, and with no refund, ded to say.
this was a massive investment.
we have people building behind us, overnight they have pulled .
it involves people out.
it involves peopla pressing the flats, say hello eople, shing your hands a to peopla, washing your hands a lot, you can’ at it.
so should this have been celled, should have been a -person ent?
i think it should ave been cancelled.
it should be vibrant and buzzing, is not.
that is the downside.
that said, we are seeing people, and we’re still seeing peopla, and we’re still doing business.
not all jor companies stayed away.
msung, for example kata —— a major xhibit, including his by samsung which allows to buy, sell and display ftplumac.
i don’ understand you want to do that, you would want to do that, but samsung has done it anyway.
any other big companies but many other big companies did not turn up.
while many of big easts failed to show the big beasts failed to show up, and it was done in numbers, peopla did come.
was not a many peopla did come.
was not a total washout as unexpected.
rganisers here say they ave done everything they can luding including mandating vaccines and giving everyone a lateral test.
but there are some that elieve this show should have gone ahead in person.
at wasjames, and i am ned oined now by the ecutive vice resident of , welcome to little corner of our show.
anks for being here, i am so ited to have you.
there have een a staggering number of ses covid this week, on onday in the 51 million new es.
is it irresponsible to a to have an —person show in a rcumstance like that?
i think we have done is we have lways done, what is the right measures we can put in health measures we ran put in place?
in the summer we went aid that the entire show, you have to have a vaccine to nto the show.
and we felt hat was really one of the most rtant things that we could in place to make sure we were doing things right.
we know there are people who won’ to make it to in be able to make it to in person and we want them to nect with us digitally, but those who are ready, who re vaccinated, you are wearing and following our mask and following our policies, we also wanted to a show for them and give them what they needed to do to inue to grow their usiness.
many major tech firms pulled out, citing safety oncerns.
who is right?
them or ?
these are precedented you?
these are unprecedented times and people need to make sions that are right for them.
we have had about 10% of hibitors pull out, when you have only 10%?
when you look at the number, you look at the total number, we had over 2300 exhibitors, hat wanted to come, ten 9096 that wanted to come, ten that idn’.
you are closing a earty, are you refunding exhibitors that they’ fee?
use we have extended the show until 31 january on the tal platform, they are digital platform, they are still going to connect with our ndees, get leads from the attendees, get leads from the show, set up appointments, so ally the physical part is actually the physical part is closing but the show continues on until anuary so to go on until 31january so they ran do business.
so you not refunding them the xtra day?
no because they are doing business, still doing business, connecting and having great connections they can connect with.
thank you for us on this unexpectedly having us on this unexpectedly large stage.
i know!
thank you oming.
welcome to where there is lways something you can see.
cluding is cabinet we can including this cabinet we ran make anything float.
they have her mes and watches in put her fumes and watches in here for retail shops, but ay they have put my microphone inside.
the founders agicians, they won’ tell how it is done.
i am going need that back.
0, there you go!
it is magic.
as always, more and more things etting connected to the internet.
this is a smart tap, ask my oice assistant, i ran ask my voice assistant, alexa, ask for 500 millimetres ter.
there we go.
exactly of water.
there we go.
exactly 500 millilitres, very clever.
is means the wi—fi goes if this means the wi-fi goes off.
i can’ make a cup of tea?
olutely ff, you always have ea, the motion controls sensor continue to operate.
—— absolutely .
this is the oapy hand washing kiosks, very rtant in these times to important in these times to wash your hands.
i have to low the instructions on the screen the camera inside is aking sure that i follow all gestures properly and the gestures property and happy birthday to you ember that?
all my hand remember that?
now all my hand washing data is uploaded to the !
how did i do?
your wash was perfect, you did all the ures.
there we go, super dean!
gestures.
there we go, super clean!
this is battle racing, 3 start-up rom columbia which i think nspired by an italian- japanese plumber.
i ran even leave little traps re for the people racing ehind me, and then off i go!
this is flying magic cleaner, the idea is once you have mac cuum your arpet you can -- vacuum your rarpet you ran suck some more dust out of the there is a few companies air.
there is a few companies here this year doing facial gnition for dogs.
let’ give it a try.
here is a dog, hold that to the camera, it has identified as .
what bout this dog with the etty hair clip?
is this a ifferent dog or the same dog?
is also ohn.
at that is also john.
what do alcohol and bitcoin both in common?
every height is ollowed by a crash.
i have met cecilio, a robot artender.
i put my cup here.
show me your .
obviously i look under 21.
cecilio, i will a meta— verse please.
0 have a meta- verse please.
0 cecilio, you are breaking my , your shaking my heart, your shaking my cocktails daily.
0 nice, is pomegranate?
and this is that pomegranate?
and this is the perfect gadget for if you been doing sports or have been doing sports or exercise or just walking around day.
is cryo socks all day.
it is cryo socks and it will give me instant calling on my muscles from deep falling on my musdas from this canister here, so just it a press !
oh, it give ita press oh!
oh, it is very cold.
that was chris, and we haven’ quite finished with weird and erful yet.
good!
you wonderful yet.
oh good!
you know that nice feeling you get a baby nibbled your finger?
no.
me neither.
but one does, so meet amagami someone does, so meet amagami ham ham.
your finger in its th.
ell us what it is like?
mouth.
tell us what it is like?
oh, it is squeezing the end of nger.
you enjoy that while read the press release.
it is gned to recreate somewhat easing sensation you get when man babies and pet animals softly bite on the fingers.
it uses a special algorithm to omly select from two dozen randomly select from two dozen nibbling patterns to keep users rested.
are you still interested 7 ascinated.
most ople like the nibbling ensation but no they need to their children or pets to it.
amagami ham ham frees nkind from the conundrum of humankind from the conundmm of whether to pursue or not pursue orbidden pleasure?
how is hat for you?
can i take my finger out?
at note we finger out?
on that note we will leave it for this .
it is good to be back, though, isn’ it.
as ever, you eep up ith the team on ran keep up with the team on social edia, find us at dick.
pencer, are you 0?
anks for watching, we will you soon.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching, and the first half of saturday at least will be very wet and windy.
here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front, and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland, but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
better — there still will be some showers around, particularly across northern areas, and in fact, we are expecting later on sunday some damp weather to move into south—western parts of england and maybe wales.
but on the whole, it’ a much better day, much drier and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around the average for the time of the year.
so, here’ the weekend summary again.
you can see that wet weather earlier in the day on saturday, much better by sunday, and thereafter, it is turning milder.
bye— bye.
welcome to news.
i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: three white men who murdered ahmaud arbery in the state of georgia are given life sentences.
the family said they never lost faith in justice.
i knew that we would come out with a victory.
yes.
i never ted it.
and i knew that doubted it.
and i knew that today would come.
the questions kazakhstan’ decision to invite in russian troops to quell unrest, saying it might be difficult to get them to leave.
india locks down the capital delhi to and halt a surge of cases fuelled by the omicron variant.
you will call me sir or mesdar.
and sidney poitier, the first black man to win the academy award for best actor, has died at the age of 94.
we take a look back at his life’ work.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
in the , three white men who were convicted of chasing and then murdering ahmaud arbery, a black man, in the state of georgia have been sentenced to life in prison.
travis mcmichael, his father gregory and their neighbour roddy bryan were convicted of felony murder.
they had chased arbery while he was jogging, before he was shot to death.
their defence had claimed they feared he was planning to commit a crime.
the mcmichaels will spend life in prison without the possibility of parole.
roddy bryan will serve life, but does have the possibility of parole.
here’ georgia superior court judge timothy walmsley outlining some of the evidence from the trial.
there’ a frame where i believe ahmaud arbery, it looks to be if he’ 20 yards out, that may be close — 30 yards out — it’ the frame of travis mcmichael lifting the shotgun to fire at ahmaud arbery.
and you watch that with context — and when i say ‘context’, after hearing the evidence in this case and thinking about a young man that had been running at that point for almost five minutes — and it is a chilling, truly disturbing scene.
ahmaud’ mother gave her reaction to the sentencing outside the court.
first, i want to say thank you to god, who made this all possible.
yes.
my prayer was to get justice for ahmaud.
he filed for us in the courts, he gave us a fairjudge, judge walmsley, he heard the testimonies from each witness.
he gave us a very good verdict and he gave us a very good sentence.
our north america correspondent david willisjoins me now.
david, what has the reaction been to the sentencing in rica?
simon, it’ amazing, sn’ it, that this death went ely unreported for two months after it occurred.
it was not until that very rowing video went viral that prosecutors actually tarted to take some action and weeks after the death of hmaud arbery before these men were arrested.
well, ay, the udge escribed today, the judge described it as a very harrowing and lling incident and he held one minute’ silence in ognition of the terror but aid ahmaud arbery must’ve endured he was being chased five minutes by these three men in pick up trucks.
he sentenced gregory and travis chael, father and son respectively, to life without ossibility of parole.
the her man, william roddy bryan, man who took the infamous video footage, he was sentenced with the possibility of to life with the possibility of parole but he will be 82 years efore he gets to enjoy old before he gets to enjoy that right, if you live that .
it’ a really tragic long.
it’ a really tragic use, , david.
is there a case at hat change owly happening in america because obviously we been seeing many of these rases recently, high—profile ases that of george cases like that of george floyd, and now this one, so is a sense of the policing there a sense of the policing or judicial system is changing he better?
it’ an for the better?
it’ an interesting question and now arbery’ case is ahmaud arbery’ case is different to george floyd.
arbery was not killed by ahmaud arbery was not killed by a police officer, he was killed ople who believed they have the right to act as police cers, if you like, as —called vigilantes and eed, is family described death as a modern—day ynching.
they have since, i might add, expressed their at the sentence —— ntences that have been handed .
but ahmaud arbery’ death out.
but ahmaud arberrs death was part of a a sort of national oning, as far as racial reckoning, as far as racial injustice is concerned in this try.
it really came to a country.
it really came to a head, of course, a few months , following the death of george floyd at the hands of a neapolis police officer.
david willis, live from los les, thank you indeed for angeles, thank you indeed for bringing us up to date with the the president of kazakhstan has ordered his security forces to use lethal force on protesters after days of unrest following a sudden rise in fuel prices.
russian troops have arrived to support his government.
the secretary of state has warned that it may be difficult to get them to leave.
our correspondent abdujalil abdurasulov is in kazakhstan’ largest city almaty with the latest.
the army of kazakhstan is standing guard here on the streets of almaty.
after days of violence and many protesters killed, the state security forces seem to be back in control and when we came close to them, the warning not to approach is very clear.
today, the president was clear, too — any more unrest will be met with lethal force.
: terrorists continue to damage state and private property and use weapons against civilians.
i have given the order to shoot to kill without warning.
president tokayev portrays the protesters as terrorists who are sowing chaos.
they say that their movement is peaceful and blame the authorities for provoking the violence.
the unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices, but this country’ corrupt authoritarian regime is unpopular.
some of the biggest clashes took place here at the former presidential residence and the mayor’ office.
the buildings were burned out, and you can see here all these cars were also set on fire.
you can hear, again, the shots, but maybe it’ the military and police officers are firing into the air to warn people not to approach the square because they closed the square in order to prevent people from gathering.
many people fear that the violence will drag on.
along with protests, many shops were looted.
this 22—year—old man said that while he supports the demands of the protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"it’ really scary, and we feel we have no protection," this woman says.
this is one of the electronics shops that was looted in almaty, and i think the looters tried to burn this place as well because it still smells of smoke.
this mass unrest is a huge blow for almaty, which is the financial capital of kazakhstan.
it’ not clear yet if the violence is over or how much damage has been done to the authority of kazakhstan’ hardline leader.
abdujalil abdurasulov, news, almaty.
as coronavirus cases continue to rise across india, new movement restrictions have come into effect for people in the capital delhi over the weekend.
restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed until monday morning.
russell trott reports.
bharat’ shop sells everything for the kitchen and more.
but with fewer customers and takings down, he has been badly hit by the pandemic.
yet, despite india’ capital delhi locking down over the weekend, he remains upbeat.
: the way corona cases are on the rise this lockdown, the weekend curfew is a must.
for the past two years, we have faced losses and we will face the same in the future.
i will be happy when the amount of cases are lower and there is no lockdown.
as the authorities grapple with afresh surge in cases, partly fuelled by the fast—spreading omicron variant, most businesses here are still recovering from last year’ outbreak that overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums.
but daily case numbers had since then stayed reasonably low, until last week.
all residents besides essential workers will now be asked to stay home from friday night to monday morning.
this is a big concern, big challenge.
we have seen that over the last eight days, the figure has gone very high — from 10,000 cases to more than one lakh, injust eight days.
so with this period, the number will be much higher in the previous days.
more than 200,000 people died across india last spring, after a wave of delta variant infections that brought the healthcare systems to its knees.
india’ a81,000 known covid deaths is the world’ third highest toll behind the and brazil, but under—reporting is widespread and some studies have estimated its actual toll could be up to ten times higher.
the omicron variant is expected to hit hard but with fewer cases expected to need hospital treatment, some experts warn another lockdown and its economic impact is just not worth it.
russell trott, news.
novak djokovic has thanked people around the world for their support as he awaits a decision on his deportation from australia.
the world number one men’ tennis player remains in immigration detention in melbourne ahead of the australian open after being denied entry to the country on wednesday.
government officials say he isn’ being held captive and is free to leave any time.
shaimaa khalil reports from melbourne.
this is the immigration detention hotel where novak djokovic is being kept.
adnan choopani has been here for five months now after being moved from another facility.
i live in level two and djokovic lives in level one.
that is the food we’ve been served every day in containers.
we found a maggot and mould on the bread and we’ve been reporting it but unfortunately, there has no action been taken.
outside the hotel, there was dancing and music, but also anger and frustration among novak djokovic’ supporters.
it’ unclear if the tennis star will remain here until monday, when his legal team will challenge the cancellation of his visa.
novak djokovic is waiting for a court decision on whether he’ll be able to stay and compete in the australian open or be deported.
whatever happens, this has gone way beyond tennis.
the world number one is now at the centre of a political and a diplomatic storm.
djokovic arrived on wednesday with an exemption, granted by tennis australia and the state of victoria.
but the border force has revoked his visa, saying he did not meet the rules of entry.
his mother dijana said on thursday that he was being kept like a prisoner.
australia’ home affairs minister karen andrews hit back, saying there was nothing stopping him from leaving.
djokovic is not being held captive in australia.
he is free to leave at any time that he chooses to do so, and border force will actually facilitate that.
the tennis star posted on instagram, thanking his fans around the world.
another player has now had her visa cancelled.
renata voracova from the czech republic is understood to be detained in the same hotel as djokovic.
the australian open is one of the biggest sporting events here but it’ turning into a big international embarrassment for the government.
shaimaa khalil, news, melbourne.
stay with us on news.
still to come: it’ a letter with no surname or address on the envelope, but a short biography instead.
and it actually got delivered to the right person.
the japanese people are in mourning following the death of emperor hirohito.
thousands converged on the imperial palace to pay their respects when it was announced he was dead.
good grief!
after half a century of delighting fans around the world, charlie brown and the rest of the gang are calling it quits.
the singer paul simon starts his tour of south africa tomorrow, in spite of protests and violence from some black activist groups.
they say international artists should continue to boycott south africa until majority rule is established.
around the world, people have been paying tribute to the iconic rock star david bowie, who sold 140 million albums in a career that spanned half a century.
his family announced overnight that he died of cancer at the age of 69.
the world’ tallest opens later today.
the burj dubai has easily overtaken its nearest rivals.
this is news.
the latest headlines: a court in the state of georgia has given life sentences to three white men who murdered the young black man ahmaud arbery while he was outjogging.
the questions kazakhstan’ decision to invite in russian troops to quell unrest — saying it might be difficult to get them to leave.
as kazakhstan’ government seeks to tighten its control of the country, friday also saw the arrival of troops from neighbouring as part of the russia—led alliance.
the intervention marks the first deployment by the post—soviet collective security treaty organization to a member state since its creation.
ahead of crucial talks with russia next week over ukraine’ border, secretary of state antony blinken warned the kazakh regime over its reliance on moscow.
there are very particular drivers of what is happening in kazakhstan right now, as i said, but go to economic and tical matters, and what is appening there is different what is happening on ukraine’ borders.
having said , i think one lesson of recent history is that once ians are in your house, it russians are in your house, it is sometimes very difficult to hem to leave.
eugene chausovsky is an analyst with the new lines institute, a foreign policy think tank.
eugene, do you think moscow felt like they had to react to ?
it is fairly significant this?
it is fairty significant that this is the force has sed.
absolutely, i think rom russia’ perspective they ldn’ afford not to act.
having seen these projects get hand quite quickly and then paired with what has pened around the region from aine to belarus, i think ukraine to belams, i think russia a made the calculus that russia made the ralmlus that it needed to send in its ops, especially once the azakhstan government ficially requested them via .
and in the short term at least, has loyment at least, has the deployment what do you think?
it is hard exactly right now ecause a lot of the ommunications and internet is off, but i think over the ast 24 hours or so it does like the primary objective at deployment, which is to asically secure the strategic of the country which ncludes military bases, ernment buildings and even irports in the biggest city of aty, that was the primary reason for russia to go in, so khstan could basically kazakhstan could basically address the protesters head—on, eems to be that they and it seems to be that they have more or less those sites ontrol.
we will see how under control.
we will see how that unfold in the coming days or now it appears to be but for now it appears to be successful.
we have seen some dramatic pictures of the ioting and some very scary ports from our correspondence re of, especially overnight, chine—guns and gunfire ounding, you think things stabilise now or do you ink protest could get even orse?
like i said, it is very ficult at this point because are still early on in this risis, and are fast crisis, and things are fast moving.
but essentially, the of securing those sites goal of securing those sites like i mentioned has been more achieved, and now it is tter of targeting what the government perceives as the radical elements.
50 most radical elaments.
so i think there will continue to be some demonstrations, but i think the peaceful monstrations and things that ’ demonstrations and things that don’ truly threaten the curity the government, those could go on for quite time, but for the more radical elements, at least as and kazakhstan call them, hat will be the priority his point.
and we had a arning there from antony inken, do you think there is ason to worry for 2500 ops, many of them russian, ing into the country?
the troops are already there.
i think the concern that antony ken had voiced and some others are worried about, is these troops, primarily the russian led troops, will here for the long—term.
stay there for the long-term.
and here i am not so that will case.
the mandate for be the use.
the mandate for those troops is to secure those , i don’ think necessarily it is in akhstan’ interest to have is his prolonged russian present, ause it is quite unpopular many people.
but as long as the security tion is met, the security situation is met, i don’ think necessarily it is to be a long—term going to be a long—term deployment of russia, but they always go back in.
eugene could always go back in.
eugene chausovsky, thank you so much from washington and indeed from washington and therefore bring us up—to—date that story.
the former president barack obama has led tributes to the actor sir sidney poitier, who’ died at the age of 94.
obama said the star had "opened doors for a generation of actors".
sidney poitier made his name in a series of ground—breaking films which challenged racial stereotypes.
he was the first black man to win an oscar for best actor, and his success paved the way for generations of other black artists.
our correspondent lizo mzimba looks back on the life of a hollywood icon.
in the heat of the night sidney poitier’ virgil tibbs, a man of authority i’ a police officer.
intelligence and a steely determination never to back down — the kind of qualities that defined poitier on screen and off.
he made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man of status — something almost unheard of for black performers then.
and with roles like an escaped convict in the defiant ones and a struggling husband in a raisin in the sun, he tackled prejudice head on.
maybe i’ll get down on my black knees.
all right, charlie.
all right, great white father.
you just give us that money!
and we won’ come out there and dirty up your white folks’ neighbourhood.
the era, of course, meant he had a burden his white counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight of being a symbol.
but he bore it with dignity.
in lilies of the field, playing a travelling handyman, helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
sing it over.
the winner is sidney poitier.
he won the academy award — the first black performer ever to receive the oscar for a leading role.
in the years that followed, he became hollywood’ biggest star, redefining how audiences saw black characters with films like to sir, with love.
you will call me ‘sir’ or ‘mr thackeray’.
the young ladies will be addressed as ‘miss’, the boys by their surnames.
some of what i am was reflected in those movies.
it was, in a way, i was saying to an audience, "this is who i am.
look at me.
" more controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely successful doctor engaged to a white woman in guess who’ coming to dinner.
i love your daughter.
there is nothing i wouldn’ do to to keep her as happy as she was the day i met her.
some criticised it, saying the impression it gave was of an interracial relationship that was only acceptable because his character was so perfect and accomplished.
hello!
he also directed ‘805 comedy stir crazy — the first movie from an african—american film—maker to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in the united states.
what are you doing?
i’ getting bad!
in his later years, he was awarded the presidential medal of freedom by barack obama, who today said sidney poitier epitomised dignity and grace.
oprah winfrey paid tribute, saying: while denzel washington said: those words two decades after he celebrated him at the academy awards.
a0 years, i’ve been chasing sidney.
they finally give it to me, what they do?
they give it to him the same night.
i’ll always be following in your footsteps.
there’ nothing i would rather do.
that same night, poitier also received an honorary oscar.
hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail for so many they call me tibbs.
and who entertained millions more.
sidney poitier — one of the greats.
sidney poitier, who’ died at the age of 94.
a letter posted to a man in northern ireland, with no surname or address on the envelope, butjust his first name and a 57—word biography, has managed to find its way to the right place.
our ireland correspondent emma vardy has the story.
"feargal, lives across the road from the spar.
"his me and used to own it.
" no house number, no street name, a few things much more personal than that.
the first thing i noticed was the amount of detail on the envelope and basically, my biography.
"moved to waterford after he got married.
" despite nothing more than a short story and half a postcode, yesterday this letter found its way straight to feargal lynn.
i laughed so much.
right through it all, to playing guitar, to, "friends with the fellow who owns the butchers in waterford.
" feargal had taken to writing letters to people over lockdown as a way to brighten the gloom, but never expected such a strange reply.
the letter was from an old friend in belfast, who perhaps could have found out his address but thought this way was a little more fun.
we were talking about the pandemic, we were talking about mental health and the need to brighten the mood a bit.
did she actually expect it to reach you?
i think she just took a punt.
"plays guitar and used to run discos in the poker hall.
" it happened to be that feargal’ local postman was also a childhood friend.
we’ve had some strange addresses over the years, but this is the most bizarre of them all.
the first line, "feargal who lived across from the spar.
" the number of times we played in his front garden as wee boys, i knew right away who it was.
this could give other people ideas, if they don’ know an address.
oh, that would be a nightmare!
and inside the letter, just a cheery hello and a recipe for coleslaw that feargal had been asking about, but it meant much more than that.
there’ so much letters these days that’ meaningless, it’ financial, it’ 3 rates demand and it’ so nice to receive something so personal.
"friends with the fella who runs the butchers "in waterford too.
"btlm, northern ireland.
" so, could letters make a comeback over email in future, as something a lot more enjoyable?
well, we’ll keep you posted!
emma vardy, news.
and you can get details of all of these stories and many more by visiting our website at bbc.
com/news.
and a reminder of our top story, a court in the state orgia has convicted the men convicted of murdering arbery to life in prison ahmaud arbery to life in prison without parole.
ahmaud arbery ogging when the men chased was jogging when the men chased him in their tracks and shot don’ forget you can get more on our website, .
com/ news.
for tching and i will thanks for watching and i will see you soon.
—— .
com.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching, and the first half of saturday at least will be very wet and windy.
here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front, and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland, but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
better — there still will be some showers around, particularly across northern areas, and in fact, we are expecting later on sunday some damp weather to move into south—western parts of england and maybe wales.
but on the whole, it’ a much better day, much drier and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around the average for the time of the year.
so, here’ the weekend summary again.
you can see that wet weather earlier in the day on saturday, much better by sunday, and thereafter, it is turning milder.
bye— bye.
this is news.
the headlines: in the , three white men who were convicted of chasing and then murdering ahmaud arbery, a black man, in the state of georgia, have been sentenced to life in prison.
the case became a focus of protests by the black lives mather movement.
the have questioned kazakhstan’ decision to seek russian military support to deal with a wave of violent unrest.
russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
dozens of people have been killed during nationwide protests triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
one of the best known black hollywood actors of the past century, sidney poitier, has died.
he was 94.
poitier was the first black man to be awarded best actor at the academy awards in 1964, and paved the way for a new generation of stars.
during the pandemic, thousands of dog thefts were reported across the and ireland.
this is the story of molly, one of those stolen dogs, and the fight to bring her back home.
i would actually rather know that she was dead than to gine the sort of people that she is with right now.
a two—year—old.
it is the smell gets you irst and then that gets you first and then hundreds of these eyes looking at you.
i have seen people back at you.
i have seen peopla taking hotographs of dogs.
i guarantee that i can on dog for a pages see those sala pages and see those pictures.
only a very, very percentage of people are small percentage of people are actually prosecuted for this.
till has love to give them ill has faith in the human ce.
we haven’ stopped ghting for even a single day, never will.
one of my favourite things that i remember about molly is that ust had much ove she just had so much love inside her for all of us.
she so lovable kind.
is just so lovable and kind.
the last photo that i took of , only ust stood there molly, onlyjust stood there behind the flowers in those otos, really looks like she is smiling.
those are the photos i took of her.
the evening that molly was stolen, our back door open.
the two dogs were out there, millie olly.
millie came back and and molly.
millie came back and there was no sign of molly.
ten tes passed, then 20 minutes, and i was still ling er, like, iwas shouting at the top of my lungs is point.
there was just at this point.
there was just no sign, so we started to walk oads and we also took the the roads and we also took the cars out, drove around, ally, up locally, up to the village.
it was midnight then that we rang uards and reported molly issing we suspected her as olen.
she possibly was ust picked up.
thrown in the boat, closed it down.
she is in darkness from point.
then when it opens that point.
then when it opens up again, she has no idea where or who she is with.
he is being handed over on a rope.
ollar is we don’ know where.
it has been removed at point.
you feel sick and you panic.
i said to my man, i would ually rather know that she was dead than to imagine the of people that she is with sort of peopla that she is with right now.
you would rather go nto your road and see that meone had knocked your dog own, you’ rather know that had lived their life and hat they had the most amazing with her family who love hem and adore them and then are gone.
you would rather that.
something we have talked about quite a bit on this programme cent weeks is the rise in theft during the pandemic.
are involved now, the prices of these animals have 5000, £10,000 a time, or og.
gangs are violent, onstituents knocked to the und, beaten, stabbed, hreats to their home and milies.
within less than 12 hours, we had pretty much an entire paign going.
by the campaign going.
by the following morning, we had ated the first poster and we re going door—to—door as well fferent places.
that next in different places.
that next day after molly was stolen, we ted the actual bring molly ome facebook page to post ery day of make it hot, that what everyone says to do, go to handle.
someone will dump because they won’ be to sell her if everyone ows she is a stolen dog stop miss you, ly.
we miss you molly.
we miss you so very much.
you are nothing of the best, best girl, short of the best, best girt, and we love you.
we hope you for now.
please don’ orget us and never think have given up on you.
a week after molly was stolen, i received a message on the ebook page from a person who emains anonymous.
who said, you ring ?
i know who stole your og.
: we call the guards straightaway with that.
the irish police.
we were given information bout a certain location she had through, the next had passed through, the next morning, the guards were at the erty.
within 12 hours of stolen, he had been sold being stolen, she had been sold twice already.
i have been working for about 25 years for law enforcement.
: we are taking this facial data, this tracking, this view in transmitting that over to entirely new virtual vatar.
both myself and other connected to the investigation have received threats, so it is death threats, so it is important that we retain our ymity for the protection of our families and ourselves.
demand for ies pies went through the roof.
the type we are investigating of guys we are investigating began to look at any method could for obtaining ppies.
one of the easiest 575 ays to obtain puppies quickly obtain, and the quickest to do that is to steal it.
aturally, dog will have one, sibly two letters a year or however, because of the mand, they need more letters ar.
so they pump the nimals full of her minds —— rmones, it literally hormones, it is literally letter after letter after ter.
it does terrible things the animals in that process litter.
i saw in front -- litter.
all i saw in front of me was this beautiful, ken dog.
she smelt broken dog.
she smelt disgusting, she was covered in es, you’re in, she has a skin tumour on her side which everely infected.
i would ay that she has definitely used for breeding, which hat happens with so many of ese dogs used for moneymaking chines.
as she has already tronger, her personality got stronger, her personality is coming out now.
she still ove to give and still has in the human race, which even more heartbreaking, we can use, abuse and dump that we ran use, abuse and dump and they still forgive us and still want to love us.
nobody is enforcing the laws that we have, and the laws that a so weak anyway.
the lice need to much notice, the thorities need to much otice.
nobody wants to know.
just eep passing the they just keep passing the buck, and somebody has got to up, take responsibility do something about it.
you ok at a map and work out the way to get into that site ely, climbing through edges, swimming across water, ever you have to do to cate those animals.
usually heart is in your mouth ecause you have got to be so art bout what is going on because at any minute you could a lot of danger.
it is the smell that gets you first, and then hundreds of either looking back at ou.
some of the animals, they in a terrible state, matted des, you can hardly see what breeds they sometimes.
when ages are on of each other, the faeces and the year in drip down from one page into another cage.
some of them sort scrabbling at the are sort of scrabbling at the rage and standing up with their on the cage.
some are paws on the rage.
some are whining, barking, and then are others that are so aumatised that they are at ack of the cage.
they are the back of the rage.
they are terrified and they won’ come you.
so usually, it will happen in the middle of the night and it ways terrifying because are they going to bring the dog they going to hit you over the head or take the ey?
the owners are so petrified that you will get the involved because the police involved because the first thing they say is if you the police down here, bring the police down here, then we are going to kill your top you just wait and pray that it all goes to plan.
and gets hurt.
and that you get the dog back.
i always say, a slip lead you, through the slip lead over the dog as as you can, give them the quick as you ran, give them the money and just get out of re.
i know people that have mortgage their houses and they have taken out loans.
i can’ tell you how it feels it works.
you see the wner in floods of tears.
i am sually in ﬂoods of tears.
it is amazing.
shouldn’ have be doing that.
: we received further anonymous all that information suggested molly had been moved to he .
i was furious.
all work that we have put in asn’ enough because it ppens so fast.
if: he runs & transport services, richie is responsible for nsporting a number of nimals across the irish sea iciﬂy.
i have lived here for many years.
i dread having to go way.
i have seen that aurie here on numerous ccasions.
for quite some time been visiting that place.
-- orry.
this one rticular ime i happen to be driving past.
there was a man lady, and they had a cage and in is cage there was a pug and other dog, a terrier pe, ithink it .
and they type, i think it was.
and they took the rage to the doggy door hey they were feeding the dogs into the laurie.
—— lorry.
a dog, who i believe was molly, the back of a cart.
the was on the back of a cart.
the more i look at the picture of and the more i remember this dog, and i would say yes, molly on the back of it was molly on the back of that card.
i have seen dogs out of their with awful ounds.
i have seen a dog and ad cigarette burns cars she had cigarette burns tars all down her neck and down her .
she was in a really bad back.
she was in a really bad way.
-- burn scars.
i have seen come out of where a dog come out of their where it has lost the top of its tail here was blood coming out of it.
i have seen many, many come out of there.
dogs come out of there.
beaches, with their teeth —— are driving on the floor, teats are driving on the ﬂoor, where they have been bred and brad it really breaks heart.
nobody wants to see hat, nobody wants to tnesses.
—— bread and bread.
wever it trust in your face because nobody is doing anything about it.
-- thrust.
i have seen people taking photographs of dogs.
i guarantee that i can look on for sala and see dog for sala pages and see those pictures.
the guard contacted the police in the area, with what they had, it wasn’ enough info they had, it wasn’ enough to search any property about .
nothing came from that, and we were lost from that nt.
the reality is, you can watch these crimes happening from own bedroom.
springer manager.
i have seen videos of iple men optioning a dog multiple men optioning a dog and she is sitting in the dle of them.
what do you reckon her?
and they are hining torches on her, shing over her eyes and aking a pitch for her sala.
it is really rendous.
there is umerous facebook groups which solely used for buying and selling dogs.
any registered or nsed breeder would not be selling on facebook.
these groups are ongoing continuously, and there is monitoring them.
the nobody monitoring them.
the magnitude is just massive.
time i login online there more posts.
: we often see as well, comments from people who say "i checked page every single day ust to see if she is home".
‘i have ver ried so much over a dog that i’ve never met, i hope her home soon.
" molly’ you get her home soon.
‘ mollfs story has just grown so big i don’ know what is going to happen when we finally get ll.
people that she is back.
i think is going to be ane.
people want to come and eet her, we will have to do a of drive—by meet and greet olly at the gate, i think.
it was actually one of the girls as on our molly team was who was on our molly team was looking on websites to see if ould find different stolen gs.
that is how they are ten spotted, in ads for sale.
nce december 2019, i would imate i have looked at between 10— 20,000 adverts.
the ave been designed, adverts have been designed, have been engineered to target and from the ery first sentence, it evokes image of a wholesome pat.
nimals that are well looked , but when you scratch the urface there is any legal and icit trade.
the amounts of ney involved in this our eye ering.
the awards you can ran get from a tter of puppies on average between £20,000 0,000 litter.
if you are prosecuted for breeding illicitly, and you are ely to a very low level likely to get a very low level fine.
50 we are looking at ween £5 — £750.
and of between is - £750.
and of course a very small percentages ople are actually of people are actually prosecuted for this.
very few people are caught stealing dogs.
and very few are charged.
and when peopla are charged.
and when they are charged, they get very mal sentences.
chocolate minimal sentences.
my chocolate labrador, if he were stolen it be treated in much the would be treated in much the same way as a laptop.
an object has been taken.
the fact that they are sentience, that are companions, but they family members has not been ken into consideration hatsoever.
it needs to be ken more seriously by the lice, by the courts, by the oliticians that have the portunity to change the laws.
it is literally pandora’ box and we have only scratched the ace.
i think the pandemic surface.
i think the pandemic may be exacerbated, but prior at they had already secured their marketplace.
the we are dealing with a peopla we are dealing with a highly organised, and hyper— le.
there needs to be far mobile.
there needs to be far more investigators looking at , there needs to be more interaction between the ncies.
and until we do that is problem is not going to go .
i don’ know how feel about it.
we still are without molly, be honest, all we really so to be honest, all we really rare about is getting her home.
is saying that that is justice, you ow.
this is the victim impact statement that i had written to be read in rt.
"molly’ theft has affected each of us in ferent ways.
from anxiety paranoia to sleep deprivation, recurring htmares, and most of all, ef.
" "we have had our hopes raised up and then chatted on than one occasion by peopla who have falsely claimed to have molly.
-- shattered.
we have had countless sleepless due to regular intrusive thoughts about their conditions might be kept in now.
when finally do get to ep, ep, the nightmares insular.
ese are mainly dreams, in hich we eventually find molly.
only to be lted wake .
only to be jolted awake with the dreadful reminder that is really not the case.
she is ill missing.
" molly!
molly!
say hi!
are you having a great time?
good girl.
lie, you ving a nice time?
i actually had a dream last night.
i remember in the dream being with molly, and i think i brought her to meet my mother, adn’ seen her yet, but she was back.
she was saying, not real", and i was "it’ not real’, and i was saying, "no, it’ definitely , it’ way more real than he dreams where i feel like home".
and then i woke up and i was like here we go .
hey molly!
you getting all the pets?
all the pretty ?
0, molly!
0, molly.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching, and the first half of saturday at least will be very wet and windy.
here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front, and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland, but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
better — there still will be some showers around, particularly across northern areas, and in fact, we are expecting later on sunday some damp weather to move into south—western parts of england and maybe wales.
but on the whole, it’ a much better day, much drier and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around the average for the time of the year.
so, here’ the weekend summary again.
you can see that wet weather earlier in the day on saturday, much better by sunday, and thereafter, it is turning milder.
bye— bye.
welcome to news.
i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: three white men who murdered ahmaud arbery in the state of georgia are given life sentences.
the family said they never lost faith in justice.
i knew that we would come out with a victory.
yes.
i never doubted it.
and i knew that today would come.
the questions kazakhstan’ decision to invite in russian troops to quell unrest, saying it might be difficult to get them to leave.
india locks down the capital, delhi, to and halt a surge of cases fuelled by the omicron variant.
you will call me sir or thackeray.
and sidney poitier, the first black man to win the academy award for best actor, has died at the age of 94.
we take a look back at his life’ work.
hello.
in the , three white men who were convicted of chasing and then murdering ahmaud arbery, a black man, in the state of georgia, have been sentenced to life in prison.
travis mcmichael, his father gregory, and their neighbour roddy bryan were convicted of felony murder.
they had chased arbery while he was jogging, before he was shot to death.
their defence had claimed they feared he was planning to commit a crime.
the mcmichaels will spend life in prison without the possibility of parole.
roddy bryan will serve life, but does have the possibility of parole.
here’ georgia superior court judge timothy walmsley, outlining some of the evidence from the trial.
there’ a frame where i believe ahmaud arbery, it looks to be if he’ 20 yards out — that may be close — 30 yards out — it’ the frame of travis mcmichael lifting the shotgun to fire at ahmaud arbery.
and you watch that with context — and when i say ‘context’, after hearing the evidence in this case and thinking about a young man that had been running at that point for almost five minutes — and it is a chilling, truly disturbing scene.
ahmaud’ mother gave her reaction to the sentencing outside the court.
first, i want to say thank you to god, who made this all possible.
yes.
my prayer was to get justice for ahmaud.
he filed for us in the courts, he gave us a fairjudge, judge walmsley, he heard the testimonies from each witness.
he gave us a very good verdict and he gave us a very good sentence.
our north america correspondent, david willis, told us about reaction to the trial in the .
simon, it’ amazing, isn’ it, that this death went largely unreported for two months after it occurred.
it wasn’ until that very harrowing video went viral that oral prosecutors actually started to take some action, and ten weeks after the death of ahmaud arbery before these three men were arrested.
well, today, thejudge described it as a very harrowing and chilling incident and he held a minute’ silence in recognition of the terror that he said ahmaud arbery must’ve endured as he was being chased for five minutes by these three men in pick—up trucks.
he sentenced gregory and travis mcmichael, father and son respectively, to life without the possibility of parole.
the other man, william ‘roddy’ bryan — the man who took the infamous video footage — he was sentenced to life with the possibility of parole, but he will be 82 years old before he gets to enjoy that right, if he lives that long.
yeah, it’ a really tragic case, david.
is there a sense that change is slowly, but is taking place in america, because obviously, we’ve been seeing quite a few of these cases recently — high—profile racial cases like that of george floyd, and now, of course, this one.
is there a sort of sense that maybe the policing system, the judicial system is changing for the better?
it’ an interesting question.
now, ahmaud arbery’ case is different to george floyd — ahmaud arbery was not killed by police officers, he was killed by people who were — who believed they had the right to act as police officers, if you like, as so—called vigilantes and, indeed, his family described the death as a modern—day lynching.
they have since, i might add, expressed their delight at the sentences that have been handed out.
but ahmaud arbery’ death was all part of a sort of national reckoning, as far as racial injustice is concerned in this country, that really came to a head, of course, a few months later, following the death of george floyd at the hands of 3 minneapolis police officer.
yasmin cader, director of the trone center forjustice and equality at the american civil liberties union, gave us her reaction to the trial.
my reaction is that this verdict is significant for many ons.
one of the first is hat we are to remember this iction almost never conviction almost never happened, and so it wasn’ the family and his mmunity organised, mobilised demanded a full investigation that these ividuals were even arrested.
the 0 the significance of this erdict in my mind is very much fact that it almost never ame be.
you have got to be elieved bviously at the erdict after all of that, cause as you say, initial arrest and charge these until this footage emerged?
is right, but i think when you see relief, what that to mind to me is brings to mind to me is just how much more work we have to his verdict, these sentences, they don’ fully ect in any way what the type of stemic change is that need to make sure happens in is country.
yeah, and you hink the sentence therefore out a wider message that obviously needed for a long me, is that maybe a couple of ars ago this sentence may not come about, this verdict not have come about, and there is change albeit too and too slow, but changes happening?
i think the chains this community is seeking much broader than the ntences.
the change this mmunity is seeking is one in ich so many like ahmaud arbery would be alive today.
he never would have been seen as a at simply by gging in threat simply byjogging in this neighbourhood where he lived ten minutes away.
he would be part of an integrated unity even though we are 70 community even though we are 70 years past the brown versus of education decision which said that we shouldn’ be egated anymore in education in other systems.
he would been recognised in life have been recognised in life not just in his death through really etroactive this really retroactive mechanism.
i guess your hope efore is there is real fast significant change now of rse alongside verdict in the orge floyd case in other ases this nature?
yes, and that anges much broader than ese individual cases or these dicts, instead, that verdicts, but instead, that that change is one of systemic ture that are really reimagined all of these systems eeks equity for all.
let’ get some of the day was my other news .
opponents say he doesn’ have authority to impose the rule out going through congress.
they say it will save lives.
ement is not expected for judgement is not expected for several days.
later remains ready to talk to russia but warned the allies impose a heavy price for any further russian aggression.
austria’ chancellor karl nehammer has tested positive for coronavirus.
the 19—year—old, who took over as chancellor a month ago, is in self—isolation, and says he isn’ showing any symptoms.
he’ issued a statement saying "there is no need to worry, i am fine and doing well.
" the president of kazakhstan has ordered his security forces to use lethal force on protesters after days of unrest following a sudden rise in fuel prices.
russian troops have arrived to support his government.
the secretary of state has warned that it may be difficult to get them to leave.
our correspondent, abdujalil abdurasulov, is in kazakhstan’ largest city almaty with the latest.
the army of kazakhstan is standing guard here on the streets of almaty.
after days of violence and many protesters killed, the state’ security forces seem to be back in control, and when we came close to them, the warning not to approach is very clear.
today, the president was clear too — any more unrest will be met with lethal force.
: terrorists continue to damage state and private property and use weapons against civilians.
i have given the order to shoot to kill without warning.
president tokayev portrays the protesters as terrorists who are sowing chaos.
they say that their movement is peaceful and blame the authorities for provoking the violence.
the unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices, but this country’ corrupt authoritarian regime is unpopular.
some of the biggest clashes took place here at the former presidential residence and the mayor’ office.
the buildings were burnt out and you can see here all these cars were also set on fire.
you can hear, again, the shots, but maybe it’ the military and police officers are firing into the air to warn people not to approach the square because they closed the square in order to prevent people from gathering.
many people fear that the violence will drag on.
along with protests, many shops were looted.
this 22—year—old man says that while he supports the demands of the protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"it’ really scary, and we feel we have no protection," this woman says.
this is one of the electronics shops that was looted in almaty, and i think the looters tried to burn this place as well because it still smells of smoke.
this mass unrest is a huge blow for almaty, which is the financial capital of kazakhstan.
it’ not clear yet if the violence is over or how much damage has been done to the authority of kazakhstan’ hardline leader.
abdujalil abdurasulov, news, almaty.
secretary of state anthony blinken has been talking about the deployment of russian troops to kazakhstan as part of the post—soviet collective security treaty organization.
he had this warning for the kazakh regime there are very particular drivers of what is happening in kazakhstan right now, as i said, that go to economic and political matters, and what’ happening there is different from what’ happening on ukraine’ borders.
having said that, i think one lesson of recent history is that once russians are in your house, it’ sometimes very difficult to get them to leave.
one place closely watching events in kazakhstan is belarus.
both countries are members of the russian—led collective security treaty organisation, or , which has sent peacekeeping forces to kazakhstan.
speaking on state , belarussian president alexander kashenko said his forces were not there to kill.
: we would inform the we would like to help akhstan to restore peace.
you cannot kill, not provide.
peaceful people.
we need stop the war and we are ing exactly that.
a short time ago, i spoke to franak viacorka, who’ a senior advisor to sviatla tsikhanouskaya, the exiled belarusian opposition leader.
i asked him what reaction there had been in belarus to troops being sent to kazakhstan.
it is shameful but they should not participate in such rations.
they should stay in ower by all means also what are your thoughts on the in general?
this is the time they have been mobilised history.
what do you personally of that?
it is artificial organisation that never used before, it was reated and this is the very time it is used by one of member states.
is used russia imarily in order to by russia primarily in order to keep the soviet countries under rol, and belarus control, and belarus participation in in my ersonal ion must be personal opinion must be stopped.
the situation with khstan shows we will be kazakhstan shows we will be working closely with belarus sking them not to participate in operations.
it is a fairty serious situation azakhstan.
you don’ think justifies mobilisation of to and calm the allies to and calm the situation?
the situation in khstan, we pass this in kazakhstan, we pass this in 2020, same in kazakhstan, pla for freedom and people ask for freedom and democracy and they were tally cracked down by ictatorships.
russia and hers should not interfere and ould not help them to stay power.
we believe all the sis can be solved with crisis ran be solved with dialogue, a conversation.
all arties in kazakhstan, the the parties in kazakhstan, the regime in the processes and we alling for eaceful are calling for a peaceful resolution.
same as in belarus.
continuing calling for a eaceful olution and we peaceful resolution and we don’ want russian troops come larus to help us and solve our own sis.
he obviously worked very close with the main sition leader in belarus.
opposition leader in belarus.
what other thoughts about all ?
we are very concerned, and at one point they will feel and a new wave of protests will start, and russian troops appear, so we are asking will appear, so we are asking the community to prevent it, this to happen to allow this to happen to belarus.
we sincerely believe rusian ‘ can solve their belarusian ‘ ran solve their own crisis by themselves hout help of russia or any other countries.
just to bring you a small line of news reaching us on the situation in kazakhstan, because the state department have said they have agreed non—emergency staff and their familes currently working at the consulate in almaty can leave if they want to.
this is news.
the headlines: a court in the state of georgia has given life sentences to three white men who murdered the young black man ahmaud arbery while he was outjogging.
the questions kazakhstan’ decision to invite in russian troops to quell unrest — saying it might be difficult to get them to leave.
as coronavirus cases continue to rise across india, new movement restrictions have come into effect for people in the capital delhi over the weekend.
restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed until monday morning.
russell trott reports.
bharat’ shop sells everything for the kitchen and more.
but with fewer customers and takings down, he has been badly hit by the pandemic.
yet, despite india’ capital delhi locking down over the weekend, he remains upbeat.
: the way corona cases are on the rise this lockdown, the weekend curfew is a must.
for the past two years, we have faced losses and we will face the same in the future.
i will be happy when the amount of cases are lower and there is no lockdown.
as the authorities grapple with afresh surge in cases, partly fuelled by the fast—spreading omicron variant, most businesses here are still recovering from last year’ outbreak that overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums.
but daily case numbers had, since then, stayed reasonably low — until last week.
all residents besides essential workers will now be asked to stay home from friday night to monday morning.
this is a big concern, big challenge.
we have seen that over the last eight days, the figure has gone very high — from 10,000 cases to more than one lakh, injust eight days.
so with this period, the number will be much higher in the previous weeks.
more than 200,000 people died across india last spring, after a wave of delta variant infections that brought the healthcare systems to its knees.
india’ a81,000 known covid deaths is the world’ third highest toll behind the and brazil, but under—reporting is widespread and some studies have estimated its actual toll could be up to ten times higher.
the omicron variant is expected to hit hard but with fewer cases expected to need hospital treatment, some experts warn another lockdown and its economic impact is just not worth it.
russell trott, news.
the former president barack obama has led tributes to the actor sir sidney poitier, who’ died at the age of 94.
obama said the star had "opened doors for a generation of actors".
sidney poitier made his name in a series of ground—breaking films which challenged racial stereotypes.
he was the first black man to win an oscar for best actor, and his success paved the way for generations of other black artists.
our correspondent lizo mazimba looks back on the life, of a hollywood icon.
in the heat of the night sidney poitier’ virgil tibbs, a man of authority i’ a police officer.
intelligence and a steely determination never to back down — the kind of qualities that defined poitier on screen and off.
he made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man of status — something almost unheard of for black performers then.
and with roles like an escaped convict in the defiant ones and a struggling husband in a raisin in the sun, he tackled prejudice head on.
maybe i’ll get down on my black knees.
all right, charlie.
all right, great white father.
you just give us that money!
and we won’ come out there and dirty up your white folks’ neighbourhood.
the era, of course, meant he had a burden his white counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight of being a symbol.
but he bore it with dignity.
in lilies of the field, playing a travelling handyman, helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
sing it over.
the winner is sidney poitier.
he won the academy award — the first black performer ever to receive the oscar for a leading role.
in the years that followed, he became hollywood’ biggest star, redefining how audiences saw black characters with films like to sir, with love.
you will call me ‘sir’ or ‘mr thackeray’.
the young ladies will be addressed as ‘miss’, the boys by their surnames.
some of what i am was reflected in those movies.
it was, in a way, i was saying to an audience, "this is who i am.
look at me.
" more controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely successful doctor engaged to a white woman in guess who’ coming to dinner.
i love your daughter.
there is nothing i wouldn’ do to to keep her as happy as she was the day i met her.
some criticised it, saying the impression it gave was of an interracial relationship that was only acceptable because his character was so perfect and accomplished.
hello!
he also directed ‘805 comedy stir crazy — the first movie from an african—american film—maker to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in the united states.
what are you doing?
i’ getting bad!
in his later years, he was awarded the presidential medal of freedom by barack obama, who today said sidney poitier epitomised dignity and grace.
oprah winfrey paid tribute, saying: while denzel washington said: those words two decades after he celebrated him at the academy awards.
a0 years, i’ve been chasing sidney.
they finally give it to me, what do they do?
they give it to him the same night.
i’ll always be following in your footsteps.
there’ nothing i would rather do.
that same night, poitier also received an honorary oscar.
hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail for so many they call me tibbs.
and who entertained millions more.
sidney poitier — one of the greats.
sidney poitier, who’ died at the age of 94.
a letter posted to a man in northern ireland with no surname or address on the envelope, butjust his first name and a 57—word biography, has managed to find its way to the right place.
our ireland correspondent emma vardy has the story.
"feargal, lives across the road from the spar.
"his me and used to own it.
" no house number, no street name, a few things much more personal than that.
the first thing i noticed was the amount of detail on the envelope and basically, my biography.
"moved to waterford after he got married.
" despite nothing more than a short story and half a postcode, yesterday this letter found its way straight to feargal lynn.
i laughed so much.
right through it all, to playing guitar, to, "friends with the fella who owns the butchers in waterford.
" feargal had taken to writing letters to people over lockdown as a way to brighten the gloom, but never expected such a strange reply.
the letter was from an old friend in belfast, who perhaps could have found out his address but thought this way was a little more fun.
we were talking about the pandemic, we were talking about mental health and the need to brighten the mood a bit.
did she actually expect it to reach you?
i think she just took a punt.
"plays guitar and used to run discos in the parochial hall.
" it happened to be that feargal’ local postman was also a childhood friend.
we’ve had some strange addresses over the years, but this is the most bizarre of them all.
the first line, "feargal who lived across from the spar.
" the number of times we played in his front garden as wee boys, i knew right away who it was.
this could give other people ideas, if they don’ know an address.
oh, that would be a nightmare!
and inside the letter, just a cheery hello and a recipe for coleslaw that feargal had been asking about, but it meant much more than that.
there’ so much letters these days that’ meaningless, it’ financial, it’ 3 rates demand and it’ so nice to receive something so personal.
"friends with the fella who runs the butchers "in waterford too.
"btlm, northern ireland.
" so, could letters make a comeback over email in future, as something a lot more enjoyable?
well, we’ll keep you posted!
emma vardy, news.
a volcano perched on top of one of ecuador’ famous galapagos islands has erupted, producing a spectacular lava flow.
the one—mile—high wolf volcano is located on isabela island, home to a rich variety of flora and fauna of the type that helped inspire charles darwin’ theory of evolution following his visit in 1835.
fortunately the eruption poses no threat to wildlife populations, or to humans.
that’ about it for me from now.
you can get more news on bsite.
you can reach me on twitter, i’ @sipusey.
thank you for watching and do stay tuned to news.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching, and the first half of saturday at least will be very wet and windy.
here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front, and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland, but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
better — there still will be some showers around, particularly across northern areas, and in fact, we are expecting later on sunday some damp weather to move into south—western parts of england and maybe wales.
but on the whole, it’ a much better day, much drier and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around the average for the time of the year.
so, here’ the weekend summary again.
you can see that wet weather earlier in the day on saturday, much better by sunday, and thereafter, it is turning milder.
bye— bye.
this is news.
the headlines: in the , three white men who were convicted of chasing and then murdering ahmaud arbery, a black man, in the state of georgia, have been sentenced to life in prison.
the case became a focus of protests by the black lives matter movement.
the have questioned kazakhstan’ decision to seek russian military support to deal with a wave of violent unrest.
russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
dozens of people have been killed during nationwide protests triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
and one of the best known black hollywood actors of the past century, sidney poitier, has died.
he was 94.
poitier was the first black man to be awarded best actor at the academy awards in 1964 and paved the way for a new generation of stars.
coming up in around 10 minutes’ time we’ll have newswatch, but first here’ click.
that is it from us from .
we’ll be back in vegas from year.
not act can see no next year.
not act ran see no or convention centre insight.
a casino.
welcome to 2022 from vegas!
it’ been touch and go but we made it, and there’ plenty of tech here.
yeah, not as much as we were expecting, though, to be honest.
in fact, quite a few big names pulled out quite late in the day due to you—know—what, which does mean that the world’ biggest tech show feels somewhat smaller, doesn’ it?
there are still plenty of gadgets, though.
yep, true.
i’ll be looking at a few for the home in a minute but in the meantime, do you fancy a brew?
i think it’ time for a tea break, don’ you?
you’ve been working hard already, clearly.
very hard, yes!
this is the bru tea maker.
now, you can put in any loose tea or tea bags and then you set it for exactly how long you want that tea to be brewing for, so it’ll hopefully make you your perfect cuppa.
my perfect cuppa is i’ say about 3.
5 minutes.
can you do that?
it’ got quite a handy self—cleaning function in there as well.
with these machines, that’ often the hassle, isn’ it?
0.
set up a 3.
5—minute interlude, please.
yeah, actually.
not a bad cup oftea.
where 7 0!
she’ gone.
that should keep him busy for a bit.
now, these days, we’re having more food deliveries than ever, so could this be a solution?
fresh portal allows you to set it to hot or cold so your delivery should be kept atjust the right temperature.
the finished product will have — lights to sanitise it and a camera to monitor yourfood, but the problem is you do need to cut a big hole in your house to put it in.
and here’ today’ delivery, which is rather unusually some yoguhrt.
one issue with deliveries as they often come with way more packaging than you need.
that i’ll be after later.
but clear drop hopes to overcome the problem of not enough soft plastics being recycled with this, a device that compresses them.
you can either put in there plastic bags like this or any soft packaging.
this isjust a prototype — the finished product will be about two—thirds of this size — but this is what happens.
and this is what the plastic comes out looking like once it’ condensed.
i’ve been told that this is probably the quantity that your average family would come up with over the course of two months and being like this instead of big, puffy bags does make it a lot easier to be ground down at a recycling facility.
need to get to the kitchen.
as it happens, i’ not much of a fan of plain yoghurt, but there is a reason that i’ve got this here.
first of all, let me pour some into the bowl.
this is spoontek, and the company claims that through a mild electric current that runs through it, yourfood should taste better.
now, when i am using it, the food will be covering this silver dot here.
and when i’ eating with it, my finger will naturally cover that silver bit at the back.
so this light will come on to show that it’ definitely working.
to test it, i’ actually going to be blindfolded so that i can’ tell the difference between this, the functioning spoon, and these two that don’.
i’ going to put this on and omar, can you come over and just mix things up a bit so i don’ know what spoon i’ using?
0.
it’ here somewhere, i think.
that tasted exactly the same as it did on the first spoon.
um, strangely, that mouthful maybe sort of tasted a bit better?
but i don’ know.
if i wasn’ really thinking about it, i wouldn’ notice a difference.
it’ not like you feel an electric current or anything.
but i’ going to guess that this is the right spoon.
it is.
0.
i was genuinely not expecting that!
0, well, let’ give it a go again.
i think this is the spoon.
no.
and i really thought it wasn’ the first i’- maybe it was luck, i guess, the first time.
let’ do it again.
not feeling so sure this time.
i’ going to go for this being the spoon.
and it is!
and it could be luck but i don’ know!
it was two out of three.
the difference was so small, i wonder if it would be more substantial with something that tasted a bit stronger but i don’ know!
there’ my really scientific test.
and when it’ time to leave the house, especially if you’re going to be away for a while, then you may be concerned about security.
and here’ something that’ taken things on a level from the old timer switch that makes it look like someone’ in when the lights go on and off.
let me just set it up.
there we go.
simple.
it’ got a sensor in it so it knows if it’ day or night.
done.
home shadows aims to create the illusion that there are people moving around in the room and to me, it did just look like a bit of a glitchy light, which i suppose would indicate someone was in.
but it doesn’ exactly look like this.
welcome to where there is always something you can see.
including this cabinet we can make anything float.
they have put perfumes and watches in here for retail shops, but today they have put my microphone inside.
the founders are magicians — they won’ tell me how it is done.
i am going to need that back.
0, there you go!
it is magic.
this as always, more and more things are getting connected to the internet.
this is a smart tap, i can ask my voice assistant.
alexa, ask for 500 millimetres of water.
there we go.
exactly 500 millilitres, very clever.
if this means the wi—fi goes off, i can’ make a cup of tea?
absolutely not.
you always have tea, the motion control sensor will continue to operate.
this is battle racing, a start—up from colombia which i think was inspired by an italian—japanese plumber.
i can even leave little traps here for the people racing behind me, and then off i go!
this is flying magic cleaner.
the idea is once you have vacuumed your carpet you can suck some more dust out of the air.
there is a few companies here this year doing facial recognition for dogs.
so let’ give it a try.
here’ a dog, you hold that to the camera, and it’ identified asjohn.
and what about this dog, with the pretty hair clip?
is this a different dog or the same dog?
that is alsojohn.
what do alcohol and bitcoin both have in common?
every high is followed by a crash.
i have just met cecilia.
this is a robot bartender.
i put my cup here.
show me your .
she’ asking for my .
obviously i look under 21.
cecilia, i will have a metaverse please.
oh cecilia, you are breaking my heart, you’re shaking my cocktails daily.
0 nice, is that pomegranate?
and this is the perfect gadget for if you have been doing sports or exercise orjust walking around all day.
it is cryosocks, and it will give me instant deep calling on my muscles from this canister here, so ijust give it a press.
0!
oh, it’ very cold.
that was chris, and we haven’ quite finished with weird and wonderful yet.
oh good!
you know that nice feeling you get when a baby nibbles yourfinger?
no.
me neither.
but someone does, so meet amagami ham ham.
yourfinger in its mouth.
that’ strange.
tell us what it is like?
oh, it is squeezing the end of my finger.
you enjoy that while i read the press release.
it’ designed to recreate somewhat pleasing sensation you get when human babies and pet animals softly bite on the fingers.
it uses a special algorithm to randomly select from two dozen nibbling patterns to keep users interested.
are you still interested?
fascinated.
most people like the nibbling sensation but know they need to teach their children or pets to stop it or they’ll bite with full force, eventually.
amagami ham ham frees humankind from the conundrum of whether to pursue or not pursue the forbidden pleasure.
how is that for you?
can i take my finger out?
on that note we will leave it for for this week.
it is good to be back, though, isn’ it.
it is good to be back.
super.
super.
as ever, you can keep up with the team on social media, find us at click.
spencer, are you 0?
thanks for watching, we will see you soon.
hello, and welcome to the first newswatch of 2022, with me, samira ahmed.
why, just after ghislaine maxwell’ conviction, did news interview jeffrey epstein’ former lawyer, who has himself been accused of abuse?
and was it right after that guilty verdict to hear from ghislaine maxwell’ brother, ian, who insists she is innocent?
the trial of ghislaine maxwell on charges of helping the latejeffrey epstein to abuse girls was avidly followed in the media around the world.
so when she was found guilty in a new york court last week, it was, of course, breaking news on the news channel.
a few minutes after the verdict came in, the channel interviewed this man.
the government was very careful who it used as witnesses.
it did use as a witness the woman who accused prince andrew, accused me, accused many other people, because the government didn’ believe she was telling the truth.
in fact, she, virginia giuffre, was mentioned in the trial as somebody who brought young people to epstein for him to abuse.
although this was not made clear on air, alan dershowitz used to be a lawyer forjeffrey epstein, and as he mentioned there, he has, along with epstein, been accused of abuse by virginia giuffre, a charge he denies.
many viewers expressed shock at the interview, with michael mcelfresh contacting us to say: and john moyes added: well, the following day, the acknowledged that those criticisms had a point, putting out this statement.
there has been no further word yet on that, but in the meantime they have been more objections to another interview about this case, and it took place on new year’ eve on radio 4’ today programme, and clips of it were shown during the day on the news channel.
the guest: ghislaine maxwell’ brother ian, who challenged the version of events set out in court by her accusers.
i’ not saying that they are lying — i mean, you know, it may well be that they were victims of jeffrey epstein.
but i do not accept that they were victims of ghislaine.
that’ my position, and that’ also her position.
again, many listeners and viewers were concerned.
kate hahamis wondered: again, the put out a statement in response, but this time defending the broadcast.
it said: it added: we did want to talk to someone at the about those two interviews, but were told they had nothing to add to the statements we’ve heard.
we ran, though, hear more on this now from newswatch viewer sarah churchwell, who is professor of american literature and public understanding of the humanities at london university.
sarah, you saw that interview with alan dershowitz, what was your concern?
i was horrified.
i was really, really outraged.
and it was the phrase, "formidable conflicts" in your description in your description sticks with me from the other viewer.
he has multiple conflicts of interest in this case, and he is himself directly implicated, as he said.
so not only did he not comment impartially on the maxwell verdict, he didn’ comment on the maxwell verdict at all.
he took the opportunity to charge virginia giuffre who has accused him of abuse, and to say that the verdict somehow vindicated him.
so it was, it was problematic on multiple levels because at no point for a audience, or an audience who doesn’ know who alan dershowitz is, and what his very complex relationship with this case is, theyjust took him as the "constitutional lawyer" that he was described as, an impartial, neutral expert, when in fact he is personally implicated in the case, and has been accused of criminal wrongdoing, a very serious criminal wrongdoing.
could he have been a suitable guest if enough context had been given about his connections and his conflicts of interest?
i think he could have been, but it is notjust that he was a guest, it is that he wasn’ challenged, either.
he wasjust given their time put his case out there.
and even when he said "this has cleared me", at no point was that taken up or challenged.
if he had been interviewed where it had been made very clear that he represented epstein, that he acted for him in the nonprosecution agreement in florida that has been so controversial, and then he had been challenged, and he had been, you know, robustly interviewed, then i think that that would have been acceptable.
but the problem was that none of those things happened.
and we should say of course, alan dershowitz, of course, absolutely denies any involvement in abuse.
now the have said they are investigating what went on, you heard that statement.
will that do?
i guess it depends on what the outcome of the investigation is.
my personal concern watching it was that at no point did the presenter say "wait a minute, are you implicated, what is your implication", even if the presenter hadn’ known until that moment, which of course they should have done.
but even if, you know, you get to that point, i would still expect a bbcjournalist to hear somebody say "this verdict has cleared me personally", and then ask some of the obvious follow—up questions.
so for me it will very much matter what the result of the investigation is.
two days later ian maxwell, ghislaine’ brother, was on the today programme defending him.
what did you think of that decision?
well, again, it seemed to me as if there were, it was again, a problematic decision for me.
i think that it felt like preferential treatment, and i understand that they are saying that there was somebody there to challenge ian maxwell’ position, and that the story was actually about their decision to appeal, but i have to agree, again with your viewer, who said that, you know, is this now going to be the standard practice for people who are convicted of child sex trafficking?
because at what point, you know, are we actually saying that the is going to bring on the relatives and the interested parties in a criminal case in order to defend against the verdict that is, you know, lawful verdict that has been made?
do you think the needs to rethink the interviews they do on stories like this?
i do, actually.
i think there was an effort here to create balance, which of course is very, very important for the to do.
but this feels to me like false balance, because what you are actually doing is allowing people who have been convicted of wrongdoing, this is not people who are charged, people who have been convicted of wrongdoing, for their surrogates and proxies to argue about conviction was somehow problematic or overturned — or should be overturned.
at that point, the balance in question is somebody defending a criminal, or arguing that it wasn’ criminal.
that is not balance, that is not a balanced coverage of a criminal verdict in a society that obeys the rule of law.
sarah churchwell, thank you so much.
the difficulties tennis star novak djokovic has faced in trying to enter australia, and the argument that has prompted over covid vaccinations, has been widely covered this week across news.
some viewers considered the airtime it was given to be unwarranted, particularly in comparison with that given to the violence in kazakhstan — although the has pointed out that the latter has featured across its output, including on the main bulletins.
david pearson had this to say about djokovic.
on wednesday, one bulletins brought news of a notable achievement.
here is clive myrie on the news at six.
a british army officer has become all the first woman of colour to complete a solo exhibition to the south pole.
captain preet chandi, who is 32, trekked 700 miles in a0 days, pulling all her equipment on a sledge.
in the report that followed, captain chandi talked about herself as an asian woman and how she wanted to inspire others with similar backgrounds.
nevertheless, viv whitten, among other viewers, was unhappy with the phrase "the first woman of colour" used in that introduction, and recorded this video.
it was inspiring to hear some positive non—covid news about the brave young woman who had recently trekked to the south pole.
but totally unnecessary, and irrelevant, to describe her as a "woman of colour".
we haven’ even noticed her skin colour.
this bias is simply inverse or woke racism which encourages division and undermines our civil society.
last saturday the new channel broadcast live the funeral service for archbishop desmond tutu who died on boxing day.
some of the proceedings, though, were interrupted by studio discussion about the archbishop’ life, and that annoyed viewers such asjenny hempstead.
finally, the name of the next person to run news and current affairs was announced on thursday.
deborah turness faces a big task, as evidenced by these two contrasting messages posted on twitter.
here is paul morris.
jeduimru had a different perspective.
as ever, on newswatch, we will be monitoring how well news satisfies competing constituencies under turness when she takes up post.
in the meantime we’ll be speaking to the outgoing director of news, fran unsworth, in two weeks time.
and do send us any questions or comments you would like us to put to her, or any of your opinions about what you see, read hear on news on , radio, online or social media.
you can email: you can find us on twitter: you can also callus: and do have a look at previous interviews on our website.
that’ all from us, we will be back to hear your thoughts about news coverage again next week.
goodbye.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching, and the first half of saturday at least will be very wet and windy.
now here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front, and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland, but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
better — there still will be some showers around, particularly across northern areas, and in fact, we are expecting later on sunday some damp weather to move into south—western parts of england and maybe wales.
but on the whole, it’ a much better day, much drier and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around the average for the time of the year.
so, here’ the weekend summary again.
you can see that wet weather earlier in the day on saturday, much better by sunday, and thereafter, it is turning milder.
bye— bye.
hello.
this is news.
our top stories.
three white men who murdered ahmaud arbery in the state of georgia are given life sentences — the family said they never lost faith in justice.
i knew that we would come out with a victory.
yes.
i never doubted it.
and i knew that today would come.
the questions kazakhstan’ decision to invite in russian troops to quell unrest, saying it might be difficult to get them to leave.
india locks down the capital delhi to and halt a surge of cases fueled by the omicron variant.
you will call me sir or thackeray.
and sidney poitier, the first black man to win the academy award for best actor, has died, at the age of 94.
we take a look back at his life’ work.
hello and welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
in the , three white men who were convicted of chasing and then murdering ahmaud arbery, a black man, in the state of georgia, have been sentenced to life in prison.
travis mcmichael, his father gregory, and their neighbour, roddy bryan, were convicted of felony murder.
they had chased arbery while he was jogging, before he was shot to death.
their defence had claimed they feared he was planning to commit a crime.
the mcmichaels will spend life in prison without the possibility of parole, but roddy bryan will serve life, but does have the possibility of parole.
here’ georgia superior court judge timothy walmsley outlining some of the evidence from the trial.
there’ a frame where i believe ahmaud arbery, it looks to be if he’ 20 yards out — that may be close — 30 yards out — it’ the frame of travis mcmichael lifting the shotgun to fire at ahmaud arbery.
and you watch that with context — and when i say ‘context’, after hearing the evidence in this case and thinking about a young man that had been running at that point for almost five minutes — and it is a chilling, truly disturbing scene.
ahmaud’ mother gave her reaction to the sentencing outside the court.
first, i want to say thank you to god, who made this all possible.
yes.
my prayer was to get justice for ahmaud.
he fought for us in the courts, he gave us a fairjudge, judge walmsley, he heard the testimonies from each — from each witness, he gave us a very good verdict, and he gave us a very good sentence.
our north america correspondent, david willis, told us about reaction to the trial in the .
simon, it’ amazing, isn’ it, that this death actually went largely unreported for two months after it occurred.
it wasn’ until that very harrowing video went viral that local prosecutors actually started to take some action, and ten weeks after the death of ahmaud arbery before these three men were arrested.
well, today, thejudge described it as a very harrowing and chilling incident and he held a minute’ silence in recognition of the terror that he said ahmaud arbery must’ve endured as he was being chased for five minutes by these three men in pick—up trucks.
he sentenced gregory and travis mcmichael, father and son respectively, to life without the possibility of parole.
the other man, william ‘roddy’ bryan — that’ the man who took the infamous video footage — he was sentenced to life with the possibility of parole, but he will be 82 years old before he gets to enjoy that right, if he lives that long.
yeah, it’ a really tragic case, david.
is there a sense that change is slowly, but is taking place in america, because obviously, we’ve been seeing quite a few of these cases recently — high—profile racial cases like that of george floyd, and now, of course, this one — is there a sort of sense that maybe the policing system, the judicial system is changing for the better?
it’ an interesting question.
now, ahmaud arbery’ case is different to that of george floyd — ahmaud arbery was not killed by police officers, he was killed by people who were — who believed they had the right to act as police officers, if you like, as so—called vigilantes and, indeed, his family described the death as a modern—day lynching.
they have since, i might add, expressed their delight at the sentences that have been handed out.
but ahmaud arbery’ death was all part of a sort of national reckoning, as far as racial injustice is concerned in this country, that really came to a head, of course, a few months later, following the death of george floyd at the hands of 3 minneapolis police officer.
david willis speaking with me earlier.
the president of kazakhstan has ordered his security forces to use lethal force on protestors, after days of unrest following a sudden rise in fuel prices.
russian troops have arrived to support his government.
the secretary of state, has warned that it may be difficult to get them to leave.
our correspondent abdu—jalil abdu—rasulov is in kazakhstan’ largest city, almaty, with the latest.
the army of kazakhstan is standing guard here on the streets of almaty.
after days of violence and many protesters killed, the state’ security forces seem to be back in control, and when we came close to them, the warning not to approach is very clear.
today, the president was clear, too — any more unrest will be met with lethal force.
: terrorists continue to damage state and private property and use weapons against civilians.
i have given the order to shoot to kill without warning.
president tokayev portrays the protesters as terrorists who are sowing chaos.
they say that their movement is peaceful and blame the authorities for provoking the violence.
the unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices, but this country’ corrupt authoritarian regime is unpopular.
some of the biggest clashes took place here at the former presidential residence and the mayor’ office.
the buildings were burnt out and you can see here all these cars were also set on fire.
you can hear, again, the shots, but maybe it’ the military and police officers are firing into the air to warn people not to approach the square because they closed the square in order to prevent people from gathering.
many people fear that the violence will drag on.
along with protests, many shops were looted.
this 22—year—old man says that while he supports the demands of the protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"it’ really scary, and we feel we have no protection," this woman says.
this is one of the electronics shops that was looted in almaty, and i think the looters tried to burn this place as well because it still smells of smoke.
this mass unrest is a huge blow for almaty, which is the financial capital of kazakhstan.
it’ not clear yet if the violence is over or how much damage has been done to the authority of kazakhstan’ hardline leader.
abdujalil abdurasulov, news, almaty.
well, the secretary of state, anthony blinken, has been talking about the deploymernt of russian troops to kazakhstan as part of the the post soviet collective security treaty organization.
he had this warning for the kazakh regime over it’ reliance on moscow.
there are very particular drivers of what’ happening in kazakhstan right now, as i said, that go to economic and political matters, and what’ happening in there is different from what’ happening on ukraine’ borders.
having said that, i think one lesson of recent history is that once russians are in your house, it’ sometimes very difficult to get them to leave.
antony blinken.
one place closely watching events in kazakhstan is belarus.
both countries are members of the russian—led collective security treaty organisation or which has sent peacekeeping forces to kazakhstan.
speaking on state , belarussian president alexander lukashenko said his forces were not there to kill.
: we are not fighting for anyone.
there is only one company of our troops — peacekeepers.
we’ve informed the that we would like to help kazakhstan to restore peace.
we came to kazakhstan not to kill or not to fight.
we are peaceful people.
our servicemen are peaceful people.
we need to stop the fratricidal war and we are doing exactly that.
well, earlier i spoke to eugene chausovsky, an analyst with the new lines institute think tank, about the precedent set by this deployment.
i think from russia’ perspective they couldn’ afford not to act.
having seen these protests get out of hand quite quickly and then paired with what has happened around the region from ukraine to belarus, i think russia made the calculus that it needed to send in its troops, especially once the kazakhstan government officially requested them via the .
and in the short term at least, has the deployment worked, do you think?
it’ hard to say exactly right now because a lot of the communications and internet is cut off, but i think over the past 2a hours or so it does seem like the primary objective of that deployment, which is to basically secure the strategic sites of the country, which includes military bases, government buildings and even airports in the biggest city of almaty, that was the primary reason for russia to go in, so that kazakhstan could basically address the protesters head—on, and it seems to be that they have more or less those sites under control.
we’ll see how that unfold in the coming days but for now it appears to be successful.
we have seen some pretty dramatic pictures of the rioting and some fairly scary reports from our correspondence there of, especially overnight, machine—guns being used and gunfire sounding, do you think things will stabilise now or do you think the protests could get even worse?
like i said, it is very difficult at this point because we are still early on in this crisis, and things are fast moving.
but essentially, the goal of securing those sites like i mentioned has been more or less achieved, and now it is a matter of targeting what the government perceives as the most radical elements.
so i think there will continue to be some demonstrations, but i think the peaceful demonstrations and things that don’ truly threaten the security of the government, those could go on for quite some time, but for the more radical elements, or at least as moscow and kazakhstan call them, that will be the priority at this point.
and we had a warning there from antony blinken — do you think there is reason to worry for 2500 troops, many of them russian, going into the country?
well, the troops are already there.
i think the concern that blinken had voiced — and some others — are worried about, is that these troops, primarily the russian—led troops, will stay there for the long—term.
and here i am not so that will be the case.
the mandate for those troops is to secure those sites.
i don’ think necessarily it is in kazakhstan’ interest to have this prolonged russian presence, because it is quite unpopular for many people.
but as long as the security situation is met, i don’ think necessarily it is going to be a long—term deployment for russia, but they could always go back in.
stay with us on news, still to come, we remember the trail blazing black actor sidney poitier, who challenged hollywood stereotypes.
the japanese people are in mourning following the death of emperor hirohito.
thousands converged on the imperial palace to pay their respects when it was announced he was dead.
good grief!
after half a century of delighting fans around the world, charlie brown and the rest of the gang are calling it quits.
the singer paul simon starts his tour of south africa tomorrow, in spite of protests and violence from some black activist groups.
they say international artists should continue to boycott south africa until majority rule is established.
around the world, people have been paying tribute to the iconic rock star david bowie, who sold 140 million albums in a career that spanned half a century.
his family announced overnight that he died of cancer at the age of 69.
the world’ tallest opens later today.
the burj dubai has easily overtaken its nearest rivals.
this is world news, the latest headlines: a court in the state of georgia has given life sentences to three white men who murdered the young black man ahmaud arbery while he was outjogging.
the questions kazakhstan’ decision to invite in russian troops to quell unrest, saying it might be difficult to get them to leave.
as coronavirus cases continue to rise across india, new movement restrictions have come into effect for people in the capital, delhi over the weekend.
restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed until monday morning.
russell trott reports.
bharat’ shop sells everything for the kitchen and more.
but with fewer customers and takings down, he has been badly hit by the pandemic.
yet, despite india’ capital delhi locking down over the weekend, he remains upbeat.
: the way corona cases are on the rise this lockdown, the weekend curfew is a must.
for the past two years, we have faced losses and we will face the same in the future.
i will be happy when the amount of cases are lower and there is no lockdown.
as the authorities grapple with afresh surge in cases, partly fuelled by the fast—spreading omicron variant, most businesses here are still recovering from last year’ outbreak that overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums.
but daily case numbers had, since then, stayed reasonably low — until last week.
all residents besides essential workers will now be asked to stay home from friday night to monday morning.
this is a big concern, big challenge.
we have seen that over the last eight days, the figure has gone very high — from 10,000 cases to more than one lakh, injust eight days.
so with this period, the number will be much higher in the previous weeks.
more than 200,000 people died across india last spring, after a wave of delta variant infections that brought the healthcare systems to its knees.
india’ a81,000 known covid deaths is the world’ third highest toll behind the and brazil, but under—reporting is widespread and some studies have estimated its actual toll could be up to ten times higher.
the omicron variant is expected to hit hard but with fewer cases expected to need hospital treatment, some experts warn another lockdown and its economic impact is just not worth it.
russell trott, news.
let’ get some of the day’ other news: nato’ secretary—general, jens stoltenberg, says russia is continuing its military build—up near ukraine, posing a real risk of a new armed conflict in europe.
stoltenberg repeated that remains ready to talk to russia, but warned the allies would impose a heavy price for any further russian aggression.
india has imposed a lockdown in delhi this weekend, to to slow the spread of coronavirus.
restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed until monday morning, with people only allowed to leave their homes for essential trips.
austria’ chancellor karl nehammer has tested positive for coronavirus.
the 19—year—old, who took over as chancellor a month ago, is in self—isolation, and says he isn’ showing any symptoms.
he’ issued a statement saying "there is no need to worry, i am fine and doing well.
" the supreme court has begun hearing arguments about the lity of president biden’ accinate or test ndate for large businesses.
opponents say esn’ have the authority he doesn’ have the authority to oppose the rule without to oppose the ; without going to oppose the rule without going through congress.
backers say it will save lives.
a judgement is not expected eral days.
presidentjoe biden, and first ladyjill biden have been visiting fire—damaged areas in colorado.
they toured a residential neighbourhood in lousiville which had been largely destroyed by flames at the end of last year.
the fire was driven by heavy winds on thursday 30 december.
nearly 1,000 homes were lost and thousands of acres were scorched in a matter of hours.
nearly 10,000 people were forced to leave their homes.
biden said it should serve as a warning.
the situation is a blinking code red for our nation.
ause the combination of extreme drought, the driest from june to december recorded, abba recorded, sually high winds, no snow on the ground to start, created derbox.
a literal inderbox.
and even though it your backyard, you was not your backyard, you could feel the ripple effects at happened.
the former president, barack obama, has led tributes to the actor sir sidney poitier, who’ died at the age of 94.
obama said the star had "opened doors for a generation of actors.
" sidney poitier made his name in a series of ground—breaking films which challenged racial stereotypes.
he was the first black man to win an oscar for best actor, and his success paved the way for generations of other black artists.
our correspondent, lizo mazimba looks back on the life, of a hollywood icon.
in the heat of the night sidney poitier’ virgil tibbs, a man of authority i’ a police officer.
intelligence and a steely determination never to back down — the kind of qualities that defined poitier on screen and off.
he made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man of status — something almost unheard of for black performers then.
and with roles like an escaped convict in the defiant ones and a struggling husband in a raisin in the sun, he tackled prejudice head on.
maybe i’ll get down on my black knees.
all right, charlie.
all right, great white father.
you just give us that money!
and we won’ come out there and dirty up your white folks’ neighbourhood.
the era, of course, meant he had a burden his white counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight of being a symbol.
but he bore it with dignity.
in lilies of the field, playing a travelling handyman, helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
sing it over.
the winner is sidney poitier.
he won the academy award — the first black performer ever to receive the oscar for a leading role.
in the years that followed, he became hollywood’ biggest star, redefining how audiences saw black characters with films like to sir, with love.
you will call me ‘sir’ or ‘mr thackeray’.
the young ladies will be addressed as ‘miss’, the boys by their surnames.
some of what i am was reflected in those movies.
it was, in a way, i was saying to an audience, "this is who i am.
"look at me.
" more controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely successful doctor engaged to a white woman in guess who’ coming to dinner.
i love your daughter.
there is nothing i wouldn’ do to to keep her as happy as she was the day i met her.
some criticised it, saying the impression it gave was of an interracial relationship that was only acceptable because his character was so perfect and accomplished.
hello!
he also directed ‘805 comedy stir crazy — the first movie from an african—american film—maker to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in the united states.
what are you doing?
i’ getting bad!
in his later years, he was awarded the presidential medal of freedom by barack obama, who today said sidney poitier epitomised dignity and grace.
oprah winfrey paid tribute, saying: while denzel washington said: those words two decades after he celebrated him at the academy awards.
a0 years, i’ve been chasing sidney.
they finally give it to me.
what do they do?
they give it to him the same night.
i’ll always be following in your footsteps.
there’ nothing i would rather do.
that same night, poitier also received an honorary oscar.
hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail for so many they call me tibbs.
and who entertained millions more.
sidney poitier — one of the greats.
cheryl boone isaacs is the founding director of the sidney poitier new american film school at arizona state university and former president of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences, best known for organising the oscars.
here’ how she remembers him.
if: he was a major beacon of light that came on the scene and on creen many decades ago, the screen many decades ago, and through his life’ work, her in front of the camera whether in front of the camera behind the camera, he hasn’ major impact on the had a major impact on the created world.
and especially he black community and for the black community and black storytellers.
it is such nour for to be able an honour for me to be able to be part of his legacy that we going arry into the are going to carry into the future.
he was a great man, at philosopher, a great philosopher, a philanthropic ideas and nues, civil rights activist, like i said, a tremendous force in the creative world.
i know we have pictures of you sydney protea —— sidney with sydney protea -- sidney poitier.
give us some of your urite memories of him?
even ysirallv.
favourite memories of him?
even physically, in person, he was namic, you know, the energy just wafted off of .
and he would see me, ertainly with others as well, when he would see me, he would cluster his hands ether and grinning from ear ear.
it would always lift “- , no matter how good you ight be feeling for the day.
people remember him as an actor but he was an activist, a ctor, he had his own director, he had his own production company.
there was a more to him than much more to him thanjust acting.
absolutely.
and it is that legacy that we are going to forward and make re that that legacy stays alive.
that we impart all he greatness of sidney poitier ture storytellers.
how do think his legacy is left?
bviously any actors and obviously so many actors and actresses stand on his ulders now?
that is exactly ght.
he paved the way for any, filmmakers, as well as pla like myself, this people like myself, this influence was massive, just ive.
and not least with denzel washington, who was a actor now, but he huge actor now, but he obviously paid tribute to him hose years ago?
all those years ago?
absolutely.
we always think of of them, the night of the two of them, the night of the oscars, when denzel hington one and —— won his doctor for actor, halle berry won the best ress, and sidney poitier eceived his historic honorary , that was a major, major ening, and it filled my heart i cried my eyes out.
it was cial.
a volcano perched on top of one of ecuador’ famous galapagos islands has erupted, producing a spectacular lava flow.
the one—mile—high wolf volcano is located on isabela island, home to a rich variety of flora and fauna of the type that helped inspire charles darwin’ theory of evolution following his visit in 1835.
fortunately the eruption poses no threat to wildlife populations, or to humans.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching, and the first half of saturday at least will be very wet and windy.
now here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front, and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland, but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
better — there still will be some showers around, particularly across northern areas, and in fact, we are expecting later on sunday some damp weather to move into south—western parts of england and maybe wales.
but on the whole, it’ a much better day, much drier and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around the average for the time of the year.
so, here’ the weekend summary again.
you can see that wet weather earlier in the day on saturday, much better by sunday, and thereafter, it is turning milder.
bye— bye.
this is news.
the headlines: in the , three white men who were convicted of chasing and then murdering ahmaud arbery, a black man, in the state of georgia, have been sentenced to life in prison.
the case became a focus of protests by the black lives matter movement.
the have questioned kazakhstan’ decision to seek russian military support to deal with a wave of violent unrest.
russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
dozens of people have been killed during nationwide protests triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
one of the best known black hollywood actors of the past century, sidney poitier, has died.
he was 94.
poitier was the first black man to be awarded best actor at the academy awards in 1964 and paved the way for a new generation of stars.
now on news, it’ our documentary cold case: the tunbridge wells murders.
and a warning that viewers may find some of the details distressing.
this is the story of two young women.
people were thinking is a serial killer.
their murders in a quiet town in the 5.
there was quite a lot of 19805.
there was quite a lot of blood around wendy’ had come und he bedding.
it became parent that caroline hadn’ just simply just disappeared.
an extraordinary investigation brought the killer to justice.
in 2019, we had a akthrough.
bingo.
it looks he’ got some hard drives in there, i would say.
an investigation which uncovered arkest secrets.
looking at is - excuse me.
oh man who cked his ictims from among the dead.
every single one of that same wish for us has that same wish for someone we have lost, and that at they rest in peace.
ack in the 19805, you’re very if you saw the inside of police car.
walking various the town centre.
in point beats the town centre.
in point and -- endpoint and remembers vents 1987 in tunbridge ells, his home beat.
it was ill a fairly affluent town.
it had as of poverty, but it had 3 areas of poverty, but there was, i suggest, some glory.
cause there were faded glory.
because there were no longer be houses anymore, had been split up into ﬂats they had been split up into flats or bedsits.
it was home two young just to two young women just starting out in life.
wendy was 25, working in the cafe of the department store i was the supervisor and worked with a lot of ther giris and students from ools locally.
she wanted to married.
she wanted ildren, desperately wanted to children.
but i learned ater that she had got divorced ause i had left the coffee hop by then.
it she had gone to -- he hadn’ gone back to mum and , she struck out to mum and dad, she out on her own, , looking forward to ext phase in her life.
moving to her own ﬂat to which were called on the 23 !
june, ollowing a horrifying covery.
fficers went into he ﬂat and they found wendy on the flat and they found wendy laying on the bed.
she was ed.
she was laying on her ight hand side and a duvet had been placed over her ad been pulled back.
there was a lot of blood around quite a lot of blood around wendrs had, around the ding, wendy’ had, around the bedding, and on the bed sheets.
’clock, radio kent news.
police today issued a appeal for witnesses following a murder of a bridge wells manager, wendy nell, earlier is week.
caroline pierce was 20, a ager at this popular unbridge wells restaurant, the tre of a close set of olleagues and friends.
young ple who worked and socialise gether.
until the 2a november, 1987, when caroline’ hbours heard reams from neighbours heard screams from her ﬂat.
she was ever seen ive again.
it was originally ought that maybe she had isappeared, but as time went course, it became apparent that she hadn’ just disappeared.
you’ve got he second murder, just five months later, of caroline.
it was the talk of the pubs, it the talk of people you was the talk of peopla you bumped into in the street.
they to know what was wanted to know what was happening.
i got no answers as the investigation was to how the investigation was going, all you could to do eassure them.
three weeks was reassure them.
three weeks later, her body was found a0 away the water—filled milas away in the water-filled ditch adjacent to the farmer’ .
she was laying on her side, submerged in the water he only clothing that she on was a pair of tights.
had been found in a flat xpanse of farms and wetlands.
re were lots of officers brought into help with the gertips search around the area.
we were looking for items roline’ personal of caroline’ personal possessions to find any dence that might help us understand what had happened to line.
and who is caroline.
and who is responsible.
people were nking this is a serial killer.
once you had had the murder, people are second murder, peopla are waiting for the third murder.
87, the opportunities to in 1987, the opportunities to gather evidence would have been different to what we can quite different to what we ran do nowadays.
there would have quite a lot of ephesus on what witnesses had seen, what esses had heard.
we had niform offices drafted income doing inquiries, it was uge.
it was wendy’ ﬂat which tains some critical clues.
wendrs hite blouse that she had been wearing, last known to been wearing, that was have been wearing, that was bloodstained.
on the sleeve of that blouse, there was cuffs of that blouse, there was a partial shipment in blood.
was also other found there was also other found on that bed sheet and the duvet .
for caroline’ murder, here ere no forensic leads.
in 1987, there was very mited worker could be done round , for example.
roline’ tights did have a choice the killer.
when choice from the killer.
when the database was introduced 19905, detectives were in the 19905, detectives were hopeful.
it was compared to all people that had held of the peopla that had held on that national database, but was no match.
the first of this month’ reconstructions the story of a tells the story of a 25—year—old woman who lived in a bedsit at tunbridge alone in a bedsit at tunbridge wells in kent.
the team tried for help on the ’ crimewatch programme, which was ature the tunbridge wells had samples from the scene.
we had the offender’ from the .
that had beens that had been kept.
we recovered from cene and they were always the scene and they were always kept for new developments in nsic science.
the months forensic science.
the months turned into years.
a huge der investigation into a old case and for kent police as clear that the lease had out.
out.
we scale down the nquiry but thing that we inquiry but one thing that we have never done is close the iry.
-- caled down.
the inquiry.
-- scaled down.
the old kent police headquarters soon be earmarked for would soon be earmarked for closure but in 2019 the bridge wells case came back tunbridge wells use came back to life.
we had a breakthrough.
veloped the tights that we developed the tights that caroline was wearing when she ound in order to be able to get, for the first time , a sample that we elieved was from the suspect ave killed caroline in 987.
but back then there was hing to compare it with.
the olice were not taking from ple because we didn’ have power, didn’ even though echnology was going to be ere.
profiles are a bit like rar ber plates.
one plate, one car.
there has been ister of plates since 1904.
the database of police profiles only began in profilas only began in 1955, and wendy’ killer wasn’ it.
part of another plate ran tell you where and a a car was registered.
and now part of a profile can ran tell you the mily the sample likely from.
you can likely comes from.
you ran imagine over 65 million people he , ere around 6.
5 million profiles in the database.
through science, ugh algorithms, through lgorithms, through brilliant individuals, they narrower that profile will narrower that profile dental population of around 90 la.
-- they will narrow peopla.
-- they will narrow that profile.
90 people in a iven the that and given the police that and might be related to the bridge wells killer.
etectives visited and estioned them about their amily members.
and one family ber stood out.
that person david fuller.
we knocked on door.
david fuller answered door.
hello.
morning.
avid, it is the police.
would to come to speak to you.
invited us in.
the uniformed ice officers explained to the reason we were attending.
and he was very .
david, if you listen to what i’ going to say yes.
investigating the murders of wendy knell and caroline pierce in 1987.
0?
as part of that investigation, you been picked as a suspect have been picked as a suspect both geographically and ensically.
alright, david, you are der arrest on uspicion of the murders of knell and caroline pierce 1987.
do you understand?
you have to say anything hat may harm your defence mething which you later rely in your defence.
i suspicion the information was vailable to me that he lived area at the time.
i knew some information around his inal history and the method his crime back in the 19705, he as a convicted when he was a convicted burglar.
convicted but never ed.
by 2020, he was an jailed.
by 2020, he was an electrician on his third riage, trying to give the mpression he was normal.
you know any of these women?
no.
he didn’ know their esses, where they lived, there was no reason that his ould be at either of those would be at either of those scenes.
david, did you murder knell?
no.
did you murder aroline pierce?
no.
he would almost a threat to see if you continue along this path i will stop answering your stions.
i guess that is nother element of control he thinks he can control where he thinks he ran control the interview process.
can you scribe thing else about describe anything else about wendrs ﬂat for?
no.
as he wendy’ ﬂat for?
no.
as he faced questions, his small in heathfield east sussex as full of police officers.
re were a lot of things in he house.
i described david lar as a hoarder.
we found that he as a keen photographer found thousands and in fact out 50,000 hardcopy otographs in his collection.
mber of staff and the photograph of david fuller in garden the sun.
the way his garden in the sun.
the way he was lying allowed police to on the distinctive pattern on the soles of his es.
remember hite shoes.
remember the white blouse that we found where had been killed?
on the of one of the sleeves of the blouse was a shoe print in stop that trainer was the blood stop that trainer was the same as left demark on wendy’ lood.
olden nugget piece in blood.
a golden nugget piece of evidence.
then go.
we found in the diary that he visited buster browns, which is caroline pierce was manager.
we also found items the business where wendy worked.
was there to me that he wendy knell or who she was, he knew caroline, and has targeted them for death.
by having that really good current rstanding of his life history we were able to prove he was lying.
take a seat.
we were able to get a sample from him and that was an atch from the offender profile we have found that the of wendy and a match to what we now knew from the forensic link to caroline.
at that point we thought, here, done it.
we now knew david fuller was the offender.
hen we found something but then we found something else.
his identify the victims.
89, david fuller secured a in 1989, david fullar secured a job at the kent and sussex pital.
that friday evening were taking everything up, for go to go to court the following morning.
he was an trician by trade and he was electrician by trade and he was a maintenance man.
there are stuff stuck on the back of that as well.
and then i got a they .
they had found some pictures.
looks like he’ got some hard drugs in there, i would say.
he had access to all of the hospital, carrying essential maintenance work was needed.
but we found he had a particular interest in ortuary.
here is a sandisk hen i ran read there.
but is a drive.
on opening the hard ives, i’ looking at a rtuary and i’ looking at a an sexually abusing what are arly dead people.
and he had dearty dead peopla.
and he had filmed it.
photographed it.
second.
these are his every second.
these are his pictures.
a lot of the time he up the camera and you can ran watch verything that he does.
re is a real similarity etween what he was doing with victims in the mortuary to we’ve seen from the evidence from the scenes of line and also of wendy.
my role in this investigation from the outset is to be the witness to what is happening hese women and children.
no-one lse is going to speak what happened if no—one else is oing to look at that terial, and that had to be .
i have seen some horrible, rible stuff in my career.
that people really shouldn’ say.
and then, looking have to say.
and then, looking at this, .
excuse me.
david, fine.
we can stop if you it is fine.
we ran stop if you want.
no, i’ fine.
it’ it’ just eminder of just it’ just a reminder of just how horrible the world can here.
and it’ utterly, be out there.
and it’ utherty, utherty, utterly ifelt adness, felt anger, elt felt so many ifferent emotions.
ler had killed two women and fullar had killed two women and he had sexually abused the ies of 98 more.
including 100 years old, and three ildren.
part of me is trying nderstand what must be going through his head.
i can onclude that he, that there is an element of control on.
that is all i can going on.
that is all i ran imagine.
control over women in icular.
echoes of another particular.
echoes of another notorious criminal, harold man.
doctor richard shipman.
doctor richard badcock, a forensic chiatrist, advised police out ship, but what is his iew of david fuller?
—— ipman.
he at ork here is very definitely of omasochism.
which, in essence, not being able to with your own issues xcept by manipulating the viour of other people.
a.
although are doing extreme ngs, you don’ feel alive, of the time.
you might feel alive in the moment he offence.
necrophilia, ’ it.
there’ nowhere else after that.
after he had offended and he had recorded, uld take it home, he would take it home, downloaded to his computers, had quite a and he had quite a sophisticated system of files ubfolders, whether material would be placed.
and a little black book where he logged details of his uary victims.
date of mortuary victims.
date of birth, date of death it was a library that he can look like a library that he ran look back over.
it is perhaps the mate of control.
because those poor people, who have got olutely say, there is no absolutely no say, there is no resistance, in any way, shape rm, to hat is going .
or form, to what is going on.
what he was doing, and in such ume, was completely a volume, was completely unprecedented.
we did research, oke to many people in the we spoke to many peopla in the country, even looked at what appening internationally to understand if there ere any other investigations could assist us to see if we could take advice and guidance.
we found nothing.
he was a man with a trusted job in odern, ure hospital.
how a modern, secure hospital.
how did he get away with it.
his gave him the cover, didn’ it, for going into the tuary.
and i think mortuary.
and i think personally, perhaps is rather suming nature enabled him get away with it.
david llar had manipulated himself a a position where he was a intenance supervisor.
he had ipe rard that allowed him to access anywhere in the pital.
he changed his shifts work a later shift rather an a normal day shift.
they at the mortuary ‘ into halves.
bodies that would be into the mortuary would put into fridges and reezers on one side of the rtuary, or covered by .
second part of the mortuary, which is not covered rv, , where david fuller by , where david fullar went and was able to lock self in that area, had no rameras, but from the other of those fridges, he could access to the bodies ndertake the fridges.
there is ment during one of the videos where there is a noise outside the mortuary.
i’ completely sure what it is, his response is to just turn the light off.
and i anticipated, while i am tening, but he is putting body bark or doing the body bark or doing something to hide, and then five minutes later the about five minutes later the light comes back on and still ding there.
just as he was fore.
and he must have been ying that he would be caught praying that he would be taught at that stage?
that would have so much better so many been so much better for so many more people, had he been caught time.
who had he abused?
police had to find out.
searched hospital records they scrutinised david ller’ horrific videos.
ooking for parts of the body, ther it is tags or medical devices, anything that could be , facial imagery, age, uild, absolutely everything would be able to be passed my colleagues so that when they are looking at a list opla, they are able to of peopla, they are able to say, well, it is not that son because of this reason, is not that person because his reason, and we narrow it down to just one person.
identified, liaison ficers were sent to visit the tims’ families.
you know that these families have been a horrific message, and know that is nothing you an say or that is going to ake hat any better or make it away.
so all you can do is be there them and to elp them in any way that you , which exactly what we ran, which is exactly what we do is family liaison officers.
14, the ikande family came in 2014, the ikande family came to the from france for a break.
after they left he ferry, a lorry had a car on motorway.
ikande, her the motorway.
mary ikande, her sister helen and stepfather killed.
and six years ater, their mily was of of dozens visited by the police stigating fuller.
marianne helen, 16 and 22.
their bodies lying on the tuary, had been among fuller’ many abuse victims.
the 80 who police have identified.
soon, 3 public enquiry will examine what more should be to make hospital mortuaries secure places of .
good afternoon.
i want to on behalf of the trust our cked and appalled by am by criminal activity by david ullar in our hospital mortuary has een revealed in court this week.
most importantly, i want to apologise to the ilies of the victims of these terrible crimes.
they so many different were so many different reactions to it.
some people hed hat they’ never heard, wished that therd never heard, they were really angry by the , they felt that they couldn’ fathom the thought a human being could do his, they thought of him as a ster.
some people feel that he erson that was affected by offences was no longer of loved one, in that body.
ther eople have kind of taken nues taken it into stride and just accepted it.
but i think the main reaction has , how can someone do this been, how ran someone do this and get away with this for so ?
it’ just unheard of.
we went to rial because david ller was saying, in his efence, that he had diminished ponsibility.
but he was not sound mind when he killed and caroline.
on the urth day of the trial, he hanged his plea, and he nfessed to murdering wendy caroline.
that was a ssive moment.
after all these 55- rs, suddenly it’ happened.
endy’ mother told the court rder had ruined her life.
fuller’ mes have caused decades of hurt.
i don’ think him as a person.
the pain about him as a person.
the pain that he’ caused these ilies, the torment has caused them, you know, the pair for not only the amilies but also the officers have had to see this who have had to see this material and help these ilies through such an awful ime, is horrendous.
he has mpletely shattered so many ople’ lives because of it.
has betrayed the , he has trayed his colleagues, he has rayed his profession, but we all, every single one of , has that same wish for meone that we have lost.
and is that they rest in eace.
and he has betrayed that , for all of us.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching, and the first half of saturday at least will be very wet and windy.
now here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front, and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland, but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
this is world news, i’ simon pusey.
our top stories: the questions kazakhstan’ decision to invite in russian troops to quell violent unrest in which dozens have been killed.
one lesson of recent history is that once russians are in your house, it’ sometimes very difficult to get them to leave.
three white men who murdered ahmaud arbery in the state of georgia are given life sentences.
the family say they never lost faith in justice.
india locks down the capital, delhi, to and halt a surge of cases fueled by the omicron variant.
and sidney poitier, the first black man to win the academy award for best actor, has died at the age of 94.
we take a look back at his life’ work.
the president of kazakhstan has ordered his security forces to use lethal force on protesters after days of unrest following a sudden rise in fuel prices.
russian troops have arrived to support his government.
the consulate in almaty has auhtorised non—emergency personnel to leave the country.
our correspondent abdujalil abdurasulov is in kazakhstan’ largest city, almaty, with the latest.
the army of kazakhstan is standing guard here on the streets of almaty.
after days of violence and many protesters killed, the state’ security forces seem to be back in control, and when we came close to them, the warning not to approach is very clear.
today the president was clear too — any more unrest will be met with lethal force.
: terrorists continue to damage state and private property and use weapons against civilians.
i have given the order to shoot to kill without warning.
president tokayev portrays the protesters as terrorists who are sowing chaos.
they say that their movement is peaceful and blame the authorities for provoking the violence.
the unrest was triggered by a sharp rise in fuel prices, but this country’ corrupt authoritarian regime is unpopular.
some of the biggest clashes took place here at the former presidential residence and the mayor’ office.
the buildings were burnt out, and you can see here all these cars were also set on fire.
you can hear again the shots, but maybe it’ the military and police officers are firing into the air to warn people not to approach the square because they closed the square in order to prevent people from gathering.
many people fear that the violence will drag on.
along with protests, many shops were looted.
this 22—year—old man says that, while he supports the demands of the protesters, he wants looters to be stopped.
"it’ really scary, and we feel we have no protection," this woman says.
this is one of the electronics shops that was looted in almaty, and i think the looters tried to burn this place as well, because it still smells of smoke.
this mass unrest is a huge blow for almaty, which is the financial capital of kazakhstan.
it’ not clear yet if the violence is over or how much damage has been done to the authority of kazakhstan’ hardline leader.
abdujalil abdurasulov, news, almaty.
secretary of state anthony blinken has been talking about the deployment of russian troops to kazakhstan as part of the the post—soviet collective security treaty organization.
he had this warning for the kazakh regime over its reliance on moscow.
there are very particular drivers of what’ happening in kazakhstan right now, as i said, that go to economic and political matters, and what’ happening in there is different from what’ happening on ukraine’ borders.
having said that, i think one lesson of recent history is that once russians are in your house, it’ sometimes very difficult to get them to leave.
one place closely watching events in kazakhstan is belarus.
both countries are members of the russian—led collective security treaty organization, or , which has sent peacekeeping forces to kazakhstan.
speaking on state , belarusian president alexander lukashenko said his forces were not there to kill.
: we are not fighting for anyone.
there is only one company of our troops — peacekeepers.
we’ve informed the that we would like to help kazakhstan to restore peace.
we came to kazakhstan not to kill or not to fight.
we are peaceful people.
our servicemen are peaceful people.
we need to stop the fratricidal war, and we are doing exactly that.
i’ve been speaking to franak viacorka, who is a senior advisor to sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, the exiled belarusian opposition leader.
i asked him what reaction there had been in belarus to troops being sent to kazakhstan.
it’ shameful.
belarusians should not fight abroad and should not participate in such operations — should not help other dictators to stay in power by all means.
and what are your thoughts on the in general?
because obviously this is the first time they’ve been mobilised in its history.
what do you personally think of that?
is perceived as the artificial organisation that was never used before.
it was created as an anti—nate block, and this is the very first time when it’ used by one of its member states.
is used by russia primarily in order to keep post—soviet countries under control, and belarus’ participation in , in my personal opinion, must be stopped.
this situation with kazakhstan shows that it’ not in the interest of belarus, and we will be working closely with belarusian civil society groups and we will be calling belarusian soldiers to not to participate in operations under brand.
it’ a fairly serious situation in kazakhstan, though, isn’ it?
you don’ think this justifies mobilisation of allies to and calm the situation?
kazakhstan is a deja for belarusians because we passed through this in 2020, when belarusian people uprised against dictatorships.
same in kazakhstan — people ask for freedom, they ask for democracy and they were brutally cracked down by dictatorships.
foreign countries such as russia and others should not interfere and should not help tokayev to stay in power.
we believe all that the crisis can be solved with dialogue, with conversation, with negotiation between all the parties in kazakhstan, the regime and between protesters, and we are calling for the peaceful resolution.
same as in belarus — we are continuing calling for a peaceful resolution to the crisis, and we don’ want russian troops to come to belarus to help us in solving our own crisis.
and you obviously work very closely with sviatlana, the main opposition leader in belarus.
what are her thoughts about all this?
we are very concerned it can be used towards belarus, and at one point, when lukashenko will feel weak and when a new wave of protests will start, he will put in the same weight to help him, and russian troops will appear, so we are asking the international community to prevent it, to now allow this to happen to belarus.
we sincerely believe that belarusians can solve their own crisis by themselves, without help of russia or any other countries.
three white men convicted of the murder of a black man in the state of georgia have been sentenced to life in prison.
ahmaud arbery was outjogging in 2020 when the men chased him in pickup trucks and shot him dead.
the three were only arrested and charged after video footage of the murder went viral.
our north america correspondent david willis has this report.
ahmaud arbery’ death has been rned ahmaud arberrs death has been likened by his family to a ter—day lynching.
three men hunted down the narmed jogger and killed him old blood.
footage of the ncident led to nationwide otests after it emerged that, spite being interviewed at scene, none of the men volved had been arrested ter local officials accepted eir plea of self—defence and med the killing justified.
former police officer gregory mcmichael, his 33—year—old son, travis, and who filmed travis, and the man who filmed ahmaud arbery’ death, william die’ bryan, were ntually ‘roddie’ bryan, were eventually arrested and brought to trial, ound guilty of murder, aggravated assault and false isonment.
they chose to imprisonment.
they chose to target my son because they ’ want him in their community.
these men deserve aximum sentence for their rimes.
ahmaud never said a to them.
he never threatened them.
hejust to be left alone.
what i’ to do i am going to sit silanﬂy or one minute.
to set in context the terror that id ahmaud arbery must have ffered as he was chased hrough a residential ighbourhood for more than minutes, the dge ordered five minutes, the judge ordered a moment’ silence.
before encing all three men to life in prison.
only william die’ bryan will be eligible ‘roddie’ bryan will be eligibla for parole, but not until he is ars of age.
as we stand here in glen county, in front is courthouse, think about the black people who have in the history of erica.
in georgia, who never, got their day in court.
arbery’ death paved the ahmaud arberrs death paved the way to a a period of national koning over the state of racial injustice in this ntry, one which culminated nationwide protests over the of george floyd.
though ese men receive the maximum ence, civil rights sentence, civil rights campaigners believe it will more than that to take more than that to influence attitudes that in ses go back generations.
yasmin cader, director of the trone center forjustice and equality at the american civil liberties union, gave us her reaction to the trial.
my reaction is that this verdict is significant for many reasons.
one of the first ones is that we have to remember this conviction almost never happened, and so it wasn’ until arbery’ family and his community organised, mobilised and demanded a full investigation that these individuals were even arrested.
so the significance of this verdict in my mind is very much the fact that it almost never came to be.
i mean, you’ve got to be relieved, obviously, at the verdict after all of that.
because as you say, initial reluctance to arrest and charge these men, of course, until this footage emerged.
that’ right, but i think that when you say relief, what that brings to mind to me is just how much more work we have to do.
i mean, this verdict, these sentences — they don’ fully reflect in any way what the type of systemic change is that we need to make sure happens in this country.
yeah, and do you think the sentence therefore sends out a wider message that’ obviously needed for a long time — is that maybe a couple of years ago this sentence may not have come about, this verdict may not have come about, and now there is change, albeit too late and too slow, but change is happening?
i think that the change that this community is seeking is much broader than these sentences.
the change that this community is seeking is one in which somebody like arbery would be alive today.
he never would have been seen as a threat simply byjogging in this neighbourhood, where he lived ten minutes away.
he would be part of an integrated community, even though we are 70 years past the brown versus board of education decision, which said that we shouldn’ be segregated anymore in education or in other systems.
he would’ve been recognised in life, notjust in his death through this really retributive mechanism.
i guess your hope, therefore, is that there is real fast and significant change now, of course, alongside verdicts in the george floyd case and other cases of this nature.
yes, and that that change is much broader than these individual cases or these individual verdicts, but instead, that that change is one that’ systemic in nature, that really reimagines all of these systems and really seeks equity for all.
this is news, a reminder of the headlines this hour: the questions kazakhstan’ decision to invite in russian troops to quell unrest, saying it might be difficult to get them to leave.
a court in the state of georgia has given life sentences to three white men who murdered the young black man ahmaud arbery while he was outjogging.
as coronavirus cases continue to rise across india, new movement restrictions have come into effect for people in the capital, delhi, over the weekend.
restaurants, markets and most shops will be closed until monday morning.
russell trott reports.
bharat’ shop sells everything for the kitchen and more.
but with fewer customers and takings down, he has been badly hit by the pandemic.
yet, despite india’ capital delhi locking down over the weekend, he remains upbeat.
: the way corona cases are on the rise this lockdown, the weekend curfew is a must.
for the past two years, we have faced losses and we will face the same in the future.
i will be happy when the amount of cases are lower and there is no lockdown.
as the authorities grapple with afresh surge in cases, partly fuelled by the fast—spreading omicron variant, most businesses here are still recovering from last year’ outbreak that overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums.
but daily case numbers had, since then, stayed reasonably low — until last week.
all residents besides essential workers will now be asked to stay home from friday night to monday morning.
this is a big concern, big challenge.
we have seen that over the last eight days, the figure has gone very high — from 10,000 cases to more than one lakh, injust eight days.
so with this period, the number will be much higher in the previous weeks.
more than 200,000 people died across india last spring, after a wave of delta variant infections that brought the healthcare systems to its knees.
india’ a81,000 known covid deaths is the world’ third highest toll behind the and brazil, but under—reporting is widespread and some studies have estimated its actual toll could be up to ten times higher.
the omicron variant is expected to hit hard but with fewer cases expected to need hospital treatment, some experts warn another lockdown and its economic impact is just not worth it.
russell trott, news.
the supreme court has begun hearing arguments about the legality of president biden’ vaccinate—or—test mandate for large businesses.
opponents say he does not have the authority to impose the rule without going through congress.
backers say it will save lives.
judgement is not expected for several days.
presidentjoe biden and first ladyjill biden have been visiting fire—damaged areas in colorado.
they toured a residential neighbourhood in lousiville which had been largely destroyed by flames at the end of last year.
the fire was driven by heavy winds on thursday 30 december.
nearly 1,000 homes were lost and thousands of acres were scorched in a matter of hours.
nearly 10,000 people were forced to leave their homes.
biden said it should serve as a warning.
the situation is a blinking code red for our nation.
because the combination of extreme drought, the driest period from june to december ever recorded — usually high winds, no snow on the ground to start, created a tinderbox.
a literal tinderbox.
and even though it was not your backyard, you could feel the ripple effects of what happened.
the former president, barack obama, has led tributes i-1 16 people are now known to have died after an explosion troyed a building in hongqing in china’ south—west riday.
hinese media system and other people were rescued, of whom are being treated hospital.
one is reported to in critical condition.
the lding, housed a canteen, was educed to rubble by the blast, reduced to mhhle by the blast, thought to have been caused by leak.
the former president, barack obama, has led tributes to the actor sir sidney poitier who’ died at the age of 94.
obama said the star had "opened doors for a generation of actors".
sidney poitier made his name in a series of ground—breaking films which challenged racial stereotypes.
he was the first black man to win an oscar for best actor, and his success paved the way for generations of other black artists.
our correspondent, lizo mazimba looks back on the life, of a hollywood icon.
in the heat of the night sidney poitier’ virgil tibbs, a man of authority i’ a police officer.
intelligence and a steely determination never to back down — the kind of qualities that defined poitier on screen and off.
he made his cinema debut playing a doctor, a man of status — something almost unheard of for black performers then.
and with roles like an escaped convict in the defiant ones and a struggling husband in a raisin in the sun, he tackled prejudice head on.
maybe i’ll get down on my black knees.
all right, charlie.
all right, great white father.
you just give us that money!
and we won’ come out there and dirty up your white folks’ neighbourhood.
the era, of course, meant he had a burden his white counterparts rarely had to carry — the weight of being a symbol.
but he bore it with dignity.
in lilies of the field, playing a travelling handyman, helping build a group of nuns a new chapel.
sing it over.
the winner is sidney poitier.
he won the academy award — the first black performer ever to receive the oscar for a leading role.
in the years that followed, he became hollywood’ biggest star, redefining how audiences saw black characters with films like to sir, with love.
you will call me ‘sir’ or ‘mr thackeray’.
the young ladies will be addressed as ‘miss’, the boys by their surnames.
some of what i am was reflected in those movies.
it was, in a way, i was saying to an audience, "this is who i am.
"look at me.
" more controversial was his role as a highly gifted, hugely successful doctor engaged to a white woman in guess who’ coming to dinner.
i love your daughter.
there is nothing i wouldn’ do to to keep her as happy as she was the day i met her.
some criticised it, saying the impression it gave was of an interracial relationship that was only acceptable because his character was so perfect and accomplished.
hello!
he also directed ‘805 comedy stir crazy — the first movie from an african—american film—maker to pass the blockbuster $100 million mark in the united states.
what are you doing?
i’ getting bad!
in his later years, he was awarded the presidential medal of freedom by barack obama, who today said sidney poitier epitomised dignity and grace.
oprah winfrey paid tribute, saying: .
while denzel washington said: those words two decades after he celebrated him at the academy awards.
a0 years, i’ve been chasing sidney.
they finally give it to me.
what do they do?
they give it to him the same night.
i’ll always be following in your footsteps.
there’ nothing i would rather do.
that same night, poitier also received an honorary oscar.
hollywood recognition for a star who blazed a trail for so many they call me tibbs.
and who entertained millions more.
sidney poitier — one of the greats.
cheryl boone isaacs is the founding director of the sidney poitier new american film school at arizona state university and former president of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences, best known for organising the oscars.
here’ how she remembers him.
he was a major beacon of light that came on the scene and on the screen many decades ago, and through his life’ work, whether in front of the camera behind the camera, he hasn’ had a major impact on the created world.
and especially for the black community and black storytellers.
it is such an honour for me to be able to be part of his legacy that we are going to carry into the future.
he was a great man, great philosopher, a philanthropic ideas and avenues, civil rights activist, and like i said, a tremendous force in the creative world.
i know we have pictures of you with sidney poitier.
give us some of your favourite memories of him?
even physically, in person, he was so dynamic, you know, the energyjust wafted off of him.
and when he would see me, certainly with others as well, but when he would see me, he would cluster his hands together and grinning from ear to ear.
it would always lift you, no matter how good you might be feeling for the day.
most people remember him as an actor but he was an activist, a director, he had his own production company.
there was a much more to him thanjust acting.
absolutely.
and it is with that legacy that we are going to move forward and make sure that that legacy stays alive.
and that we impart all the greatness of sidney poitier in future storytellers.
how do you think his legacy is left?
obviously so many actors and actresses stand on his shoulders now?
that is exactly right.
he paved the way for many, filmmakers, as well as people like myself, this influence was massive, just massive.
and not least with denzel washington, who was a huge actor now, but he obviously paid tribute to him all those years ago?
absolutely.
we always think of the two of them, the night of the oscars, when denzel won his oscar for best actor, and halle berry won the best actress, and sidney poitier received his historic honorary oscar, that was a major, major evening, and it filled my heart and i cried my eyes out.
it was special.
a volcano perched on top of one of ecuador’ famous galapagos islands has erupted, producing a spectacular lava flow.
the one mile high wolf volcano is located on isabela island, home to a rich variety of flora and fauna of the type that helped inspire charles darwin’ theory of evolution following his visit in 1835.
fortunately the eruption poses no threat to wildlife populations, or to humans.
and you can get details of all of these stories and many more by visiting our website at .
com/news.
you can reach me on twitter.
i’ @sipusey.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching, and the first half of saturday at least will be very wet and windy.
now here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front, and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland, but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers, some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
better — there still will be some showers around, particularly across northern areas, and in fact, we are expecting later on sunday some damp weather to move into south—western parts of england and maybe wales.
but on the whole, it’ a much better day, much drier and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around the average for the time of the year.
so, here’ the weekend summary again.
you can see that wet weather earlier in the day on saturday, much better by sunday, and thereafter, it is turning milder.
bye— bye.
this is news.
the headlines: the have questioned kazakhstan’ decision to seek russian military support to deal with a wave of violent unrest.
russia says its deployment of troops is temporary.
dozens of people have been killed during nationwide protests triggered by a rise in fuel prices.
in the , three white men who were convicted of chasing and then murdering ahmaud arbery, a black man, in the state of georgia have been sentenced to life in prison.
the case became a focus of protests by the black lives matter movement.
one of the best known black hollywood actors of the past century, sidney poitier, has died.
he was 94.
poitier was the first black man to be awarded best actor at the academy awards in 1964 and paved the way for a new generation of stars.
now, many of us remember the drama grange hill for its gritty storylines and very catchy theme tune.
it first aired in 1978, running for 30 years, and now it is going to be turned into film with some of the original characters expected to return as grandparents.
jayne mccubbin has been chatting to some of the original cast members.
there was the theme tune.
born bom bom born, ba—na ba—na nah nah, bam ba—na ba—na—na, bow bow bow there was the gritty realism.
move your arm, fat man.
it was just like a real british show, wasn’ it?
showing, like, kids in their natural habitats, so to speak.
yeah, cheeky and naughty.
what’ he talking about?
it’ not true.
controversial storylines.
did you just say no in school?
idid.
good girl.
just say no!
now, like an unheard—of decent school dinner, there is going to be a second helping.
my name is neil mattocks.
i am a higher level teaching assistant.
i run a podcast about grange hill called sausage on a fork.
the very first episode i remember watching, i was about six years old and there was lads fighting on the telly, and ijust thought, "this is amazing.
"this is like nothing i’ve ever seen.
" i’ alison valentine and i played faye in grange hill — faye lucas.
the biggest thing which caused the biggest stir was my thing — i’ not sure what it was — with my teacher, king.
my name is lee macdonald and i played zammo in grange hill.
so, the transformation from this happy—go—lucky zammo character to stealing off of roland, licking the drugs off the floor in one of the scenes at the end, you know, was horrific.
zammo!
drown, you scum.
the expelled grange hill after a 30—year run in 2008, but open auditions for the next gen grange hill silver screen stars start soon.
my name is celynjones.
i’ the co—writer of grange hill the movie and in a previous life, i also played green in grange hill — the english teacher.
sir phil redmond suggested that it was time to bring back grange hill.
i think bringing back grange hill was sort of like the bat signal, and — that he couldn’ ignore from wayne manor any longer!
by taking the best of the old and mixing with the new, they hope it pulls in the parents for nostalgia and their teens for a new edgy outing.
jayne mccubbin, news.
now on news it’ the travel show, with lucy hedges.
this week on the travel show.
now, if you spent any part of lockdown dancing alone in the kitchen, this show is for you.
now, for many of us, dancing offers a shortcut to happiness and escape.
over the years on the travel show, we’ve picked up some pretty nifty dance moves all over the world — and have failed miserably at others.
so here, for your entertainment and our eternal embarrassment, are our attempts to remain co—ordinated under pressure and in front of a camera.
let’ kick off with my trip to south africa back in 2018, when i tried to keep up with a truly talented group of performers who have made news all over the world thanks to an energetic form of dancing known as pantsula.
they set the bar a little high for me, though.
- .
this is ntsula.
this style of dancing is absolutely incredible.
it’ fast paced, it’ energetic, and it’ technical.
but for young south africans, it’ so much more than this.
it’ a movement that encapsulates storytelling, fashion and social expression.
and just look at those dance moves.
my mind is just blown!
for via vyndal, everything in their act holds a special significance — from their moves to their costumes.
and their clothes are the colours of the national flag.
pantsula, it’ a local culture.
you would never get it anywhere in the suburbs.
whatever we do, we’re telling our stories, background stories, through dance.
from growing up in this poor neighbourhood, the group has gone on to international acclaim.
in 2017, director danny boyle hand—picked them to perform at one of new york’ most prestigious venues — carnegie hall.
we really killed the stage.
it was a peak experience, especially because, to be honest, it was our first time on the plane.
and being in new york, it was something different.
you could tell that we were far away from home.
the background of the dance is closely tied to the history of the nation.
we’re on our way to the biggest township in south africa — soweto.
here, the pantsula has a deeply political message.
soweto has a reputation for activism.
it was home to nelson mandela during apartheid in the years prior to his arrest.
pantsula has its roots in the same era.
it matched contemporary forms with traditional african dance — an act of cultural defiance against the oppressive white government.
talk to me about the kind of social and political messages that you express when you dance.
the first political message is to be seen as black people.
we are powerful, you know.
and the second is we’re trying to tell the world that we’re still free, but we’re still bearing a lot of problems.
we still have to push ourselves.
and we have to push ourselves, like, 10 times harder than any other individual.
and now, the moment of truth.
do i have what it takes to become an honorary member of the troupe?
0, stand here.
0.
it’ going to be, one, two, one, two.
oh, no.
yeah.
so it’ going to be, one, two, one, two.
one, one, two, one, one, two, one.
easy!
0.
slow.
one, two, one, two.
one, one, two, one, one, two, one.
i’ not getting the last bit.
come on, focus up here.
focus on my feet.
i’ not quite there.
one, two, one, two, one, two, one, two, one.
yes!
i’ not good enough tojoin the group.
but thank you for teaching me some moves.
it’ funny, but i get tired watching that again.
what amazing performers.
in the same year, half a world away in norway, christa discovered a similar level of skill and dedication when she went to learn about a traditional form of dance that is still going strong.
watch out for the high kicks in this one.
dance company frikar perform around norway and beyond.
they are inspired by nature and traditional norwegian folk roots.
they have even agreed to show me traditional moves in norway’ halling dance.
the dance is mostly a show—off dance.
many hundred years ago, women also did the dance, but it’ mostly boys or men doing the dance, because we want to impress the other men or other women.
put the right foot in front of the left, sidewards.
believe me, this is harder than it looks.
if you jump a bit on each step, one, two, yes, nice?
i think i’ getting the hang of it.
one, two.
nice!
back in the old days, they use the ceilings to kick down a coin orjust kick their heels.
kick the ceiling?
you know, they were smaller houses back in those days.
in the 18005, the military started with competitions, kicking a hat from a stick, and it was about kicking the highest.
and then it became incorporated in the halling, the folk dance.
i think if i say halling, people say kicking the hat.
it’ like the main goal in the halling.
but it’ more like the dance is the main goal.
kicking the hat is sort of topping it.
that was good kicking!
you’ve got to admit those high kicks were pretty impressive.
christa in norway back in 2018.
now, here is something else to not at home, especially if you value yourjoints.
now, peruvian scissor dancing dates back over 500 years, and some people claim it is the inspiration behind modern breakdancing.
now, with a heritage like that, we just had to send carmen to investigate in 2017.
the origin of the peruvian scissor dance is shrouded in mystery, but many believe the tradition began up in the highlands of the andes as an act of worship to the mountain gods.
in the 15005, the dance was performed to show resistance to spanish rule.
the movements displayed the performers’ dexterity.
and the scissors represented their resistance to pain.
but the conquistadors thought it was inspired by the devil and it was banned.
despite the ban, the tradition survived, and the twisting, turning dance moves were passed down from generation .
now, its importance in peru’ history has been recognised by .
and its backbreaking moves would put many breakdancers to shame.
although the scissors are not sharpened, learning to control them whila dancing and leaping can take years.
hola!
and i’ going to get a lesson to see how it’ done.
so the top ones stay still and the bottom one 0.
it’ all in the thumb, the thumb and the wrist.
first, i’ve got to get to grips with the scissors.
the aim is to hit the handles together in time to the music.
the blunt blades are not connected, so holding them in position is really tricky.
there is no way i’ going to be able to do this and coordinate my feet.
and it’ notjust mastering the scissors.
argh!
this is the one that makes your knees bleed.
does it hurt to do the jumps and land on your back?
does it hurt your head, your knees?
do you have injuries?
is that blood on your trousers?
wow, that’ dedication.
oh, and i’ getting a hat.
gosh — as if it’ not hard enough!
after a few minutes, i’ exhausted.
i can’ even imagine how hard it would be to do these moves up in the andes, where the thin air makes everything so much harder.
these guys are true athletes.
oh, that was hard work!
some of those moves looked truly, truly backbreaking.
just amazing — carmen and the scissor dancers of peru back in 2017.
well, we’ve got plenty more for you, so stay with us because, coming up — henry learns it’ all in the eyes in india and christa leaves the folk music of norway behind to attend a grand ball in vienna.
i only i onlyjust learned to do this today!
in the same way dance can lift your spirits it can also tell a story and perhaps nowhere as intricately as india, which is where henry headed to meet the kathakali dancers of kerala, who not only use their bodies but their faces to tell a story.
to learn more about kathakali, i’ve come here to meet a man whose family have been performing the dance for the past hundred years here in cochin.
devan!
how are you?
good to see you!
thank you very much.
this is your theatre!
amazing.
central to kathakali is the complex ritual make—up, which turns the performers into supernatural beings, gods and demons.
the process of applying the make—up can take many hours and here in cochin, it’ applied directly in front of the audience and forms part of the performance.
there’ a singer who sings the stories the river flowing!
and a drummer, who supports.
the dancer translates the songs through the movement of eyebrows, eyes, eye muscles, lips, fingers, footwork.
and all these stories come from the hindu books, religious books.
originally developed as a way of teaching religious scripture to rural audiences, kathakali is now also a big draw for tourists coming here to kerala.
i am very curious to know how do you tell a story with your eyebrows, your cheeks, your lips and yourfingers — can you teach me?
to start with there, are 2a alphabets in the language, katha kali language.
these alphabets are the position of the hand.
and so how — show me a little segment of how you would use the alphabets to tell the story.
please, come.
and so with the eye movements, what different types of eye movements do you have?
rolling the eyes is getting excited.
ah.
team those moves with some fancy footwork and you have a performance — in theory, at least.
that is very good.
very impressive!
traditionally, a classic kathakali performance can go on for many hours, sometimes a whole night.
but some modern audiences have shorter attention spans, so the art form has had to adapt.
you lost me!
you know, the original one, it goes throughout a night.
you know, everything is in detail, everything is intricate.
you know, and nowadays we are condensing it for a 1.
5, 2—hour program.
so in a way, we do lose our originality.
what is done for hours and throughout a night, that is not being shown now.
it represents the fire god!
but whether the performance is a marathon length all—nighter or something more contained, the highlight of the show is always the appearance on stage of pacha, wearing his traditional green make—up and using steps originally choreographed hundreds of years ago to captivate audiences of today.
well, we’re almost at the end of this week’ programme, but we have just got time for one more dance—off.
so let’ take a trip all the way back to 2015, long before social distancing had ever been heard of, and when the bigger the party, the better it was.
let’ hope we can all return to those times before too long.
in the meantime, here’ christa trying to master a classic waltz in the run—up to a spectacular ball in vienna.
it’ just after dawn, but the town hall is already buzzing.
preparations are under way for a grand dance event — part of the ball season that takes over vienna each winter.
every year, over a50 grand balls take place, and thousands of people descend on the city to get all dressed up and dance the night away.
these preparations are for the blumenball, or flower ball, an event for 3000 guests.
a team of 250 people have spent a week getting everything ready and today, they are busy decorating the hall with 80,000 flowers.
: 200 years ago, common people were allowed to dance for the first time.
before that, it was a privilege of the nobility alone.
the viennese people were enthralled, and that popularity continues to this day.
over 300,000 people attend the city’ balls each season but no two events are the same.
they can be anything from grand affairs in the city’ imperial palace with formal dress and classical music, to modern dance parties where anything goes.
this season of events also represents big business for the city, boosting the viennese economy by around 200 million euros each year.
this is perhaps not surprising when the most sought—after events can cost you up to 250 euros just to get the door.
—— just to get through the door.
well, if you are going to attend one of these grand balls, you can’tjust turn up injeans.
you have to look the part.
well, i’ve got a fancy frock and a lovely hairdo.
the only thing left is to polish up my dance skills before the ball.
matthias urrisk is in charge of directing the formal opening dance at the ball tonight, which will include a grand waltz.
and for you, the first step is making a backward step.
0.
the viennese waltz is a very famous, popular dance.
you make two steps in place, two, three.
it is our traditional dance, even our unofficial national song, the blue danube is a waltz, so it’ — we are proud of it.
one, two, three left, two, three .
outside, dusk is falling over the city, and soon after, the guests of the blumenball begin to arrive.
the ball opens with a formal performance, then suddenly, the floor is crowded with dancing couples old and young, who seem to seriously know their stuff.
it’ so nice!
it makes you want to take up dance lessons.
the other ball guests seem equally taken with the romance of the event.
i love to go to balls.
i like to dress like a princess and to dance like a princess.
it’ a journey into another world for me.
eventually, it’ time to stop being a wallﬂower and put my dance training into action.
my terrible dancing!
no, no!
i onlyjust learned how to do it today!
christa doing a pretty convincing waltz there, it has to be said.
now i do hope you have enjoyed this look back with me and we have managed to give you some travel inspiration, and maybe even a few moves for when we can all hit the road again.
let’ hope it’ not too long to wait until then.
in the meantime, make sure you catch us next week if you can, when there is another chance to catch up with family from rica.
they decided to go on road for the first time ith their two autistic little .
they had a lot of fun at the heme parks and the theme were built for them.
they elcomed them with open arms let them enjoy themselves.
til then, though, from me and eryone else here on the show, for watching and oodbye.
hello.
well, earlier, the skies were clear and we had a touch of frost, even some icy patches in places after the recent wintry weather.
but now, a weather front is approaching and the first half of saturday, at least, will be very wet and windy.
now, here’ the low pressure that’ sweeping into the , here’ the weather front and this is rain—bearing cloud, so if the rain hasn’ reached you already, it will do very soon.
ahead of this weather front, there’ some temporary snow falling across the highlands of scotland but for many of us, it really is rain.
and the rain will be heavy, it’ll bring also very blustery weather by the end of the night to many western parts of the .
and look at the temperatures — eight degrees in belfast, double figures in the south—west, just around freezing or above across eastern parts of the country.
so here’ that low pressure around early saturday.
within it, we’ve got milder air.
you can see the milder winds coming in from the south.
behind the cold front, yes, there’ colder weather, but not as cold compared to what we’ve been having in the last few days.
so, here’ that wet and windy weather for the first half of saturday.
later, notice that the skies clear.
there will be frequent blustery showers — some will again be wintry, particularly across the highlands, but for many of us, it is rain.
it will feel chilly in the wind, but notice that rain really dragging its heels around east anglia and the south—east.
it may not clear the south—east until after dark, so here, it really will be an unpleasant day.
come the evening, i think saturday night into sunday, things will start to out.
here’ the good news — saturday night into sunday, the weather will calm down, which means that on sunday, it will be a much better day.
better — there still will be some showers around, particularly across northern areas, and in fact, we are expecting later on sunday some damp weather to move into south—western parts of england and maybe wales.
but on the whole, it’ a much better day, much drier and brighter for many of us, with temperatures around the average for the time of the year.
so, here’ the weekend summary again.
you can see that wet weather earlier in the day on saturday, much better by sunday, and thereafter, it is turning milder.
bye— bye.
good morning welcome to breakfast with nina warhurst and jon kay.
our headlines today: hundreds of thousands of flat owners will not have to pay to replace unsafe cladding under new government plans.
a fourth covid jab is not needed yet — experts say booster doses keep giving high protection against severe illness from the omicron variant.
three white men begin life sentences in the for murdering ahmaud arbery, a blackjogger who ran through their neighbourhood.
it’ looking like mission impossible for england in the fourth ashes test.
and once again in sydney it’ australia’ usman khawaja, whose second century of this test is pushing the hosts towards another win.
it may be a wet and windy start to the weekend for many, but as we go the afternoon across many estern areas we should see a bit sunshine at times.
it’ saturday, the 8th of january.
our top story: up to 500,000 flat owners across the will no longer be liable for the cost of replacing dangerous cladding on their properties, under new government proposals.
the plans, set to be announced by the housing secretary michael gove, would instead see developers forced to pay up to an additional $4 billion to help resolve the crisis, which has left many unable to sell their homes.
our policy editor lewis goodall has more.
it’ estimated that more than half a million people are caught up in ain’ fire safety crisis.
and we an xclusively reveal the overnment’ latest plans to deal it.
up until now, the government’ approach breakdown as follows.
erous cutting removal would be paid for by the building safety only for buildings of 18.
5 etres in height.
everything else be covered either by developers paying or by a loan me for leaseholders.
but we understand that michael gove, the ling up secretary, will make a ommitment on monday that up to £4 lion of extra funding will be vailable to remove dangerous dding and buildings between 11 18 one half metres, and that seholders will not have to pay ything towards that cost, a nificant shift.
but gove also clear that money will come from lopers, not from the taxpayer, if developers won’ pay ntarily, he will threaten the force of law to make sure that they ly.
but this change will cover cladding only, not the host of other ing safety issues found in building safety issues found in thousands of building since fell,.
well, they won’ choose to they will have to be dragged to the table to offer something up.
and ect it relies on showing, eather it is by sampling the dings and showing that these buildings were not built to spec, use fire breaks and omplementation have always been uired by regulations, if they are there, but as a product of conscious choice, or it is a product ligence, for which the of negligence, for which the developer is responsible.
50 michael eds a big stick to beat them with along those sorts of lines, but is is quite clearly evidence no, this is quite dearty evidence that this is your choice and your onsibility to pay.
and if the evelling up secretary is successful, lease documents from treasury seen by newsnight show hat if the government cannot raise oney developers, it will have to come from existing housing ts, hardly ideal at a time of a ider housing shortage.
that was lewis goodall reporting, and we’ll get more on that from him just after 8:303 this morning.
the independent panel of experts that advises the government on vaccines says that a second covid booster, orfourth shot, is not needed for the time being.
new data from the health security agency shows that three months after a boosterjab, protection against severe illness remains high in older adults.
simonjones reports.
the booster campaign is delivering results.
do you have any allergies thing that you are aware of?
to anything that you are aware of?
and who are fit and well today?
’ according to the joint mmittee on vaccination and unisation, which says there is no ediate need for a second booster for care home residents and the ver 18 ‘.
dose is very over 18 ‘.
the first dose is very important and give so much tection, but at this point in me, so right now, at the start of year, we don’ need to rush nto the new year, we don’ need to into giving anybody a second booster ight now.
we might need to do ter on in