and it will become lighter —
and we should start seeing increasing amounts of sunshine
further north and west.
So, temperatures a little bit better for Belfast, there.
For Edinburgh, 20, 21 degrees — 23 or 2A in the south—east.
Now, this weather front gets squeezed out, you will notice,
because high pressure starts to build in across the near continent
as we move into Thursday, and that will settle things down.
There may be a little bit of cloud left on it from that weather front,
maybe an odd shower,
but it looks like it will turn increasingly dry and bright
through the day as that area of high pressure starts to build in.
Much of the country, in fact, is looking dry
at this stage on Thursday,
and you will notice we start to tap into some warmer air
from the near continent, the high 20s Celsius, perhaps, in the south—east.
As we move to the end of the week, this area of high pressure
really establishes itself over the near continent.
Low pressure to the west
means we will start to draw up very warm southerly winds.
So, a bit of a repeat performance to howJuly ended,
tapping into the hot air over the near continent.
So, it does look like things are set to warm up by the end of next week.
It will start rather cool and fresh,
low pressure will bring rain at times,
especially in northern and western areas,
then we will start to draw up that warm southerly wind.
It could even get quite hot in the south—east.
PADDY MCGUINNESS: It’s time to relive the ultimate game show.
FREDDIE FLINTOFF: Total Wipeout is once again
splashing on to your screens,
as Paddy and I take a look back at some classic episodes.
Correct, Fred.
We’ll be scrutinising every single flip, ﬂop and fall along the way.
Argh!
Is he, as some people are saying, just trying to put
a brave face on the fact that he’s probably going to lose
and trying to come up with an explaination before
the fact, or is it something darker, is he trying to provoke
people, conspiracies on the right, into disorder,
which might provide a more intense disruption of voting?
Eunice, can you talk a bit about the front runner?
Joe Biden is still fairly quiet, but his choice
of running mate is going to make a splash —
what factors will he be weighing up?
Well, the advisers ofJoe Biden are very concerned that having
someone who will be a loyal vice president.
There is over ten potential candidates, but I think
there are three main candidates.
There is Kamala Harris, Susan Rice and Elizabeth
Warren, I think they are the three leading contenders.
In the debates about what do they bring to the table,
what are the important things forJoe Biden?
Is it experience in foreign policy, the ability to come up
with actions on Russia and China, the ability to also
help manage the pandemic?
Is it loyalty, is it widening the electoral base
ofJoe Biden, because he’s doing very well with floating
voters, although the typical centrist, Democratic voter,
and perhaps less well with younger and female voters,
also African—American voters.
So I think he’s going to ponder around these kinds of issues.
And I also think he is very worried with having somebody
with he gets along well.
He had a very good working experience with President Obama
when he was his vice president, and I think he would
like to see replicated the same type of experience.
One interesting thing is, there’s been in the last days,
quite a big campaign amongst his donors against
Kamala Harris
on the grounds that she’s not sufficiently loyal,
which is a bit of a strange accusation made to a politician
when they were all of them competing to be the Democratic
candidate to be the president, to run for the presidency.
So we’ll see.
I think we’ll know in the next few days, but I think
if he is going to value above all experience in foreign
policy and the ability to widen his electoral base
and, of course, someone with whom he gets along well.
Henry, presumably President Trump watching closely,
because there is one thing to say SleepyJoe and painting
Joe Biden as a do—nothing grandpa, but it’s hard
at the same time to present him as extremist.
But if the choice of running mate is a progressive,
that becomes easier?
That’s right.
Right now, everyone’s hanging on this choice,
which I think will probably be a woman of colour,
because at the moment we’re living through,
certainly in the US, with the Black Lives Matter
movement, but also Biden’s own commitment to civil rights
and the advancements of black Americans.
But it’s still three months to go, anything can happen
between now and then.
Biden has been relatively silent, broadcasting
from his basement in Delaware because of the coronavirus
crisis.
We can forget he has also been prone to gaffes in the past,
with the African—American man he accused of being not black
enough if he didn’t support him.
Anything can happen out of Biden’s mouth and we need
to be prepared for that.
Trump could also pull off what we call an October
surprise, even a military intervention somewhere.
The conflict with China, the confrontation with China,
is certainly ramping up.
So I wouldn’t discount anything happening between
now and November.
And a wild card really is the coronavirus.
If a vaccine were to be found effective between now and then,
that could also just throw the race into completely
new territory with President Trump claiming victory on that.
We hear you, we’ll be watching closely.
Britain’s spies have a new C — that is, a new chief
of the secret intelligence service MI6.
The role made famous in the James Bond series goes
to Richard Moore — Libyan—born, Turkish—speaking,
with interests including porcelain and cricket.
We don’t know whether he prefers his martini shaken
or stirred, but we do know we live in dangerous times.
Mark, what does it take to run an intelligence service?
I think they’ve got the perfect candidate, given the workings
of the Whitehall machine at this particular moment.
He had a career as an MI6 officer running agents,
effectively.
Is that normal, for someone to become an intelligence
officer and then become an ambassador?
It’s unusual, actually, but I have to say,
when you talk to people in the service, they now say
that a period outside, most recently as political
director of the Foreign Office, is very much a desired
characteristic of someone who’s got to run that service.
They want people to be known around Whitehall and in that
position, he clearly was, in Downing Street and all
the other key customers, as they see it, for secret
intelligence, they want somebody who flits easily,
who is not too ingrained in the culture of secrecy
and tradecraft and will step blinking onto the stage
of being a chief of the service, perhaps
ill—equipped to take on all the demands.
In terms of his experience and portfolio, there’s no
doubt, when we look at what’s happened in the last couple
of months in the UK, that reshaping of intelligence
around the Chinese target is going to be critical.
Russia, of course, we heard last week about the Russia
reports in the sense that perhaps the intelligence
services had been complacent, that was the accusation
from the Intelligence and Security Committee at
Parliament.
And lastly, I think he’s bound to bring a focus
on the Mediterranean region.
He is steeped in Turkey as a culture, he speaks Turkish
extremely well, he tweets in Turkish as well as English,
and he was ambassador there.
He will be looking to see how far President Erdogan’s recent
assertiveness might threaten the peace of the region.
Henry, I want to take up the China point with you,
making China the target is all very well, but it is very
difficult to get any information out of Xi Jinping’s
China, or is it easier for some people?
Certainly China has its own allies.
In terms of Pakistan or North Korea, we’re talking
about states with whom China has a very close relationship,
there is intelligence sharing going on all the time
between those three.
There was a period directly after the 9/11 attacks
where the US and China seemed to be in a betterfooting
when it came to intelligence sharing, the overall
relationship was better, and that is what we have
to remember, that intelligence cooperation is always
going to be dictated by the overall state
of diplomatic relations between states.
Right now, as we see the US become increasingly
confrontation with China and vice versa, also Britain
is becoming more and more assertive against China.
The idea that they would actually be sharing
intelligence, I think, is beginning to recede
further and further.
Every state will share the intelligence that suits
them, that will further their aims, China is no different.
When it comes to matters of Islamic terrorism,
which they tried to paint the Uighers with in Xinjiang,
who are Turkic—speaking people, so people who the new MI6
director might have more of an insight, that is a place
where they might find common ground.
But I think, increasingly between the West and China,
it is becoming a more and more fraught relationship.
Eunice, give us a European’s take on this — it is one thing
to gather intelligence on societies like China
or Russia, but obviously, for Chinese and Russian agents
inside open societies, whether the UK, Europe
or North America, these are much more porous and open
places to gather information, surely?
Europe has hardened its stance on China and Russia just this
week, the US issued sanctions against Russia and China
and North Korea on cybercrime charges and other activities.
And we’ve also seen the hardening of stances
towards China since at least last year.
The European Commission, in its strategic review,
defined China as a strategic rival.
So there is a recognition that China is a very important
economic partner for Europe but there is a great deal
of awareness of the security challenges that it poses.
And many European countries, France in particular,
are getting increasingly impatient and angry
with Chinese interference and Chinese activities in terms
of cyber crime, data collection and so on.
So we see a change of attitude.
Now, the way that Europe will deal with China will not
be the confrontational manner of the United States,
because I think all the economic stakes
that are involved.
But we’ve seen that hardening of positions.
Eunice, Henry, Mark, we have to leave it there,
it has been a fascinating half hour, thanks to
you for watching.
Hello.
We’ll keep a fresher feel to our
weather for part two of the weekend.
And today, it looks like there will still be
some showers around.
They’ll be well—scattered across the southern half
of the UK, but because we have the remnants
of this weather front in the north —
it’s given some fairly heavier bursts of rain
through the night — it will take a while for
that cloud to break up.
And once it does, the moisture is there to trigger some
heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
As I say, few and far between further south.
And here, we’ll see some of the higher temperatures.
Again, for Northern Ireland, after some sunny spells
through the morning, we’ll see the showers tending
to become more frequent here.
So, 17 to 24.
It’s a little bit below Saturday, only because it’ll
be a cooler start.
I think it’ll feel pleasant enough
if you’re in the sunshine.
The clear skies through the night
as the showers tend to ease away,
but some rain does creep close to the south coast.
More likely a feature for the Channel Islands.
A fresh night once again.
And just a few sharp showers dotted around on Monday
as well, but the potential for more
persistent rain on Tuesday.
Welcome to BBC News, I’m Lewis Vaughanjones.
Our top stories:
TikTok says it is there for the long run after
President Trump says he will ban the Chinese—owned
video sharing app in the US.
South Africa records more than 500,000 virus infections.
That is the fifth—highest in the world.
Across Europe, several governments express concern
about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
And Pierre—Emerick Aubameyang scores twice as Arsenal beat
Chelsea to win the FA Cup.
The US general manager of TikTok has said
the Chinese—owned video—sharing app is here for the long run,
after President Donald Trump said he would ban it in the US.
Vanessa Pappas told TikTok users in a video statement
that its staff were building the safest app, amid US
concerns about data protection.
TikTok is mostly used to share short videos,
usually about 15 seconds long, and it has grown rapidly
in the last year, now boasting more than 800 million active
monthly users worldwide.
But it is owned by a Chinese company, ByteDance,
and it is this last fact that concerns the US security
forces.
There is in fact a precedent for this US announcement.
India has already blocked the app, and Australia is also
considering a ban.
Here is our technology reporter Chris Fox.
Well, the app has been decompiled by security
researchers.
They’ve looked deep into it, and as yet, they haven’t found
a smoking gun.
There’s nothing obvious in the app that seems to be
sending information back to the Chinese.
But, as with any Chinese company, they can be compelled
to give information to the Chinese security
services, and any app on your phone can gather
lots of data while it’s there.
Even American apps like Facebook do this.
They can scoop up your location data, your contacts,
and things like that.
And they store that on servers outside of China, so TikTok
is run as its own entity outside of China.
They run it as a separate business, and they say
they store the data outside of China, so it’s not subject
to Chinese jurisdiction.
But I think the fear is that, with all that information
about American and other consumers that they store
on servers, could potentially that find its way back
to the Chinese security services, and then put
information at risk?
That’s the concern.
TikTok has said it does not give any information
to the Chinese government.
TikTok itself isn’t operated in China.
They have a different version of the app, called Douyin.
And they’ve said that they are planning to stay in America,
in the US, for the long run.
They don’t have any intention of closing down.
There have been some rumours swirling that they might be
bought out by another company, like Microsoft,
but at the moment that hasn’t been confirmed.
Earlier I spoke to Dan Primack, business editor at Axios,
the news website.
I asked him what we know about this potential
deal with Microsoft.
They have a deal.
Microsoft — ByteDance has agreed to basically divest 100%
of TikTok, or at least the US operations of TikTok,
to Microsoft.
And the deal is on Donald Trump’s desk.
The surprise for both Microsoft and TikTok,
ByteDance, together was Trump’s comments from last night,
because they believed that this was a solution to the problem.
So what’s going on, then?
If that was an elegant solution, why not go for it?
It’s a question nobody seems able to answer.
And it’s worth noting Trump said last night
that they were going to ban — he was going to ban TikTok very
soon, or at least that’s what the full report said.
It has been 2A hours.
He has done no such thing.
So, granted, tomorrow’s Sunday.
Monday, he could do it.
It is unclear if it is the date issue.
It’s unclear if this is pure politics, kind
of an anti—China, red meat thing for his base.
It’s unclear...
There’s some speculation on Twitter, et cetera,
some TikTok users, particularly younger ones, have caused some
problems for the Trump campaign.
They kind of overbought tickets to a rally they never used.
They’ve done things like that.
It’s unclear.
Trump himself hasn’t clearly said what his problem
with TikTok is.
And just — do you have any problems with TikTok?
What do you feel about the privacy concerns?
There’s clearly a lot of anxious people out there.
Is that overblown, or is it legitimate?
I mean, I’m not somebody who’s been able to reverse engineer
the code, so I can’t speakfor sure.
But what I can say is this is notjust Washington,
DC or Donald Trump concern.
For example, Wells Fargo, which is one of the biggest
banks in the United States, about two weeks ago they told
all of their employees to remove TikTok from any
of their work devices.
Amazon did the same thing actually to all of its
employees, although it then rescinded that,
said it had been sent in error, but has never quite explained
why such an e—mail would have been written by its IT
department in the first place, let alone in error.
50 clearly there are concerns notjust from government
officials, but also from some private enterprise
and private technology companies.
And just a bit of an unfair question.
Crystal ball time — what do you think happens next?
Where do you see this going?
I have to believe this Microsoft deal gets done.
Itjust makes too much sense not to.
Again, Trump technically does have the ability,
most likely, to block this.
Not by blocking the Microsoft acquisition so much,
but the back story a little bit was that TikTok was created
by the acquisition of something called Musical.ly, and Trump
could basically say that that deal, which is several years
old, was invalid.
Thus TikTok as we know it effectively doesn’t exist.
South Africa has now registered more than 500,000 cases
of coronavirus, making it by far the hardest—hit country
on the continent.
It now accounts for more than half of Africa’s diagnosed
infections.
Paul Hawkins reports.
Mourning another life taken by coronavirus.
8,153 people have died from it in South Africa,
but it could be much higher.
The South African Medical Research Council says
the number of people dying from natural causes from 6 May
to 21June is 60% higher this year compared to the same
period in 2019 and 2018.
The government says there have been over 500,000 confirmed
infections in the country.
That is at least half of all the confirmed
coronavirus cases on the continent.
And a third of them are in Gauteng Province,
where hospitals like this are struggling to cope,
as this member of staff explain.
The staff is not there.
We have a gross shortage of staff.
It’s chaos, it’s crazy.
It’s chaos, it’s crazy.
Nurses are testing positive as well, and it’s a mess.
Our facilities and our hospitals — Covid—19 cases
are all over the place.
There is no ward which doesn’t have a Covid—19 person.
So how are we coping with the spread of the virus?
We are not.
South Africa imposed a strict lockdown in April and May that
slowed the spread of the virus, but began a gradual
reopening in June.
Despite that, cases have surged, the President pointing
out however that...
But that is of little consolation to South Africans,
with some saying the pandemic has exposed shortcomings
in its health system.
The cracks that have been there, even before coronavirus,
are getting bigger every day.
Our healthcare system is failing our people.
It’s failing the entire country.
It was not ready for this virus.
The country has tested over 3 million people and brought
in an aggressive early lockdown, but that is no
guarantee of success against this deadly virus.
Several European governments have expressed concern
about the resurgence of the coronavirus cases
in a number of countries, including Belgium and France,
where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
In France, the seven—day average of new infections
passed 1,000 per day this week.
Rates of infection in Germany remain low, but health
officials there have expressed great concern over an uptick
in cases in the country.
Spain is struggling with a surge of new infections
that has sparked European travel warnings.
Gavin Lee is on the Spanish island of Majorca.
Well, across Spain, the authorities are worried
about the speed of the spread of the pathogen.
There’s been an average of 1,000 cases here this week —
that’s ten times more than this time a month ago.
And across Europe too, well, if you look at France,
for example, double the number of cases compared to this time
last month, Germany too.
And also, if you look at the likes of Italy,
better news there, because they have had
a slight increase.
But Belgium — five times the number of cases compared
to a month ago.
In Germany, as of next week, they are going to make it
mandatory for travellers coming back from areas of high risk
to have a Covid test.
Now, that includes in Europe, parts of Spain, in Luxembourg
too, but for the moment, not for the UK.
Now, here in Majorca, there have been fewer cases,
around 27 Covid cases a day.
But there’s been the first confirmed case of tourists
being put in isolation since the lockdown was eased,
as one person out of a party of ten, currently close
by here in Palma, are now in isolation in a hotel.
It is a worry, but no big concern at the moment,
and reason for alarm.
Let’s get some of the day’s other coronavirus news:
The Australian state of Victoria is expected
to introduce new lockdown measures, tougher than any seen
in the country before.
The restrictions, tipped to come into effect early next
week, are likely to see all shops forced to shut apart
from supermarkets and service stations.
It is reported there will also be tighter restrictions
on individuals’ movements.
Thousands of people have taken to the streets in Germany’s
capital, Berlin, to protest against the country’s
coronavirus restrictions.
Demonstrators say the measures, including wearing facemasks,
violate their rights and freedoms.
Germany has been less badly affected by the pandemic
than other European countries, but cases are starting
to rise again.
Classified documents from inside the British
military raise fresh questions as to whether UK Special Forces
in Afghanistan may have tried to cover up the killing
of civilians.
The previously secret material was disclosed as part
of a court case following a BBC Panorama investigation last
year which highlighed allegations that British forces
had a policy of deliberately killing fighting aged men,
even when they didn’t pose a threat.
The Ministry of Defence has denied such a policy existed.
Our defence correspondent Jonathan Beale reports.
This is how elite troops target the Taliban —
controversial night raids with the aim to kill
or capture enemy fighters.
This shows Afghan commandos on a mission with American
support.
But it was the same tactics used by British Special Forces
during their time in Helmand.
Last year, BBC Panorama heard allegations the SAS had killed
unarmed civilians, with testimony from survivors
of a raid in 2011 who said the British shot family members
when they posed no threat.
We’ve blurred their faces to protect their identity.
TRANSLATION: They tied his hands in front of me.
If you’ve tied someone’s hands, how can they fight?
Lawyers representing one of the Afghan families are now
challenging the Ministry of Defence here at the High
Court.
They’re trying to find out whether there was a proper
investigation, or whether there might have been a cover—up.
And they’ve just forced the MoD to release these highly
sensitive documents, which show that there
were serious concerns about the raid within the British
Military.
In heavily redacted e—mails sent soon after the raid,
one British officer asks...
Another soldier replies with reports that two
of the Afghans were shot reaching for weapons.
He says...
While another e—mail highlights the anger of an Afghan
officer, who suggests...
One MP says the documents warrant a fresh investigation.
It’s deeply alarming, it’s deeply serious
and the Government needs to come clean.
If that doesn’t merit some kind of inquiry,
because at the end of the day, you’re talking about war
crimes, potential war crimes, then I don’t know what does.
The British military’s own report into the raid,
released to the court, says the four men killed
were all armed, and that one was a known Taliban commander
who’d been targeting coalition forces.
In a statement, the MoD said...
The MoD recently closed down the unit investigating
allegations of potential war crimes in Afghanistan.
But these documents, at the very least, highlight
concerns about its transparency and the secrecy surrounding
Britain’s Special Forces.
Jonathan Beale, BBC News.
You are watching BBC News.
The headlines:
TikTok says it’s there for the long run after
President Trump says he’ll ban the Chinese—owned video sharing
app in the US.
Across Europe, several governments express concern
about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
Russian health authorities are preparing to start a mass
vaccination campaign against coronavirus in October,
according to the country’s health minister.
But some experts are concerned at Russia’s fast—track
approach.
On Friday, the leading infectious disease expert
in the US, Dr Anthony Fauci, said he hoped that Russia
and China were "actually testing their vaccines" before
administering them to anyone.
So what do we know about these and other vaccines that
are being worked on?
One Russian vaccine is being devised on by
the Moscow—based Gamaleya Institute and the second
by the Vektor State Laboratory in Siberia.
There’s no public data proving the vaccines’
safety or success.
Two Chinese companies, Sinovac and Sinopharm,
have launched final phase three trials.
A third vaccine from Can—Sino Biologics is being used
to immunise the military.
Three Western coronavirus vaccines are in final
phase three trials.
One from US biotech firm Moderna, another
by the University of Oxford and Britain’s AstraZeneca,
and the last by Germany’s BioNTech with US pharmaceutical
Pfizer.
Dr Rishi Desai is the Chief Medical Officer
for the healthcare education platform Osmosis and a former
Epidemic Intelligence officer with the US Center for Disease
Control.
He’s in Oakland, California.
Thank you very much for speaking to us. What do you
speaking to us. what do you make
speaking to us. What do you make of these claims in Russia,
make of these claims in Russia, let’s start there, that this
let’s start there, that this vaccine could be out and
vaccine could be out and administered by October. That
administered by October. That seems pretty quick. To put it
seems pretty quick. To put it into perspective, to make a
into perspective, to make a vaccine usually takes a decade
vaccine usually takes a decade and the world record, if you
and the world record, if you think of it as a race, the
think of it as a race, the fastest we have done it is four
fastest we have done it is four or five years and so right now
or five years and so right now we started in
or five years and so right now we started inJanuary
or five years and so right now we started in January and
or five years and so right now we started inJanuary and seven
we started in january and seven months
we started inJanuary and seven months later they predict may
months later they predict may be October, that is ten months
be October, that is ten months and that would be shocking.
and that would be shocking. Generally there are three
Generally there are three phases. Phase one, two, three.
phases. Phase one, two, three. Number one, is it safe and you
Number one, is it safe and you do that on home and that make
do that on home and that make humans. Phase two also in
humans. Phase two also in humans, what size dose and the
humans, what size dose and the third phase, what is the
third phase, what is the ability for this to work well.
ability for this to work well. And so all three phases must be
And so all three phases must be done in the US and what we
done in the US and what we don’t have right now from
don’t have right now from Russia is data. We have these
Russia is data. We have these press releases and statements
press releases and statements which are super exciting if you
which are super exciting if you are the rest of the world
are the rest of the world watching this and there is a
watching this and there is a lot of interest for what we
lot of interest for what we need is data, do they go
need is data, do they go through the stages? What did
through the stages? what did the
through the stages? What did the data show and right now we
the data show and right now we have none of that. It is
have none of that. It is exciting but honestly it is
exciting but honestly it is unclear what was done. How
unclear what was done. How usual or unusual would be to
usual or unusual would be to share that kind of thing?
share that kind of thing? Obviously companies in
Obviously companies in different countries are in
different countries are in competition under normal
competition under normal circumstances and there would
circumstances and there would be huge calls for greater
be huge calls for greater cooperation this time around.
cooperation this time around. What
cooperation this time around. what is
cooperation this time around. What is the norm? The norm is
what is the norm? The norm is to show
What is the norm? The norm is to show and publish your data.
to show and publish your data. Every singla
to show and publish your data. Every single company out there
Every single company out there working on this legitimately
working on this lagitimately issuing
working on this legitimately issuing the data and I think
issuing the data and I think there is a lot of scrutiny
there is a lot of scmtiny posted on
there is a lot of scrutiny posted on the data because we
posted on the data because we want to make sure it is safe,
want to make sure it is safe, first and foremost, and that it
first and foremost, and that it works. You can’t make these
works. You can’t make these claims if you can’t show the
claims if you can’t show the data behind it. You need to
data behind it. You need to show your work, that you
show your work, that you actually did the work and you
actually did the work and you are not making up answers.
are not making up answers. No-one
are not making up answers. No—one wants to be making up
No-one wants to be making up answers
No—one wants to be making up answers under these
answers under these circumstances. Give us a
circumstances. Give us a ﬂavour
circumstances. Give us a flavour of the timescales
flavour of the timescales involved in testing for safety?
involved in testing for safety? I’m sure some people thinking
I’m sure some peopla thinking would
I’m sure some people thinking would think 0K we can test and
would think 0K we ran test and if there
would think 0K we can test and if there is no immediate
if there is no immediate reaction, great but maybe there
reaction, great but maybe there are some some side effects to
are some some side effects to take months or years to show.
take months or years to show. How do we have enough time to
How do we have enough time to test for safety? Exactly the
test for safety? Exactly the right concerns. There are some
right concerns. There are some things you might look at that
things you might look at that may be years down the road but
may be years down the road but we do not have time for that
we do not have time for that full generally speaking, what
full generally speaking, what we’re talking about when we say
we’re talking about when we say safety is the order of months.
safety is the order of months. In the order of months, what is
In the order of months, what is happening? Do you notice
happening? Do you notice anything? You might try
anything? You might try different doses, is it still
different doses, is it still safe to do? These are steps
safe to do? These are steps taken on the order of months,
taken on the order of months, normally, and it normally takes
normally, and it normally takes long time because you have
long time because you have funding issues, you need
funding issues, you need political well, you need the
political well, you need the researchers on the same page. A
researchers on the same page. A lot of that has happened in an
lot of that has happened in an expeditious timeline because
expeditious timeline because the whole world is focused on
the whola world is focused on this. Money
the whole world is focused on this. Money is pouring in and
this. Money is pouring in and researchers are working
researchers are working together and sharing data and
together and sharing data and all this has been sped up in a
all this has been sped up in a really great way but, of
really great way but, of course, you must still be
course, you must still be cautious because if you are
cautious because if you are going to unroll this and have
going to unroll this and have billions of people getting this
billions of people getting this vaccine you want to make sure
vaccine you want to make sure that you have crossed your
that you have crossed your tease and dotted your eyes and
tease and dotted your eyes and are doing it in a transparent
are doing it in a transparent way. If not, no—one will trust
way. If not, no-one will trust it. Thank you
way. If not, no—one will trust it. Thank you very much for
it. Thank you very much for your thoughts, doctor.
Sri Lankans are heading to the polls on Wednesday
in an election that will have far—ranging impacts
on Sri Lanka’s politics, rule of law, and foreign policy.
The election has been delayed twice due to the coronavirus
pandemic, meaning campaigning has lasted months.
Sunday is the last day of campaigning.
Our correspondent, Anbarasan Ethirajan in Colombo,
takes a look at what we can expect.
MUSIC.
A buoyant Sri Lankan President, Gotabaya Rajapaksa,
is on a campaign trail once again.
Almost nine months after his landslide victory
in the Presidential poll, he wants to sweep
the Parliamentary election.
Mr Rajapaksa wants this man, his brother Mahinda,
to be his Prime Minister.
Mahinda was President twice before, and Gotabaya
was his Defence Secretary.
The election is happening amid the unprecedented
coronavirus crisis.
Sri Lanka has managed to contain the outbreak,
with the deaths onlyjust into double figures.
The entire world is new subject to Covid—19 infection.
Sri Lanka is one of the best countries to face it
successfully and to save its own citizens.
Therefore, Gotabaya Rajapaksa has shown he’s a unique leader,
and because of that, people have a new hope.
However, the Rajapaksa brothers still face accusations
of rights abuses during the war with the Tamil rebels
which ended in 2009.
They deny any wrongdoing, but the Rajapaksas’ supporters,
mostly drawn from the majority Sinhalese, dismiss
the criticism over rights abuses.
Sri Lanka has enjoyed a relative political stability
for the last nine months, especially after the
devastating Easter Sunday bomb attacks last year.
President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s party wants to capitalise
on that to secure a two—thirds majority in Parliament
so that they can change the Constitution.
For example, to give more powers to the President.
This man, Sajith Premadasa, is one of the main challengers.
He’s promising a more inclusive Sri Lanka.
But the opposition is divided, splitting anti—Rajapaksa votes.
Some are worried that a two—thirds majority
in the current election could lead to an authoritarian rule.
This comes at a time where we have seen increasing
attacks on civil society, on media, on lawyers.
So, the space for dissent is shrinking.
And the question is whether it will shrink further
post—elections?
And the signs so far are that it is likely
to happen that way.
Sri Lanka’s economy has been battered by the Covid—19
crisis.
Many Sri Lankans feel only a strong government will be
able to revive the economy.
Anbarasan Ethirajan, BBC News.
Greece has always been a popular summer holiday spot
for tourists around the world.
But this year it is making a splash by permitting
recreational diving at archaeological sites
for the first time.
Ancient Greek history? Check. Scuba—diving, check. Social
Scuba-diving, check. Social distancing?
Scuba—diving, check. Social distancing? Check. If these are
distancing? Check. If these are the things on your to do list
the things on your to do list this summer, this
this summer, this archaeological wonder is open
archaeological wonder is open to the public for the first
to the public for the first time ever. Located off the
time ever. Located off the coast of the island of LNE
coast of the island of LNE source in Greek, this bonanza
source in Greek, this bonanza of history was off—limits for
of history was off—limits for decades. TRANSLATION: This is
decades. TRANSLATION: This is the first time, not just
decades. TRANSLATION: This is the first time, notjust in
the first time, not just in Greece,
the first time, notjust in Greece, but a pan—European
Greece, buta pan-European level, that
Greece, but a pan—European level, that such a site, such a
level, that such a site, such a large shipwreck with so many
large shipwreck with so many objects is open to the public
objects is open to the public and divers. For almost 2000
and divers. For almost 2000 79575-
and divers. For almost 2000 years, the 15th century
years, the 15th century shipwreck was lost to history
shipwreck was lost to history as access to underwater sites
as access to underwater sites is typically restricted in
is typically restricted in Greece. But with the marvels of
Greece. But with the marvels of modern day technology,
modern day technology, authorities can now monitor the
authorities ran now monitor the site with
authorities can now monitor the site with underwater cameras.
site with underwater cameras. We have installed in specific
We have installed in specific locations the cameras in order
locations the cameras in order to be able to recognise if
to be able to recognise if anybody or anything like a
anybody or anything like a vehicle has entered the
vehicle has entered the protected area and what runs
protected area and what runs behind this live streaming is a
behind this live streaming is a special algorithm with
special algorithm with artificial intelligence that is
artificial intelligence that is able to recognise in real—time
able to recognise in real-time various
able to recognise in real—time various classes of object. For
various classes of object. For nonswimmers, there is a virtual
nonswimmers, there is a virtual reality tour of the site.
reality tour of the site. Boasting warm crystal clear
Boasting warm crystal clear waters and thousands of amphora
waters and thousands of amphora or storage jars.
waters and thousands of amphora or storagejars. They
waters and thousands of amphora or storage jars. They call it
the Acropolis of C Rex. ——
the Acropolis of C Rex. -- shipwrecks.
In sport, Arsenal have won the FA Cup finalfor a record
14th time, beating Chelsea 2—1 at Wembley.
Arsenal’s captain Pierre—Emerick Aubameyang
who scored both his team’s goals — lifted the trophy
in front of a stadium of 90—thousand empty seats,
because of coronavirus restrictions.
Victory secured Arsenal’s place in the Europe League next
H-H’I-hl
The team’s manager Mikel Arteta says that’s an additional bonus
for the club.
It is a double reward for us.
It is really important for this club in every way
to be in Europe.
We have gone into this competition and winning it
as part of our history, 1A now, I contributed,
we all did it so I am so happy.
That is it from me. I will be back with the headlines in a
back with the headlines in a few moments time full.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @LVaughanJones.
Hello there.
The heat and humidity ebbed away
during the course of Saturday and resulted in a much more
comfortable night for sleeping.
But again, as we know, on Friday,
we were just shy of 38 Celsius.
We had our third hottest day on record.
Just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere was ten
degrees down on that on Saturday.
So, it felt a little cooler, but it
most certainly felt less humid, so more comfortable
for sleeping — and we’ll keep that fresher feel
around for the day ahead — but there will be scattered
showers around.
We’re under the Atlantic influence again.
Low pressure to the north throwing
in this weatherfront, which has given some fairly
heavy rain across the northern half
of the country through the night.
Still around, I think, first thing,
but look at those temperatures.
A much cooler start to the day for many.
And what we have in the north, that cloud and rain,
will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that
moisture, that will be the spark, if you like,
for some heavier showers as we go
into the afternoon.
Now, we’re not expecting that many
showers across the southern half
of England, across Wales and the Midlands and East Anglia,
but they can’t be ruled out.
And temperatures will be a few degrees down on Saturdayjust
because it will be a cooler start
to the day.
Still a fairly fresh breeze through the Channel.
After fairly few showers in the morning across
Northern Ireland, they will tend to become more
frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones
further north as well — but equally, some spells
of sunshine in between.
And, of course, it’s the British Grand Prix race
day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
There’s just that small chance of a shower.
Just a small chance.
And through the evening and overnight, those showers
will tend to ease away, as you can see, with the risk
still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
But another fairly fresh night for most parts.
As we go, then, into Monday, we’ve got a slight ridge
of high pressure building in, but it is only slight
and I still think there will be the odd shower around.
And already looming large in the Atlantic,
the next low pressure system.
So, if we do see some of that rain,
it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
Then, we may well have some slow—moving, sharp
showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant
in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
However, as we go into Tuesday, we’ve got the Atlantic
low potentially coming in, bringing us some more
significant and persistent, quite widespread rain
to the North and the West.
It will tend to peter out, we think, as it heads
southwards and eastwards, but a fair breeze with that
as well and some significant rain.
That’s certainly one to watch.
As ever, you can find out more information from our website.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
President Trump says he will ban TikTok,
the Chinese—owned video sharing app, in the US.
It comes amid concerns the app could be used to collect
Americans’ personal data.
TikTok denies any Chinese control and says that it is in
the US for the long run.
More than 500,000 coronavirus have been confirmed
in South Africa, along with over 8,000 deaths.
South Africa is the hardest—hit country on the continent
and accounts for half of all reported infections in Africa.
It also has the fifth—highest number of cases in the world.
Several European governments have expressed concern
about the resurgence of coronavirus cases
in a number of countries, including Belgium and France,
where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
Spain in particular is struggling with a surge
of new infections that has sparked European travel
warnings, most notably from the UK.
Now on BBC News, the BBC’s Katty Kay discusses the US
response to coronavirus with US infectious disease chief
Dr Anthony Fauci, as cases continue to rise
across the country.
He’s the most famous doctor in America, and as head
of America’s institute of allergy and infectious
diseases since 1984, Anthony Fauci has advised six
different American presidents on everything from Ebola
to AIDS.
Over the last few decades, he has also seen his effigy
burnt, heard the cries of protesters calling him
a murderer, and had smoke bomb thrown at his office window.
Since the beginning of the year, he has been
in the thick of a new battle against coronavirus.
For Americans, he has become a trusted presence behind
the podium at White House Covid—19 briefings.
But as a US struggles to contain
the pandemic, six months after its first known case,
tensions have been rising between Dr Fauci
and the President.
Dr Fauci has criticised the President’s response
on a number of occasions, pushed back on the President’s
claims that the outbreak is improving,
and attributing hasty state reopening is to
the recent surges.
The White House is targeting Dr Fauci by briefing
reporters about his alleged mistakes.
The move to undercut him comes as the US continues
to see surges in Covid—19.
According toJohn Hopkins University, there are well over
4 million cases confirmed, and more than 150,000
Americans have died.
Dr Fauci, we’re now about five months into this pandemic
in the United States.
If I’d asked you back in April if this was the situation
we would be in at the end ofJuly, is this about
what you would have anticipated?
I think the answer to that, Katty, would have to be be no.
I would have hoped that once we had the initial surge under
control — as you recall we were particularly hard hit
in the New York metropolitan area — that we would
have come down to a baseline
that is really a low baseline, namely hundreds to, you know,
a few hundred cases a day.
But that is not what happened.
We had the big surge, then it came down,
but it plateaued at a level
of about 20,000 cases per day for several weeks in a row
into May and June.
And then inJuly, with the attempts
in some southern states to open up again, namely
open up the economy, we had surges
of cases that is really quite unfortunate.
And that’s not what I would have predicted
or liked to see, because we went from a baseline
of about 20,000 cases a day up to 30, 40, 50,
60, and a couple of weeks ago we even hit 70 new cases a day.
That has now gone down a bit to between 50,000 and 60,000.
That’s not good,.
That is so high that you want to get
a baseline that’s much, much lower than that.
So what went wrong?
Did people just get impatient?
I think there were a couple of things, not one single
factor that you can see went wrong, but a couple of things.
In the United States, right from the beginning,
we shuts down only by about 50%, even though it was a lot
of inconvenience and a lot of very, very important
negative effects on the economy and employment.
But in reality, we did not shut down nearly
as intensively as was shut down in other countries,
including the European Union.
And then the other aspect of it is that when we reopened,
in the sense of, you know, we put out these guidelines
for opening America again,
and they were well thought out guidelines which had several
checkpoints.
The first checkpoint was a gateway.
In other words, you had to have a diminution of cases before
you could move to phase one, and then phase two,
and then phase three.
And each of the different phases became a little bit more
flexible in opening things up.
The problem is we did not have a uniform adherence
to that.
And what happened is that some states,
and I’m not going to name them, but some states actually
skipped over some of the checkpoints.
And in other states, even when the mayors
and governors and others did it right, and give the right
instructions, many of the members of society
just disregarded them.
That’s a sure—fire invitation to get a problem.
So as you watched that, you watched the states jumping
the gun, you watched people behaving in an irresponsible
way, you knew it was going to go wrong.
You knew it would not end well.
How frustrating was that, as you were trying to
manage the pandemic?
Well, it was quite frustrating, Katty, because I was getting
on the media and TV and radio virtually pleading,
particularly with the young people, because the recent
resurgences that we’ve seen, if you look at the average age
of the people in that, it’s about a decade to a decade
and a half younger than what we were seeing earlier
on in the outbreak.
And when I was looking at the film clips,
you were seeing they weren’t wearing
masks, they were congregating in bars.
It became really quite frustrating, because it became
predictable what would happen if people did not adhere
to the guidelines.
So we’re in this position that’s bad today.
When you look forward, Dr Fauci, for the next four
orfive months, how is it going to be?
Well, I hope it’s going to be considerably different,
Katty.
Do you have any reason for optimism?
Well, I hope that the country — I always say, and I still do,
I have faith in the American citizens and the people living
in this country that they will appreciate what went wrong.
As we get up and say, you know, that’s the reason why I’m
trying to do a lot of outreach, not onlyjust me but many of my
public health colleagues who are out there talking
to the populace, explaining to them that there are really
four or five simple things that we know from experience
can turn things around.
And we’re trying to preach that as far and wide as we can.
Universal wearing of masks, physical distancing,
six feet or more, avoiding crowds, avoiding bars,
and if the states and the regions and the counties go
along with it, closing bars if necessary, and physical hand
hygiene such as washing your hands.
If you just do those five simple things, you’re
going to be able to turn a lot of this around,
so hopefully we’re getting that message out.
I’m glad you still have faith in people, because my faith
is being tested at the moment.
I just wonder what makes you think that — you’ve been
preaching this message, Doctor, for the last few months
and people are not doing it, and I wonder whether you
actually would like to see much stricter
enforcement of the rules.
For example, here in Washington, DC, there is now
as of this week a $1,000 fine, potentially, if you don’t wear
a mask on the street.
I go into the street, and people aren’t wearing
masks.
Do we actually need to get a lot tougher?
Does there need to be stricter regulation as there
was during the lockdown is in Europe?
Yes, I have always been, Katty, in favour of a balance,
of being really strict in areas where you feel
it is going to have an impact.
I’m sure that there’s some of this in the UK,
but in the United States, there’s this independent
spirit, that people in general don’t like to be told by higher
authorities what to do.
I don’t think that that’s an excuse for us not
being a bit more strict with people, particularly
with regard to masks.
The problem with mandating is that sometimes that gets
people pushed in the opposite direction, and you’ve got
to figure out how you’re going to enforce the mandating.
So you’re right, I do have faith in the American people.
I hope that when we strongly, strongly recommend that,
that peopla will adhere to it
and there will be lessons learned from what we have
experienced over the past few weeks with the surging of cases
in the southern states.
So let me ask you more about masks, and first
of all a medical question.
Can you clarify for me what the current thinking
is on whether masks protect the wearer,
as well as the people who are
around the wearer?
So if I wear a mask, does it protect me in any way,
as well as stopping me spreading the virus
if I have it?
Yeah, there are more and more studies that are coming online
that are indicating that it’s a bilateral type of protection.
Originally, the data was showing that if you wear
a mask, it prevents you from infecting someone else.
We get that experience from hospitalised patients
with other diseases, including this disease,
to prevent the spread beyond the person.
But, since we know now that about 20—A5%
of the cases are asymptomatic, and that clearly people
who are without symptoms are transmitting
the infection to others,
that the recommendation of universal wearing of masks
is more geared towards having people who don’t
know that they’re infected from spreading the
infection to others.
However, there’s also data accumulating when you do
what’s called meta—analyses of studies that in fact
there is a degree of protection.
We don’t know the exact percentage, but clearly
there’s a degree of protection, of protecting yourself
from others, when you wear a mask.
So I believe we know that there is now a benefit
that goes both ways.
And the benefit would be that I’m less likely to get
it if I’m wearing a mask, or that the severity
of the disease if I did get it would be diminished
because I was wearing a mask.
Do we know that yet?
We don’t know that yet.
There’s a discussion about the size of the inoculum,
and what impact that has on you getting infected
and what the course of the infection is,
but there’s not enough data.
The only data that we do know is that it protects
from infection.
We don’t know whether it’s going to protect
you from severity.
We just don’t have enough data to make a comment on that.
When the President, as he did again yesterday,
retweets things from people who say you don’t
need to wear a mask,
how unhelpful is that from a medical perspective?
Well, you know, I mean, this issue of tweeting
and retweeting is something that I’ve never understood
or gotten involved in, but I can
tell you, you’d have to say it’s not helpful if people get
signals about not wearing masks, when we’re trying to get
people to universally wear masks.
So you would ask the President not to do that, if he listens
to you?
Well, Katty, that’s not the way it works.
I think my feeling about what we should do with masks
is very, very clearly understood by everyone,
including those in the White House.
What about hydroxychloroquine?
And I ask you about this because it’s come back
into the news because the President yesterday
evening, in the White House, stood
there and said that he believes in it and that it is safe,
and again seemed to be touting this drug.
Is the President right?
Again, Katty, it’s not productive or helpful for me
to be making judges on right or wrong.
But what I can say is what I have said all along —
that the overwhelming body of data from trials that
were well run, randomised, placebo—controlled
trials, indicate that hydroxychloroquine is not
effective in treating coronavirus disease
or Covid—19.
The reason I ask you this, Dr Fauci, is because there’s
a lot of misinformation out
there, and a lot of people don’t
trust what they’re hearing, either on the internet
orfrom their leaders.
You are one person in the United States who according
to the last opinion poll has a 65% approval rating.
People do trust you.
And I wonder whether, just in terms of your ability
to fight this pandemic, your effectiveness
in fighting this pandemic,
you do actually need to call out the President
and the country’s leaders when they say things that
are unhelpful, and potentially set the country back?
Because people trust you.
And again, Katty, I have to get back to see what happens
is that that becomes the story, as opposed to the message.
So, if what you say is true, which I believe, I don’t follow
approval ratings, but if people are listening to me,
I want them to hear loud and clear what I’m saying.
We should have universal wearing of masks, and
the scientific data to this point, this might change
with other studies, but the scientific data up
to this point indicate that the use of hydroxychloroquine
for the treatment of Covid—19 is not effective.
0K.
The President has also retweeted a tweet which said
that you are misleading the American people.
And just to put this on the record, have you misled
the American public during your advice
during this pandemic?
No, that’s easy for me to answer.
No, categorically, I have not misled the American public
during this outbreak.
You’ve said before, Dr Fauci, that during the course
of your career you have spent decades preparing for this
possibility of a pandemic like Covid—19.
When you were preparing for something like this,
did you ever imagine that the politics would make it
difficult to effectively manage this kind of situation?
That the politics would get so mixed up on this?
No, I did not.
Obviously when you are dealing with things that involve
politicians, there is always a bit of political manoeuvring.
We’ve seen that in almost every outbreak, but it had been minor
and didn’t impact what we were doing with regard to response,
but I think it’s no secret from looking at the situation
in the United States that there is a considerable
degree of political divisiveness to a level that
everyone admits, you don’t need me to make that declaration.
I think anyone even those who have more experience
and more ability to observe and make judgment on that,
that this is a very unusual situation of political
divisiveness in this country.
You mentioned young people.
The WHO today is looking at young people in Europe.
Europe seems to have effectively managed
the reopening process.
When it started reopening a couple of months ago,
things went well.
We didn’t see big spikes.
Now you have a number of European countries
that are concerned.
When you look at the situation in Europe, are you worried
that they could be sliding back again?
Yes, as you said correctly, Katty, at the beginning
of their opening up, they really did very well.
What I hope does not happen with our European countries
is that they get a little bit complacent and as they open up
and see that things are doing well and they are able
to contain any of these little blips that might turn
into spikes that might turn into resurgences,
I hope that they pay attention to the fact that the reason
that they’ve done well is that they’ve done it correctly
and by doing it correctly, I hope they don’t get
complacent, essentially stepping over the line
and taking additional risks.
It has to do with what I was saying just a few minutes ago
when we were talking about the situation in some
places in the United States where people essentially
skipped over the guidelines.
In Europe, they do have guidelines about safely
reopening.
Let’s just hope that they follow them and not get
into a situation where they trigger something that
gets out of control again.
Could you see new lockdowns, either here in the states
or in European countries?
Could you see us going back to the situation globally
that we were in in March and April if people do
get too complacent?
I really hope that we don’t come to that.
That would be very discouraging.
There was enough stress and strain, not only
psychologically on our populations, both in Europe,
the UK and here in the United States, but also
the effect that it had on the economy and unemployment
and other types of unintended consequences of lockdown.
I hope we don’t ever get to go to that.
I was being asked about what the response would be too
the resurgence that we were seeing in the southern states.
I commented that I hope we would not have to go
to a complete lockdown and what we might do
is at least have a pause in our progression to reopening
and maybe even take a step back.
In other words, if you are in phase two and you are getting
into trouble, you might want to push back or pull back
to phase one and then restart the process of careful,
prudent, step—by—step reopening because no one wants to go back
to a complete lockdown again.
You look at Germany who did it so well, it was the poster
child for Europe, now you have the German Centre
for disease control saying they are concerned about spikes
in the country.
Is it possible to combat this virus when you open up borders
and allow people some freedom of movement?
Because when we look at the country is doing it
will at the moment that seem to have it under control,
islands like New Zealand or Cyprus where the borders
are controlled and people can’t get in and so we have a bubble
that they can protect, I’m just worried looking
at what’s happening in Europe that it’s not possible to have
it both ways, to open our borders and have
this under control.
You’re right, Katty, this is not easy.
Anyone who thinks this is easy is really not doing a lot
of reality testing.
It is a very difficult situation and we’ve got to do
the best we can and we believe that if we do this kind
of opening and reopening prudently, then we have enough
testing to go around to make sure that we can do
the appropriate and adequate identification, isolation
and contact tracing.
That becomes very difficult.
We’ve learned from painful experience that if you have
a low level of cases and you have the adequate
facilities and capabilities of testing, when you get blips
of new infection, you can adequately identify,
isolate and contact trace.
Once you get to a level where there is community
spread, particularly given the fact that a significant
proportion of cases are without symptoms and spread
occurs without symptoms, then things start to ratchet up
and get out of control.
So if we can keep the lid on things at a level low
enough, I believe we can step—by—step open as much
as possible of the economy but that doesn’t mean we’re
going to get back to completely normal.
I believe in order to do that, we are going to need a safe
and effective vaccine to complement the public health
measures and that’s the reason why the information that came
out very recently where we started a phase three trial
of a vaccine just a couple of days ago and multiple other
candidates over the next few months will be beginning phase
three trials to determine efficacy and additional safety
of a vaccine.
With that timetable, we would hope, given the fact
these trials are ongoing now, for example the one that
started a couple of days ago was going to have 30,000 people
in the trial, that in the next several months as we get
into the late fall and early winter, we might have an answer
to the safety and efficacy of vaccine trials and I feel
cautiously optimistic.
There is a medical report from the Centre for American
progress this week in the United States that is very
concerned about the production and distribution of
the vaccine, even suggesting that it could take up to two
years for Americans to actually get the vaccine so it’s great
the research is producing these positive results now and I know
you’ve said that we could be getting some good news
from that in the autumn or in the winter, but,
realistically, how long is it going to be before I can
get a vaccine?
You’ll probably get one pretty quickly but before most
Americans can get a vaccine.
I think it would be well into 2021.
I don’t think it will be two years at the reason I say
that is because what we’ve done here in United States.
Well into 2021 is what, near the end of next year?
Let me explain to you why I think that’s not necessarily
the case.
What’s being done now with the production of vaccine
to have doses available that the United States Government
has invested billions of dollars, hundreds
of millions and billions of dollars to start producing
vaccine at risk.
At risk means you are starting to make the doses before
you even have proven that the vaccine works.
Which means that if the vaccine does work, you’ve saved many
months.
If the vaccine doesn’t work, the risk is you’ve lost
a lot of money.
You haven’t risked safety, you haven’t risked scientific
integrity.
In that context, the companies are telling us that they will
have available within 2021 in the first few months
to the middle, hundreds of millions of doses
and by the end of the year, as many 351 billion doses.
You’re talking about per company.
That being the case, and I don’t know if it will be
the first quarter, middle or the last quarter,
but in 2021, there should be enough doses if the companies
do what we are paying them to do, that they can give
widespread distribution of vaccines.
Dr Fauci, thank you forjoining us and best of luck to you.
Thank you, Katty, it’s always good to be with you,
thank you for having me.
Hello there.
The heat and humidity ebbed away
during the course of Saturday and resulted in a much more
comfortable night for sleeping.
But again, as we know, on Friday,
we were just shy of 38 Celsius.
We had our third hottest day on record.
Just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere was ten
degrees down on that on Saturday.
So, it felt a little cooler, but it
most certainly felt less humid, so more comfortable
for sleeping — and we’ll keep that fresher feel
around for the day ahead — but there will be scattered
showers around.
We’re under the Atlantic influence again.
Low pressure to the north throwing
in this weatherfront, which has given some fairly
heavy rain across the northern half
of the country through the night.
Still around, I think, first thing,
but look at those temperatures.
A much cooler start to the day for many.
And what we have in the north, that cloud and rain,
will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that
moisture, that will be the spark, if you like,
for some heavier showers as we go
into the afternoon.
Now, we’re not expecting that many
showers across the southern half
of England, across Wales and the Midlands and East Anglia,
but they can’t be ruled out.
And temperatures will be a few degrees down on Saturdayjust
because it will be a cooler start
to the day.
Still a fairly fresh breeze through the Channel.
After fairly few showers in the morning across
Northern Ireland, they will tend to become more
frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones
further north as well — but equally, some spells
of sunshine in between.
And, of course, it’s the British Grand Prix race
day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
There’s just that small chance of a shower.
Just a small chance.
And through the evening and overnight, those showers
will tend to ease away, as you can see, with the risk
still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
But another fairly fresh night for most parts.
As we go, then, into Monday, we’ve got a slight ridge
of high pressure building in, but it is only slight
and I still think there will be the odd shower around.
And already looming large in the Atlantic,
the next low pressure system.
So, if we do see some of that rain,
it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
Then, we may well have some slow—moving, sharp
showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant
in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
However, as we go into Tuesday, we’ve got the Atlantic
low potentially coming in, bringing us some more
significant and persistent, quite widespread rain
to the North and the West.
It will tend to peter out, we think, as it heads
southwards and eastwards, but a fair breeze with that
as well and some significant rain.
That’s certainly one to watch.
As ever, you can find out more information from our website.
This is BBC News.
Welcome if you’re watching here in the UK or around the globe.
I’m Lewis Vaughan Jones.
Our top stories:
TikTok says it’s "there for the long run" after
President Trump says he’ll ban the Chinese—owned video sharing
app in the US.
South Africa records more than 500,000 virus infections —
that’s the fifth highest in the world.
Across Europe, several governments express concern
about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
And Pierre—Emerick Aubameyang scores twice as Arsenal beat
Chelsea to win the FA Cup.
Hello and welcome.
The US general manager of TikTok has said
the Chinese—owned video—sharing app is "here for the long run"
after President Donald Trump said he would ban it in the US.
Vanessa Pappas told TikTok’s more than 80 million US users
in a video statement that its staff were building
"the safest app" possible amid US concerns about data
protection.
Jack Kilbride reports.
You have heard you out soaring of support and we want to say
of support and we want to say thank you and we are not
thank you and we are not planning on going anywhere.
planning on going anywhere. Fighting words from an
Fighting words from an application the US president is
application the US president is threatening to ban. TikTok, for
threatening to ban. TikTok, for millions of young Americans, is
millions of young Americans, is a fun video sharing apple of
a fun video sharing apple of dances and memes but for Donald
dances and memes but for Donald Tmmp, it is a
dances and memes but for Donald Trump, it is a national
Tmmp, it is a national security
Trump, it is a national security concern. We are
security concern. We are looking at TikTok, we may be
looking at TikTok, we may be banning TikTok, we may be doing
banning TikTok, we may be doing some other things or a couple
some other things or a couple of options but a lot of things
of options but a lot of things are happening so we will see
are happening so we will see what happens. The issue for the
what happens. The issue for the president is that the
president is that the application is owned by a
application is owned by a Chinese company, ByteDance. And
Chinese company, ByteDance. And there is a concern that the
there is a concern that the data it collects from users
data it collects from users will be passed over to Beijing.
will be passed over to Beijing. It is a concern that has seen
It is a concern that has seen India already bandy up and
India already bandy up and Australia talk following suit.
Australia talk following suit. -- ban
Australia talk following suit. —— ban the app. But not
-- ban the app. But not everyone is
—— ban the app. But not everyone is as worried. There
everyone is as worried. There are real national security
are real national security implications without media
implications without media networks. The question at hand
networks. The question at hand is really is this a good way to
is really is this a good way to go about it? And simply banning
go about it? And simply banning TikTok is not going to do
TikTok is not going to do anything for national security.
anything for national security. ByteDance denies the allegation
ByteDance denies the allegation and according to some reports
and according to some reports have agreed to offload the US
have agreed to ofﬂoad the US operation
have agreed to offload the US operation of TikTok with
operation of TikTok with Microsoft taking over and
Microsoft taking over and assuming all responsibility for
assuming all responsibility for protecting the data of users,
protecting the data of users, and there are questions about
and there are questions about whether a ban would even work.
whether a ban would even work. You wouldn’t be able to do it.
You wouldn’t be able to do it. Unlike China or Iran, where
Unlike China or Iran, where there is only one or two
there is only one or two intimate providers, in the US
intimate providers, in the US it is very difficult to be able
it is very difficult to be able to do that as there are so many
to do that as there are so many telecom service providers so
telecom service providers so even if you convince them to be
even if you convince them to be able to do that there is going
able to do that there is going to be a lot of loopholes and in
to be a lot of loopholes and in all likelihood it will be, in
all likelihood it will be, in my opinion, very close to
my opinion, very close to impossible to be able to
impossible to be able to successfully do that. But
successfully do that. But whether it happens or not, it
whether it happens or not, it is clear that the move is part
is clear that the move is part of a bigger battle between
of a bigger battle between Washington and Beijing. On that
Washington and Beijing. On that is also not going anywhere.
—— One that is also not going anywhere.
Jack Kilbride, BBC News.
I spoke to Dan Primack, business editor
at Axios, the news website.
I asked him what we know about this potential
deal with Microsoft.
They have a deal.
Microsoft — ByteDance has agreed to basically divest 100%
of TikTok, or at least the US operations of
TikTok, to Microsoft.
And the deal is on Donald Trump’s desk.
Somebody told me that earlier
Somebody told me that eartier today.
The surprise for both Microsoft and TikTok,
ByteDance, I guess together, was Trump’s comments from last
night, because they believed that this
was a solution to the problem.
So what’s going on, then?
If that was an elegant solution, why not go for it?
It’s a question nobody seems able to answer.
And it’s worth noting Trump said last night
that they were going to ban — he was going to ban TikTok very
soon, or at least that’s what the full report said.
It has been 2A hours.
He has done no such thing.
So, granted, tomorrow’s Sunday.
Monday, he could do it.
It is unclear if it is the date issue.
It’s unclear if this is pure politics, kind
of an anti—China, red meat thing for his base.
It’s unclear...
There’s some speculation on Twitter, et cetera,
some TikTok users, particularly younger ones, have caused some
problems for the Trump campaign.
They kind of overbought tickets to a rally they never used.
They’ve done things like that.
It’s unclear.
Trump himself hasn’t clearly said what his problem
with TikTok is.
And just — do you have any problems with TikTok?
What do you feel about the privacy concerns?
There’s clearly a lot of anxious people out there.
Is that overblown, or is it legitimate?
I mean, I’m not somebody who’s been able to reverse—engineer
the code, so I can’t speakfor sure.
But what I can say is this is notjust Washington,
DC or Donald Trump concern.
For example, Wells Fargo, which is one of the biggest
banks in the United States, about two weeks ago they told
all of their employees to remove TikTok from any
of their work devices.
Amazon did the same thing actually to all of its
employees, although it then rescinded that,
said it had been sent in error, but has never quite explained
why such an e—mail would have been written by its IT
department in the first place, let alone in error.
50 clearly there are concerns, notjust from government
officials, but also from some private enterprise
and private technology companies.
And just a bit of an unfair question.
Crystal ball time — what do you think happens next?
Where do you see this going?
I have to believe this Microsoft deal gets done.
Itjust makes too much sense not to.
Again, Trump technically does have the ability,
most likely, to block this.
Not by blocking the Microsoft acquisition so much,
but the back story a little bit was that TikTok was created
by the acquisition of something called Musical.ly, and Trump
could basically say that that deal, which is several years
old, was invalid.
Thus TikTok as we know it effectively doesn’t exist.
Dan Primack there.
South Africa has now registered more than 500,000 cases
of coronavirus, making it by far the hardest—hit country
on the continent.
It now accounts for more than half of Africa’s diagnosed
infections.
Paul Hawkins reports.
Mourning another life taken by coronavirus.
8,153 people have died from it in South Africa,
but it could be much higher.
The South African Medical Research Council says
the number of people dying from natural causes from May 6
toJune 21 is 60% higher this year compared to the same
period in 2019 and 2018.
The government says there have been over 500,000 confirmed
infections in the country — that is at least half
of all the coronavirus cases on the continent —
and a third of them are in Gauteng Province,
where hospitals like Thelle Mogoerane are struggling
to cope, as this member of staff explains.
The staff is not there.
We have a gross shortage of staff.
It’s chaos, it’s crazy.
Nurses are testing positive as well, and it’s a mess.
In ourfacilities and in our hospitals, Covid—19 cases
are all over the place.
There is no ward, by the way, that doesn’t have a Covid—19
person.
So how are we coping with the spread of the virus?
We are not.
South Africa imposed a strict lockdown in April and May that
slowed the spread of the virus, but began a gradual
reopening in June.
Despite that, cases have surged, the President pointing
out however that:
But that is of little consolation to South Africans,
with some saying the pandemic has
exposed shortcomings in its health system.
The cracks that have been there, even before coronavirus,
are getting bigger every day.
Our healthcare system is failing our people.
It’s failing the entire country.
It was not ready for this virus.
The country has tested over 3 million people and brought
in an aggressive early lockdown, but that is no
guarantee of success against this deadly virus.
Paul Hawkins, BBC News.
Several European governments have expressed concern
about the resurgence of coronavirus cases
in a number of countries, including Belgium and France,
where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
In France, the 7—day average of new infections passed 1,000
per day this week.
Rates of infection in Germany remain low, but health
officials there have expressed "great concern" over
an increase in cases in the country.
Spain is struggling with a surge of new infections
that has sparked European travel warnings.
Gavin Lee is on the Spanish island of Mallorca.
Well, across Spain, the authorities are worried
about the speed of the spread of the pathogen.
There’s been an average of 1,000 cases here this week —
that’s ten times more than this time a month ago.
And across Europe too, well, if you look at France,
for example, double the number of cases compared to this time
last month, Germany too.
And also, if you look at the likes of Italy,
better news there, because they have had
a slight increase.
But Belgium — five times the number of cases compared
to a month ago.
In Germany, as of next week, they are going to make it
mandatory for travellers coming back from areas of high risk
to have a Covid test.
Now, that includes in Europe, parts of Spain, in Luxembourg
too, but for the moment, not for the UK.
Now, here in Majorca, there have been fewer cases,
around 27 Covid cases a day.
But there’s been the first confirmed case of tourists
being put in isolation since the lockdown was eased
as one person out of a party of ten, currently close
by here in Palma, are now in isolation in a hotel.
It is a worry, but no big concern at the moment,
and reason for alarm.
Given Lee in Majorca.
—— Gavin Lee in Majorca.
Let’s get some of the day’s other coronavirus news.
The Australian state of Victoria is expected
to introduce new lockdown measures, tougher than any seen
in the country before.
The restrictions, tipped to come into effect early next
week, are likely to force all shops to shut, apart
from supermarkets and service stations.
Victoria reported more than 650 infections on Sunday,
up from 397 cases the previous day.
Thousands of people have taken to the streets in Germany’s
capital Berlin to protest against the country’s
coronavirus restrictions.
Demonstrators say the measures including wearing face masks,
violate their rights and freedoms.
Germany has been less badly affected by the pandemic
than other European countries, but cases are starting
to rise again.
Classified documents from inside the British
military raise fresh questions as to whether UK Special Forces
in Afghanistan may have tried to cover up the killing
of civilians.
The previously secret material was disclosed as part
of a court case following a BBC Panorama investigation last
year, which highlighted allegations that British forces
had a policy of deliberately killing fighting aged men —
even when they didn’t pose a threat.
The Ministry of Defence has denied such a policy existed.
Our defence correspondent Jonathan Beale reports.
This is how elite troops target the Taliban —
controversial night raids with the aim to kill
or capture enemy fighters.
This shows Afghan commandos on a mission, with American
support, but it was the same tactics used by British Special
Forces during their time in Helmand.
Last year, BBC Panorama heard allegations the SAS had killed
unarmed civilians, with testimony from survivors
of a raid in 2011 who said the British shot family members
when they posed no threat.
We’ve blurred their faces to protect their identity.
TRANSLATION: They tied his hands in front of me.
If you’ve tied someone’s hands, how can they fight?
Lawyers representing one of the Afghan families are now
challenging the Ministry of Defence
here at the High Court.
They’re trying to find out whether there was a proper
investigation or whether there might have been a cover—up,
and they’ve just forced the MoD to release these highly
sensitive documents which show that there were serious
concerns about the raid within the British military.
In heavily redacted e—mails sent soon after the raid,
one British officer asks:
Another soldier replies with reports that two
of the Afghans were shot reaching for weapons.
He says:
While another e—mail highlights the anger of an Afghan officer,
who suggests:
One MP says the documents warrant a fresh investigation.
It’s deeply alarming, it’s deeply serious
and the Government needs to come clean.
If that doesn’t merit some kind of inquiry because,
at the end of the day, you’re talking about war crimes
— potential war crimes — then I don’t know what does.
The British military’s own report into the raid,
released to the court, says the four men killed
were all armed, and that one was a known Taliban commander
who’d been targeting coalition forces.
In a statement, the MoD said:
The MoD recently closed down the unit investigating
allegations of potential war crimes in Afghanistan but these
documents, at the very least, highlight concerns
about its transparency and the secrecy surrounding
Britain’s Special Forces.
Jonathan Beale, BBC News.
You are watching BBC News.
The headlines:
TikTok says it’s there for the long run after
President Trump says he’ll ban the Chinese—owned video sharing
app in the US.
South Africa records more than 500,000 virus infections.
That’s the fifth highest in the world.
Russian health authorities are preparing to start a mass
vaccination campaign against coronavirus in October
according to the country’s health minister.
But some experts are concerned at Russia’s fast—track
approach.
On Friday, the leading infectious disease expert
in the US, Dr Anthony Fauci, said he hoped that Russia
and China were "actually testing their vaccines"
before administering them to anyone.
So, what do we know about these and other vaccines
that are being worked on?
One Russian vaccine is being devised on by
the Moscow—based Gamaleya institute, and the second
by the Vektor state laboratory in Siberia.
There’s no public data
proving the vaccines’ safety or success.
Two Chinese companies, Sinovac and Sinopharm,
have launched final phase three trials.
A third vaccine from CanSino Biologics
is being used to immunise the military.
Three Western coronavirus vaccines
are in final phase three trials.
One from US biotech firm Moderna,
another by the University of Oxford
and Britain’s AstraZeneca,
and the last by Germany’s BioNTech
with US pharmaceutical Pfizer.
I spoke to Professor Peter Hotez.
He’s Dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine
at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.
He’s also working on a coronavirus vaccine
and I asked him what he made of Russia saying it would start
mass vaccinations in October.
Pretty extraordinary for a number of reasons. First of
number of reasons. First of all, the technical achievement
all, the technical achievement of making a coronavirus vaccine
of making a coronavirus vaccine for Covid—19 is actually not
for Covid-19 is actually not that high a
for Covid—19 is actually not that high a bar. There are many
that high a bar. There are many “75
that high a bar. There are many ways to do it. It is kind of an
ways to do it. It is kind of an art
ways to do it. It is kind of an artjudgement old school
artjudgement old school problem in virology to get
problem in virology to get something that induces higher
something that induces higher levels of virus reducing
levels of virus reducing antibody. Everyone assumes the
antibody. Everyone assumes the carbon
antibody. Everyone assumes the carton of the virus with the
carton of the virus with the spikes eliminating out and that
spikes eliminating out and that is what is involved in
is what is involved in attaching to host tissues if
attaching to host tissues if you have high levels of
you have high levels of antibody, you could potentially
antibody, you could potentially get a good vaccine as well as
get a good vaccine as well as used in late other bits of the
used in late other bits of the immune system. There are many
immune system. There are many “75
immune system. There are many ways to do it. We are doing it
ways to do it. We are doing it through an engineer protein.
through an engineer protein. Everyone knows about the Oxford
Everyone knows about the Oxford vaccine. There are several ways
vaccine. There are several ways to do it. The problem is this.
to do it. The problem is this. It is not so much making the
It is not so much making the vaccine. It is ensuring there
vaccine. It is ensuring there is adequate quality control so
is adequate quality control so you know what you are making
you know what you are making and you ran
you know what you are making and you can make it the same
and you ran make it the same “Y
and you ran make it the same way every
and you can make it the same way every time, and that you
way every time, and that you adequately tested and
adequately tested and large—scale clinical trials to
large-stale clinical trials to know
large—scale clinical trials to know the vaccine actually
know the vaccine actually works. And it is safer not
works. And it is safer not causing a significant level of
causing a significant level of severe reaction. That is what
severe reaction. That is what worries me when the Russians
worries me when the Russians announced they are suddenly
announced they are suddenly going to make a vaccine and
going to make a vaccine and have it by October. I am not so
have it by October. I am not so worried they can’t make
worried they can’t make vaccine. It is whether they
vaccine. It is whether they know it is actually safe and it
know it is actually safe and it works. If there are problems
works. If there are problams and it
works. If there are problems and it causes a significant
and it causes a significant safety signal across the
safety signal across the population, that then
population, that then discredits other vaccines and
discredits other vaccines and that is when you start getting
that is when you start getting measles outbreaks and
measles outbreaks and everything else. That is the
everything else. That is the peace that really worries me.
peace that really worries me. Interesting. Those knock—on
Interesting. Those knock-on effects
Interesting. Those knock—on effects of it not working,
effects of it not working, damaging public confidence, I
damaging public confidence, I suppose. Where are we or
suppose. where are we or leaving
suppose. Where are we or leaving Rutter aside for a
leaving Rutter aside for a second, the timescales of this,
second, the timescales of this, peopla
second, the timescales of this, people were saying originally
people were saying originally definitely not saying till
definitely not saying till 2021, now possibly the end of
2021, now possibly the end of the year. Where are we on the
the year. where are we on the different
the year. Where are we on the different efforts? There are
different efforts? There are differing opinions and in the
differing opinions and in the United States I sent tend to be
United States I sent tend to be on the conservative side,
on the conservative side, saying third quarter of 2021,
saying third quarter of 2021, and I say that because our
and I say that because our first vaccines are what we call
first vaccines are what we rail operational
first vaccines are what we call operational warp been going
operational warp been going into phase three large—scale
into phase three large-stale 30,000
into phase three large—scale 30,000 person clinical trials
30,000 person clinical trials only now there will be other
only now there will be other ones throughout the rest of the
ones throughout the rest of the year. But it should take about
year. But it should take about a year to collect enough data
a year to collact enough data on
a year to collect enough data on 30,000 volunteers showing
on 30,000 volunteers showing that it actually works and it
that it actually works and it is safe. I put it at the
is safe. I put it at the middle, towards the end of
middla, towards the end of 2021, and
middle, towards the end of 2021, and even that would be a
2021, and even that would be a world record. Others are saying
world record. Others are saying that it should be ready earlier
that it should be ready eartier to
that it should be ready earlier to release to the public, and
to release to the public, and it really depends on how good a
it really depends on how good a vaccine it is, because you can
vaccine it is, because you ran have
vaccine it is, because you can have vaccines that partially
have vaccines that partially protect, mainly reduced
protect, mainly reduced severity of symptoms, which is
severity of symptoms, which is important because it can
important because it ran prevent
important because it can prevent hospitalisations.
prevent hospitalisations. Whereas other vaccines will
whereas other vaccines will actually
Whereas other vaccines will actually block infection and
actually block infection and even potentially get herd
even potentially get herd immunity as a consequence. That
immunity as a consequence. That is important because some
is important because some vaccines will replace existing
vaccines will replace existing pubUc
vaccines will replace existing public health control measures.
public health control measures. Others will be used as
Others will be used as companion technologies
companion technologies alongside it. You can already
alongside it. You ran already see it gets
alongside it. You can already see it gets quite complex and
see it gets quite complex and you need a lot of carefully
you need a lot of carefully crafted public health
crafted public health messaging, which unfortunately
messaging, which unfortunately right now is not coming out of
right now is not coming out of the White House so that is an
the White House so that is an additional hurdle we are
additional hurdla we are facing.
Next, Sri Lankans are heading to the polls on Wednesday
in an election that will have far—ranging impacts
on Sri Lanka’s politics, rule of law and foreign policy.
Sunday is the last day of campaigning.
Our correspondent, Anbarasan Ethirajan,
in Colombo, takes a look at what we can expect.
MUSIC PLAYS
A buoyant Sri Lankan President, Gotabaya Rajapaksa,
is on a campaign trail once again.
Almost nine months after his landslide victory
in the presidential poll,
he wants to sweep the parliamentary election.
Mr Rajapaksa wants this man, his brother, Mahinda,
to be his Prime Minister.
Mahinda was President twice before
and Gotabaya was his Defence Secretary.
The election is happening
amid the unprecedented coronavirus crisis.
Sri Lanka has managed to contain the outbreak
with the deaths onlyjust into double figures.
The entire world is new subject to Covid—19 infection.
Sri Lanka is one of the best countries to face it
successfully and to save its own citizens.
Therefore, Gotabaya Rajapaksa has shown he’s a unique leader,
and because of that, people have a new hope.
However, the Rajapaksa brothers still face accusations
of rights abuses during the war
with the Tamil rebels, which ended in 2009.
They deny any wrongdoing, but the Rajapaksas’ supporters,
mostly drawn from the majority Sinhalese,
dismiss the criticism over rights abuses.
Sri Lanka has enjoyed a relative political stability
for the last nine months,
especially after the devastating
Easter Sunday bomb attacks last year.
President Gota baya Raja pa ksa’s party
wants to capitalise on that to secure a two—thirds majority
in Parliament
so that they can change the Constitution.
For example, to give more powers to the President.
This man, Sajith Premadasa, is one of the main challengers.
He’s promising a more inclusive Sri Lanka.
But the opposition is divided, splitting anti—Rajapaksa votes.
Some are worried that a two—thirds majority
in the current election
could lead to an authoritarian rule.
This comes at a time where we have seen increasing
attacks on civil society, on media, on lawyers.
So, the space for dissent is shrinking.
And the question is whether it will shrink further
post—elections?
And the signs so far
are that it is likely to happen that way.
Sri Lanka’s economy has been battered
by the Covid—19 crisis.
Many Sri Lankans feel only a strong government
will be able to revive the economy.
Anbarasan Ethirajan, BBC News.
Now, Greece has always been a popular summer holiday spot
for tourists around the world.
And this year, it’s allowing recreational diving
at archaeological sites for the first time.
Ishleen Kaur takes a look.
Ancient Greek history? Check.
Scuba—diving 7 Check.
Social distancing? Check.
If these are the things on your to—do list
this summer, this archaeological wonder
is open to the public for the first time ever.
Located off the coast of the island of Alonissos
in Greek, this bonanza of history
was off limits for decades.
TRANSLATION: This is the first time, notjust in Greece,
but a pan—European level, that such a site,
such a large shipwreck with so many objects
is open to the public and divers.
For almost 2,000 years,
the 5th—century Peristera shipwreck was lost to history,
as access to underwater sites
is typically restricted in Greece.
But with the marvels of modern—day technology,
authorities can now monitor the site
with underwater cameras.
We have installed in specific locations the cameras
in order to be able to recognise if anybody
or anything like a robotic—operated vehicle
has entered the protected area.
What runs behind this live streaming is a special
algorithm with artificial intelligence
that is able to recognise in real time
various classes of object.
For non—swimmers,
there is a virtual reality tour of the site.
Boasting warm crystal—clear waters
and thousands of amphorae or storagejars,
they call it the Acropolis of sea wrecks.
In sport, Arsenal have won the FA Cup for a record 14th
time, beating Chelsea 2—1 at Wembley.
Arsenal’s captain Pierre—Emerick Aubameyang
scored both his team’s goals.
He then lifted the trophy in front of a stadium of 90,000
empty seats because of coronavirus restrictions.
Victory secured Arsenal’s place in the Europe League next
H-H’I-hl
The team’s manager Mikel Arteta says that’s a bonus.
It is a double reward for us.
It is really important for this club in every way
to be in Europe.
We have gone into this competition,
winning it as part of our history,
1A now, I contributed, we all did it, so I am so happy.
Two astronauts on board the Space X capsule
are hurtling back towards Earth right now
after the Dragon Endeavour capsule
successfully undocked
from the International Space Station.
It is due to splash down off the western coast of Florida
later on Sunday.
NASA said it was safe to proceed with the landing
even though a tropical storm, Isaias, is currently
threatening the state’s eastern seaboard.
ii
It is the first private spacecraft in space for the
spacecraft in space for the USA. This is BBC News.
Hello there.
The heat and humidity ebbed away
during the course of Saturday
and resulted in a much more comfortable night for sleeping.
But again, as we know, on Friday,
with just shy of 38 Celsius,
we had our third hottest day on record.
Just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere
was ten degrees down on that on Saturday.
So, it felt a little cooler,
but it most certainly felt less humid,
so more comfortable for sleeping,
and we’ll keep that fresher feel
around for the day ahead.
But there will be scattered showers around.
We’re under the Atlantic influence again.
Low pressure to the north,
throwing in this weather front,
which has given some fairly heavy rain across
the northern half of the country through the night.
Still around, I think, first thing,
but look at those temperatures.
A much cooler start to the day for many.
And what we have in the north, that cloud and rain,
will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that
moisture, that will be the spark, if you like,
for some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
Now, we’re not expecting that many
showers across the southern half of England, across Wales
and the Midlands and East Anglia,
but they can’t be ruled out.
And temperatures will be a few degrees down on Saturdayjust
And temperatures will be a few degrees down on Saturdayjust
because it will be a cooler start to the day.
Still a fairly fresh breeze through the Channel.
After fairly few showers in the morning across
Northern Ireland, they will tend to become more
frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones
further north as well — but equally, some spells
of sunshine in between.
And, of course, it’s the British Grand Prix race
day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
There’s just that small chance of a shower.
Just a small chance.
And through the evening and overnight, those showers
will tend to ease away.
As you can see, just the risk
still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
But another fairly fresh night for most parts.
As we go, then, into Monday,
we’ve got a slight ridge of high pressure building in,
but it is only slight.
I still think there will be the odd shower around.
And already looming large in the Atlantic,
the next low—pressure system.
So, if we do see some of that rain,
it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
Then we may well have some slow—moving, sharp
showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant
in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
However, as we go into Tuesday,
we’ve got the Atlantic low potentially coming in,
bringing us some more significant and persistent,
quite widespread rain to the north and the west.
It will tend to peter out, we think,
as it heads southwards and eastwards,
but a fair breeze with that as well and some significant rain.
That’s certainly one to watch.
As ever, you can find out more information from our website.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
President Trump says he’ll ban TikTok —
the Chinese—owned video sharing app — in the US.
It comes amid concerns the app could be used to collect
Americans’ personal data.
TikTok denies any Chinese control and says that it is in
the US "for the long run".
More than 500,000 coronavirus cases have been confirmed
in South Africa, along with over 8,000 deaths.
South Africa is the hardest—hit country on the continent
and accounts for half of all reported infections in Africa.
It also has the fifth—highest number of cases in the world.
Several European governments have expressed concern
about the resurgence of coronavirus cases
in a number of countries, including Belgium and France,
where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
Spain in particular is struggling with a surge
of new infections that has sparked European travel
warnings, most notably from the UK.
Now it’s time for Click.
This week: Influencers, influencing.
But can you tell which one is the real thing?
Hey, welcome to Click.
Hope you are doing 0K.
This week we have something special for you.
You see, every so often, we start investigating
a subject thinking it will make a nice, interesting S—minute
film, but then we tug on a particular thread and it
turns out there is something way bigger and way weirder
going on than we thought.
Talking of way weirder, here’s Omar Mehtab.
Hey mate.
Hey, how’s it going?
Yeah, good, thanks.
So, do you want to start off by telling us what you were
originally sent out to look at?
We wanted to find out how online inﬂuencers,
the big personalities you see on social media,
have been impacted during the pandemic.
It seemed pretty straightforward.
Yeah, and then things got really interesting, right?
It did.
We started doing a little bit of digging and a pattern
emerged of inﬂuencers abusing the trust of their millions
of followers for their own financial gain.
Our story started here with some of the biggest social
media inﬂuencers in the world — a group called FaZe Clan,
famous for eSports and entertainment.
EMCEE: Put your hands together for FaZe Clan!
They have 230 million followers and were recently valued
at $250 million.
Social media influencing is the new frontier for marketing.
Influencers like FaZe Clan make deals with brands to promote
products to their millions of followers.
So these are the first ever FaZe Beats Pill.
I’m a big Man City fan.
For some, it’s easy to dismiss inﬂuencers,
but they are trusted by hundreds of millions of people.
And brands know that when it comes to marketing
their products, trust translates into money.
But the pandemic had financially impacted a lot
of these companies and so, we wanted to know if that meant
that inﬂuencers had also been hit.
But it turned out that things had actually been going pretty
well for FaZe Clan.
So just before the pandemic, a new trend was emerging
of inﬂuencers moving into huge houses together,
and these guys now live in a $35 million estate in Los
Angeles.
Hey, everyone.
So would you mind giving me a tour of the house?
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
It’s incredible to think that social media inﬂuencers have
become so big that these guys are able to live
in a mansion in LA.
It’s meant to help them collaborate and constantly
create new content to feed their hungry fans —
something which has come in very handy during the pandemic.
This is another spot where we come and spend some time.
Oh, my God!
So when you said lake, you meant an actual flipping
lake?
Yeah!
More people are watching, more people have time to watch
more and they want more even when they are done,
because they are still on the phones, they’re
still looking for content to consume.
What happens during the pandemic where people
are home more, right?
We have direct access to our fan base
on a seven days a week, 365 days cycle.
And then you have traditional production all on hold,
both film and television, and here we are in the gaming
space that we can still keep the trains running on time.
And we had even an added benefit of some of our
celebrity friends and partners, they are all home also
with very little to do, and we could lean on them
to help participate in different pieces of content.
We closed deals that were in the pipeline,
and we developed new deals during the pandemic.
But the truth is it hasn’t all been huge deals and the LA
high life for most.
Here’s the thing — the majority of inﬂuencers
don’t have hundreds of millions of followers and a slick CEO.
There are millions of inﬂuencers who are sole
traders, and they are actually able to make a living with only
tens of thousands of followers.
The people who are famous to you on Instagram may not be
the same people who are famous to me on Instagram,
because there are millions of them who have varying levels
of followers and influence.
Over time, once people got followings that reached
a certain level, people realised that they were
basically owners of mini media empires and once the money
became clear in that relationship, people started
to seek out more followers, more engagement, more brand
deals, and build businesses themselves.
But those millions of many influencers depend on smaller
—— But those millions of mini influencers depend on smaller
brands, smaller deals, and a lot less of them.
And we found out that many of them have struggled
during the pandemic.
Zara McDermott is one influencer who sits
in the middle ground.
She has gotjust under 1.5 million followers and she works
with a lot of mid—level brands.
I have seen inﬂuencers taking on jobs that I wouldn’t
necessarily see them taking on before the pandemic.
Just because I think there is a little bit of an air
of like "Maybe let’s take as manyjobs as we possibly can".
But this was the moment it became so much more.
Right at the end of the interview, Zara said
something which took our investigation to an unexpected
new direction.
So since the pandemic began, we found we have received
a really large quantity of e—mails from brands selling
what I think is counterfeit goods and basically trying
to get inﬂuencers to market these on their channels,
and Ijust believe that a lot of these brands are trying
to exploit inﬂuencers during this time by offering
them excessive amounts of money for very small deliverables.
And not all of these inﬂuencers had turned
these offers down.
Hey, guys.
As you can see, I have my new wireless earphones in...
I literally use my AirPods every single day...
ii
It is cute and they are all wireless. I have got a lot of
wireless. I have got a lot of EMS.
—— I have got a lot of DMs.
The sound quality is hanging.
Really good, and they connect to any Bluetooth device.
Off—camera of Zara’s interview, her manager Charli Paton told
us that her e—mail inbox was flooded by companies
offering thousands to get them to advertise knock—off
products.
So we went to find out more.
Some of the slightly more suspicious brands that reach
out to us are often willing to pay — and I know they do
actually pay a lot more money than the going rate
in the industry — sometimes even up to three times
the price that we would usually charge for certain promotions.
I think that they prey on the fact that inﬂuencers
and management companies don’t always do this due diligence.
They will get through to work with an influencer
and potentially be able to scam that influencer’s followers.
So Charli was fed up with getting all these scam
e—mails asking them to promote knock—off products and put
their business at risk, so she wanted to find out
who was behind it all.
And there was just one product that kept on coming up again
and again and again — knock—off Apple AirPods.
So the first thing to do seemed very obvious —
we would go straight to the influences to ask them
why they were doing this.
We found one influencer called Metisha who was getting a lot
of ﬂak for promoting a fake AirPods brand whose products
did not make it to their customers.
But to be fair to her, she did reimburse every
follower who got scammed.
There are a lot of scammy, like, companies.
But honestly I haven’t experienced anything
like this until the pandemic.
So this didn’t happen to me before the pandemic
and I was quite comfortable, because my girlfriend was like,
"Oh, I saw this — that a lot of UK inﬂuencers
already do this".
I thought, "Oh, it must be legit"
and I didn’t even look into it.
It was my responsibility to make sure this company
is legit.
I did not do that.
So, in order to fix it, I have to stand by my mistake
and to get scammed, it’s notjust the money —
they get angry, you know, why people like us or people
who are in public actually do this type of promotion
without looking into it,
and they are totally right.
Like, I can’t say anything but to apologise
and I think if someone like KylieJenner do this,
they need to, like, get it right
and they have the money,
they should reimburse every single person,
I think.
If I can do it, they can do it, too.
And then we found out that even the biggest inﬂuencers
in the world were being paid to promote these knock—off
AirPods.
Each Airbud comes with a charging case
and a charging cable.
Swipe up to check them out right now.
Their whole site is 70% off, and use the code Kylie
forfree shipping.
Kylie and Kendalljenner have a combined following of
337 million followers on Instagram,
and there they were, promoting a company whose
earbuds seem to be an exact copy of Apple’s
AirPods.
So we e—mailed theJenners, and after speaking to their
representatives multiple times, in the end, they declined
to comment.
Hey, mate.
How are you going?
Hey!
Not bad, not bad.
We uncovered a lot of videos of inﬂuencers
promoting knock—off Apple products on their Instagram.
This is what happens when people become traders
and they haven’t had the training or they are not
aware of the laws, they are just
flogging any old stuff.
I am actually about to order a couple of pairs for ourselves
now, to have a look.
Hello and welcome to the Week in Tech.
It was the week that Google announced plans
for a new transatlantic undersea network cable
to connect the UK, US and Spain.
Universal and movie theatre chain AMC to make new films
—— Universal and movie theatre chain AMC cut a deal to make
new films available for streaming online
faster, from up to three months to just 17 days.
And we heard that CES, one of the world’s largest tech
gatherings, with thousands of people meeting in Las Vegas,
will next year be an all—digital online event.
It was the week that the heads of Apple, Facebook and Google
Faced claims of harmful conduct before lawmakers.
Tim Cook, Jasper 6055, Mark Zuckerberg and Sunder
Pichai defended their companies and said they had spurred
innovation.
Computers at the Vatican were reportedly breached
by a group of state—backed hackers from China.
A US cyber security firm made the claim ahead of a sensitive
meeting between the Vatican and China.
Israeli ultrafast battery charging company Storedot
company demonstrated
a five—minute charge of a commercial drone,
which they said would normally take 60—90 minutes.
The company says it will allow a continuous mission
using charging stations.
And finally, Spot, Boston Dynamics’ robot dog,
is back with a newjob and a new name.
Fluffy, co m e
Fluffy, come here!
Ford have renamed Spot ‘Fluffy,'and have unleashed
a pair.
Equipped with five cameras, they will help create
360—degree scans of their factory ﬂoor.
So we’d uncovered lots of videos of inﬂuencers
promoting knock—off AirPods.
The next logical step was to order a couple of pairs
of pairs for ourselves.
We ordered them from Arkensia.
I heard something weighty go through my front door
letterbox.
It’s here!
It has taken about a week or so.
Hey!
All right?
How’s it going.
A bit of a surprise.
0K.
Here they are.
All of it is the same.
Oh, my god!
Look!
I have a pair of AirPods here.
Hold on, I will mix them up in my hand.
Which one is the real one?
The one to the left.
You, those ones. Those ones.
These are fake.
They must be breaching Apple’s design work.
Who do you actually show these to to get these...?
Well, go to Trading Standards.
So we went to see Trading Standards, and they were well
aware of inﬂuencers promoting knock—off goods,
and we wanted to know if they could ever combat this.
Even though it’s not necessarily bearing the Apple
trademark, the overall impression of the packaging,
the design of the case, the design of the earbuds
inside, is designed to give that impression that this
is an Apple product, and that is clearly an issue.
I think the important thing when we’re talking
about influencers in particular is that anybody would look
at taking a stepped approach in terms of any formal
action against influencers.
In the first instance, we would probably look
at providing some advice to influencers.
Having had those conversations around advice about consumer
law, inﬂuencers then continued to exhibit breaches,
and at that point is the time when Trading Standards
could consider more formal action against influencers.
And, because of the way these transactions are happening,
it makes it harder for regulators to track
the knock—offs.
It does make it easier for products to enter the UK
supply chain that perhaps otherwise would have been more
readily detected if they were coming in perhaps
in large quantities.
OK, so, another company that Charlie had forwarded to us
was one called SoundPlay who were also selling these
earphones.
And I ordered them about a month ago.
Here they are!
They’re obviously copying Apple’s images.
It keeps stopping and starting, these aren’t even functioning
properly.
Yeah, these are really bad.
I’m going to charge them up because this one works
and this one doesn’t.
So I charged them and unbelievably, this one earphone
still didn’t work.
So I e—mailed SoundPlay about them selling knock—off
AirPods and mine not even working, but they didn’t reply.
So talk to me about Apple, have you found out whether Apple
are doing anything about this problem?
Well, Apple did tell us they’re taking action against companies
selling knock—off goods.
There is one company we’ve been looking at,
however, Nova Play.
KylieJenner made a video advertising them back
in November and made one as recently as May as well,
and since then they’ve been operating this whole time.
So for a company that’s being advertised by a massive
influencer, you’d think they would pick up on that.
Apple’s not shy about protecting its reputation,
let’s be honest, although, I suppose KylieJenner is also
a massive personality so maybe this is a case
of the unstoppable force meeting the immovable object.
I tell you, it’s really interesting, stay in touch,
let me know how you get on.
Apple did provide a statement for us and said that last year
alone, they sought the removal of close to a million listings
for counterfeit and knock—off products from online
marketplaces.
It was about this time that we started talking to some
e—commerce experts to find out who was behind this wave
of knock—off product and influencer promotions.
And there was one word that kept coming up.
Drop shipping.
Drop shipping has become this highly accessible business
for a lot of people.
All you need is an internet connection and a laptop
and you’re ready to go.
The issue of drop shipping is a relatively new phenomenon.
It’s a very, very fast—moving business model that’s
constantly changing, we’re constantly seeing
new entrants into the market, new platforms that provide
the service, so as regulators and enforcers, to a certain
extent, we’re always trying play catch up.
We started searching and we found hundreds of people
saying they were making a fortune drop shipping.
But what is it?
Here’s a little rundown.
The drop shipper goes to an online Chinese
marketplace, often Ali Express.
They find a low—priced product, set up a website and add
a huge markup.
Inﬂuencers are paid to promote the product and send
you straight to the website.
When you buy the product, it ships directly to you from
China.
The seller could be on a different continent
and never even see the product.
Drop shippers don’t hold any inventory so there’s
no financial risk.
And it’s important to be really clear.
Drop shipping isn’t illegal.
For example, here’s Kevin David whojust moved into his pretty
sweet new apartment in Miami.
And he gave us a very honest insight about the insane amount
of money that drop shippers are actually making.
You can have a massive business without ever going to China.
Right?
I’ve personally sent millions of dollars to China,
I’ve gotten millions and millions of dollars worth
of products, I’ve never been to China.
Those AirPods, I’ve actually seen, some of my friends have
stores doing hundreds of thousands of dollars a month
selling those, right?
Someone will spend hundreds of millions, however much money
it costs to create it and then China will essentially
reverse engineer it.
Some sharp drop shippers take advantage of that
and they create massive, massive incomes by leveraging
those trends and being able to offer those really exclusive
high end products for much cheaper.
It’s very easy to take the moral high road but I think
if a lot of people had the skill set and caught
a trend at a certain time and were making $1000 profit
a day or $10,000 profit a day, I think they would probably
think slightly differently about that circumstance.
So we contacted loads of drop shippers and even chatted
to quite a few of them and there was one thing that
really stood out amongst them all, they’re just
like you and me.
Some of them even work out of their bedroom.
But the difference is, they’re making huge sums of money.
I couldn’t even afford the rent so I blew it up,
I blew my credit up.
So fast forward, I grabbed one of the products that took me
to, it was a Super Bowl ring, I made $55,000 in that month,
quit myjob, and then fast forward, I made over $20
million in the last five years.
Drop shipping dramatically changed my life.
All we needed to do was look on YouTube at these guys
bragging about how much money they’re making and sharing tips
on how to get in on it.
And when we were going through all these videos,
we found something incredible.
One guy was even showing other drop shippers a template letter
to copy and send influences.
It was that easy.
And the template that I give to my students that you can
just copy and paste and use for yourself.
It’s right here.
Instagram influencer reach out script.
And I’m going to say "hey", and the name of that
person "my name is", and you’re going to put your name.
That YouTube explainer was a stunning and revealed
so much.
The professional looking e—mails Charlie showed us,
sent from the mysterious companies, were actuallyjust
from bedrooms around the world.
And the shadowy drop shippers werejust entrepreneurs
trying their luck.
Like many things, you’ve got your good guys and you’ve
got your bad guys, but the problem is, it’s really
easy to be a bad guy when you’re an anonymous person
sitting behind a laptop.
And Gabrielle told us how some drop shippers can
easily scam people.
I see stores that come and go that, they literally steal
money from people.
One of the stores were selling IronMan hat which was like
a real hat that goes up and down and they were selling
it for $29.
When you go to Ali Babe and AliExpress, the selling
price is what is real, and those stores make millions
of dollars within a month and they they just wipe
the entire store and they collect the money,
they disappear and they don’t ship any products.
And those stores are literally, like, everywhere.
Anybody, literally, can identify and source products
online, can set up a means to have those products shipped,
can do so, to a large extent, with a good degree
of anonymity, quickly sell a whole bunch of dangerous
or counterfeit products and then exit the system before
regulators have had a chance to even catch up, is obviously
a significant concern for us.
So we went to the source of all of this — Instagram,
and they replied, telling us that "There’s no place
for fraudulent or inauthentic behaviour on Instagram
and we removed the accounts brought to their attention."
They didn’t answer the question about taking any action
against inﬂuencers themselves, however, they did tell us
they must follow local laws and vet brands before agreeing
to any paid partnership.
So, from Zara telling us about the suspicious e—mails
she’d been receiving, we delved into a world made
possible only by the modern internet.
Now, a teenager in Kansas can persuade an influencer
in London to promote a product.
Then that leads to someone in Stockholm buying something
from a factory in China which copies the design
of a company in California.
It’s a truly global story.
What are your final thoughts on this subject?
Well, with everyone that we’ve spoken to, there seems to be
a consensus that inﬂuencers should be held to the same
standard as other traders.
And I guess if inﬂuencers continue to promote these
imitations goods, their trust will be eroded, too.
So what can people do to protect themselves?
Take your time.
Don’tjust have that knee—jerk reaction and buy something that
you see come up on your feed.
Check social media, check review websites.
If there are complaints against the company
or what people are saying about the product.
And, if it’s too good to be true...
Then it probably is.
Omar, thanks so much.
That’s it from us.
You’d be interested to know, I’m sure, that Omar also
investigated a couple of other companies that
are using and possibly abusing social media inﬂuencers,
and you can hear that part of his investigation
on the trending podcast which is on BBC Sounds.
You can find us on social media and last time I checked,
you can trust us.
We are on Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and Twitter,
at BBC Click.
Thanks for watching and we’ll see you soon.
THEME MUSIC PLAYS.
Hello there.
The heat and humidity ebbed away
during the course of Saturday and resulted in a much more
comfortable night for sleeping.
But again, as we know, on Friday,
we were just shy of 38 Celsius.
We had our third hottest day on record.
Just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere was ten
degrees down on that on Saturday.
So, it felt a little cooler, but it
most certainly felt less humid, so more comfortable
for sleeping — and we’ll keep that fresher feel
around for the day ahead — but there will be scattered
showers around.
We’re under the Atlantic influence again.
Low pressure to the north throwing
in this weatherfront, which has given some fairly
heavy rain across the northern half
of the country through the night.
Still around, I think, first thing,
but look at those temperatures.
A much cooler start to the day for many.
And what we have in the north, that cloud and rain,
will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that
moisture, that will be the spark, if you like,
for some heavier showers as we go
into the afternoon.
Now, we’re not expecting that many
showers across the southern half
of England, across Wales and the Midlands and East Anglia,
but they can’t be ruled out.
And temperatures will be a few degrees down on Saturdayjust
because it will be a cooler start
to the day.
Still a fairly fresh breeze through the Channel.
After fairly few showers in the morning across
Northern Ireland, they will tend to become more
frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones
further north as well — but equally, some spells
of sunshine in between.
And, of course, it’s the British Grand Prix race
day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
There’s just that small chance of a shower.
Just a small chance.
And through the evening and overnight, those showers
will tend to ease away, as you can see, with the risk
still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
But another fairly fresh night for most parts.
As we go, then, into Monday, we’ve got a slight ridge
of high pressure building in, but it is only slight
and I still think there will be the odd shower around.
And already looming large in the Atlantic,
the next low pressure system.
So, if we do see some of that rain,
it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
Then, we may well have some slow—moving, sharp
showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant
in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
However, as we go into Tuesday, we’ve got the Atlantic
low potentially coming in, bringing us some more
significant and persistent, quite widespread rain
to the North and the West.
It will tend to peter out, we think, as it heads
southwards and eastwards, but a fair breeze with that
as well and some significant rain.
That’s certainly one to watch.
As ever, you can find out more information from our website.
This is BBC News.
I’m Lewis Vaughanjones with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
TikTok says it’s "there for the long run" after
President Trump says he’ll ban the Chinese—owned video sharing
app in the US.
South Africa records more than 500,000 virus infections —
that’s the fifth highest in the world.
Across Europe, several governments express concern
about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
And the ancient Acropolis of the Sea opens to divers,
but the treasures are guarded by 21st century tech.
Hello and welcome to the programme.
The US general manager of TikTok has said
the Chinese—owned video—sharing app is "here for the long run"
after President Trump said he would ban it in the US.
Vanessa Pappas told TikToks more than 80 million US users
—— Vanessa Pappas told TikTok’s more than 80 million US users
in a video statement that its staff were building
"the safest app" possible amid US concerns about data
protection.
Jack Kilbride reports.
You have heard your outpouring of support and we want to say
thank you, and we’re not planning on going anywhere.
Fighting words from an application the US President
is threatening to ban.
TikTok, for millions of young Americans, is a fun
video—sharing app full of dances and memes,
but for Donald Trump, it is a national security
T-Z-hI-Z-Hll
We’re looking at TikTok, we may be banning TikTok,
we may be doing some other things, there are a couple
of options, but a lot of things are happening,
so we’ll see what happens.
The issue for the president is that the application
is owned by a Chinese company, ByteDance, and there
is a concern that the data it collects from users will be
passed over to Beijing.
It is a concern that has seen India already ban the app
and Australia talk of following suit, but not everyone
is as worried.
There are real national security implications
with our media networks.
The question at hand is really is this a good way
to go about it?
And simply banning TikTok is not going to do anything
for national security.
ByteDance denies the allegation and, according to some reports,
have agreed to offload the US operation of TikTok
with Microsoft taking over and assuming all responsibility
for protecting the data of users, and there are questions
about whether a ban would even work.
You wouldn’t be able to do it.
Unlike China or Iran, where there is only one or two
internet service providers, in the US, it is very,
very difficult to be able to do that — there are so many
telecom service providers.
So even if you convince them to be able to do that,
there is going to be a lot of loopholes and in all
likelihood it will be very — in my opinion, very close
to impossible to be able to successfully do that.
But whether it happens or not, it is clear that the move
is part of a bigger battle between Washington and Beijing.
One that is also not going anywhere.
Jack Kilbride, BBC News.
Earlier, I spoke to Dan Primack, business editor
at Axios, the news website.
I asked him what we know about this potential
deal with Microsoft.
They have a deal.
Microsoft — ByteDance has agreed to basically divest 100%
of TikTok, or at least the US operations of
TikTok, to Microsoft.
And the deal is on Donald Trump’s desk.
The surprise for both Microsoft and TikTok,
ByteDance, together was Trump’s comments from last night,
because they believed that this was a solution to the problem.
So what’s going on, then?
If that was an elegant solution, why not go for it?
It’s a question nobody seems able to answer.
And it’s worth noting Trump said last night
that they were going to ban — he was going to ban TikTok very
soon, or at least that’s what the full report said.
It has been 2A hours.
He has done no such thing.
So, granted, tomorrow’s Sunday.
Monday, he could do it.
It is unclear if it is the date issue.
It’s unclear if this is pure politics, kind
of an anti—China, red meat thing for his base.
It’s unclear...
There’s some speculation on Twitter, et cetera,
some TikTok users, particularly younger ones, have caused some
problems for the Trump campaign.
They kind of overbought tickets to a rally they never used.
They’ve done things like that.
It’s unclear.
Trump himself hasn’t clearly said what his problem
with TikTok is.
And just — do you have any problems with TikTok?
What do you feel about the privacy concerns?
There’s clearly a lot of anxious people out there.
Is that overblown, or is it legitimate?
I mean, I’m not somebody who’s been able to reverse—engineer
the code, so I can’t speakfor sure.
But what I can say is this is notjust Washington,
DC or Donald Trump concern.
For example, Wells Fargo, which is one of the biggest
banks in the United States, about two weeks ago they told
all of their employees to remove TikTok from any
of their work devices.
Amazon did the same thing actually to all of its
employees, although it then rescinded that,
said it had been sent in error, but has never quite explained
why such an e—mail would have been written by its IT
department in the first place, let alone in error.
50 clearly there are concerns, notjust from government
officials, but also from some private enterprise
and private technology companies.
And just a bit of an unfair question.
Crystal ball time — what do you think happens next?
Where do you see this going?
I have to believe this Microsoft deal gets done.
Itjust makes too much sense not to.
Again, Trump technically does have the ability,
most likely, to block this.
Not by blocking the Microsoft acquisition so much,
but the back story a little bit was that TikTok was created
by the acquisition of something called Musical.ly, and Trump
could basically say that that deal, which is several years
old, was invalid.
Thus TikTok as we know it effectively doesn’t exist.
Dan Primack there.
Next, South Africa has now registered more than 500,000
cases of coronavirus, making it by far the hardest—hit country
on the continent.
It now accounts for more than half
of Africa’s diagnosed infections.
Paul Hawkins reports.
Mourning another life taken by coronavirus.
8,153 people have died from it in South Africa,
but it could be much higher.
The South African Medical Research Council says
the number of people dying from natural causes from May 6
toJune 21 is 60% higher this year compared to the same
period in 2019 and 2018.
The government says there have been over 500,000 confirmed
infections in the country — that is at least half
of all the coronavirus cases on the continent —
and a third of them are in Gauteng Province,
where hospitals like Thelle Mogoerane are struggling
to cope, as this member of staff explained.
The staff is not there.
We have a gross shortage of staff.
It’s chaos, it’s crazy.
Nurses are testing positive as well, and it’s a mess.
In ourfacilities and in our hospitals, Covid—19 cases
are all over the place.
There is no ward, by the way,
that doesn’t have a Covid-19 person.
So how are we coping with the spread of the virus?
We are not.
South Africa imposed a strict lockdown in April and May that
slowed the spread of the virus, but began a gradual
reopening in June.
Despite that, cases have surged, the President pointing
out however that: But that is of little consolation
—— out however that:
But that is of little consolation
to South Africans, with some saying the pandemic has exposed
shortcomings in its health system.
The cracks that have been there, even before coronavirus,
are getting bigger every day.
Our healthcare system, public healthcare system,
is failing our people, it’s failing the entire country.
It was not ready for this virus.
The country has tested over 3 million people and brought
in an aggressive early lockdown, but that is no
guarantee of success against this deadly virus.
Paul Hawkins, BBC News.
Several European governments have expressed concern
about the resurgence of coronavirus cases
in a number of countries, including Belgium and France,
where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
In France, the 7—day average of new infections passed 1,000
per day this week.
Rates of infection in Germany remain low, but health
officials there have expressed "great concern" over
an increase in cases in the country.
Spain is struggling with a surge of new infections
that has sparked European travel warnings.
Gavin Lee is on the Spanish island of Mallorca.
Well, across Spain, the authorities are worried
about the speed of the spread of the pathogen.
There’s been an average of 1,000 cases here this week —
that’s ten times more than this time a month ago.
And across Europe too, well, if you look at France,
for example, double the number of cases compared to this time
last month — Germany, too.
And also, if you look at the likes of Italy,
better news there, because they have had
a slight increase.
But Belgium — five times the number of cases compared
to a month ago.
In Germany, as of next week, they are going to make it
mandatory for travellers coming back from areas of high risk
to have a Covid test.
Now, that includes in Europe, parts of Spain, in Luxembourg
too, but for the moment, not for the UK.
Now, here in Majorca, there have been fewer cases,
around 27 Covid cases a day.
But there’s been the first confirmed case of tourists
being put in isolation since the lockdown was eased,
as one person out of a party of ten, currently close
by here in Palma, are now in isolation in a hotel.
It is a worry, but no big concern at the moment,
and reason for alarm.
That is the latest from Majorca.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The Australian state of Victoria is expected
to introduce new lockdown measures — tougher than any
seen in the country before.
The restrictions, tipped to come into effect early next
week, are likely to force all shops to shut, apart
from supermarkets and service stations.
Victoria reported more than 650 infections on Sunday,
up from 397 cases the previous day.
Thousands of people have taken to the streets in Germany’s
capital Berlin to protest against the country’s
coronavirus restrictions.
Demonstrators say the measures, including wearing face masks,
violate their rights and freedoms.
Germany has been less badly affected by the pandemic
than other European countries, but cases are starting
to rise again.
Classified documents from inside the British Military
raise fresh questions as to whether UK Special Forces
in Afghanistan may have tried to cover up the killing
of civilians.
The previously secret material was disclosed as part
of a court case following a BBC Panorama investigation last
year, which highlighted allegations that British forces
had a policy of deliberately killing fighting aged men,
even when they didn’t pose a threat.
The Ministry of Defence has denied such a policy existed.
Our defence correspondent Jonathan Beale reports.
This is how elite troops target the Taliban —
controversial night raids with the aim to kill
or capture enemy fighters.
This shows Afghan commandos on a mission, with American
support, but it was the same tactics used by British Special
Forces during their time in Helmand.
Last year, BBC Panorama heard allegations the SAS had killed
unarmed civilians, with testimony from survivors
of a raid in 2011 who said the British shot family members
when they posed no threat.
We’ve blurred their faces to protect their identity.
TRANSLATION: They tied his hands in front of me.
If you’ve tied someone’s hands, how can they fight?
Lawyers representing one of the Afghan families are now
challenging the Ministry of Defence
here at the High Court.
They’re trying to find out whether there was a proper
investigation or whether there might have been a cover—up,
and they’ve just forced the MoD to release these highly
sensitive documents which show that there were serious
concerns about the raid within the British military.
In heavily redacted e—mails sent soon after the raid,
one British officer asks:
Another soldier replies with reports that two
of the Afghans were shot reaching for weapons.
He says:
While another e—mail highlights the anger of an Afghan officer,
who suggests:
One MP says the documents warrant a fresh investigation.
It’s deeply alarming, it’s deeply serious
and the Government needs to come clean.
If that doesn’t merit some kind of inquiry because,
at the end of the day, you’re talking about war crimes
— potential war crimes — then I don’t know what does.
The British military’s own report into the raid,
released to the court, says the four men killed
were all armed, and that one was a known Taliban commander
who’d been targeting coalition forces.
In a statement, the MoD said:
The MoD recently closed down the unit investigating
allegations of potential war crimes in Afghanistan but these
documents, at the very least, highlight concerns
about its transparency and the secrecy surrounding
Britain’s Special Forces.
Jonathan Beale, BBC News.
You are watching BBC News.
The headlines:
TikTok says it’s "there for the long run"
after President Trump says
he’ll ban the Chinese—owned video sharing app in the US.
South Africa records more than 500,000 virus infections —
that’s the fifth highest in the world.
Russian health authorities are preparing to start
a mass vaccination campaign against coronavirus
in October, according to the country’s health minister.
But some experts are concerned.
On Friday, the leading virus expert in the US,
Dr Anthony Fauci, said he hoped that Russia —
and China — were "actually testing their vaccines" before
administering them to anyone.
So, what do we know about these and other vaccines
that are being worked on?
One Russian vaccine is being devised on
—— One Russian vaccine is being devised
by the Moscow—based Gamaleya Institute
and the second by the Vektor state laboratory in Siberia.
There’s no public data proving the vaccines’ safety
or SUCCESS.
Two Chinese companies Sinovac and Sinopharm,
have launched final, phase three, trials.
A third vaccine from CanSino Biologics is being used
to immunise the military.
Three Western coronavirus vaccines are in final
phase three trials.
One from US biotech firm Moderna,
another by the University of Oxford
and Britain’s AstraZeneca
and the last by Germany’s BioNTech
with US pharmaceutical Pfizer.
Earlier, I spoke Doctor Rishi Desai.
He is a former Epidemic Intelligence officer
with the US Centre for Disease Control.
I suggested to him that Russia’s vaccine development
is pretty quick.
Yeah, to put it into perspective, to make a vaccine
usually takes a decade and the world record,
if you think of it as a race, the fastest we have done
it is four or five years and so right now
we started inJanuary and seven months later they predict it
may be October, that is ten months
and that would be shocking.
Generally there are three phases.
Phase one, two, three.
First phase, is it safe?
And you do that on humans.
Phase two also in humans, what size dose, and the third
phase, what is the ability for this to work well?
And so all three phases must be done in the US
and what we don’t have right now from Russia is data.
We have these press releases and statements
which are super exciting
if you are the rest of the world watching this
and there is a lot of interest.
But what we need is data, do they go through the stages?
What did the data show and right now we
have none of that.
It is exciting but honestly it is unclear what was done.
How usual or unusual would be to share that kind of thing?
Because obviously companies in different countries
are in competition, under normal circumstances,
and there would be huge calls for greater
cooperation this time around.
So what’s the norm?
The norm is to show and publish your data.
Every single company out there working on this
in a legitimate way is issuing the data and I think
there is a lot of scrutiny posted on the data because we
want to make sure it is safe, first and foremost,
and that it works.
You can’t make these claims if you can’t show
the data behind it.
You need to show your work, if you’re doing a math problem,
you need to show that you actually did the work
and you are not making up answers.
No—one wants to be making up answers under these
circumstances.
Give us a flavour of the timescales
involved in testing for safety?
I’m sure some people thinking would think 0K we can test
and if there is no immediate reaction, great but maybe
there are some some side effects to
take months or years to show.
How do we have enough time to test for safety?
Exactly the right concerns.
There are some things you might look at that
may be years down the road but we do not have time
for that full generally speaking, what we’re talking
about when we say safety is the order of months.
In the order of months, what is happening?
Do you notice anything?
You might try different doses, is it still
safe to do?
These are steps taken on the order of months,
normally, and it normally takes long time because you have
funding issues, you need political will, you need
the researchers on the same page.
A lot of that has happened in a very expeditious timeline
because the whole world is focused on this.
50 money is pouring in, you’ve got researchers
working together and sharing data
and all this has been sped up in a really great way but,
of course, you must still be cautious because if you are
going to unroll this and have billions of people getting this
vaccine you want to make sure that you have crossed your T’s
and dotted your I’s and are doing it in a transparent way.
If not, no—one’s really going to trust it.
For more detail on where the World is in the race
for a coronavirus vaccine, have a look at this article
by our health correspondent James Gallagher.
It’s at the usual place at bbc.com/news.
Sri Lankans are heading to the polls on Wednesday
in an election that will have far—ranging impacts
on Sri Lanka’s politics, rule of law, and foreign policy.
Sunday is the last ay of campaigning.
Our correspondent Anbarasan Ethirajan in Colombo,
takes a look at what we can expect.
MUSIC PLAYS
A buoyant Sri Lankan President, Gotabaya Rajapaksa,
is on a campaign trail once again.
Almost nine months after his landslide victory
in the presidential poll,
he wants to sweep the parliamentary election.
Mr Rajapaksa wants this man, his brother, Mahinda,
to be his Prime Minister.
Mahinda was President twice before
and Gotabaya was his Defence Secretary.
The election is happening
amid the unprecedented coronavirus crisis.
Sri Lanka has managed to contain the outbreak
with the deaths onlyjust into double figures.
The entire world is new subject to Covid—19 infection.
Sri Lanka is one of the best countries to face it
successfully and to save its own citizens.
Therefore, Gotabaya Rajapaksa has shown he’s a unique leader,
and because of that, people have a new hope.
However, the Rajapaksa brothers still face accusations
of rights abuses during the war
with the Tamil rebels, which ended in 2009.
They deny any wrongdoing, but the Rajapaksas’ supporters,
mostly drawn from the majority Sinhalese,
dismiss the criticism over rights abuses.
Sri Lanka has enjoyed a relative political stability
for the last nine months,
especially after the devastating
Easter Sunday bomb attacks last year.
President Gota baya Raja pa ksa’s party
wants to capitalise on that to secure a two—thirds majority
in Parliament
so that they can change the Constitution.
For example, to give more powers to the President.
This man, Sajith Premadasa, is one of the main challengers.
He’s promising a more inclusive Sri Lanka.
But the opposition is divided, splitting anti—Rajapaksa votes.
Some are worried that a two—thirds majority
in the current election
could lead to an authoritarian rule.
This comes at a time where we have seen increasing
attacks on civil society, on media, on lawyers.
So, the space for dissent is shrinking.
And the question is whether it will shrink further
post—elections?
And the signs so far
are that it is likely to happen that way.
Sri Lanka’s economy has been battered
by the Covid—19 crisis.
Many Sri Lankans feel only a strong government
will be able to revive the economy.
Anbarasan Ethirajan, BBC News.
Greece has always been a popular summer holiday spot
for tourists around the world.
And this year it’s allowing recreational diving
at archaeological sites for the first time.
Ishleen Kaur takes a look.
Ancient Greek history? Check.
Scuba—diving 7 Check.
Social distancing? Check.
If these are the things on your to—do list
this summer, this archaeological wonder
is open to the public for the first time ever.
Located off the coast of the island of Alonissos
in Greek, this bonanza of history
was off limits for decades.
was off limits for decades.
TRANSLATION: This is the first time, notjust in Greece,
but a pan—European level, that such a site,
such a large shipwreck with so many objects
is open to the public and divers.
For almost 2,000 years,
the 5th—century Peristera shipwreck was lost to history
as access to underwater sites
is typically restricted in Greece.
But with the marvels of modern—day technology,
authorities can now monitor the site
with underwater cameras.
We have installed in specific locations the cameras
in order to be able to recognise if anybody
or anything like a robotic—operated vehicle
has entered the protected area.
What runs behind this live streaming is a special
algorithm with artificial intelligence
that is able to recognise in real time
various classes of object.
For non—swimmers,
there is a virtual reality tour of the site.
Boasting warm crystal—clear waters
and thousands of amphorae or storagejars,
they call it the Acropolis of sea wrecks.
Ishleen Kaur, BBC News.
In Sport Arsenal have won the FA Cup for a record 14th
time, beating Chelsea 2—1 at Wembley.
Arsenal’s captain Pierre—Emerick Aubameyang
scored both his team’s goals.
He then lifted the trophy in front of a stadium
of 90,000 empty seats, because of coronavirus
restrictions.
Victory secured Arsenal’s place in the Europe League
next season.
The team’s manager Mikel Arteta says that’s a bonus.
It is a double reward for us.
It is really important for this club in every way
to be in Europe.
We have gone into this competition,
winning it as part of our history,
1A now, I contributed, we all did it, so I am so happy.
Two astronauts on board the Space X capsule
are hurtling back towards Earth right now, after the Dragon
Endeavour capsule successfully undocked from the International
Space Station.
It is due to splash down off the western coast of Florida
later on Sunday.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @LVaughanJones.
Hello there.
The heat and humidity ebbed away
during the course of Saturday
and resulted in a much more comfortable night for sleeping.
But again, as we know, on Friday,
with just shy of 38 Celsius,
we had our third hottest day on record.
Just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere
was ten degrees down on that on Saturday.
So, it felt a little cooler,
but it most certainly felt less humid,
so more comfortable for sleeping,
and we’ll keep that fresher feel
around for the day ahead.
But there will be scattered showers around.
We’re under the Atlantic influence again.
Low pressure to the north,
throwing in this weather front,
which has given some fairly heavy rain across
the northern half of the country through the night.
Still around, I think, first thing,
but look at those temperatures.
A much cooler start to the day for many.
And what we have in the north, that cloud and rain,
will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that
moisture, that will be the spark, if you like,
for some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
Now, we’re not expecting that many
showers across the southern half of England, across Wales
and the Midlands and East Anglia,
but they can’t be ruled out.
And temperatures will be a few degrees down on Saturdayjust
because it will be a cooler start to the day.
Still a fairly fresh breeze through the Channel.
After fairly few showers in the morning across
Northern Ireland, they will tend to become more
frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones
further north as well — but equally, some spells
of sunshine in between.
And, of course, it’s the British Grand Prix race
day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
There’s just that small chance of a shower —
just a small chance.
And through the evening and overnight, those showers
will tend to ease away.
As you can see, just the risk
still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
But another fairly fresh night for most parts.
As we go, then, into Monday,
we’ve got a slight ridge of high pressure building in,
but it is only slight.
I still think there will be the odd shower around.
And already looming large in the Atlantic,
the next low—pressure system.
So, if we do see some of that rain,
it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
Then we may well have some slow—moving, sharp
showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant
in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
However, as we go into Tuesday,
we’ve got the Atlantic low potentially coming in,
bringing us some more significant and persistent,
quite widespread rain to the north and the west.
It will tend to peter out, we think,
as it heads southwards and eastwards,
but a fair breeze with that as well and some significant rain.
That’s certainly one to watch.
As ever, you can find out more information from our website.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
President Trump says he’ll ban TikTok —
the Chinese—owned video sharing app — in the US.
It comes amid concerns the app could be used to collect
Americans’ personal data.
TikTok denies any Chinese control and says that it is in
the US "for the long run".
More than 500,000 coronavirus cases have been confirmed
in South Africa, along with over 8,000 deaths.
South Africa is the hardest—hit country in Africa
and accounts for half of all reported infections
on the continent.
It also has the fifth—highest number of cases in the world.
Several European governments have expressed concern
about the resurgence of coronavirus cases
in a number of countries, including Belgium and France,
where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
Spain in particular is struggling with a surge
of new infections that has sparked European travel
warnings, most notably from the UK.
Coming up at 6 o’clock,
Breakfast with Naga Munchetty and Chris Mason.
But first on BBC News, a review of how Parliament has
tackled the coronavirus crisis, presented by David Cornock.
Hello and welcome to Westminster in Review,
a look at Parliament’s role in the corona crisis.
Boris Johnson finally got the job he had always wanted,
but the job description had changed.
I must level with you, level with the British public.
More families — many more families —
are going to lose loved ones before their time.
The Prime Minister was almost one of them as the global
pandemic landed too close to home.
It left him with questions to answer.
65,000 people have lost their lives because of Covid—19.
The Prime Minister should welcome challenge that can
save lives, rather than complaining about it.
It was a crisis that overturned centuries of tradition
to change the way Westminster works, with unexpected results.
And the BBC are also now embracing this.
Why...
And I apologise for my cat’s tail.
Why are you not doing this by default?
LAUGHTER.
On a Wednesday afternoon in late January, the Health
Minister was summoned to the House of Lords to answer
an urgent question on what was described as the "Wuhan novel
coronavirus threat to UK citizens".
It was the first reference in Parliament to what was to
become a global pandemic that has cost tens of thousands
of lives here in the UK, hundreds of thousands
worldwide.
The Minister, Lady Blackwood. tried to reassure peers.
We are monitoring closely the development of this virus.
Advice from Public Health England and the Chief Medical
Officer is that the risk to the UK is currently low.
The UK is well prepared for the emergence of novel viruses.
The following day, her boss, the Health Secretary,
came to a sparsely attended Commons before social
distancing restricted numbers, to tell MPs that
England’s Chief Medical Officer had revised the risk to the UK
population from very low to low.
While there is an increased likelihood that cases may arise
in this country, we are well prepared and well equipped
to deal with them.
The UK is one of the first countries to have developed
a world—leading test for the new coronavirus.
The World Health Organization has warned that countries are,
quote, "simply not ready for a pandemic" and there has
now been significant spread of the virus
across the European continent.
Italy, in particular, but other cases have been
identified in Austria, Croatia and Switzerland.
This is clearly now very, very serious.
Matt Hancock updates became a regular feature of Commons
life as the virus spread.
The Prime Minister delivered his own public health message.
m
Do you know the (NATIONAL ANTHEM PLAYS).?
Do you know the national anthem?
You’ve got to do two verses.
Two verses — I think 20 seconds will be sufficient.
# Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you...
Six days later, against the Downing Street backdrop
that became increasingly familiar, the tone had changed.
I must level with you, level with the British public.
More families — many more families —
are going to lose loved ones before their time.
Lockdown arrived ten days later.
Our instruction is simple — stay at home.
Madame Deputy Speaker, we are engaged in a great
national effort.
—— national effort to beat the virus.
Everybody now has it in their power to save lives
and protect the NHS.
Home is now the frontline.
MPs and peers soon got a taste of working from home
themselves as Parliament brought forward and extended
its Easter break, but not before rushing through what is
now the Coronavirus Act, handing sweeping emergency
powers to the police, local councils and the nations
of the UK.
Coronavirus is the most serious public health emergency that
has faced the world in a century.
We are all targets, but the disease reserves
its full cruelty for the weakest and the most
vulnerable, and to defeat it, we are proposing extraordinary
measures of a kind never seen before in peacetime.
Today, this House is being asked to make decisions
of a magnitude I simply would never have dreamt of only
a few weeks ago, and I know no member came into this place
to put powers like this on the statute book.
There were some sceptical voices.
Nobody denies this bill is necessary.
But given that this bill gives unprecedented powers
to the state to enforce isolation on people who have
committed no crime for the first time in our
history, will the Secretary of State reassure the House
that this House will be fully involved in renewing this once
this crisis is over, and there won’t be any drift
in this matter?
There were fears the NHS might be overwhelmed by visitors.
We have one acute hospital in Inverness.
Some of these tourist destinations are more
than three hours from Inverness.
We have been absolutely inundated with people that
showed no concern for the local population.
The act covers everything from the management of dead
bodies to the closure of schools and the postponement
of parliamentary by—elections.
It was passed in just four sitting days with an air
of resigned acceptance in both Commons and the Lords.
Fundamentally, this bill is about buying time.
You may not think it, looking at those alarming
graphs charting the growth of the disease, but time
can help us.
With each day that passes, the science is getting better.
Her Majesty’s loyal Opposition supports this bill.
In normal times, it would be utterly unacceptable.
These are not normal times.
And as a result, we are not just faced with this bill,
but we must consider how we as a Parliament operate
in the weeks and months ahead.
Parliament then disappeared for an extended Easter break.
When it returned, it was very different.
Only 50 MP5 were allowed in the socially distanced
House of Commons.
Others could contribute via videoconferencing.
In the Lords, the Lord Speaker vacated the Woolsack
and was self—isolating.
Today, all of our proceedings will be conducted virtually
and will be available for broadcasters.
As a matter of interest, I am chairing proceedings
from my home in the Isle of Wight.
MPs usually vote by crowding into either of two corridors
alongside the chamber.
It takes about 50 minutes for the result to be declared.
—— It takes about 15 minutes for the result to be declared.
A first attempt at a new remote system saw the Chancellor
accidentally vote against his own Government.
Later, a new form of chamber voting lead to an MPs’
conga around the Palace of Westminster in a division
that took 44 minutes and proved a challenge for some.
Sorry.
LAUGHTER.
Stephen Crabb — no.
Aye!
Aye!
LAUGHTER.
Stephen Crabb wasn’t alone.
That confusing chamber voting system was soon replaced
by swipe cards, with proxy votes available for MP5
unable to attend.
Parliament’s extended break had seen its own drama.
The Prime Minister almost died from coronavirus.
Initially, BorisJohnson had self—isolated
in Downing Street after developing what he said
were mild symptoms.
Hi, folks.
I want to bring you up to speed with something
that is happening today, which is that I have
developed mild symptoms of the coronavirus —
that’s to say a temperature and a persistent cough.
And a few days later, he was rushed to hospital
in central London, before being moved to intensive care,
where he spent three nights.
When MPs returned from their recess, Dominic Raab was taking
Prime Minister’s questions.
Thank you very much, Mr Speaker.
I’ve been asked to respond on behalf of my right
honourable friend the Prime Minister, and I am pleased
to tell the House that he is making a good recovery
and is in good spirits.
By the time BorisJohnson returned to work, he had
a new opponent —
Sir Keir Starmer, a senior lawyer in a past life,
had been elected Leader of the Opposition.
At Question Time each week, he challenged the Prime
Minister over his handling of the pandemic, here over
plans to track and trace those with the virus.
The Prime Minister risks making mistakes he made
at the beginning of the pandemic, brushing aside
challenge, dashing forward, not estimating properly the risks.
If two thirds of those with Covid—19 are not
being contacted, that is a big problem.
Yesterday, the right honourable gentleman was kind enough,
actually, to say that he supported our policy
and supported our programme.
I seem to remember him saying that loud and clear yesterday.
Today — today, as I say — I understand the constraints
of the profession in which he used to work —
I know how it works —
today, he appears to be going back into a position
of opposition.
Which is it?
Is he supporting what we’re doing, or is he against it?
I do support the next stage of the operation
but the Prime Minister is wrong to reject challenge.
65,000 people have lost their lives because of Covid—19.
The Prime Minister should welcome challenge that
could save lives, rather than complaining about it.
That figure of 65,000 refers to excess deaths overall.
Keir Starmer pursued his argument at later question
times, after the lockdown eased and the hairdressers reopened.
The Prime Minister must recognise that huge mistakes
have been made.
Two months ago at PMQs, I highlighted the weaknesses
of early guidance on care homes.
The Prime Minister, typically ﬂippant, simply said
it is not true.
There were repeated warnings from the care sector,
repeated delays in providing protective equipment.
This wasn’t hindsight.
They were raised here, day in, day out, week
in, week out.
It wasn’t hindsight.
It was real—time for the frontline.
Same on testing, and the decision to discharge
—— Same on routine testing, and the decision to discharge
20,000 people to care homes without tests
was clearly a mistake.
Our understanding of the disease changed
dramatically in the months that we’ve had it.
And when he looks at the action plan that we brought
in to help our care workers, I think he would appreciate
the vast amount of work that they have done,
the PPE that they have been supplied with, the testing
that they have been supplied with, that has helped them
to get the incidence of the disease down
to record lows.
BorisJohnson was later to qualify that defence
of his record.
The health crisis swiftly became an economic one,
with the Bank of England predicting the deepest
recession for 300 years.
Rishi Sunak had been Chancellor for barely a month before
he delivered his first budget in March, one dominated
by the pandemic.
At the time, Jeremy Corbyn was still the Opposition
Leader.
Whatever extra resources our NHS needs to cope
with coronavirus, it will get.
So whether it’s research for a vaccine, recruiting
thousands of returning staff or supporting our brilliant
doctors and nurses, whether it’s millions of pounds
or billions of pounds — whatever it needs, whatever it
costs, we stand behind our NHS.
But Opposition leaders wanted more.
We are going into this crisis with our public services
on their knees, and as today’s figures confirm,
with a fundamentally weak economy, which is now
flatlining, with zero growth even before the impact
of coronavirus.
Many of the businesses in my part of the world,
in the Highlands of Scotland, come through a fellow period
over the winter, and it’s not just an issue that they are
going to see a reduction in business.
In some cases, they are going to be desperately short of cash
coming in through the door.
Before the ink was dry on his budget, the Chancellor
was writing more cheques, spending hundreds of billions
of pounds, including a furlough scheme that saw the Government
pay the wages of workers laid off due to the crisis.
He was back in the Commons in earlyJuly with what
the Government insisted was a summer statement
rather than a mini budget, and an eye—catching scheme
to get the economy going again.
For the month of August, we will give everyone
in the country an "eat out to help out" discount.
Meals eaten at any participating business Monday
to Wednesday will be 50% off, up to a maximum discount of £10
per head for everyone.
Labour were a underwhelmed with the overall package.
—— Labour were underwhelmed with the overall package.
Today, Britons should have had a back—to—work budget.
But instead, we got this summer statement, with many of the big
decisions put off until later.
But others liked the Chancellor’s menu.
I’m sure that the hospitality industry will welcome
the measures that he has announced today, albeit
that they are quite time—limited.
I think the clothes shops will like them, as well,
because once we’ve eaten our way through a month’s
half—price meals, we may well
be visiting them!
LAUGHTER.
Sammy Wilson on a scheme some have labelled, in an echo
of housing policies, as Help To Pie.
Now, BorisJohnson wasn’t the only senior Government
figure to contract coronavirus.
It also struck the Cabinet Secretary, Sir Mark Sedwill,
the Health Secretary, Matt Hancock, and the Prime
Minister’s controversial aide Dominic Cummings.
Mr Cummings was accused of breaking the rules
by driving to north—east England mid—lockdown.
press conference in the Downing Street Garden his wife
had been worried about their return journey.
And she said, and I think it was perfectly reasonable,
"A few days ago you could barely stand up, you said
that your eyesight was weird and it seemed to be weird,
we shouldn’tjust embark on a 270 whatever it is mile
journey and then end up finding halfway through that
you actually can’t drive that far."
Good afternoon.
Scotland’s Chief Medical Officer, Catherine Calderwood,
did resign after making two trips to her second home.
Northern Ireland’s Deputy First Minister,
Sinn Fein’s Michelle O’Neill, faced down calls to quit
after attending the large funeral of a former
leading IRA figure.
And Neil Ferguson, the scientist known
as ‘Professor Lockdown’ in some newspapers, did resign
as a Government advisor after it emerged he’d been
visited by his girlfriend during the lockdown.
Professor Ferguson was one of several scientists
who became household names as their advice and analysis
were seized on.
The UK Government’s Chief Medical and Scientific
Advisors, Professor Chris Whitty and Sir Patrick
Valiance, were often seen flanking the Prime Minister
at Downing Street press conferences.
They were in demand from Parliamentary committees,
too, from the early days of the pandemic.
Every year in seasonal flu, the number of deaths is thought
to be about 8,000 excess deaths.
So, if we can get this down to numbers 20,000 and below,
that’s a good outcome in terms of where we would hope to get
to with this outbreak.
But, I mean, it’s still horrible.
I mean, that’s still an enormous number of deaths,
and it’s an enormous pressure on the health service.
That was mid—March, a week before lockdown.
By the end of April, more than 20,000 people had
died from coronavirus.
Politicians and scientists began asking if we’d locked
down too late.
50, had we introduced lockdown measures a week earlier,
we would have reduced ourfinal death toll by at least a half.
So, whilst I think the measures, given what we knew
about this virus then, in terms of its transmission
and its lethality, were warranted, I wouldn’t
second—guess them at this point, certainly had
we introduced them earlier, we would have seen many fewer
deaths.
That was the Science Committee.
MP5 on the Health and Social Care Committee
were asking similar questions.
So, when it comes to the timing of the lockdown,
are you content that the Government followed your advice
in terms of the staging of different elements
of the lockdown?
I am content, and so, what you’re trying to do is run
a very complicated period as a kind ofjumped
on question about this.
There’s no straight answer to that, and I’m not trying
to give you a yes or no answer to that.
It’s not an unreasonable question.
CROSSTALK.
Sorry, I’m just going to interrupt you, it’s not
an unreasonable question to ask, because the Government
constantly said they were following the science.
And so I’m just asking you, on that crucial question
of the timing of the lockdown,
were they following your advice?
So, I am confident that the ministers at the time,
who were put in an incredibly difficult position, in my view,
followed the advice given by SAGE, which are clearly
signposted through the minutes of SAGE, with a delay
that was no more than you would reasonably expect
for what are really difficult things to operationalise
and decide.
ByJuly, Sir Patrick Vallance admitted that things
could have gone better.
The UK’s response to the pandemic is not the most
admired in the world, if I can put it that way.
So, in your role, have you begun to think about
what might be the reasons for that?
Yes, we think about that a lot, and clearly there are things
that we do as we go along to keep learning from what’s
going on, and we’re in regular contact with many
international partners.
I think, as Chris Whitty has said before, it’s very
difficult to know exactly where we stand at the moment.
It’s clear that the outcome has not been good in the UK.
I think we can be absolutely clear about that.
Sir Patrick Vallance.
England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland
all entered lockdown together in March.
There was much talk of a four nations approach.
But, with different parties in charge of the lockdown rules
in the four different nations, the UK began to look
like a federal state.
Some of the issues were familiar, wherever you live.
In Scotland, more people died from the virus in care homes
than in hospitals.
Mistakes were made at the start, and they have led
to the excess deaths we see today.
First Minister, in light of the tragedy in Uddingston
and others, do you agree that when it comes to testing
in care homes that by any standards, this is a failure?
First Minister.
No, I don’t.
Let me say, I’m not even speaking as First Minister
here, I’m speaking as a human being.
I deeply regret every single death from this virus,
and I think all of us are in that position.
But I also know, and I said, I think the very first time
I stood in this chamber and talked about what we were
dealing with, I said that mistakes would be made.
I said I would make mistakes,
the Government would make mistakes.
We are dealing with an unprecedented situation,
and I am sure that is the case.
There is not a day, probably not an hour that goes by right
now, where I don’t question myself, I don’t agonise over
the decisions we are taking to make sure that we are learning
as right as possible.
And I suspect everybody — I hope everybody in
a leadership position, the world over right now,
is going through that same process.
And Nicola Sturgeon turned that questioning approach
to her counterpart in Downing Street.
And when so much is at stake, as it is right now, we can’t
allow ourselves to be dragged down in the wake of another
Government’s, to be quite frank about it,
shambolic decision-making process.
As the pressure grew to lift the lockdown,
in Northern Ireland, the Democratic Unionist First
Minister and the Sinn Fein Deputy First Minister gave
a rarejoint statement at Stormont.
As of today, we remain subject to restrictions which no—one
wants to last a day longer than is absolutely necessary.
These are measures we would not contemplate in normal times.
We know that they’re having a significant effect
on people’s ability to live their lives the way
they and we want.
We are appealing to the public to please be patient.
We understand that you want your family life back.
To be able to visit and socialise with your friends
and yourfamilies, to give your grandchildren a hug.
The differences between the four countries were most
apparent as the lockdown was lifted, with Scotland
and Wales more cautious than the UK government in England.
Your careful approach in terms of easing of restrictions has
served well in many ways but you know, I think,
risk treading the line between being too cautious
and too slow on this issue.
Why is Wales lagging behind and so many countries have
acted so decisively?
Ijust reject the language of lagging behind.
We are doing the things that are right for Wales.
That does not mean following anybody else just
because they’ve done something that we have decided not to do.
Mark Drakeford.
Westminster and the UK’s other parliaments continue to adjust
to their new normal.
Select committees carried on largely virtually
with some unusual cameos.
The BBC are also now embracing this, why,
and I apologise for my cat’s tail.
Why are you not doing this by default?
Rocco, put your tail down.
LAUGHTER.
The hybrid parliament still allowed MPs and peers
to contribute from their home, their office or wherever
they happened to be.
I wonder if I might ask my noble friend what engagement
she’s had with the devolved administrations regarding any
participation and any future scheme?
My Lords, I’m dying to know what the other passengers
on the noble lord’s train ourthinking.
I’m going to go to Lord Robathan in a moment and you’re
going to be a little bit surprised because he is wearing
a seatbelt and that’s because he is coming back
from an important family engagement, he’d hoped to get
home but he can’t.
Do you think first that a change of president
would make life more difficult for you or do you think
it is having repercussions, and Joe Biden is currently
looking more likely to win than Trump, but who knows.
We’re working with both Republicans and Democrats
in the United States to make sure there is bipartisan
support for a US trade deal.
I was just going to say I thought that was
a very good answer.
Thank you very much and have a safe journey home
is all I can say.
By the way, I can recommend the restaurant.
LAUGHS.
Right.
Lord Robathan, in a taxi, returning from a restaurant,
a good one, apparently.
ByJuly, almost six months after the first confirmed case
in the UK, the Prime Minister spoke briefly about a return
to normality by Christmas.
The scientists were sceptical.
Things will not be done by Christmas.
This infection is not going away.
It’s now a human endemic infection and even actually
if we have a vaccine or very good treatments,
humanity will still be living with this virus for very many
years to come.
The key objective remains to develop a vaccine.
Initial trials were encouraging, up to a point.
Are we going to have a vaccine for Christmas?
Well, I’m an optimist in life, Katherine, and on the best case
scenario, the answer is yes and myjob is not
to second—guess whether we will not and vaccines
are an uncertain science and we need to be cautious
and we need to be careful.
We are working very hard on this but I can’t,
I can’t promise to play centre.
Matt Hancock’s natural optimism struggling to overcome
the reality of the calendar.
This was a crisis that began with ministers
and their advisers confident the risks to the UK was low
but, six months later, saw BorisJohnson admit his
government hadn’t really understood the virus
in its early days.
The Prime Minister now says there are very open questions
about whether lives could have been saved
by entering lockdown sooner.
With the death toll approaching 50,000, the families of those
who’ve died from coronavirus will be looking for answers
in the independent inquiry that will follow.
Hello there.
The heat and humidity ebbed away
during the course of Saturday
and resulted in a much more comfortable night for sleeping.
But again, as we know, on Friday,
with just shy of 38 Celsius,
we had our third hottest day on record.
Just to show you the contrast, just about everywhere
was ten degrees down on that on Saturday.
So, it felt a little cooler,
but it most certainly felt less humid,
so more comfortable for sleeping,
and we’ll keep that fresher feel
around for the day ahead.
But there will be scattered showers around.
We’re under the Atlantic influence again.
Low pressure to the north,
throwing in this weather front,
which has given some fairly heavy rain across
the northern half of the country through the night.
Still around, I think, first thing,
but look at those temperatures.
A much cooler start to the day for many.
And what we have in the north, that cloud and rain,
will tend to break up, but given we’ve got that
moisture, that will be the spark, if you like,
for some heavier showers as we go into the afternoon.
Now, we’re not expecting that many
showers across the southern half of England, across Wales
and the Midlands and East Anglia,
but they can’t be ruled out.
And temperatures will be a few degrees down on Saturdayjust
because it will be a cooler start to the day.
Still a fairly fresh breeze through the Channel.
After fairly few showers in the morning across
Northern Ireland, they will tend to become more
frequent into the afternoon, and there’ll be some sharp ones
further north as well — but equally, some spells
of sunshine in between.
And, of course, it’s the British Grand Prix race
day and it does look as if she will be mostly dry.
There’s just that small chance of a shower —
just a small chance.
And through the evening and overnight, those showers
will tend to ease away.
As you can see, just the risk
still of a bit of rain brushing close by to the south.
But another fairly fresh night for most parts.
As we go, then, into Monday,
we’ve got a slight ridge of high pressure building in,
but it is only slight.
I still think there will be the odd shower around.
And already looming large in the Atlantic,
the next low—pressure system.
So, if we do see some of that rain,
it willjust be brushing southern counties, we think.
Then we may well have some slow—moving, sharp
showers into the afternoon, but feeling quite pleasant
in the sunshine with the light winds in between.
However, as we go into Tuesday,
we’ve got the Atlantic low potentially coming in,
bringing us some more significant and persistent,
quite widespread rain to the north and the west.
It will tend to peter out, we think,
as it heads southwards and eastwards,
but a fair breeze with that as well and some significant rain.
That’s certainly one to watch.
As ever, you can find out more information from our website.
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast, with Nina Warhurst and Chris Mason.
Our headlines today:
A former Conservative minister and current MP is arrested
on suspicion of rape, sexual assault and coercive control.
Classified documents released by the British military
raise new questions about whether UK Special Forces
killed unarmed civilians while deployed in Afghanistan.
Two American astronauts on—board the first manned
commercialﬂight into space head home from
the International Space Station.
Aubameyang works his Wembley magic, scoring twice,
and lifting the FA Cup for Arsenal,
as they beat Chelsea in an empty stadium,
to win it for the 14th time.
ii
It is another day of sunshine and showers. When the show was come
showers. when the show was come through, some
showers. When the show was come through, some heavy and thundery in
through, some heavy and thundery in the north—west, it will feel cooler
the north-west, it will feel cooler than
the north—west, it will feel cooler than yesterday.
It’s Sunday 2nd August.
Our top story:
Our top story:
A Conservative MP and former minister has been arrested
on suspicion of rape.
He has now been released on bail.
According to the Sunday Times, the allegations were made
by a former parliamentary employee, who has accused him of rape,
sexual assault and coercive control.
Our political correspondent Tony Bonsignore
is in Westminsterfor us.
Morning, Tony, what can you tell us?
Good morning. The allegations made against a current MP and former
against a current MP and former Minister according to the Sunday
Minister according to the Sunday Times were made by a former
Times were made by a former Parliamentary employee. The paper
Partiamentary employee. The paper 5575
Partiamentary employee. The paper says she
Parliamentary employee. The paper says she alleges the MP assaulted
says she alleges the MP assaulted her, forced her to have sex and left
her, forced her to have sex and left are so traumatised she had to go to
are so traumatised she had to go to hospital and she has accused him of
hospital and she has accused him of rape, sexual assault and coercive
rape, sexual assault and coercive behaviour. On Friday 31st of
rape, sexual assault and coercive behaviour. On Friday 31st ofJuly
behaviour. On Friday Sist of july police
behaviour. On Friday Sist ofJuly police received allegations relating
police received allegations relating to four separate incidents involving
to four separate incidents involving allegations of sexual offences and
allegations of sexual offences and assault, allegedly occurring in
assault, allegedly occurring in Westminster, Hackney and Lambert. A
Westminster, Hackney and Lambert. A man in his 50 was arrested on
man in his 50 was arrested on Saturday the first of August on
Saturday the first of August on suspicion of rape and has been
suspicion of rape and has been released on bail to return in mid
released on bail to return in mid August. The Tory party chief web
August. The Tory party chief web reportedly had been aware of
reportedly had been aware of allegations and had spoken to the
allegations and had spoken to the victim. Sources say Mr Spencer had
victim. Sources say Mr Spencer had not known if the magnitude of the
not known if the magnitude of the allagations.
not known if the magnitude of the allegations. He took allegations of
allegations. He took allegations of harassment and abuse extremely
harassment and abuse extremely seriously and advise anyone who
seriously and advise anyone who approached him to contact
approached him to contact appropriate authorities. The
appropriate authorities. The Conservative Party say they take all
Conservative Party say they take all allegations of this nature extremely
allegations of this nature extremely seriously.
Classified documents from within the British Military
raise fresh concerns about whether British Special Forces
may have killed unarmed civilians when they were fighting in Helmand
in Afghanistan in 2011.
The material was disclosed as part of a court case,
following a BBC Panorama investigation which highlighted
allegations that the SAS deliberately targeted
fighting—aged men, even when they didn’t pose a threat.
The Ministry of Defence has denied such a policy existed.
Our defence correspondent Jonathan Beale reports.
This is how elite troops target the Taliban. Controversial night rate
Taliban. Controversial night rate with the aim to kill or capture
with the aim to kill or rapture enemy
with the aim to kill or capture enemy fighters. This shows Afghan
enemy fighters. This shows Afghan commanders on a mission with
commanders on a mission with American support. But it was the
American support. But it was the same tactics used by British Special
same tactis used by British Special Forces during
same tactics used by British Special Forces during their time in Helmand.
Forces during their time in Helmand. Last year, BBC panorama heard
Last year, BBC panorama heard allegations of the SAS had killed
allegations of the SAS had killed unarmed civilians. With testimony
unarmed civilians. with testimony from
unarmed civilians. With testimony from survivors in a raid in 2011,
from survivors in a raid in 2011, they said the British shot family
they said the British shot family members when they posed no threat.
members when they posed no threat. TRANSLATION: They tied his hands in
TRANSLATION: They tied his hands in front of me. If you tight someone’s
front of me. If you tight someone’s hands
front of me. If you tight someone’s hands how can they fight? Lawyers
hands how ran they fight? Lawyers representing
hands how can they fight? Lawyers representing one of the Afghan
representing one of the Afghan families are now challenging the
families are now challanging the Ministry of
families are now challenging the Ministry of Defence here at the High
Ministry of Defence here at the High Court, trying to find out whether
Court, trying to find out whether there was a proper investigation or
there was a proper investigation or whether they might’ve been a
whether they might’ve been a cover-up.
whether they might’ve been a cover—up. Forcing the enemy is to
cover-up. Forcing the enemy is to release highly
cover—up. Forcing the enemy is to release highly sensitive documents
release highly sensitive documents which show they were serious
which show they were serious concerns about the raid within
concerns about the raid within British military.

Citation: BBC News, 02:45 02/08/2020, BBC1 London, 195 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/1694C5AE?bcast=132566781 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)
