This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
Pfizer’s vaccine has been approved by regulators for use in the UK
and could be rolled out across the country next week.
We’ll start with the most elderly, and with people in care homes,
and of course their carers, to make sure that
others don’t catch it.
The UK expects to have millions of doses of the Pfizer vaccine
against Covid—19 available by the end of the year, and
the first 800,000 coming next week.
England’s tier system has made a comeback
but with toughened measures.
More than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers.
"Our planet is broken".
That’s the warning coming from the Secretary General
of the United Nations.
In a special BBC broadcast, Antonio Guterres will talk
about tackling global warming, which is now a central
objective of the UN.
m:
We are going straight to an event at Downing Street for more details on
Downing Street for more details on vaccine developments we have heard
vaccine developments we have heard this morning. Can I introduce the
this morning. (“an I introduce the colleagues
this morning. Can I introduce the colleagues with me this morning. On
colleagues with me this morning. On my left is the professor of medicine
my left is the professor of medicine at Liverpool University and chair of
at Liverpool University and chair of the CHM’s, the government’s advisory
the CHM’s, the government’s advisory body. On my right, a professor of
body. On my right, a professor of respiratory University at the
respiratory University at the University of Nottinghamshire. Chair
University of Nottinghamshire. Chair of a group that has been preparing
of a group that has been preparing advice on Covid—19 vaccines. This
advice on Covid-19 vaccines. This briefing has
advice on Covid—19 vaccines. This briefing has been called
briefing has been called to announce that the medicines and health care
that the medicines and health rare products
that the medicines and health care products regulatory agency
products regulatory agency recommended to the UK Government on
recommended to the UK Government on the basis of the advice on the
the basis of the advice on the commission of human medicine is that
commission of human medicine is that it should have agreed to the
it should have agreed to the approval for use of the Covid—19
approval for use of the Covid-19 vaccine
approval for use of the Covid—19 vaccine developed by Pfizer
vaccine developed by Pfizer BioNTech, together with the
BioNTech, together with the conditions for its supply and use.
conditions for its supply and use. The MHRA’S
conditions for its supply and use. The MHRA’s recommendation has been
The MHRA’s recommendation has been reached following an extremely
reached following an extremely thorough and scientifically rigorous
thorough and scientifically rigorous review of all the evidence, of
review of all the evidence, of safety, of effectiveness and of the
safety, of effectiveness and of the quality of the Pfizer
quality of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine. The UK Government has now
vaccine. The UK Government has now accepted this advice and has made
accepted this advice and has made the decision to approve the vaccine
the decision to approve the vaccine for use with some conditions. In
for use with some conditions. In adults age 16 and over. The safety
adults age 16 and over. The safety of the public will always come
of the public will always come first. I emphasise again that this
first. I emphasise again that this recommendation has only been given
recommendation has only been given by the MHRA following the most
by the MHRA following the most rigorous scientific assessment of
rigorous scientific assessment of every piece of data so that it meets
every piece of data so that it meets the required strict standards of
the required strict standards of safety, of effectiveness and of
safety, of effectiveness and of quality. We have two or three slides
quality. We have two or three slides this morning to help our discussion
this morning to help our discussion get moving. In the first one, you
get moving. In the first one, you ran see
get moving. In the first one, you can see that unlike the usual
ran see that unlike the usual pattern of
can see that unlike the usual pattern of clinical trials, which
pattern of clinical trials, which are done one after the other, the
are done one after the other, the development of this vaccine has been
development of this vaccine has been adapted so that the trials are
adapted so that the trials are overlapping and the next one can
overtapping and the next one ran start
overlapping and the next one can start before a particular phase has
start before a particular phase has finished. And in this way we have
finished. And in this way we have been able to progress development in
been able to progress development in the shortest time possible. On the
the shortest time possible. On the next side you can see how the MHRA
next side you ran see how the MHRA has worked,
next side you can see how the MHRA has worked, and I would like to tell
has worked, and I would like to tell you a little more about this just
you a little more about this just now.
ii
It has been done using a process known as a rolling review, a rolling
known as a rolling review, a rolling review ran
known as a rolling review, a rolling review can be used to complete the
review can be used to complete the assessment of a promising medicine
assessment of a promising medicine or vaccine in a situation where time
or vaccine in a situation where time is of the essence. In the shortest
is of the essence. In the shortest time possible. But, and this is a
time possible. But, and this is a very important point indeed, that
very important point indeed, that doesn’t mean that any corners have
doesn’t mean that any corners have been cut, none at all. So, looking
been cut, none at all. So, looking from the top downwards, the expert
from the top downwards, the expert working group started in the middle
working group started in the middle of the year to look at how safety
of the year to look at how safety surveillance would be in place to
surveillance would be in place to give us the highest possible level
give us the highest possible level of assurance of the safety of the
of assurance of the safety of the Covid—19 vaccine. That preparation
Covid-19 vaccine. That preparation and planning
Covid—19 vaccine. That preparation and planning has been done with
and planning has been done with meticulous care. Similarly, our
meticulous rare. Similarty, our National
meticulous care. Similarly, our National Institute for biological
National Institute for biological standards and control had been
standards and control had been working independently on testing
working independently on testing batch by batch the quality of the
batch by batch the quality of the vaccine. Then in October the
vaccine. Then in October the preclinical analysis data became
preclinical analysis data became available, the third bar down,
available, the third bar down, followed by the interim analysis on
followed by the interim analysis on the 10th of November. The quality
the 10th of November. The quality analysis came very shortly after
analysis came very shortly after that, and most recently the batch
that, and most recently the batch testing has begun with the final
testing has begun with the final analysis at the very end of the
analysis at the very end of the process. So it’s very clear that
process. So it’s very clear that separate teams have been working in
separate teams have been working in parallel to deliver the most
parallel to deliver the most rigorous review of this vaccine. No
rigorous review of this vaccine. No corners have been cut. Our expert
corners have been cut. Our expert scientists and clinicians have
scientists and clinicians have worked around the clock, carefully
worked around the dock, carefully and
worked around the clock, carefully and methodically poring over tables
and methodically poring over tables and analyses and graphs on every
and analyses and graphs on every single piece of data. Hundreds, over
single piece of data. Hundreds, over 1000 pages of data, and absolutely
1000 pages of data, and absolutely critically analysing the preclinical
critically analysing the preclinical evidence, the clinical trials, the
evidence, the clinical trials, the manufacturing and quality controls,
manufacturing and quality controls, and then down to the final sampling.
and then down to the final sampling. We have also reviewed and agreed to
We have also reviewed and agreed to the prescribing information so
the prescribing information so pub“:
the prescribing information so public and health care professionals
public and health rare professionals are very dear
public and health care professionals are very clear and can be very
are very clear and ran be very confident
are very clear and can be very confident that the vaccine is being
confident that the vaccine is being used in the correct way,
used in the correct way, understanding what’s involved. And
understanding what’s involved. And going forward from today, our
going forward from today, our National Institute for biological
National Institute for biological standards and control will be
standards and control will be independently laboratory testing so
independently laboratory testing so every single vaccine that goes out
every single vaccine that goes out meets the same high standards of
meets the same high standards of safety and quality. And we have
safety and quality. And we have benefited from a further safety
benefited from a further safety steps too, following our thorough
steps too, following our thorough review of the data at the MHRA we
review of the data at the MHRA we have sought the advice of the
have sought the advice of the government’s independent body, the
government’s independent body, the commission on human medicines. I
commission on human medicines. I would now like to turn to the
would now like to turn to the Professor to explain the pivotal
Professor to explain the pivotal part its independent members have
part its independent members have played in critically assessing every
played in critically assessing every piece of evidence.
Thank you very much. I chaired the CHM’s expert working group. First of
CHM’s expert working group. First of all I would like to thank the
all I would like to thank the members of that expert working group
members of that expert working group who worked with me tirelessly, with
who worked with me tirelassly, with over 40
who worked with me tirelessly, with over A0 hours of face to face on
over 40 hours of face to face on Zoom at
over A0 hours of face to face on Zoom at least, committee work and
Zoom at least, committee work and extra reading time. We made
extra reading time. We made accommodations to the commission of
accommodations to the commission of new medicines which undertook an
new medicines which undertook an independent review, and the
independent review, and the commission on human medicines is
commission on human medicines is chaired by Stuart Wollaston. We had
chaired by Stuart Wollaston. We had a wide variety of experts in both
a wide variety of experts in both EWUPS-
a wide variety of experts in both groups, in colluding experts in
groups, in colluding experts in viral diseases, epidemiologists,
viral diseases, epidemiologists, clinical pharmacologists and various
clinical pharmacologists and various experts in medicines. We looked at
experts in medicines. We looked at all sorts of data available to us,
all sorts of data available to us, including the raw data,
including the raw data, unprecedented access to raw data,
unprecedented access to raw data, and this allowed us to look at the
and this allowed us to look at the overall risk benefit analysis. We
overall risk benefit analysis. We look at risk benefit analysis for
look at risk benefit analysis for every compound that comes through in
every compound that comes through in terms of licensing and reuse the
terms of licensing and reuse the same stringent standards to look at
same stringent standards to look at the risk benefit of this particular
the risk benefit of this particular vaccine. We looked at laboratory
vaccine. We looked at laboratory data, we looked at the manufacturing
data, we looked at the manufacturing processes and quality data, as well
processes and quality data, as well as the clinical trial data. From
as the clinical trial data. From this we came to the conclusion that
this we came to the conclusion that there was overwhelming benefit for
there was overwhelming benefit for this particular vaccine and
this particular vaccine and therefore recommended to the MHRA
therefore recommended to the MHRA that its use should be authorised. I
that its use should be authorised. I just want to say a few things about
just want to say a few things about the effectiveness of this vaccine.
the effectiveness of this vaccine. The data show the vaccine is 95%
The data show the vaccine is 95% effective. It is effective in all
effective. It is effective in all EWUPS
effective. It is effective in all groups that were given the vaccine
groups that were given the vaccine within the trial, irrespective of
within the trial, irrespective of age, sex, race or country they lived
age, sex, race or country they lived in. We have also looked at the
in. We have also looked at the safety of this, the safety of the
safety of this, the safety of the vaccine is similar to other
vaccine is similar to other vaccines, and most of the side
vaccines, and most of the side effects are very mild and usually
effects are very mild and usually last for a day or so. We have been
last for a day or so. We have been very careful to look at the quality
very careful to look at the quality of the vaccine, particularly given
of the vaccine, particularty given the
of the vaccine, particularly given the need for storing the vaccine at
the need for storing the vaccine at ultralow temperatures, and we had
ultralow temperatures, and we had visits from NHS colleagues to tell
visits from NHS colleagues to tell us what the deployment strategies
us what the deployment strategies were and we were able to advise them
were and we were able to advise them as well on the stability issues that
as well on the stability issues that may be important for deployment. It
may be important for deployment. It is important to note that what we
is important to note that what we have got is data relating to the
have got is data relating to the vaccine up to this point. It is
vaccine up to this point. It is important we undertake surveillance
important we undertake surveillance following the use of vaccines in the
following the use of vaccines in the population and we were very keen to
population and we were very keen to recommend that the MHRA undertakes
recommend that the MHRA undertakes active surveillance of the vaccine
active surveillance of the vaccine after it is used. And this includes
after it is used. And this includes the use of yellow cards, as well as
the use of yellow cards, as well as a special active monitoring
a special active monitoring programme which we will be inviting
programme which we will be inviting peopla to join.
programme which we will be inviting people tojoin. The
programme which we will be inviting people to join. The committee also
people to join. The committee also considered that no specific
considered that no specific precautions were required on
precautions were required on administration of this vaccine in
administration of this vaccine in peopla who
administration of this vaccine in people who have already had Covid—19
peopla who have already had Covid-19 and no testing
people who have already had Covid—19 and no testing is required before
and no testing is required before receiving the vaccine. Now I will
receiving the vaccine. Now I will turn to our other professor to tell
turn to our other professor to tell us about the work of the joint
us about the work of the joint committee on vaccination and
committee on vaccination and immunisation. Thank you. The
committee on vaccination and immunisation. Thank you. Thejoint
immunisation. Thank you. Thejoint committee on vaccination and
committee on vaccination and immunisation is an independent
immunisation is an independent scientific advisory body. We advise
scientific advisory body. We advise the Secretary of State on the
the Secretary of State on the provision of vaccination and
provision of vaccination and immunisation services. As a
immunisation services. As a committee we have been meeting
committee we have been meeting regularty
committee we have been meeting regularly over the last few months.
regularty over the last few months. We have
regularly over the last few months. We have done that to appraise new
We have done that to appraise new and emerging scientific evidence
and emerging scientific evidence related to our role. On this slide
related to our role. On this slide you will see the types of
you will see the types of information we have been assessing.
information we have been assessing. These
information we have been assessing. These include data on vaccine safety
These include data on vaccine safety and efficacy, but also how Covid—19
and efficacy, but also how Covid-19 has impacted
and efficacy, but also how Covid—19 has impacted the UK. This includes
has impacted the UK. This includes the impacts of Covid—19 in care
the impacts of Covid-19 in rare homes, on
the impacts of Covid—19 in care homes, on people from different
homes, on people from different ethnic groups, as well as people in
ethnic groups, as well as people in different occupations. The data come
different occupations. The data come from primary care, from Public
from primary rare, from Public Health
from primary care, from Public Health England, and from hospitals.
Health England, and from hospitals. We have also looked at mathematical
We have also looked at mathematical models that have helped us to
models that have helped us to understand how different vaccine
understand how different vaccine strategies might be used. The UK is
strategies might be used. The UK is fortunate in that we have one of the
fortunate in that we have one of the best immunisation programmes in the
best immunisation programmes in the world. Every year, through the
world. Every year, through the infant, childhood and adult
infant, childhood and adult vaccination programmes, millions of
vaccination programmes, millions of us are protected from serious
us are protected from serious disease.
us are protected from serious disease. All of that expert
disease. All of that expert information also informs the
disease. All of that expert information also informs theJCBI’s
information also informs the jCBI’s expert
information also informs theJCBI’s expert decision—making. Through the
expert decision-making. Through the first phase of
expert decision—making. Through the first phase of the pandemic and the
first phase of the pandemic and the vaccination programme, we are
vaccination programme, we are suggesting that vaccines are offered
suggesting that vaccines are offered in order to protect people who are
in order to protect peopla who are most at
in order to protect people who are most at risk of dying from Covid—19,
most at risk of dying from Covid-19, as well as
most at risk of dying from Covid—19, as well as to
most at risk of dying from Covid—19, as well as to protect health and
as well as to protect health and social care services, because by
social rare services, because by doing so we
social care services, because by doing so we also protect lives. The
doing so we also protect lives. The advice has been divided into two
advice has been divided into two main parts. The first to offer
main parts. The first to offer vaccination according to the
vaccination according to the estimated risk of dying from
estimated risk of dying from Covid—19. The risk of dying from
Covid-19. The risk of dying from Covid-19
Covid—19. The risk of dying from Covid—19 is very strongly associated
Covid-19 is very strongly associated with age. Age
Covid—19 is very strongly associated with age. Age is by far the single
with age. Age is by far the single most important factor in terms of
most important factor in terms of risk from Covid—19. The second
risk from Covid-19. The second strand to
risk from Covid—19. The second strand to the advice is regarding
strand to the advice is regarding implementation of the vaccination
implementation of the vaccination programme. We advise that due
programme. We advise that due attention is paid locally to
attention is paid locally to mitigating health inequalities. I
mitigating health inequalities. I will say more about that in a
will say more about that in a moment. On the next slide we will
moment. On the next slide we will see the prioritisation order in
see the prioritisation order in terms of the offer of vaccination.
terms of the offer of vaccination. Residents in care homes for older
Residents in rare homes for older adults
Residents in care homes for older adults and care home workers are the
adults and rare home workers are the highest
adults and care home workers are the highest priorities. Following that
highest priorities. Following that are those aged 80 or above,
are those aged 80 or above, alongside front line health care and
alongside front line health rare and social
alongside front line health care and social care workers. Then come those
social rare workers. Then come those 75 years of age
social care workers. Then come those 75 years of age and above, followed
75 years of age and above, followed by those 70 years of age and above,
by those 70 years of age and above, alongside people who are clinically
alongside people who are clinically extremely vulnerable because
extremely vulnerable because of specific health conditions. They are
specific health conditions. They are followed by people who are aged 65
followed by people who are aged 65 years and above, and then
years and above, and then individuals who are aged 16—64 with
individuals who are aged 16-64 with undertying
individuals who are aged 16—64 with underlying health conditions that
undertying health conditions that also put
underlying health conditions that also put them at risk from Covid—19
also put them at risk from Covid-19 but where
also put them at risk from Covid—19 but where those conditions are
but where those conditions are not already represented in those
already represented in those conditions putting someone at
conditions putting someone at extreme risk. The prioritisation
extreme risk. The prioritisation order then continues down the age
order then continues down the age EWUPS
order then continues down the age groups until all those aged 50 and
groups until all those aged 50 and above are included. This is the
above are included. This is the phase one of the programme. In phase
phase one of the programme. In phase one we hope that 90 — 99% of
one we hope that 90 - 9996 of people at risk of dying
one we hope that 90 — 99% of people at risk of dying from Covid—19 will
at risk of dying from Covid-19 will be
at risk of dying from Covid—19 will be included or covered. The next
be included or covered. The next part of the advice relates to
part of the advice relates to implementation of the programme. We
implementation of the programme. We advise that local NHS providers,
advise that [oral NHS providers, [oral public
advise that local NHS providers, local public health teams and
[oral public health teams and [oral leaders
local public health teams and local leaders work together to address
leaders work together to address community needs and local needs. We
community needs and [oral needs. We suggest that
community needs and local needs. We suggest that community teams work
suggest that community teams work together to mitigate against health
together to mitigate against health inequalities that might occur in
inequalities that might occur in relation to ethnicity, deprivation
relation to ethnicity, deprivation or access to health care. We also
or access to health care. We also recognise there may be operational
recognise there may be operational reasons why the prioritisation needs
reasons why the prioritisation needs to be more flexible and this may
to be more ﬂaxible and this may relate to
to be more flexible and this may relate to vaccine characteristics or
relate to vaccine characteristis or vaccine
relate to vaccine characteristics or vaccine supply, or exceptional
vaccine supply, or exceptional personal circumstances. Overall we
personal circumstances. Overall we have good news today. We have a
have good news today. We have a vaccine that is acceptably safe and
vaccine that is acceptably safe and effective and good vaccine uptake.
effective and good vaccine uptake. Save lives. Thank you.
m:
We can now turn to questions from
We ran now turn to questions from the media.
We can now turn to questions from the media. Our
We can now turn to questions from the media. Ourfirst question comes
the media. Our first question comes from Fergus
the media. Ourfirst question comes from Fergus Walsh of the BBC.
Thank you very much. Can you
Thank you very much. (“an you reassure
Thank you very much. Can you reassure the public that they can
reassure the public that they ran have
reassure the public that they can have absolute confidence in this
have absolute confidence in this vaccine given how quickly you have
vaccine given how quickly you have approved it, and can you sum up for
approved it, and ran you sum up for me the reasoning
approved it, and can you sum up for me the reasoning behind your list of
me the reasoning behind your list of priorities about who gets the
priorities about who gets the vaccine first? A really important
vaccine first? A really important point relates to the thorough work,
point relates to the thorough work, scientifically rigorous and
scientifically rigorous and methodologically sound work the
methodologirauy sound work the agency has
methodologically sound work the agency has done. The way of working
agency has done. The way of working on a rolling review ensures our
on a rolling review ensures our teams of clinicians and scientists
teams of clinicians and scientists are working in parallel to complete
are working in parallal to complete all
are working in parallel to complete all the work according to strict
all the work according to strict guidelines on safety, effectiveness
guidelines on safety, effectiveness and quality is complete. This
and quality is complate. This vaccine
and quality is complete. This vaccine has only been approved
vaccine has only been approved because those strict tests have been
because those strict tests have been done and complied with. And everyone
done and complied with. And everyone ran be
done and complied with. And everyone can be absolutely confident that no
ran be absolutely confident that no corners
can be absolutely confident that no corners whatsoever have been cut.
corners whatsoever have been cut. Perhaps if I could think of an
Perhaps if I could think of an analogy, if you are climbing a
analogy, if you are climbing a mountain, you prepare and prepare.
mountain, you prepare and prepare. We started out in
mountain, you prepare and prepare. We started out inJune. By the time
We started out in june. By the time the
We started out inJune. By the time the interim results became available
the interim results became available on November ten, we were at base
on November ten, we were at base ramp. when we
on November ten, we were at base camp. When we got the final analysis
ramp. when we got the final analysis we were ready
camp. When we got the final analysis we were ready for the last sprint
we were ready for the last sprint that takes us to today and that is
that takes us to today and that is the exemplary nature of the
the exemplary nature of the work that has been done, and the public
that has been done, and the public deserve nothing less. I will hand
deserve nothing less. I will hand over to the professor now. In
over to the professor now. In relation to the offer of
relation to the offer of vaccination, prioritisation was
vaccination, prioritisation was based on the risk of dying from
based on the risk of dying from Covid—19 and in order to protect the
Covid-19 and in order to protect the most
Covid—19 and in order to protect the most vulnerable we have prioritise
most vulnerable we have prioritise the most vulnerable individuals
the most vulnerable individuals first. The other element is
first. The other element is protection of the NHS, the health
protection of the NHS, the health and social care system, because by
and social rare system, because by protecting the
and social care system, because by protecting the NHS we also protect
protecting the NHS we also protect lives. We now turn to Victoria
lives. We now turn to Victoria McDonald from Channel 4. Good
McDonald from Channel 4. Good morning. Thank you. Can you explain
morning. Thank you. (“an you explain for me why the
morning. Thank you. Can you explain for me why the MHRA has been able to
for me why the MHRA has been able to authorise this vaccine so much
authorise this vaccine so much faster than the European Medic
faster than the European Medic -- European
faster than the European Medic —— European medicines agency and the
European medicines agency and the Food and drugs Administration? And
Food and dmgs Administration? And secondly, how
Food and drugs Administration? And secondly, how long is the lag,
Food and drugs Administration? And secondly, how long is the leg, or is
secondly, how long is the lag, or is there a lag,
secondly, how long is the leg, or is there a lag, between being given a
there a lag, between being given a vaccine and for it to become
vaccine and for it to become effective? I will take the first
effective? I will take the first question. The way in which the MHRA
question. The way in which the MHRA has worked is equivalent to all
has worked is equivalent to all international standards. We are well
international standards. We are well aware of our national situation and
aware of our national situation and therefore we have mounted teams,
therefore we have mounted teams, built capability and worked in
built capability and worked in parallel. I want to thank colleagues
parallel. I want to thank colleagues who have worked day and night,
who have worked day and night, weekends, to enable us to come to
weekends, to enable us to come to this position. The public can be
this position. The public ran be absolutely
this position. The public can be absolutely confident that the
absolutely confident that the standards we have worked to our
standards we have worked to our equivalent to those around the
equivalent to those around the world. The vaccine requires two
world. The vaccine requires two doses 21 days apart. From the data
doses 21 days apart. From the data that has been presented to us,
that has been presented to us, people will be immune seven days
people will be immune seven days after the second dose. Partial
after the second dose. Partial immunity occurs after the first dose
immunity occurs after the first dose and we can see some protection
and we ran see some protection occurring after
and we can see some protection occurring after day 12 after the
occurring after day 12 after the first dose but full immunity is
first dose but full immunity is seven days after the second dose.
seven days after the second dose. There will of course be longer term
There will of course be longer term follow-up to
There will of course be longer term follow—up to provide further
follow—up to provide further reassurance from the robust data we
reassurance from the robust data we already have. Our next question
already have. Our next question comes from Emily Morgan of ITV. Good
comes from Emily Morgan of ITV. Good morning. Hello. My first question is
morning. Hello. My first question is to you, Doctor
morning. Hello. My first question is to you, DoctorJune Raine. This is
to you, Doctorjune Raine. This is an historic
to you, DoctorJune Raine. This is an historic moment and you have
an historic moment and you have approved the vaccine in record time.
approved the vaccine in record time. I wondered how much of a momentous
I wondered how much of a momentous moment this is for you and indeed
moment this is for you and indeed for science. And a question for
for science. And a question for Professor Lim on the priority list,
Professor Lim on the priority list, ran you
Professor Lim on the priority list, can you confirm care home residents
ran you confirm rare home residents will
can you confirm care home residents will indeed be the first to receive
will indeed be the first to receive the vaccine, given how unstable it
the vaccine, given how unstable it is and tricky to move to care homes
is and tricky to move to rare homes and rare
is and tricky to move to care homes and care home residents, or will NHS
and rare home residents, or will NHS staff he
and care home residents, or will NHS staff he the first to receive it? I
staff he the first to receive it? I will take the first question. The
will take the first question. The reason we are here today is the
reason we are here today is the brilliance of science and also the
brilliance of science and also the altruism of all those people who
altruism of all those peopla who have
altruism of all those people who have enlisted in clinical trials to
have enlisted in clinical trials to give us the tremendously robust data
give us the tremendously robust data we have today. Thirdly it is due to
we have today. Thirdly it is due to the agility, commitment and
the agility, commitment and extremely high scientific standards
extremely high scientific standards of all the staff at the MHRA who
of all the staff at the MHRA who have worked on this, and the
have worked on this, and the privilage of
have worked on this, and the privilege of having an expert
privilage of having an expert advisory
privilege of having an expert advisory outreach, our commission on
advisory outreach, our commission on human residents do expect medicines.
human residents do expect medicines. It is a combination of all of these
It is a combination of all of these things that the UK is able to bring
things that the UK is able to bring together and always look to the
together and always look to the pub“:
together and always look to the public for whom this is
public for whom this is for. Professor Lim. Thank you. The
public for whom this is for. Professor Lim. Thank you. TheJCVI
Professor Lim. Thank you. The jCVI advice is
Professor Lim. Thank you. TheJCVI advice is aimed at maximising
advice is aimed at maximising benefit from vaccines. And therefore
benefit from vaccines. And therefore it is aimed at the most vulnerable
it is aimed at the most vulnerable people, which are people in care
peopla, which are peopla in rare homes.
people, which are people in care homes. Whether or not the vaccine
homes. whether or not the vaccine itself ran
homes. Whether or not the vaccine itself can be delivered to care
itself ran be delivered to rare homes
itself can be delivered to care homes is obviously an important
homes is obviously an important point and there will be some
point and there will be some ﬂexibility
point and there will be some flexibility in terms of operational
flexibility in terms of operational constraints. The JCVI
flexibility in terms of operational constraints. TheJCVI advice is that
constraints. The jCVI advice is that every effort
constraints. TheJCVI advice is that every effort should be made to
every effort should be made to sunplv
every effort should be made to supply vaccines and offer
supply vaccines and offer vaccinations to care home residents
vaccinations to rare home residents whether
vaccinations to care home residents whether or not that is actually
whether or not that is actually doable is dependent on deployment
doable is dependent on deployment and implementation. I
doable is dependent on deployment and implementation. Iwonder
doable is dependent on deployment and implementation. I wonder if Sir
and implementation. I wonder if Sir Munir would like to add, because
Munir would like to add, because dearty the
Munir would like to add, because clearly the responsibility of MHRA
clearly the responsibility of MHRA relates to the standards of science,
relates to the standards of science, but we also look at it in the
but we also look at it in the context of the real world, which is
context of the real world, which is what Professor Lim has described. We
what Professor Lim has described. We looked at the stability of the
looked at the stability of the vaccine. As you said, it is stored
vaccine. As you said, it is stored at -70 degrees
vaccine. As you said, it is stored at —70 degrees but we were able to
at -70 degrees but we were able to look at
at —70 degrees but we were able to look at stability data, and
look at stability data, and that data is showing it is stable for a
data is showing it is stable for a short period of time, at 2—8,
data is showing it is stable for a short period of time, at 2—8 , which
short period of time, at 2-8 , which allows it to
short period of time, at 2—8 , which allows it to be transported to the
allows it to be transported to the relevant vaccination sites. We
relevant vaccination sites. We ran now
relevant vaccination sites. We can now turn to next from Gordon Rayner
now turn to next from Gordon Rayner of the Daily Telegraph. Thank you.
of the Daily Telagraph. Thank you. (“an I ask,
of the Daily Telegraph. Thank you. Can I ask, have you identified when,
(“an I ask, have you identified when, do you know
Can I ask, have you identified when, do you know when the first vaccine
do you know when the first vaccine will be delivered, which day we can
will be delivered, which day we ran expect that?
will be delivered, which day we can expect that? Have you identified the
expect that? Have you identified the first person who will get it, and if
first person who will get it, and if not, how will you decide who that
not, how will you decide who that person will be. Will the highest
person will be. will the highest risk
person will be. Will the highest risk levels might be given priority,
risk levels might be given priority, so the Tier 3 areas with highest
so the Tier 3 areas with highest incidence, and can I ask whether you
incidence, and ran I ask whether you also know
incidence, and can I ask whether you also know if economic decisions have
also know if economic decisions have been factored in, that is to say,
been factored in, that is to say, when you get down the list of
when you get down the list of priorities, will people who can’t
priorities, will peopla who can’t work
priorities, will people who can’t work from home get the vaccine
work from home get the vaccine before people who can work from
before people who ran work from home?
before people who can work from home? These are helpful points that
home? These are helpful points that everyone wants to know, and I know
everyone wants to know, and I know my colleagues in the Department of
my colleagues in the Department of Health and social care are working
Health and social rare are working tirelassly to
Health and social care are working tirelessly to make sure that the
tirelassly to make sure that the first
tirelessly to make sure that the first vaccine will be delivered as
first vaccine will be delivered as soon as all the checks are
soon as all the checks are completed. I can speak for the
completed. I can speak for the National Institute for biological
National Institute for biological standards and control who are ready
standards and control who are ready to complete their checks on the
to complete their checks on the first batch. Everything is being
first batch. Everything is being looked at when for seven to enable
looked at when for seven to enable this important public health step to
this important public health step to be put in place as soon as possible,
be put in place as soon as possible, not a minute wasted. —— looked at
not a minute wasted. -- looked at 24/7.
not a minute wasted. -- looked at 2417. If
not a minute wasted. —— looked at 21W. If Professor Lim can talk more
2417. If Professor Lim ran talk more about your
21W. If Professor Lim can talk more about your perspective. As far as I
about your perspective. As far as I understand, the NHS is working hard
understand, the NHS is working hard to deliver the vaccines as soon as
to deliver the vaccines as soon as possible, but that is not within the
possible, but that is not within the remit of the JCVI to
possible, but that is not within the remit of theJCVI to impose any time
remit of the jCVI to impose any time limits on
remit of theJCVI to impose any time limits on vaccine delivery. Bear in
limits on vaccine delivery. Bear in mind too that many thousands have
mind too that many thousands have already had a vaccine as part of
already had a vaccine as part of clinical trials, so there is a
clinical trials, so there is a continuum here, and our knowledge of
continuum here, and our knowledge of benefits increases over time. So
benefits increases over time. So perhaps it will seem to be a
perhaps it will seem to be a historic moment when the first
historic moment when the first person after the approval of supply
person after the approval of supply has their vaccine, but,
person after the approval of supply has theirvaccine, but, Sir Munir,
has their vaccine, but, Sir Munir, we see this very
has theirvaccine, but, Sir Munir, we see this very much as an ongoing
we see this very much as an ongoing process. Absolutely. It is very much
process. Absolutely. It is very much an ongoing process with regard this
an ongoing process with regard this vaccine and future vaccines coming
vaccine and future vaccines coming through in order to make sure
through in order to make sure relevant people in the
through in order to make sure relevant people in theJCVI list are
relevant people in the jCVI list are given the
relevant people in theJCVI list are given the vaccine in the priority
given the vaccine in the priority order that was shown. This is a good
order that was shown. This is a good point for me to stress that we will
point for me to stress that we will be inviting members of the public to
be inviting members of the public to join us in an active monitoring
join us in an active monitoring programme and many will get a
programme and many will get a letter, it will be by random
letter, it will be by random allocation, inviting them to join
allocation, inviting them tojoin this. So
allocation, inviting them to join this. So please help us to continue
this. So please help us to continue to build that body of knowledge
to build that body of knowladge about
to build that body of knowledge about this important vaccine. Can I
about this important vaccine. (“an I just ask on the
about this important vaccine. Can I just ask on the point about whether
just ask on the point about whether highest risk tiers will be the ones
highest risk tiers will be the ones to get it first. Professor Lim? That
to get it first. Professor Lim? That is the intention of the
is the intention of the prioritisation order, that the most
prioritisation order, that the most vulnerable people are offered
vulnerable people are offered vaccination first. In Tier 3? Do you
vaccination first. In Tier 3? Do you mean regional tiers?
vaccination first. In Tier 3? Do you mean regionaltiers? I
vaccination first. In Tier 3? Do you mean regional tiers? I do. Our
mean regional tiers? Ido. Our prioritisation
mean regional tiers? I do. Our prioritisation order is not
prioritisation order is not dependent on which tier somebody is
dependent on which tier somebody is in. It is a national prioritisation
in. It is a national prioritisation order. Thank you, that is very
order. Thank you, that is very dear. Turning to
order. Thank you, that is very clear. Turning to the next question,
dear. Turning to the next question, Andy
clear. Turning to the next question, Andy Woodcock from the Independent.
Andy Woodcock from the Independent. A couple of things. We appear to be
A couple of things. We appear to be getting authorisation for this
getting authorisation for this vaccine ahead of our friends in
vaccine ahead of our friends in Europe. I was wondering, does the
Europe. I was wondering, does the fact that the UK is no longer part
fact that the UK is no longer part of the EU, did that make any
of the EU, did that make any difference to the speed at which you
difference to the speed at which you were able to complete your
were able to complete your authorisation? Secondly, as I
authorisation? Secondly, as I understand it, the vaccine that you
understand it, the vaccine that you have authorised, we have not ordered
have authorised, we have not ordered sufficient quantities to cover the
sufficient quantities to cover the whola
sufficient quantities to cover the whole population. I was wondering,
whola population. I was wondering, do we
whole population. I was wondering, do we have enough of this vaccine to
do we have enough of this vaccine to get through all the priority groups
get through all the priority groups listed earlier on, or would we
listed eartier on, or would we dependent
listed earlier on, or would we dependent on waiting for further
dependent on waiting for further vaccines to be authorised in order
vaccines to be authorised in order to get to the position where the
to get to the position where the whole country can be safe from this
whola country ran be safe from this disease?
whole country can be safe from this disease? We have been able to
disease? We have been able to authorise the supply of this vaccine
authorise the supply of this vaccine using provisions under European law
using provisions under European law which exist until the ist of
which exist until the 1st of january.
which exist until the 1st of January. Our speed and progress has
january. Our speed and progress has been totally
January. Our speed and progress has been totally dependent on the
been totally dependent on the availability of data in our rolling
availability of data in our rolling review and the rigorous assessment
review and the rigorous assessment and advice we have received. 50 I
and advice we have received. So I hope that
and advice we have received. 50 I hope that clarifies the point about
hope that clarifies the point about the European relationship. We can
the European relationship. We ran turn to
the European relationship. We can turn to Professor Lim around
turn to Professor Lim around availability, is there anything you
availability, is there anything you would like to add on this? Very good
would like to add on this? Very good question vaccine supply and
question vaccine supply and availability. The whole reason why a
availability. The whola reason why a priority listing
availability. The whole reason why a priority listing is required is
priority listing is required is because we expect during a pandemic
because we expect during a pandemic that vaccine supply will be limited
that vaccine supply will be limited in the first instance and so
in the first instance and so vaccines should be offered in the
vaccines should be offered in the first instance to the most
first instance to the most vulnerable and then moving down the
vulnerable and then moving down the priority list. We will need as many
priority list. We will need as many vaccines as we can get, not
priority list. We will need as many vaccines as we can get, notjust in
vaccines as we ran get, not just in the UK but
vaccines as we can get, notjust in the UK but locally. This includes
the UK but locally. This includes more than one vaccine type in order
more than one vaccine type in order to reach all the people who are at
to reach all the peopla who are at risk from
to reach all the people who are at risk from Covid—19. This is the
risk from Covid-19. This is the start of a
risk from Covid—19. This is the start of a programme and not the end
start of a programme and not the end of the programme. And we are
of the programme. And we are absolutely in liaison with
absolutely in liaison with colleagues in the Department of
colleagues in the Department of Health and social care in terms of
Health and social rare in terms of all the
Health and social care in terms of all the evidence we have two enable
all the evidence we have two enable them to do their
all the evidence we have two enable them to do theirjob to make sure
them to do theirjob to make sure availability is assured. We can turn
availability is assured. We ran turn to the
availability is assured. We can turn to the next question which comes
to the next question which comes from the Scottish Sun. What would
from the Scottish Sun. what would your simple
from the Scottish Sun. What would your simple message the to those who
your simple message the to those who are suspicious of the vaccine, given
are suspicious of the vaccine, given what we have seen on
what we have seen on anti—vaccination feeling on social
anti-vaccination feeling on social media.
anti—vaccination feeling on social media. And can you summarise which
media. And ran you summarise which vaccines, and
media. And can you summarise which vaccines, and what are the expected
vaccines, and what are the expected timescales for approval on those
timescales for approval on those vaccines? The public can be
vaccines? The public can be absolutely confident that every
absolutely confident that every rigorous cheque has been done to
rigorous cheque has been done to reach the
rigorous cheque has been done to reach thejudgment that
rigorous cheque has been done to reach the judgment that we reached,
reach the judgment that we reached, that the benefits far outweigh any
that the benefits far outweigh any risk, that the safety of the vaccine
risk, that the safety of the vaccine has been scrutinised independently
has been scrutinised independently by our commission on human medicines
by our commission on human medicines and no stone has been left unturned,
and no stone has been left unturned, so absolute confidence on the
so absolute confidence on the safety, effectiveness and quality of
safety, effectiveness and quality of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine. In
the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine. In terms of further products, vaccines
terms of further products, vaccines for Covid—19 that are coming
for Covid-19 that are coming through,
for Covid—19 that are coming through, there are two, you will be
through, there are two, you will be aware, for which we have further
aware, for which we have further rolling review is ongoing, and those
rolling review is ongoing, and those will be conducted to the absolute
will be conducted to the absolute scientific standards that the public
scientific standards that the public would expect. Sir Munir, do you
would expect. Sir Munir, do you have anything to add? No thank you. Do
anything to add? No thank you. Do you have any indication on the
you have any indication on the timescales therefore the other
timescales therefore the other vaccine approvals? It wouldn’t be
vaccine approvals? It wouldn’t be possibla to
vaccine approvals? It wouldn’t be possible to predict today, simply
possibla to predict today, simply that
possible to predict today, simply that this rigorous process has
that this rigorous process has started in the way I have described,
started in the way I have described, with every package or parcel of data
with every package or parcel of data as it is available being scrutinised
as it is available being scrutinised and my guess is, Sir Munir, your
and my guess is, Sir Munir, your expert group will be working
expert group will be working probably over Christmas to make sure
probably over Christmas to make sure we complete our work in the shortest
we complete our work in the shortest possible time. Thank you. Let’s turn
possibla time. Thank you. Let’s turn to Tom
possible time. Thank you. Let’s turn to Tom Colson from business insider.
The Health Secretary has said rolling out the vaccine will be
rolling out the vaccine will be challenging because it needs to be
challenging because it needs to be stored at certain temperatures. Do
stored at certain temperatures. Do you foresee potential challenges in
you foresee potential challenges in offering the Pfizer vaccine to
offering the Pfizer vaccine to vulnerable groups who might not be
vulnerable groups who might not be able to travel to a vaccination
able to travel to a vaccination centre, or whose GP surgery might
centre, or whose GP surgery might not have the cold storage facilities
not have the cold storage facilities necessary to store the vaccine? Yes,
necessary to store the vaccine? Yes, indeed. I think every vaccine that
indeed. I think every vaccine that comes through will probably have its
comes through will probably have its own characteristics in terms of
own characteristis in terms of storage,
own characteristics in terms of storage, transport and
storage, transport and deliverability. So the Pfizer
deliverability. So the Pfizer vaccine in particular has a strong
vaccine in particular has a strong requirement for very cold storage.
requirement for very cold storage. And there are stability issues
And there are stability issues potentially that constrain how a
potentially that constrain how a vaccine can be supplied to different
vaccine ran be supplied to different people. Let’s
vaccine can be supplied to different people. Let’s not forget that a mass
people. Let’s not forget that a mass vaccination programme, as will be
vaccination programme, as will be conducted very soon, is an
conducted very soon, is an unprecedented thing, it will be the
unprecedented thing, it will be the largest vaccination programme in the
largest vaccination programme in the UK for decades. So there will be all
UK for decades. So there will be all manner of operational flexibility is
manner of operational ﬂexibility is that
manner of operational flexibility is that will be required during the
that will be required during the deployment of the vaccine. It has
deployment of the vaccine. It has certainly been very close scrutiny
certainly been very close scrutiny conducted by the expert working
conducted by the expert working EWUP
conducted by the expert working group in terms of the question you
group in terms of the question you have asked, Tom. Munir, would you
have asked, Tom. Munir, would you like to highlight the aspects you
like to highlight the aspects you have been poring over? Sure. As part
have been poring over? Sure. As part of the assessment of the vaccine, we
of the assessment of the vaccine, we look at the quality, which includes
look at the quality, which includes the stability. It does need to be
the stability. It does need to be stored at low temperature, —70
stored at low temperature, -70 degrees, at
stored at low temperature, —70 degrees, at least. But we know that
degrees, at least. But we know that once it is taken out, it can be
once it is taken out, it ran be stable,
once it is taken out, it can be stable, between 2—8 C, to allow for
stable, between 2-8 C, to allow for deployment in
stable, between 2—8 C, to allow for deployment in the vaccination site.
deployment in the vaccination site. And that information is being shared
And that information is being shared with the relevant agencies, the NHS,
with the relevant agencies, the NHS, pub“:
with the relevant agencies, the NHS, public health bodies. 50 they can
public health bodies. So they ran actually sort
public health bodies. 50 they can actually sort out deployment models
actually sort out deployment models and make sure the stability of the
and make sure the stability of the vaccine is maintained. It is
vaccine is maintained. It is critically important, thank you for
critically important, thank you for raising this key issue. Our next
raising this key issue. Our next question comes from Jasmine Ralston,
question comes from jasmine Ralston, from the
question comes from Jasmine Ralston, from the Health Service
question comes from Jasmine Ralston, from the Health Servicejournal,
from the Health Service journal, good
from the Health Servicejournal, good morning. Good morning, thank
good morning. Good morning, thank you. The vaccine has been approved
you. The vaccine has been approved by the MHRA with conditions, what
by the MHRA with conditions, what are they? How should trusts decide
are they? How should trusts decide which front line staff have priority
which front line staff have priority for the vaccination, and how do you
for the vaccination, and how do you reassure NHS staff concerned the
reassure NHS staff concerned the vaccine might not be safe? Finally,
vaccine might not be safe? Finally, will NHS staff he allowed to update
will NHS staff he allowed to update out of having the vaccination
out of having the vaccination without penalty? Thank you, the
without penalty? Thank you, the first question relates to the
first question relates to the conditions, which has you can
conditions, which has you ran imagine, are
conditions, which has you can imagine, are very strict and
imagine, are very strict and rigorous. Mainly around the quality
rigorous. Mainly around the quality areas we can —— we have been
areas we ran -- we have been exploring which
areas we can —— we have been exploring which need to be to the
exploring which need to be to the very highest standards. The second
very highest standards. The second area will be around the vigilance,
area will be around the vigilance, the monitoring of all the safety
the monitoring of all the safety aspects, particularly as Vanessa
aspects, particularty as Vanessa Macro 3
aspects, particularly as Vanessa Macro 3 has said because so many
Macro 3 has said because so many peopla will
Macro 3 has said because so many people will want to have this
people will want to have this vaccine. —— Professor PLim. And we
vaccine. -- Professor PLim. And we will have
vaccine. —— Professor PLim. And we will have close control over the
will have close control over the information provided to health care
information provided to health rare professions
information provided to health care professions and to the public so
professions and to the public so that in having that very clear and
that in having that very clear and very precise information, everyone
very precise information, everyone ran be
very precise information, everyone can be confident the vaccine is
can be confident the vaccine is going to reach them in the best
going to reach them in the best possible way. So those are the three
possible way. So those are the three main areas. But the extent of the
main areas. But the extent of the controls of the MHRA are very broad,
controls of the MHRA are very broad, in line with international guidance
in line with international guidance around good laboratory practice,
around good laboratory practice, good clinical practice and good
good clinical practice and good manufacturing practice. We will be
manufacturing practice. We will be watching very carefully that all
watching very carefully that all those requirements and conditions
those requirements and conditions are complied with. Public can be
are complied with. Public can be confident of that. Perhaps I can
confident of that. Perhaps I ran turn to
confident of that. Perhaps I can turn to Professor Lim for some of
turn to Professor Lim for some of the aspects you have raised, and
the aspects you have raised, and particularty
the aspects you have raised, and particularly as NHS staff will need
particularty as NHS staff will need to
particularly as NHS staff will need to have that confidence, too. Thank
to have that confidence, too. Thank you. The jail
to have that confidence, too. Thank you. TheJCBI has advised that there
you. The jail has advised that there are
you. TheJCBI has advised that there are certain front line health care
are certain front line health rare and
are certain front line health care and social care workers who should
and social rare workers who should be
and social care workers who should be offered higher priority. And
be offered higher priority. And these are based around their own
these are based around their own personal risk of having harm or
personal risk of having harm or severe illness from Covid—19.
severe illness from Covid-19. Secondly,
severe illness from Covid—19. Secondly, the amount of exposure
Secondly, the amount of exposure they have two people who have
they have two people who have Covid—19 infection themselves. And
Covid-19 infection themselves. And thirdly, the
Covid—19 infection themselves. And thirdly, the amount of interaction
thirdly, the amount of interaction they have with different people who
they have with different people who are vulnerable and might acquire
are vulnerable and might acquire Covid—19. So we have set out some
Covid-19. So we have set out some principlas on
Covid—19. So we have set out some principles on how to prioritise
principles on how to prioritise different health care workers and
different health rare workers and use
different health care workers and use those when deployment of the
use those when deployment of the vaccine is indicated. In terms of
vaccine is indicated. In terms of whether it should be voluntary or
whether it should be voluntary or compulsory, at the moment, there is
compulsory, at the moment, there is no suggestion that the vaccination
no suggestion that the vaccination should be compulsory, it is also an
should be compulsory, it is also an offer of vaccination and whether
offer of vaccination and whether somebody wants to have a vaccine or
somebody wants to have a vaccine or not, whether they are in the NHS or
not, whether they are in the NHS or not is at the moment
not, whether they are in the NHS or not is at the momenta voluntary
not is at the moment a voluntary thing. But the
not is at the momenta voluntary thing. But theJCBI is not a
thing. But theJCBI is not a policy—making body, policy is made
policy-making body, policy is made by ministers.
policy—making body, policy is made by ministers. The clear and helpful
by ministers. The clear and helpful information that will be provided
information that will be provided will enable the conversations to go
will enabla the conversations to go on on an
will enable the conversations to go on on an individual level so that
on on an individual level so that anyone who has any questions can
anyone who has any questions ran have
anyone who has any questions can have them clearly and thoroughly
have them clearly and thoroughly answered. Munir, please do. Maybe I
answered. Munir, please do. Maybel ran add
answered. Munir, please do. Maybe I can add something about safety. The
ran add something about safety. The trial has
can add something about safety. The trial has had about 40,000
trial has had about 40,000 individuals and half of those
individuals and half of those received the vaccine and half
received the vaccine and half received the placebo. From the data
received the placebo. From the data that has been provided, most of the
that has been provided, most of the adverse effects were mild and short
adverse effects were mild and short lasting, usually lasting for a day
lasting, usually lasting for a day or two,
lasting, usually lasting for a day ortwo, similar
lasting, usually lasting for a day ortwo, similarto
lasting, usually lasting for a day or two, similar to the kind of
or two, similar to the kind of effects you get after any other
effects you get after any other vaccine. So that is really
vaccine. So that is really important, we have not identified
important, we have not identified any serious adverse reactions
any serious adverse reactions throughout the trial programme. But
throughout the trial programme. But it is important to continually
it is important to continually monitor the safety of this and the
monitor the safety of this and the MHRA has a very proactive vigilance
MHRA has a very proactive vigilance strategy to be able to monitor the
strategy to be able to monitor the safety and permit monks that is a
safety and permit monks that is a yellow card system which anybody can
yellow card system which anybody ran report on,
yellow card system which anybody can report on, including members of the
report on, including members of the pub“:
report on, including members of the public -- and
report on, including members of the public —— and prominent amongst
public -- and prominent amongst that. But
public —— and prominent amongst that. But also the active recall
that. But also the active rerall system the
that. But also the active recall system the MHRA is going to launch,
system the MHRA is going to launch, which will ask members to be able to
which will ask members to be able to join and look at what is happening
join and look at what is happening with the vaccine and whether they
with the vaccine and whether they are developing any side effects. It
are developing any side effects. It is all well prepared and we are
is all well prepared and we are ready to roll into action now. I
ready to roll into action now. I think that completes all our
think that complates all our questions,
think that completes all our questions, thank you to all the
questions, thank you to all the journalists who have joined this
journalists who have joined this morning. I will ask my colleagues if
morning. I will ask my colleagues if you have any final remarks.
you have any final remarks. Professor Lim? Yes, I would like to
Professor Lim? Yes, I would like to thank everybody who has been
thank everybody who has been involved in helping the
thank everybody who has been involved in helping theJCBI come to
involved in helping the jail come to its
involved in helping theJCBI come to its advice. I would like to stress
its advice. I would like to stress we are so far advised how the
we are so far advised how the vaccine might be used in the first
vaccine might be used in the first phase of the programme. We haven’t
phase of the programme. We haven’t yet decided how the vaccine may be
yet decided how the vaccine may be used in subsequent phases of the
used in subsequent phases of the programme and we will be monitoring
programme and we will be monitoring all the new emerging data, including
all the new emerging data, including data coming out from phase one of
data coming out from phase one of the programme, in order to make our
the programme, in order to make our further decisions. Thank you, that
further decisions. Thank you, that is really helpful. Munir, any
is really helpful. Munir, any concluding remarks? Thank you. I
concluding remarks? Thank you. I think that we are in the midst of a
think that we are in the midst of a once in a century pandemic and I
once in a century pandemic and I think this is a historic moment, the
think this is a historic moment, the UK is now one step closer to
UK is now one step closer to providing a safe and effective
providing a safe and effective vaccine to help in the fight against
vaccine to help in the fight against Covid—19. A virus that has affected
Covid-19. A virus that has affected each and every
Covid—19. A virus that has affected each and every one of us in some
each and every one of us in some way. And this will help to save
way. And this will help to save lives. Thank you. I would simply
lives. Thank you. I would simply like to conclude by reiterating that
like to conclude by reiterating that this vaccine, produced and developed
this vaccine, produced and developed by Pfizer/BioNTech, meets rigorous
by Pfizer/BioNTech, meets rigorous high standards of safety,
high standards of safety, effectiveness and of quality. The
effectiveness and of quality. The public’s safety has always been at
public’s safety has always been at the forefront of our minds. Safety
the forefront of our minds. Safety is our watchword. It will always
is our watchword. It will always continue to be so. Thank you, we can
continue to be so. Thank you, we ran now
continue to be so. Thank you, we can now conclude this briefing. That was
now conclude this briefing. That was Dr june Raine,
now conclude this briefing. That was DrJune Raine, Chief Executive of
Dr june Raine, Chief Executive of the
DrJune Raine, Chief Executive of the medicines regulator, the body
the medicines regulator, the body which has given approval for this
which has given approval for this Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, pretty much
Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, pretty much ending that science briefing as she
ending that science briefing as she started it come up with a focus on
started it come up with a focus on the safety, saying public safety has
the safety, saying public safety has absolutely always been a top
absolutely always been a top priority. She said that no corners
priority. She said that no corners had been cut. A lot of information
had been cut. A lot of information in that briefing.
Our health correspondent Naomi Grimley is here.
On that point about safety, three experts very much pains to point out
experts very much pains to point out all the checks have been done, or
all the checks have been done, or the processes that they needed to go
the processes that they needed to go through to bring this vaccine to
through to bring this vaccine to market have been gone through.
market have been gone through. That’s right, I think that is why it
That’s right, I think that is why it was such a sober press conference
was such a sober press conference because they are trying to stress
because they are trying to stress that they did not cut corners. In
that they did not cut corners. In fact, they went to great pains to
fact, they went to great pains to stress that they had been doing a
stress that they had been doing a lot of this regulatory approval in
lot of this regulatory approval in overtapping
lot of this regulatory approval in overlapping stages and that explains
overtapping stages and that explains why it was
overlapping stages and that explains why it was done so quickly, head of
why it was done so quickly, head of any other international regulator.
any other international regulator. Now we heard that this vaccine will
Now we heard that this vaccine will give immunity from coronavirus,
give immunity from coronavims, seven days
give immunity from coronavirus, seven days after the second dose,
seven days after the second dose, there are 21 days between the two
there are 21 days between the two doses, partial immunity after the
doses, partial immunity after the first dose and full immunity seven
first dose and full immunity seven days after the second dose. And we
days after the second dose. And we saw, which I think is worth looking
saw, which I think is worth looking at, a list of the priority for
at, a list of the priority for peopla
at, a list of the priority for people getting that vaccine in its
peopla getting that vaccine in its first
people getting that vaccine in its first phase. That’s right, this is
first phase. That’s right, this is really important because at number
really important because at number one of the priority list is care
one of the priority list is rare home
one of the priority list is care home residents and care home
home residents and rare home workers.
home residents and care home workers. Yet we have been hearing in
workers. Yet we have been hearing in the last few days about some of the
the last few days about some of the problems of getting the Pfizer
problems of getting the Pfizer vaccine out to them because it has
vaccine out to them because it has to be held at these very low
to be held at these very low temperatures, freezing temperatures
temperatures, freezing temperatures of -70 degrees
temperatures, freezing temperatures of —70 degrees 70 data. They still
of -70 degrees 70 data. They still suggest they
of —70 degrees 70 data. They still suggest they are the priority. —— 70
suggest they are the priority. -- 70 degrees -- -70
suggest they are the priority. —— 70 degrees —— —70 Celsius centigrade.
degrees -- -70 Celsius centigrade. Once it has
degrees —— —70 Celsius centigrade. Once it has been taken out of the
Once it has been taken out of the freezer, it ran
Once it has been taken out of the freezer, it can be put in a fridge,
freezer, it ran be put in a fridge, hand-held
freezer, it can be put in a fridge, hand—held at the temperatures of
hand-held at the temperatures of 2-8 C, that
hand—held at the temperatures of 2—8 C, that can only happen for
2-8 C, that ran only happen for about
2—8 C, that can only happen for about five days, but that does give
about five days, but that does give a window of opportunity to give it
a window of opportunity to give it to rare
a window of opportunity to give it to care homes. The big caveat if you
to rare homes. The big caveat if you like was they
to care homes. The big caveat if you like was they did mentioned there
like was they did mentioned there would be operational constraints and
would be operational constraints and that is why the most likely people
that is why the most likely peopla we will
that is why the most likely people we will see first of all are in
we will see first of all are in hospitals. Very interesting detail.
hospitals. Very interesting detail. Also, we were hearing the public
Also, we were hearing the public will be invited randomly, I guess in
will be invited randomly, I guess in the way that some surveys of
the way that some surveys of coronavirus have been carried out by
coronavirus have been carried out by selecting people randomly from the
selecting people randomly from the NHS register, to take part in an
NHS register, to take part in an active monitoring programme of the
active monitoring programme of the vaccine. This is the follow—up to
vaccine. This is the follow-up to see how
vaccine. This is the follow—up to see how people are coping with it.
see how peopla are coping with it. That’s right,
see how people are coping with it. That’s right, and that is absolutely
That’s right, and that is absolutely key because this is a novel pandemic
key because this is a novel pandemic so we need to keep monitoring those
so we need to keep monitoring those people who have the vaccine. Of
peopla who have the vaccine. Of course, a big
people who have the vaccine. Of course, a big part of what they were
course, a big part of what they were trying to do today was stressing
trying to do today was stressing that people need to buy into this,
that people need to buy into this, they need to be able to trust it.
they need to be able to trust it. Promising us they will keep looking
Promising us they will keep looking at those who have had it, checking
at those who have had it, checking for any after effects is key. Also,
for any after effects is key. Also, a very important to think that they
a very important to think that they wanted to stress I think today was
wanted to stress I think today was that they want to prioritise your
that they want to prioritise your risk of dying when they are looking
risk of dying when they are looking at how to roll it out. So I think
at how to roll it out. So I think perhaps most interesting of all was
perhaps most interesting of all was they talked about paying you
they talked about paying you attention to health inequalities.
attention to health inequalities. These are things like your access to
These are things like your access to health rare,
These are things like your access to health care, whether you are in a
health rare, whether you are in a deprived
health care, whether you are in a deprived community, and so they have
deprived community, and so they have strict Gascony they want to stick to
strict Gascony they want to stick to and they were folded in other
and they were folded in other aspects of society to make sure
aspects of society to make sure those most at risk get it first. Do
those most at risk get it first. Do we think based on that, some people
we think based on that, some peopla who don’t
we think based on that, some people who don’t Strictly fall into that
who don’t Strictly fall into that category, an obvious one would be
category, an obvious one would be children under 16 for example who
children under 16 for example who have very serious health conditions,
have very serious health conditions, might they get the vaccine early?
might they get the vaccine early? Children is a bit more problematic
Children is a bit more problematic because the structure was looking at
because the stmcture was looking at those
because the structure was looking at those over the age of 16. But when
those over the age of 16. But when it comes to ethnic minorities, we
it comes to ethnic minorities, we know they are at higher risk of
know they are at higher risk of disease. Morbidity. Severe illness.
disease. Morbidity. Severe illness. It is clear they will factor that
It is clear they will factor that in. I have also been leading the
in. I have also been leading the documents they produced alongside
documents they produced alongside this. They are going to pay
this. They are going to pay attention, once they have done the
attention, once they have done the over 50 group, they will pay
over 50 group, they will pay attention to occupations. This is
attention to occupations. This is things like, remember in London, we
things like, remember in London, we had terrible deaths amongst London
had terrible deaths amongst London bus drivers, it is things like that.
bus drivers, it is things like that. Also teachers, because teachers are
Also teachers, because teachers are going into schools, they are exposed
going into schools, they are exposed to several people every day. So as
to several people every day. So as well as healthcare workers, they are
well as healthrare workers, they are going to be
well as healthcare workers, they are going to be looking at professions,
going to be looking at professions, too. Very interesting, thank you
too. Very interesting, thank you very much for that.
England has returned to a tiered system of coronavirus restrictions,
after the national lockdown ended at midnight.
More than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers —
where mixing with other households indoors is banned.
The measures were voted in yesterday, despite
the Prime Minister suffering the biggest rebellion by his own MPs
since coming into office.
From today, more than 23 million people are now
in the highest tier, Tier 3.
There’s no socialising indoors or in private gardens.
Pubs and restaurants can only do takeaways.
More than 32 million find themselves in Tier 2.
Again, no mixing indoors, but up to six people can meet outdoors.
And you can go to restaurants or pubs that serve substantial meals
with people you live with.
Tier1 has the lightest restrictions, but fewer than three
quarters of a million people are in this tier, where up to six
people from different households can socialise indoors and outdoors.
Our first report from our political correspondent, Jonathan Blake.
With the end of a national lockdown in England comes a new three—tier
system of restrictions to get used to.
From this morning, 99% of the population is under
the higher two levels of controls for at least the next two weeks.
Here’s how the new system of restrictions will work.
Shops, gyms and hairdressers will be allowed to reopen
across the country.
In Tier 1, the lowest level of restrictions,
groups of up to six people will be able to meet indoors or outdoors.
Pubs and restaurants can reopen, with last orders at ten o’clock
and closing at 11pm.
In Tier 2, groups of up to six people will still be able to meet
outdoors, but not indoors, unless in a support bubble.
Pubs can only reopen if they are operating
as a restaurant, and alcohol can only be served with
a substantial meal.
And in the highest level of restrictions, pubs
and restaurants will be forced to provide takeaway only,
and there will be no mixing of households, except up to six
people in public outdoor spaces like parks.
So, the eyes have it, the eyes have it.
Last night, MPs approved the plans, but not without a struggle.
55 Conservatives voted against the Government —
the biggest backbench rebellion of BorisJohnson’s time
as Prime Minister.
It’s passed with a majority of well over 200, it’s a very important set
of regulations to help the UK bridge into the spring, where we hope
a vaccine will move us into a whole different place.
And the reason that these regulations mattered is it allows us
to move to a tiered approach which, backed up by mass community
testing, will help us keep control of the virus
and avoid another lockdown.
While the new tiers are stricter in some ways, there’s plenty you can
now do wherever you live in England that might make it feel
like a return to something like life as normal.
In another major change, people will be able to visit
relatives in care homes.
New guidance states that contact will be allowed in all three tiers
if those visiting have tested negative for the virus.
Questions continue about the impact of restrictions, though.
The Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has challenged the government
to publish more details of the economic impact of control
measures as many businesses face uncertain weeks and months ahead.
Jonathan Blake, BBC News.
Three well—known Hong Kong activists have been jailed
for their involvement in mass pro—democracy protests last year.
The trio had been found guilty of unlawful assembly.
Joshua Wong will serve more than 13 months in prison, Agnes Chow ten,
months and Ivan Lam seven months.
The charges were lodged before China imposed its tough National Security
Law in the territory — under which, they could have
been jailed for life.
Since then, the pro—democracy movement has been stifled.
A message onJoshua Wong’s Twitter, posted shortly after the verdict,
reads: "The tenacity of Hong Kongers continues to give us
strength in our sufferings.
Please, take your positions, give support to each other".
‘0ur planet is broken’ and ‘humanity is waging a ‘suicidal war’
on the natural world’ — those are words from
the Secretary General of the United Nations,
Antonio Guterres, who is expected to deliver a speech later
at a special BBC event on the environment.
The speech, entitled the ‘State of the Planet’,
will send a stark warning to world leaders, as Mr Guterres says
he wants to put climate change back at the heart
of the UN’s global mission.
Let’s discuss this now with Sophie Gill, an oceanographer,
who studies the physical, chemical and biological
features of the ocean.
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much forjoining us,
Thank you very much for joining us, Sophie. Mr
Thank you very much forjoining us, Sophie. Mr Guterres paints a pretty
Sophie. Mr Guterres paints a pretty apocalyptic picture, doesn’t he? Is
apocalyptic picture, doesn’t he? Is this the sort of call that is
this the sort of call that is needed? Because the big UN 26 event
needed? Because the big UN 26 event that we were expecting to take place
that we were expecting to take place at the end of this year in Glasgow,
at the end of this year in Glasgow, bringing together people from
bringing together people from already --
bringing together people from already —— all over the world to
already -- all over the world to talk about
already —— all over the world to talk about how to deal with the
talk about how to deal with the climate crisis, that has had to be
climate crisis, that has had to be postponed, so do we need this call
postponed, so do we need this all from
postponed, so do we need this call from someone like Mr Guterres right
from someone like Mr Guterres right now? Yes, definitely. We are facing
now? Yes, definitely. We are facing so many threats from climate change
so many threats from climate change and the warming of our planet
and the warming of our planet including rising sea levels. We have
including rising sea levels. We have seen climate refugees over the last
seen climate refugees over the last year’s in low—lying island nations
year’s in low-lying island nations who
year’s in low—lying island nations who have lost their homes, we are
who have lost their homes, we are seeing an increase in extreme
seeing an increase in extreme weather events like wildfires and
weather events like wildfires and ﬂooding.
weather events like wildfires and flooding. Yes, it is incredibly
ﬂooding. Yes, it is incredibly important
flooding. Yes, it is incredibly important diskettes global coverage
important diskettes global coverage and I think one of the main things
and I think one of the main things that will hopefully come out of the
that will hopefully come out of the impact of this speech and COP26 next
impact of this speech and (20st next year will be
impact of this speech and COP26 next year will be hopefully we can work
year will be hopefully we ran work towards
year will be hopefully we can work towards a unified global agreement
towards a unified global agreement on how to reach a net zero and
on how to reach a net zero and decrease the concentrations of
decrease the concentrations of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere,
greenhouse gases in our atmosphere, which will then help us to reduce
which will then help us to reduce the levels of warming we are seeing.
the levels of warming we are seeing. One of the most eye—catching things
One of the most eye-catching things he is talking
One of the most eye—catching things he is talking about is putting the
he is talking about is putting the focus on tax, taking it away from
focus on tax, taking it away from income and putting it on the
income and putting it on the production of carbon. Something like
production of carbon. Something like that really going to make a
that really going to make a difference, is that what it is going
difference, is that what it is going to take? My expertise isn’t really
to take? My expertise isn’t really in economics, but I can definitely
in economic, but I ran definitely 55V
in economic, but I ran definitely say that
in economics, but I can definitely say that decreasing subsidies on
say that decreasing subsidies on fossil fuels will help to
fossil fuels will help to incentivise companies to rely less
incentivise companies to rely lass on
incentivise companies to rely less on those fuels which will reduce our
on those fuels which will reduce our reliance on greenhouse gases as a
reliance on greenhouse gases as a source of fuel. And there are other
source of fuel. And there are other “75
source of fuel. And there are other ways we ran
source of fuel. And there are other ways we can remove carbon dioxide
ways we ran remove carbon dioxide from the
ways we can remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to help us reach
from the atmosphere to help us reach international climate targets. The
international climate targets. The 1.5 degrees or 2 degrees rise in
1.5 degrees or 2 degrees rise in temperature set out by the Paris
temperature set out by the Paris Agreement in 2015, we need to both
Agreement in 2015, we need to both reduce our current and future
reduce our current and future emissions and also start to actively
emissions and also start to actively remove carbon dioxide that we have
remove carbon dioxide that we have already put in the atmosphere stop
already put in the atmosphere stop and there are several ways we can do
and there are several ways we ran do that today. We
and there are several ways we can do that today. We can use responsible
that today. We can use responsible reforestation efforts to start to
reforestation efforts to start to help more trees, to take more C02
help more trees, to take more C02 out of the atmosphere, we can help
out of the atmosphere, we ran help to
out of the atmosphere, we can help to increase the quite large sinks of
to increase the quite large sinks of C02 naturally in the ocean for
C02 naturally in the ocean for example. Mangrove habitats are
example. Mangrove habitats are weapons on coasts. There is also the
weapons on coasts. There is also the hope of negative emissions
hope of negative emissions technologies, so numerous different
technologies, so numerous different strategies have been proposed which
strategies have been proposed which aim to increase the amount of C02
aim to increase the amount of C02 storage artificially in the ocean or
storage artificially in the ocean or on land. But the research into many
on land. But the research into many of these negative emissions
of these negative emissions technologies is actually in its
technologies is actually in its infancy and one of the pages we have
infancy and one of the pages we have seen recently is they rely quite
seen recently is they rely quite heavily on these negative emissions
heavily on these negative emissions technologies becoming a reality is
technologies becoming a reality is -- a reality. I
technologies becoming a reality is —— a reality. I suppose I’m getting
-- a reality. I suppose I’m getting at him really
—— a reality. I suppose I’m getting at him really provoking a response
at him really provoking a response and challenging people to change
and challanging peopla to change their
and challenging people to change their mindset. Clearly, that is what
their mindset. Clearty, that is what it will
their mindset. Clearly, that is what it will take a change in approach
it will take a change in approach and a change in the way think about
and a change in the way think about the world and how systems operate.
the world and how systems operate. Yes, definitely. There is going to
Yes, definitely. There is going to need to be a drastic overhaul if we
need to be a drastic overhaul if we want to keep within the Paris
want to keep within the Paris Climate Agreement and other UN
(limate Agreement and other UN goals. Yes,
Climate Agreement and other UN goals. Yes, absolutely. We need to
goals. Yes, absolutely. We need to have pressure on governments to
have pressure on governments to really stick to these pages they are
really stick to these pages they are making. At the moment, their pledge
making. At the moment, their pledge is not action. I think one of the
is not action. I think one of the aims of the speech from Mr Guterres
aims of the speech from Mr Guterres is to emphasise that it is really
is to emphasise that it is really great that these countries have come
great that these countries have come out and said, for example, China
out and said, for example, China said they will reach net zero by
said they will reach net zero by 2060 very recently. With the
2060 very recently. With the election of
2060 very recently. With the election ofJoe Biden, he is
elaction of joe Biden, he is pro-global
election ofJoe Biden, he is pro—global climate and he said the
pro-global climate and he said the US
pro—global climate and he said the US would rejoin the Climate
US would rejoin the Climate Agreement and reach net zero by
Agreement and reach net zero by 2050. It is really important we
2050. It is really important we stick to those pages and take action
stick to those pages and take action rather than just saying that we will
rather than just saying that we will do it. Sophie, thank you very much,
do it. Sophie, thank you very much, Sophie jill, and
do it. Sophie, thank you very much, Sophiejill, and oceanographer.
The US Attorney General says his department has not found
any proof to back up President Trump’s claims
of widespread voter fraud in the presidential election.
Mr Trump and his campaign filed lawsuits in states that he lost,
as they begin certifying Joe Biden as the winner.
Here’s our North America Correspondent Peter Bowes.
A political friendship that could be wearing thin.
We do not allow judgments to be reached.
William Barr has been a staunch ally of Donald Trump,
which is why his views as the country’s top law enforcement
officer carry special weight.
Now he says, working with FBI agents, they’ve
uncovered no evidence that
would change the outcome of the election.
And he added...
As news emerged of the Attorney General’s comments, it appears
President Trump was engrossed in his Twitter account,
live—tweeting a hearing in Michigan in which his personal lawyer,
Rudy Giuliani, was submitting further unsubstantiated claims
about the election.
With the President still apparently obsessing over and denying
the election result, Joe Biden is getting
on with building his team for government.
Good afternoon, everyone.
The President—Elect says his top priority will be dealing
with the coronavirus, and jump—starting the economy.
We’re going to create jobs, raise incomes, reduce drug prices,
advance racial equity across the economy, and restore
the backbone of this country — the middle class.
Our message to everybody struggling right now is this —
help is on the way.
Right now, the US has soaring numbers of new cases.
New Yorkers returned home from the Thanksgiving holiday,
only to queue for hours, as they waited to be
tested for the virus.
Everyone’s hoping the vaccine will be available soon.
It could be in the next two weeks.
Peter Bowes, BBC News, Los Angeles.
China has successfully landed a probe on the Moon, in an ambitious
attempt to bring back the first lunar samples in four decades.
The mission’s goal is to collect lunar rocks and soil to reveal more
about the Moon’s origins, formation and volcanic activity.
You’re watching BBC News.
Looking ahead to our coverage throughout the day —
the Prime Minister will lead a coronavirus briefing from Downing
Street later, it will cover today’s vaccine announcement
and the three tiers of restrictions in England.
We will bring you that live in a special programme from 4:30
here on the BBC News Channel and BBC 1.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol.
Hello again.
Today’s weather will be fairly quiet, but turning colder
from the north and the west.
Over the next few days and nights, the cold air moves across the UK.
It will be accompanied by rain for some of us
and also snow for others.
The snow mostly on the hills, but in some heavier bursts,
we could see that even at lower levels.
This morning’s early brightness eradicated by this band
of cloud and rain sinking southwards and eastwards.
Sunshine and showers behind it, blustery showers driven
in in a brisk wind, the strongest winds across the far
west of Scotland.
With the colder air, increasingly through the day, the snow level
on the hills of Scotland comes down to about 300 metres.
Look at the temperature in Stornoway, only three degrees.
This evening and overnight, we say goodbye to this
band of cloud and rain, there will be some clear skies.
But further snow showers.
And by the end of the night, to the higher ground in Scotland,
we could have about ten centimetres of lying snow and, at lower levels,
potentially two centimetres.
We have this cloud and rain piling in across England and Wales.
The Brecon Beacons and the Shropshire Hills
could also see snow.
Watch out for ice first thing across the north.
And we have all this rain moving eastwards and across Wales,
brisk winds through the English Channel.
Fewer showers across Western Scotland and Northern Ireland today.
It could still be wintry and you could see a little
of that at lower levels.
By the end of the afternoon, snow across the hills
of North West Walas and North West England.
Overnight, we still do have this band of rain.
And on its western flank, it could deposit snow
across the Chilterns and the Downs.
And you might see a dusting first thing.
At the same time, we have the rain and the snow
across northern England, moving across parts of Scotland.
Some of this could also be at lower levels by the time you wake up first
thing on Friday morning.
During Friday, we have this snow and rain to say goodbye to,
as it drifts westwards.
A new band of rain coming in across the east.
On its leading edge, likely to see snow predominantly on the hills.
And in the north of the country, looking at brisk winds,
so it will feel cold.
Driest conditions in the south—west.
Even so, here, it will also feel cold.
That cold theme continues during the weekend.
The driest day looks like being Sunday.
This is BBC News.
I’m Joanna Gosling.
The headlines at 11:
Pfizer’s vaccine has been approved by regulators for use in the UK
and could be rolled out across the country next week.
and could be rolled out across the country next week.
and could be rolled out across the country next week.
The MHRA’S
The MHRA’s recommendation has been reached following a thorough and
reached following a thorough and scientific review of all the
scientific review of all the evidence.
The UK expects to have millions of doses of the Pfizer vaccine
available by the end of the year — and the first 800,000
coming next week.
I’m just so pleased that... 2020 has been just awful and 2021 is going to
been just awful and 2021 is going to be better and help is on its way.
England’s tier system is back but with toughened measures.
More than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers.
As the second lockdown comes to an end in England,
all nonessential shops can reopen.
Businesses are hoping for a flood of customers to provide a much
needed boost in the run up to Christmas.
"Our planet is broken" —
that’s the warning coming from the Secretary General
of the United Nations.
In a special BBC broadcast, Antonio Guterres will talk
about tackling global warming, which is now a central
objective of the UN.
Good morning and welcome to BBC News.
The UK has become the first country in the world to approve
the Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus vaccine, with around 800,000 doses
of the jab being made available as early as next week.
The medicines regulator says the vaccine —
which offers up to 95% protection against coronavirus —
is safe to be rolled out.
A0 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech have been
pre—ordered by the Government.
The vaccine is currently not available in the UK The first supply
of 800,000 vaccines will be sent from a Pfizer laboratory in Belgium.
This will be enough to immunise 20 million people with two
shots of the vaccine, which will be given 21 days apart.
The Health Secretary says the first jabs will be prioritised to those
most vulnerable to coronavirus, starting with care home
residents and staff, followed by people aged over 80
and health care workers.
Around 50 hospitals are on standby ready to receive the vaccine,
with community vaccination centres being established in venues such
as conference centres.
More details of when and where you might receive the vaccine
will be given later this morning.
Prime Minister BorisJohnson has taken to Twitter and said protection
from the vaccine would ultimately allow us to reclaim our lives
and get the economy moving again.
Speaking in the last hour, DrJune Raine, Chief Executive
of the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency,
said no corners had been cut in the development
of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, and that it was now
safe to be rolled out.
The recommendation has been reached following a scientific and thorough
following a scientific and thorough review of all the evidence of
review of all the evidence of safety, effectiveness and of quality
safety, effectiveness and of quality of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. The
of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. The UK Government has now accepted this
UK Government has now accepted this advice and has made the decision to
advice and has made the decision to approve the vaccine for use with
approve the vaccine for use with some conditions. In adults aged 16
some conditions. In adults aged 16 and over. The safety of the public
and over. The safety of the public will always come first. Separate
will always come first. Separate teams have been working in parallel
teams have been working in parallel to deliver the most rigorous review
to deliver the most rigorous review of this vaccine. No corners have
of this vaccine. No corners have been cut. Our expert scientists and
been cut. Our expert scientists and clinicians have worked round the
clinicians have worked round the dock,
clinicians have worked round the clock, carefully, methodically
dock, carefully, methodically poring over
clock, carefully, methodically poring over tables and analyses and
poring over tables and analyses and grafts on every single piece of
grafts on every single piece of data. Hundreds over 1,000 pages of
data. Hundreds over 1,000 pages of data and absolutely critically
data and absolutely critically analysing the preclinical evidence,
analysing the preclinical evidence, the clinical trials, the
the clinical trials, the manufacturing and quality controls
manufacturing and quality controls and then down to the final sample.
and then down to the final sampla. We have
and then down to the final sample. We have also reviewed and agreed the
We have also reviewed and agreed the prescribing information so that the
prescribing information so that the pub“:
prescribing information so that the public and health care professionals
public and health rare professionals are very dear
public and health care professionals are very clear and can be very
are very clear and ran be very confident
are very clear and can be very confident that the vaccine is being
confident that the vaccine is being used in the correct way,
used in the correct way, understanding what is involved. And
understanding what is involved. And going forward from today, our
going forward from today, our National Institute for biological
National Institute for biological standards and control will be
standards and control will be independently laboratory tested so
independently laboratory tested so that every single vaccine that goes
that every single vaccine that goes out meets the same high standards of
out meets the same high standards of safety and quality.
The Health Secretary Matt Hancock said today’s landmark approval
from the medicine’s regulator, the MHRA, would help save lives.
2020 has been such a terrible year, hasn’t it, and help is on its way.
And this news, for so long we’ve been saying that if a vaccine
is developed then things will get better in 2021, and now we can say
when this vaccine is rolled out, things will get better,
and we will start that process next week.
I’m obviously absolutely thrilled with the news and very proud
that the UK is the first place in the world to have a clinically
authorised vaccine ready to go.
Huge thanks to the scientists, to Pfizer, the company.
Obviously to my team and Kate Bingham, and Alok Sharma,
the Business Secretary, who has done a huge
amount of work on this.
What it means for people is that from next week we’ll be able
to start rolling this out.
We’ll start with those who are most vulnerable to coronavirus,
and you need two jabs, 21 days apart.
And after that we will start protecting people as the protection
comes with these two jabs, and it will help save lives,
and then, once we’ve started protecting the most vulnerable,
it will help us all get back to normal and back
to all the things that we love.
Our health correspondent Naomi Grimley is here.
ii
It has felt this morning like he was a cheerleader and then we had the
a cheerleader and then we had the very sober scientist with what was
very sober scientist with what was actually a pretty gripping briefing.
actually a pretty gripping briefing. Yes, they were unapologetically
Yes, they were unapologetic-ally indulging in
Yes, they were unapologetically indulging in their expert status and
indulging in their expert stems and that’s
indulging in their expert status and that’s because so much now will rely
that’s because so much now will rely on trust and as being prepared to
on trust and as being prepared to take this vaccine and that means
take this vaccine and that means that they really want to stress too
that they really want to stress too is that corners have not been cut in
is that corners have not been cut in this process. In fact, it’s been
this process. In fact, it’s been happening simultaneously, happening
happening simultaneously, happening with multiple overlapping sections
with multiple overtapping sections and
with multiple overlapping sections and that’s why they have been able
and that’s why they have been able to do it so quickly. They were
to do it so quickly. They were asking the briefing about obviously
asking the briefing about obviously we are the first regulatory
we are the first regulatory authority to approve it for use in
authority to approve it for use in later I’m going to be talking to a
later I’m going to be talking to a German MEP who says he’s concerned
German MEP who says he’s concerned that it has happened here quickly.
that it has happened here quickly. What assurances did they
What assurances did they specifically give about why the
specifically give about why the process has been quicker in this
process has been quicker in this country versus the regulatory
country versus the regulatory authorities in other countries?
authorities in other countries? Partly because they are able to see
Partly because they are able to see in real time the data that has been
in real time the data that has been coming in from these pharmaceutical
coming in from these pharmaceutical companies so they were able to
companies so they were able to fast—track it, if you like. Also
fast-track it, if you like. Also there is a
fast—track it, if you like. Also there is a slight quirk of Brexit
there is a slight quirk of Brexit here because the UK had this fleet
here because the UK had this ﬂeet of foot way of
here because the UK had this fleet of foot way of all carrying it
of foot way of all carrying it without needing to go via the
without needing to go via the European Union —— confirming it.
European Union -- confirming it. There have
European Union —— confirming it. There have been remarks from
There have been remarks from Amsterdam saying they do think it
Amsterdam saying they do think it might have been a little too
might have been a little too premature in the UK. More on that
premature in the UK. More on that later. The really big and
later. The really big and interesting thing to come out of
interesting thing to come out of this press conference was the fact
this press conference was the fact that they still think care home
that they still think care home residents and carers should be the
residents and carers should be the number one to get it, whilst at the
number one to get it, whilst at the same time saying there might be some
same time saying there might be some operational constraints that make
operational constraints that make that difficult. So just then, tells
that difficult. So just then, tells what was said about how the process
what was said about how the process is going to work. Journalists are
is going to work. journalists are obviously
is going to work. Journalists are obviously fascinated about who’s
obviously fascinated about who’s going to be the first person to get
going to be the first person to get it, they tried to dampen down the
it, they tried to dampen down the interest in that but how will these
interest in that but how will these things be decided? They want to
things be decided? They want to stress they have come up with an
stress they have come up with an advisory pecking order and I think
advisory pecking order and I think we could probably see that now.
we could probably see that now. Number one is care home residents
Number one is rare home residents and carers,
Number one is care home residents and carers, then you have those over
and carers, then you have those over 80 and front line health care
80 and front line health rare workers,
80 and front line health care workers, then you get down to number
workers, then you get down to number four, clinically extremely
four, clinically extremely vulnerable people. Those are the
vulnerable people. Those are the ones that had to shield during
ones that had to shield during lockdown. And at number six, the 16
lockdown. And at number six, the 16 to 64-year-olds
lockdown. And at number six, the 16 to 64—year—olds with underlying
to 64-year-olds with undertying health
to 64—year—olds with underlying health conditions, may be things
health conditions, may be things like diabetes that put you at
like diabetes that put you at serious risk of disease. The
like diabetes that put you at serious risk of disease. The other
serious risk of disease. The other thing that was really interesting to
thing that was really interesting to come out of this is that they are
come out of this is that they are also saying they are going to pay
also saying they are going to pay due attention to things like
due attention to things like deprivation, ethnicity and access to
deprivation, ethnicity and access to healthcare. Also in their supporting
healthrare. Also in their supporting document,
healthcare. Also in their supporting document, they talk about
document, they talk about professions like if you are a
professions like if you are a teacher, you might be more at risk
teacher, you might be more at risk because in your every day work you
because in your every day work you are meeting more people. So there is
are meeting more people. So there is discretion but will only learn about
discretion but will only learn about that later.
discretion but will only learn about that later. There is discretion,
that later. There is discretion, yes, and they want to make it clear
yes, and they want to make it clear this is an advisory pecking order
this is an advisory pecking order but they also acknowledge that
but they also acknowledge that policymakers, health care groups are
policymakers, health rare groups are going to have
policymakers, health care groups are going to have to make those
going to have to make those decisions for themselves depending
decisions for themselves depending what is happening in their areas.
what is happening in their areas. Thank you very much. Let’s talk
Thank you very much. Let’s talk about priority groups.
We have been hearing, it’s expected that vaccine supply
will be limited at first, so vaccines will be prioritised
for the most vulnerable.
People in care homes and health care
People in rare homes and health rare workers.
We can talk now to Ruthe Isden from Age UK.
What are your thoughts as we entered
what are your thoughts as we entered a period where
What are your thoughts as we entered a period where the expectation
a period where the expectation actually ran
a period where the expectation actually can be put to one side
actually ran be put to one side because
actually can be put to one side because the reality delivers? Well,
because the reality delivers? Well, like everybody, this is a tremendous
like everybody, this is a tremendous announcement this morning. It’s
announcement this morning. It’s fantastic news. We recognise that
fantastic news. We recognise that for all of the recent you’ve been
for all of the recent you’ve been discussing this morning, we are
dismissing this morning, we are still going to
discussing this morning, we are still going to have to be patient.
still going to have to be patient. This will take time to get to the
This will take time to get to the people it needs to get to so this
people it needs to get to so this isn’t going to be an immediate
isn’t going to be an immediate silver bullet but the fact that we
silver bullet but the fact that we now have a vaccine after such a
now have a vaccine after such a terrible year for so many people and
terrible year for so many people and their families
terrible year for so many people and theirfamilies is going to be really
theirfamilies is going to be really welcome news and gives us much
welcome news and gives us much needed hope and optimism for 2021.
needed hope and optimism for 2021. What has been done about
What has been done about prioritising how it will actually
prioritising how it will actually work? Covid tests will be sent to
work? Covid tests will be sent to rare
work? Covid tests will be sent to care homes in the immediate period
rare homes in the immediate period as a way of
care homes in the immediate period as a way of freeing up people to
as a way of freeing up peopla to actually visit
as a way of freeing up people to actually visit their loved ones in
actually visit their loved ones in the rare
actually visit their loved ones in the care homes. Also there will be a
the rare homes. Also there will be a limited
the care homes. Also there will be a limited number of the vaccines and
limited number of the vaccines and it depends on how they get rolled
it depends on how they get rolled out. What would you expect the
out. what would you expect the process to be
out. What would you expect the process to be in deciding where
process to be in deciding where everything is targeted and how it
everything is targeted and how it rolls out? I think that’s going to
rolls out? I think that’s going to be the tricky issue with this
be the tricky issue with this vaccine. It’s absolutely right that
vaccine. It’s absolutely right that rare
vaccine. It’s absolutely right that care home residents and staff caring
rare home residents and staff raring for them
care home residents and staff caring for them have been given top
for them have been given top priority. We also understand this
priority. We also understand this particular vaccine has some
particular vaccine has some particular challenges about how you
particular challanges about how you take it, the
particular challenges about how you take it, the last yards, if you
take it, the last yards, if you like, from delivery to the people
like, from delivery to the people who need to take it. It’s going to
who need to take it. It’s going to be a very difficult process to work
be a very difficult process to work through some of those challenges so
through some of those challanges so it may not
through some of those challenges so it may not happen quickly and it may
it may not happen quickly and it may of course be that this isn’t the
of course be that this isn’t the vaccine that is going to be right
vaccine that is going to be right for those audiences and it may be
for those audiences and it may be one of the other vaccines that we
one of the other vaccines that we hope is hard on the heel, so time
hope is hard on the heel, so time and patience is going to be required
and patience is going to be required but I think as we start to work
but I think as we start to work through some of those challenges and
through some of those challanges and know
through some of those challenges and know that the NHS is working very
know that the NHS is working very hard in order to do its utmost to
hard in order to do its utmost to get it to the people who need it. We
get it to the people who need it. We do hope we have more testing coming
do hope we have more testing coming through into care homes so the
through into rare homes so the guidance
through into care homes so the guidance today on visiting means
guidance today on visiting means that hopefully with all things being
that hopefully with all things being equal, more people will be able to
equal, more peopla will be able to start having
equal, more people will be able to start having that really important
start having that really important contact with their loved ones and as
contact with their loved ones and as we work through those technical
we work through those technical challanges
we work through those technical challenges through the coming weeks
challenges through the coming weeks and getting the right vaccines out
and getting the right vaccines out to quit home residents —— out to
to quit home residents -- out to rare home
to quit home residents —— out to care home residents, we can open up
rare home residents, we ran open up more widely, but I
care home residents, we can open up more widely, but I stress this isn’t
more widely, but I stress this isn’t going to be a quick return to normal
going to be a quick return to normal for anybody including residents and
for anybody including residents and their relatives, is going to be
their relatives, is going to be incremental steps,
their relatives, is going to be incrementalsteps, but
their relatives, is going to be incremental steps, but for the first
incremental steps, but for the first time I think we can all see some
time I think we ran all see some really positive
time I think we can all see some really positive light at the end of
really positive light at the end of the tunnel and a way out of this.
the tunnel and a way out of this. It’s important not to forget how
It’s important not to forget how hard it has been for people with
hard it has been for people with loved ones in care homes. It’s been
loved ones in rare homes. It’s been absolutely
loved ones in care homes. It’s been absolutely heartbreaking. It’s been
absolutely heartbreaking. It’s been a very difficult year for older
a very difficult year for older peopla and
a very difficult year for older people and their families, they have
people and their families, they have been isolated in their own homes,
been isolated in their own homes, they have lost mobility and function
they have lost mobility and function but their cognitive function
but their cognitive function also—mac, and many haven’t seen
also-mac, and many haven’t seen their
also—mac, and many haven’t seen their relatives in care homes in
their relatives in rare homes in months.
their relatives in care homes in months. We haven’t had face—to—face
months. We haven’t had face-to-face contact and
months. We haven’t had face—to—face contact and for some people with
contact and for some people with dementia... Sorry, I need to
dementia... Sorry, I need to intermpt
dementia... Sorry, I need to interrupt because we need to say
intermpt because we need to say goodbye to
interrupt because we need to say goodbye to viewers on BBC Two. We
goodbye to viewers on BBC Two. We will see you soon. Sorry to
will see you soon. Sorry to intermpt,
will see you soon. Sorry to interrupt, Ruth. Do pick up. Not at
intermpt, Ruth. Do pick up. Not at all! wishing
interrupt, Ruth. Do pick up. Not at all! Wishing them well. That
all! wishing them well. That contact,
all! Wishing them well. That contact, so many people have not
contact, so many peopla have not seen
contact, so many people have not seen their loved ones face—to—face
seen their loved ones face-to-face four
seen their loved ones face—to—face four months and with people first
four months and with peopla first sensory
four months and with people first sensory impairment who can’t use
sensory impairment who can’t use technical means of communication,
technical means of communication, perhaps they have been able to wave
perhaps they have been able to wave to the loved ones through a window
to the loved ones through a window but for some not even that. It’s
but for some not even that. It’s devastating and it means for some
devastating and it means for some peopla living
devastating and it means for some people living with dementia, their
people living with dementia, their families worry, rightly, that they
families worry, rightly, that they don’t even recognise them anymore.
don’t even recognise them anymore. It’s hard to overstate just how
It’s hard to overstate just how difficult and heartbreaking this has
difficult and heartbreaking this has been for people. Husbands and wives
been for people. Husbands and wives who have been together for 50 years
who have been together for 50 years now separated so the sooner we can
now separated so the sooner we ran work through
now separated so the sooner we can work through these challenges and
work through these challenges and get people back together with their
get people back together with their families, the better. As you are
families, the better. As you are describing, these elderly people in
describing, these elderty people in rare
describing, these elderly people in care homes are very often very
care homes are very often very vulnerable. What would you
vulnerable. what would you anticipate
vulnerable. What would you anticipate about actually giving
anticipate about actually giving them the vaccine and how active they
them the vaccine and how active they are likely to be in the process of
are likely to be in the process of whether they would actually welcome
whether they would actually welcome it? These are some of the
it? These are some of the discussions we need to have. We know
discussions we need to have. We know people have questions about the
people have questions about the vaccine already and have been asking
vaccine already and have been asking questions today and it’s important
questions today and it’s important we take the time to answer these
we take the time to answer these questions and Age UK will be doing
questions and Age UK will be doing our best to bring people the best
our best to bring people the best information we can so they can make
information we ran so they ran make an
information we can so they can make an informed decision so we all
an informed decision so we all understand just how devastating
understand just how devastating outbreaks of this virus are in care
outbreaks of this virus are in rare homes so
outbreaks of this virus are in care homes so ensuring that people can be
homes so ensuring that people ran be protected and
homes so ensuring that people can be protected and loved ones can be
protected and loved ones ran be protected
protected and loved ones can be protected and their staff is going
protected and their staff is going to be really important. It’s going
to be really important. It’s going to be important. If families have
to be important. Iffamilies have questions,
to be important. If families have questions, we’ll need to take the
questions, we’ll need to take the time to talk it through that with
time to talk it through that with them. So they have confidence in the
them. So they have confidence in the vaccine or if they need to talk to
vaccine or if they need to talk to the GP or nurse is about it, we
the GP or nurse is about it, we should be enabling them to do hope
should be enabling them to do hope that I would encourage everybody to
that I would encourage everybody to look at the vaccine and to see the
look at the vaccine and to see the benefits of it and hopefully take it
benefits of it and hopefully take it “P
benefits of it and hopefully take it up in due course. Ruth of Age UK,
up in due course. Ruth of Age UK, thank you very much. I love how you
thank you very much. I love how you wished our viewers leaving us on BBC
wished our viewers leaving us on BBC Two well!
Social media is awash with conspiracy theories and false
claims about a coronavirus vaccine — worlds apart from legitimate
concerns and questions.
With the news breaking today about vaccine approval,
the same conspiracies are resurfacing online.
How can we spot them?
And who’s spreading them?
Our specialist disinformation reporter Marianna
Spring joins me now.
What is out there? All kinds of
what is out there? All kinds of conspiracy
What is out there? All kinds of conspiracy theories about a
conspiracy theories about a coronavirus vaccine have been out
coronavirus vaccine have been out there for months and every time
there for months and every time there is breaking news, like today
there is breaking news, like today with the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, we
with the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, we see the same conspiracy theories
see the same conspiracy theories resurfacing again and again and it’s
resurfacing again and again and it’s important to point out these are
important to point out these are worlds away from legitimate
worlds away from legitimate questions and concerns people have
questions and concerns peopla have about
questions and concerns people have about the efficacy and safety of a
about the efficacy and safety of a vaccine. For instance, we’ve seen
vaccine. For instance, we’ve seen memes pop up today about Bill Gates,
memes pop up today about Bill Gates, this one in particular makes the
this one in particular makes the allegation that Bill Gates isn’t
allegation that Bill Gates isn’t going to be —— is going to be
going to be -- is going to be putting
going to be —— is going to be putting microchips and people are
putting microchips and peopla are surveilling
putting microchips and people are surveilling them through the vaccine
surveilling them through the vaccine and people make false claims about
and peopla make false claims about how it is
and people make false claims about how it is a means of deliberately
how it is a means of deliberately hurting people or part of a
hurting people or part of a depopulation plan. All of these
depopulation plan. All of these claims are false and there is no
claims are false and there is no evidence to substantiate them but
evidence to substantiate them but now all it takes is a scary picture
now all it takes is a scary picture of Bill Gates to spread
now all it takes is a scary picture of Bill Gates to spread these kinds
of Bill Gates to spread these kinds of disinformation. Today, people
of disinformation. Today, peopla need to
of disinformation. Today, people need to be careful about what they
need to be careful about what they are sharing on social media and what
are sharing on social media and what they are
are sharing on social media and what they are seeing. Think about how a
they are seeing. Think about how a post makes you feel. If it is a
post makes you feel. If it is a motive, a lot of these memes and
motive, a lot of these memes and posts are frightening, a lot of
posts are frightening, a lot of peopla
posts are frightening, a lot of people might be excited about the
people might be excited about the news about the vaccines so just
news about the vaccines so just pause before you share, examine the
pause before you share, examine the source, where is it coming from? Is
source, where is it coming from? Is it someone who gets viruses and
it someone who gets vimses and vaccines
it someone who gets viruses and vaccines are your friend’s friend
vaccines are your friend’s friend from years ago who don’t really
from years ago who don’t really know? They are less trustworthy than
know? They are lass tmstworthy than the
know? They are less tmstworthy than the experts.
know? They are less trustworthy than the experts. And finally think about
the experts. And finally think about why something was shared. A lot of
why something was shared. A lot of anti—vaxxer communities and
anti—vaxxer communities and pseudoscience groups are trying to
pseudoscience groups are trying to exploit fear and anxiety about the
exploit fear and anxiety about the pandemic in order to spread
pandemic in order to spread disinformation about coronavirus
disinformation about coronavims vaccines,
disinformation about coronavirus vaccines, so ask yourself, why did
vaccines, so ask yourself, why did this person share this? Is there any
this person share this? Is there any measure of how much the sort of
measure of how much the sort of stuff cuts through? It’s difficult
stuff cuts through? It’s difficult to put a number on that
to put a number on that specifically. One thing we do know
specifically. One thing we do know is that these kinds of memes and
is that these kinds of memes and false claims are not limited to the
false claims are not limited to the really hardcore conspiracy circles
really hardcore conspiracy circlcs where
really hardcore conspiracy circles where they begin. They then spread
where they begin. They then spread into parent chats, local Facebook
into parent chats, [oral Facebook EWUPS
into parent chats, [oral Facebook groups and
into parent chats, local Facebook groups and Instagram feeds and a
groups and Instagram feeds and a number of people have got in touch
number of peopla have got in touch with the
number of people have got in touch with the BBC about the kinds of
with the BBC about the kinds of memes and posts they are seeing in
memes and posts they are seeing in their community groups. The issue is
their community groups. The issue is it’s not when news breaks new claims
it’s not when news breaks new claims go viral that are false, rather it’s
go viral that are false, rather it’s the same ones that come up
the same ones that come up repeatedly and it’s that that has an
repeatedly and it’s that that has an impact because if you keep seeing
impact because if you keep seeing claims about Bill Gates or
claims about Bill Gates or microchips, you might think, is
microchips, you might think, is there something to this? That
there something to this? That doesn’t mean there is, it
there something to this? That doesn’t mean there is, itjust means
doesn’t mean there is, it just means there’s lots
doesn’t mean there is, itjust means there’s lots of disinformation.
England has returned to a tiered system of coronavirus restrictions,
after the national lockdown ended at midnight.
More than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers —
where mixing with other households indoors is banned.
The measures were voted in yesterday, despite
the Prime Minister suffering the biggest rebellion by his own MPs
since coming into office.
From today more than 23 million people are now
in the highest tier — Tier 3.
There’s no socialising indoors or in private gardens.
Pubs and restaurants can only do takeaways.
More than 32 million — find themselves in Tier 2.
Again no mixing indoors — but up to six people
can meet outdoors.
can meet outdoors.
And you can go to restaurants or pubs that serve substantial meals
with people you live with.
Tier1 has the lightest restrictions — but fewer than three quarters
of one million people are in this tier, where up to six people
from different households can socialise indoors
from different households can socialise indoors
Our first report from our political correspondentJonathan Blake
With the end of a national lockdown in England comes a new three tier
system of restrictions to get used to.
From this morning, 99% of the population is under
the higher two levels of controls for at least the next two weeks.
the higher two levels of controls for at least the next two weeks.
Here’s how the new system of restrictions will work.
Shops, gyms and hairdressers will be allowed to reopen
across the country.
In Tier 1, the lowest level of restrictions,
groups of up to six people will be able to meet indoors or outdoors.
Pubs and restaurants can reopen, with last orders at ten o’clock
and closing at 11pm.
In Tier 2, groups of up to six people will still be able to meet
outdoors but not indoors unless in a support bubble.
Pubs can only reopen if they are operating
as a restaurant, and alcohol can only be served with
a substantial meal.
And in the highest level of restrictions, pubs
and restaurants will be forced to provide takeaway only,
and there will be no mixing of households except up to six
people in public outdoor spaces like parks.
So the eyes have it, the eyes have it.
Last night, MPs approved the plans, but not without a struggle.
55 Conservatives voted against the Government,
the biggest backbench rebellion of BorisJohnson’s time
as Prime Minister.
It’s passed with a majority of well over 200.
It’s a very important set
of regulations to help the UK bridge into the spring when we hope
a vaccine will move us into a whole different place.
And the reason that these regulations mattered is it allows us
to move to a tiered approach which, backed up by mass community
testing, will help us keep control of the virus
and avoid another lockdown.
While the new tiers are stricter in some ways, there’s plenty you can
now do wherever you live in England that might make it feel
like a return to something like life as normal.
In another major change, people will be able to visit
relatives in care homes.
New guidance states that contact will be allowed in all three tiers
if those visiting have tested negative for the virus.
Questions continue about the impact of restrictions, though.
The Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has challenged the Government
to publish more details of the economic impact of control
measures as many businesses face uncertain weeks and months ahead.
Jonathan Blake, BBC News.
All nonessential shops in England can reopen today
as the national lockdown has ended.
But with the news of Arcadia and Debenhams falling,
what does this mean for the high street and retail shopping?
According to the British Retail Consortium, prices in shops
are tumbling in the run—up to Christmas as the crisis
on Britain’s high street worsens.
Our business presenter Sima Kotecha is on Oxford Street
in Central London now.
How busy is it? Not as busy as you might think. We haven’t seen any
might think. We haven’t seen any queues outside stores. There is a
queues outside stores. There is a Primark down the road and we heard
Primark down the road and we heard there were queues in Birmingham, not
there were queues in Birmingham, not here in London. This is the busiest
here in London. This is the busiest shopping street in Europe but we
shopping street in Europe but we heard that Arcadia, which owns
heard that Arcadia, which owns Burbons,
heard that Arcadia, which owns Burtons, Dorothy Perkins, top shop,
Burbons, Dorothy Perkins, top shop, went into
Burtons, Dorothy Perkins, top shop, went into administration, putting
went into administration, putting 13,000 jobs at risk so not good
13,000 jobs at risk so not good news. We’ve got a Topshop here,
news. We’ve got a Topshop here, there are 50% off some of the things
there are 5096 off some of the things inside. Many
there are 50% off some of the things inside. Many shoppers have told us
inside. Many shoppers have told us they are looking for bargains. We
they are looking for bargains. We know that some shops have reduced
know that some shops have reduced their prices hoping to make up that
their prices hoping to make up that lost ground which they incurred
lost ground which they incurred duﬂng
lost ground which they incurred during the lockdown is. To speak to
during the lockdown is. To speak to me about this is Katie Barron,
me about this is Katie Barron, director of brand engagement. Tell
director of brand engagement. Tell me what you think the mood is like
me what you think the mood is like among consumers at the moment.
among consumers at the moment. Surprisingly the mood is quite
Surprisingly the mood is quite buoyant because I think statistics
buoyant because I think statistis show
buoyant because I think statistics show that actually 70% of people are
show that actually 7096 of peopla are looking to
show that actually 70% of people are looking to spend at least as much as
looking to spend at least as much as they did last year and Christmas
they did last year and Christmas shopping because there is a sense of
shopping because there is a sense of Christmas being a beacon in a rather
Christmas being a beacon in a rather bleak winter so far so I think there
bleak winter so far so I think there is a certain amount of excitement
is a certain amount of excitement but obviously trepidation about
but obviously trepidation about going back into stores and I think
going back into stores and I think we’re seeing that critically in
we’re seeing that critically in Central London at the moment because
Central London at the moment because many have travelled to get here but
many have travelled to get here but as if we look at some of the
as if we look at some of the shopping centres on the peripheries
shopping centres on the peripheries of towns and cities, we probably
of towns and cities, we probably will see quite a different picture.
will see quite a different picture. We know that online sales have done
We know that online sales have done particularty
We know that online sales have done particularly well throughout this
particularty well throughout this pandemic,
particularly well throughout this pandemic, however, sales within
pandemic, however, sales within shops are traditionally a lot
shops are traditionally a lot higher. We know that Arcadia was
higher. We know that Arcadia was behind its competitors in terms of
behind its competitors in terms of onUne
behind its competitors in terms of online operation and investing in
online operation and investing in it. What do you think the messages
it. what do you think the messages here
it. What do you think the messages here from companies that have gone
here from companies that have gone under because they haven’t done what
under because they haven’t done what people like Boohoo have been doing?
peopla like Boohoo have been doing? We’ve
people like Boohoo have been doing? We’ve seen a huge flip to digital,
We’ve seen a huge ﬂip to digital, people
We’ve seen a huge flip to digital, people going online and spending
peopla going online and spending onUne
people going online and spending online during the pandemic. It isn’t
online during the pandemic. It isn’t something that’s going to go away
something that’s going to go away but peopla
something that’s going to go away but people do want to spend on
but peopla do want to spend on stores
but people do want to spend on stores as well so I think what that
stores as well so I think what that tells us as it needs to be far
tells us as it needs to be far better omni— channel experiences and
better omni- channel experiences and far better
better omni— channel experiences and far better services. Retailers have
far better services. Retailers have to create a connection between
to create a connection between physical stores and what they are
physical stores and what they are doing online and creating a much
doing online and creating a much more exciting online experience as
more exciting online experience as well. You’ve got the kind of big
well. You’ve got the kind of big players like Boohoo and Zara doing
players like Boohoo and Zara doing well online and also technological
well online and also technological start-ups,
well online and also technological start—ups, people creating virtual
start-ups, peopla creating virtual ﬂagships.
start—ups, people creating virtual flagships. Charlotte Tilbury or
start—ups, people creating virtual flagships. Charlotte Tilbury orJo
flagships. Charlotte Tilbury orJo Malone where you can get on a
Malone where you ran get on a website
Malone where you can get on a website and explore the physical
website and explore the physical store from your desktop, we are
store from your desktop, we are seeing these innovations which some
seeing these innovations which some of the heavyweights of the high
of the heavyweights of the high street. This used to be called the
street. This used to be called the mothership, that’s how it was
mothership, that’s how it was referred to by industry people. They
referred to by industry people. They are losing out because they haven’t
are losing out because they haven’t quite been quick enough because they
quite been quick enough because they felt like the legacy of these big
felt like the legacy of these big store spaces would be enough to
store spaces would be enough to marry
store spaces would be enough to carry them through and unfortunately
carry them through and unfortunately it hasn’t so we’re definitely going
it hasn’t so we’re definitely going to see a shift these big legacy
to see a shift these big legacy players taking some cues from
players taking some cues from disruptive brands and much younger
disruptive brands and much younger onUne
disruptive brands and much younger online players. Where do we go now
online players. where do we go now for companies
online players. Where do we go now for companies like Topshop because
for companies like Topshop because we know Arcadia which owns it is in
we know Arcadia which owns it is in administration but what does it mean
administration but what does it mean for places like this? We really
for places like this? We really don’t know what’s going to happen
don’t know what’s going to happen with it. People want to drop on it
with it. People want to drop on it as a brand because it has huge
as a brand because it has huge affection for British consumers,
affection for British consumers, whether it’s for the design or
whether it’s for the design or collaborations it did but I think we
collaborations it did but I think we are going to see this big omni—
are going to see this big omni- channel,
are going to see this big omni— channel, digital re—routing. The
channel, digital re-routing. The Thank you,
channel, digital re—routing. The Thank you, Katie. Apologies to the
Thank you, Katie. Apologies to the viewers if you heard some of that
viewers if you heard some of that bad language we just encountered.
bad language we just encountered. Thank you very much.
Dr Peter Liese is a German MEP and medical doctor who sits
on the European parliament’s public health committee.
if:
He is not happy about the approval of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine
of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine today. Why are you not happy about
today. why are you not happy about that? I’m
today. Why are you not happy about that? I’m happy that we have a
that? I’m happy that we have a vaccine and I think it is a serious
vaccine and I think it is a serious m"WWW-
vaccine and I think it is a serious company, we supported them with
company, we supported them with European Union funds but only a few
European Union funds but only a few hours ago BioNTech sent the data for
hours ago BioNTech sent the data for a conditional market licence and
a conditional market licence and that’s why it is a bit problematic
that’s why it is a bit problamatic to say that
that’s why it is a bit problematic to say that now everything is fine
to say that now everything is fine and you ran
to say that now everything is fine and you can start the vaccination.
and you ran start the vaccination. Germany
and you can start the vaccination. Germany would also have the option.
Germany would also have the option. It’s not a Brexit issue. European
It’s not a Brexit issue. European law allows emergency authorisation,
law allows emergency authorisation, but Germany is not doing it like
but Germany is not doing it like many other European countries
many other European countries because we think and approval with
because we think and approval with the European medical agency is more
the European medical agency is more safe and also gives more liability
safe and also gives more liability to the company so I think it is
to the company so I think it is problamatic
to the company so I think it is problematic because the risk is
problematic because the risk is higher than after approval of the
higher than after approval of the European medical agency and the
European medical agency and the liability for the company is not
liability for the company is not there when emergency authorisation
there when emergency authorisation is given. To be clear, all countries
is given. To be clear, all countries have their regulatory authority and
have their regulatory authority and here we have been hearing from ours
here we have been hearing from ours there was a lengthy news conference
there was a lengthy news conference answering journalists’ questions
answering journalists’ questions about concerns including the
about concerns including the question about why it is that the UK
question about why it is that the UK has been able to authorise the use
has been able to authorise the use before other countries and we heard
before other countries and we heard from the head of that organisation,
from the head of that organisation, no corners have been cut, safety is
no corners have been cut, safety is our watchword,
no corners have been cut, safety is ourwatchword, it’s
no corners have been cut, safety is our watchword, it’s been a
our watchword, it’s been a scientifically rigorous check
scientifically rigorous check through work in a rolling review
through work in a rolling review with scientists going through that
with scientists going through that process, basically working 20 47 ——
process, basically working 20 47 -- 24, seven. You
process, basically working 20 47 —— 2A, seven. You are saying that’s the
24, seven. You are saying that’s the process in every
2A, seven. You are saying that’s the process in every country but then
process in every country but then the European medical agency is the
the European medical agency is the final arbiter.
the European medical agency is the finalarbiter. No, not really.
the European medical agency is the final arbiter. No, not really. The
finalarbiter. No, not really. The European
final arbiter. No, not really. The European medical agency also has a
European medical agency also has a rolling review but other member
rolling review but other member states of the European Union, or
states of the European Union, or other states that are bound to EU
other states that are bound to EU law, the UK is bound to EU law until
law, the UK is bound to EU law until the end of the year, but other
the end of the year, but other member states decided not to go for
member states decided not to go for a national emergency authorisation
a national emergency authorisation except Hungary, which did it with
except Hungary, which did it with the Russian vaccine. That’s the only
the Russian vaccine. That’s the only example except the UK, because the
example except the UK, because the other member states think it is
other member states think it is necessary to look more carefully and
necessary to look more carefully and to conditional market licensing can
to conditional market licensing ran only be given
to conditional market licensing can only be given if the company
only be given if the company delivers more data and accepts more
delivers more data and accepts more liability than the emergency
liability than the emergency authorisation. That’s the reason why
authorisation. That’s the reason why I think it’s a better way. Emergency
I think it’s a better way. Emergency authorisation is normally for an
authorisation is normally for an individual patient that suffers from
individual patient that suffers from a disease, which you cannot cure and
a disease, which you cannot cure and that’s why we need to try because we
that’s why we need to try because we don’t have anything else. Here,
don’t have anything else. Here, peopla are
don’t have anything else. Here, people are vaccinated where it is
peopla are vaccinated where it is not at
people are vaccinated where it is not at all sure they will get the
not at all sure they will get the disease in the next three or four
disease in the next three or four weeks. We have other means to
weeks. We have other means to protect people and I think that’s
protect peopla and I think that’s why the
protect people and I think that’s why the more strict regime like the
why the more strict regime like the conditional market licence is the
conditional market licence is the best way now. Can you spell out
best way now. (“an you spell out dearty the
best way now. Can you spell out clearly the additional checks that
dearty the additional checks that come
clearly the additional checks that come with going through the European
come with going through the European medicines agency? To your knowledge,
medicines agency? To your knowledge, has there ever been a situation
has there ever been a situation where something, a vaccine has been
where something, a vaccine has been approved for use by an individual
approved for use by an individual regulatory body and then it has been
regulatory body and then it has been blocked by the European medicines
blocked by the European medicines agency?
Never before has any member state of the European Union or any other
the European Union or any other state and Europe has approved a
state and Europe has approved a vaccine with emergency
vaccine with emergency authorisation. The only other case
authorisation. The only other rase as Hungary. I
authorisation. The only other case as Hungary. I understand that point,
as Hungary. I understand that point, has that ever been a situation where
has that ever been a situation where the European medicines agency has
the European medicines agency has then blocked something happening,
then blocked something happening, and other once has seen something
and other once has seen something that an individual country body has
that an individual country body has not. That happens currently. When
not. That happens currently. when you have
not. That happens currently. When you have emergency authorisation at
you have emergency authorisation at as a real instrument but after more
as a real instrument but after more months normally this time it will be
months normally this time it will be weeks you find some additional
weeks you find some additional questions, the main question for me
questions, the main question for me as f. c.
questions, the main question for me as f.c. Want to protect the risk
as f.c. Want to protect the risk EWUPS-
as f.c. Want to protect the risk groups, the elderly, is the really
groups, the elderty, is the really enough
groups, the elderly, is the really enough evidence that the vaccine as
enough evidence that the vaccine as safe for these groups should be
safe for these groups should be better look more carefully in this
better look more carefully in this issue, the vaccine may work
issue, the vaccine may work perfectly for people like me but not
perfectly for peopla like me but not for peopla
perfectly for people like me but not for people like my mother who is 80
for peopla like my mother who is 80 and she
for people like my mother who is 80 and she should get at first but the
and she should get at first but the question is is it as safe for her as
question is is it as safe for her as it is for me. Thank you. No doubt at
it is for me. Thank you. No doubt at home you will have questions about
home you will have questions about the vaccine, everybody is interested
the vaccine, everybody is interested in what we have been hearing this
in what we have been hearing this morning, the vaccine has been
morning, the vaccine has been approved for use in the UK and if
approved for use in the UK and if you have questions get in touch
you have questions get in touch because we are going to be answering
because we are going to be answering as many as we can in the next few
as many as we ran in the next few minutes.
as many as we can in the next few minutes. The usual ways of getting
minutes. The usual ways of getting in touch on social media.
minutes. The usual ways of getting in touch on social media.
Fairly quiet for most today although
Fairty quiet for most today although pretty cold
Fairly quiet for most today although pretty cold across the
north and west. A bright early start
north and west. A bright earty start and the
north and west. A bright early start and the south—east, cloud moving
and the south-east, cloud moving south,
and the south—east, cloud moving south, sunshine and showers behind
south, sunshine and showers behind blown and on a brisk wind, strongest
blown and on a brisk wind, strongest across the north—west of Scotland,
across the north-west of Scotland, snow on
across the north—west of Scotland, snow on the how is and more during
snow on the how is and more during this evening and overnight, at
this evening and overnight, at the end of the night because have ten
end of the night because have ten centimetres on the tops of the
centimetres on the tops of the hills. The potential
centimetres on the tops of the hills. The potentialfor two
hills. The potentialfor two centimetres at low levels but
centimetres at low levels but thicker cloud and rain coming our
thicker cloud and rain coming our “Y
thicker cloud and rain coming our way for the rest of the UK. Ice in
way for the rest of the UK. Ice in the north and also frost and
the north and also frost and tomorrow fewer showers through the
tomorrow fewer showers through the day but still the potential for some
day but still the potential for some to be wintry. Cloud and rain moves
to be wintry. Cloud and rain moves east and north across England and
east and north across England and Walas,
east and north across England and Wales, brisk winds and the English
Walas, brisk winds and the English Channel
Wales, brisk winds and the English Channel and whatever you are at
Channel and whatever you are at cold.
Hello this is BBC News, the Headlines.
Pfizer’s vaccine has been approved by regulators for use in the UK
and could be rolled out across the country next week.
England’s tier system is back but with toughened measures.
More than 55—million people are living in the strictest two tiers.
As the second lockdown comes to an end in England,
all nonessential shops can reopen .
Businesses are hoping for a flood of customers to provide a much
needed boost in the run up to Christmas.
‘0ur planet is broken’.
That’s the warning coming from the Secretary General
of the United Nations.
In a special BBC broadcast, Antonio Guterres will talk
about tackling global warming, which is now a central
objective of the UN.
We’re expecting a news conference from BioNTech in Germany —
following the news that their vaccine has been
approved by UK regulators.
The Pfizer vaccine was developed by the German
pharma company BioNTech, it says this is the first
emergency authorisation for a Covid—19 vaccine worldwide.
MY
My colleagues, your questions. We have two important announcements to
have two important announcements to make today about the vaccine
make today about the vaccine developer programme. Firstly we have
developer programme. Firstly we have to announce that today the first
to announce that today the first global emergency use authorisation
global emergency use authorisation has been granted for phase three
has been granted for phase three clinical data backed Covid—19
clinical data backed Covid—19 vaccine
clinical data backed Covid-19 vaccine by
clinical data backed Covid—19 vaccine by the UK regulatory agency.
vaccine by the UK regulatory agency. We have started immediately the
We have started immediately the process of delivering our vaccine
process of delivering our vaccine and we expect the roll—out of the
and we expect the roll-out of the vaccine
and we expect the roll—out of the vaccine and the UK will happen
vaccine and the UK will happen within the next couple of days.
within the next couple of days. Secondly we would like to report
Secondly we would like to report that on Monday building on our
that on Monday building on our rolling review which was initiated
rolling review which was initiated in October this year we have
in October this year we have formally filed an application for
formally filed an application for conditional market authorisation
conditional market authorisation with the European medicines agency.
with the European medicines agency. BioNTech will be the marketing
BioNTech will be the marketing authorisation holder for the
BioNTech will be the marketing authorisation holderfor the EU, the
authorisation holder for the EU, the UK and
authorisation holderfor the EU, the UK and the US and various other
UK and the US and various other countries. Our esteemed partner
countries. Our esteemed partner Pfizer will do the marketing and
Pfizer will do the marketing and distribution in these and various
distribution in these and various other countries. Let me briefly show
other countries. Let me brieﬂy show you a high-level
other countries. Let me briefly show you a high—level overview about our
you a high-level overview about our journey and the
you a high—level overview about our journey and the last couple of
journey and the last couple of months. We called our development
months. We called our development programme for Covid—19 lightspeed
programme for Covid—19 lightspeed because
programme for Covid-19 lightspeed because you
programme for Covid—19 lightspeed because you cannot go faster than
because you rannot go faster than light and this
because you cannot go faster than light and this is what we aimed for.
light and this is what we aimed for. This journey started in January this
This journey started in january this year and was
This journey started in January this year and was devoted to the
year and was devoted to the development of a well tolerated and
development of a well tolerated and effective Covid—19 vaccine following
effective Covid-19 vaccine following the highest
effective Covid—19 vaccine following the highest scientific and ethical
the highest scientific and ethical standards. This was a journey of
standards. This was a journey of 10-11
standards. This was a journey of 10—11 months which started with
10-11 months which started with engineering
10—11 months which started with engineering multiple vaccine
engineering multiple vaccine candidates of which several entered
candidates of which several entered clinical testing phase one and April
clinical testing phase one and April this year. In
clinical testing phase one and April this year. InJuly we
clinical testing phase one and April this year. In July we selected
this year. In july we selected together
this year. In July we selected together with our partner Pfizer one
together with our partner Pfizer one of those candidates the most
of those candidates the most promising one for a large phase
promising one for a large phase three trial and in November this
three trial and in November this year we reported that in this trial
year we reported that in this trial vaccine has made all primary
vaccine has made all primary efficacy points. On the next slide
efficacy points. On the next slide you ran see
efficacy points. On the next slide you can see that project lightspeed
you ran see that project lightspeed has in
you can see that project lightspeed has in fact global concerted
has in fact global concerted large—scale effort. Our phase three
large-stale effort. Our phase three trial has
large—scale effort. Our phase three trial has been conducted in multiple
trial has been conducted in multiple countries in the US, Argentina,
countries in the US, Argentina, Brazil, Germany, South Africa and
Brazil, Germany, South Africa and Turkey. The phase three trial has
Turkey. The phase three trial has reached the final end point in
reached the final end point in mid—November. In addition to that we
mid-November. In addition to that we have regulatory
mid—November. In addition to that we have regulatory submissions on a
have regulatory submissions on a rolling basis, ongoing not only in
rolling basis, ongoing not only in the EU but also additional countries
the EU but also additional countries such as Canada and Australia. We
such as Canada and Australia. We have in addition an application at
have in addition an application at the US FDA for emergency use
the US FDA for emergency use organisation like Mike authorisation
organisation like Mike authorisation of our vaccine and the US and we are
of our vaccine and the US and we are awaiting decisions by the FDA mid
awaiting decisions by the FDA mid December and this is also the time
December and this is also the time horizon in which we expect decisions
horizon in which we expect decisions on our conditional marketing
on our conditional marketing authorisation application. We have
authorisation application. We have ongoing trials in
authorisation application. We have ongoing trials inJapan and together
ongoing trials in japan and together with our
ongoing trials inJapan and together with our partner we have an ongoing
with our partner we have an ongoing phase two trial with our vaccine in
phase two trial with our vaccine in China. On top of these programmes
China. On top of these programmes there are rolling submissions to
there are rolling submissions to further countries planned. In our
further countries planned. In our controlled randomised minded phase
controlled randomised minded phase three trial the vaccine was tested
three trial the vaccine was tested with two injections 21 days apart at
with two injections 21 days apart at relatively low as compared to a
relatively low as compared to a placebo. Healthy participants were
placebo. Healthy participants were eligible, and total more than 43,000
eligibla, and total more than 43,000 subjects
eligible, and total more than 43,000 subjects were immunised, mostly
subjects were immunised, mostly 18-85 years
subjects were immunised, mostly 18—85 years of age. An independent
18-85 years of age. An independent data
18—85 years of age. An independent data monitoring committee assessed
data monitoring committee assessed the efficacy of a relaxing, the
the efficacy of a relaxing, the efficacy was assessed based on the
efficacy was assessed based on the number of confirmed Covid—19 cases
number of confirmed Covid-19 rases starting seven
number of confirmed Covid—19 cases starting seven days after the second
starting seven days after the second injection. In the placebo arm, 162
injection. In the placebo arm, 162 rases
injection. In the placebo arm, 162 cases of Covid—19 were reported
cases of Covid-19 were reported while in
cases of Covid—19 were reported while in the arm with vaccinated
while in the arm with vaccinated subjects we counted eight cases.
subjects we counted eight cases. This is a vaccine efficacy of 95%.
This is a vaccine efficacy of 9596. You ran
This is a vaccine efficacy of 95%. You can see on this slide that high
You ran see on this slide that high vaccine
You can see on this slide that high vaccine efficacy was observed across
vaccine efficacy was observed across all subpopulations including all age
all subpopulations including all age EWUPS-
all subpopulations including all age groups, also including older adults
groups, also including older adults of 65 years and higher. Across
of 65 years and higher. Across ethnicities and also across gender.
ethnicities and also across gender. The independent data monitoring
The independent data monitoring committee did not note any serious
committee did not note any serious safety concerns, and fight our
safety concerns, and fight our vaccine was well tolerated. We
vaccine was well tolerated. We observed the common reactions you
observed the common reactions you would have with vaccination,
would have with vaccination, including pain at injection side,
including pain at injection side, fatigue, headache, muscle pain,
fatigue, headache, muscle pain, mostly and generally these reactions
mostly and generally these reactions were mild—to—moderate and short
were mild-to-moderate and short lived. At
were mild—to—moderate and short lived. At worst events of grade
lived. At worst events of grade three were very real. We observed
three were very real. We observed only fatigue and a small percentage
only fatigue and a small percentage and headache into percent of
and headache into percent of participants and about 98% of
participants and about 98% of participants who received the first
participants who received the first dose came back for the second shot.
dose came back for the second shot. We will continue to follow—up with
We will continue to follow-up with participants
We will continue to follow—up with participants and our trials for
participants and our trials for efficacy and safety for two years
efficacy and safety for two years and report on our observations. As
and report on our observations. As they come up. With this I would hand
they come up. with this I would hand over to my
they come up. With this I would hand over to my colleague. Thank you. I
over to my colleague. Thank you. I am the co—founder and CEO of
am the co—founder and CEO of BioNTech and I would like to give
BioNTech and I would like to give you a background about the science
you a background about the science behind our vaccines and introduce
behind our vaccines and introduce you to useful background information
you to useful background information about the molecule. It is a new drug
about the molecule. It is a new dmg entity so not yet
about the molecule. It is a new drug entity so not yet approved and if
entity so not yet approved and if this vaccine is going to be approved
this vaccine is going to be approved at well be the first messenger drug
at well be the first messenger dmg which
at well be the first messenger drug which would be available as a
which would be available as a pharmaceutical product. However it
pharmaceutical product. However it is a very known molecule, actually
is a very known molacule, actually the first
is a very known molecule, actually the first molecule of life and every
the first molecule of life and every human being and animal has mRNA and
human being and animal has mRNA and the cells so it is a
human being and animal has mRNA and the cells so it is 3 intermediate
the cells so it is 3 intermediate molecule so many people know DNA
molecula so many peopla know DNA which
molecule so many people know DNA which has the stable genetic
which has the stable genetic information and mRNA is produced and
information and mRNA is produced and sales and after being produced edge
sales and after being produced edge serves as a template to make
serves as a template to make proteins but what is important is
proteins but what is important is not a stable molecule, it is active
not a stable molacule, it is active only for a
not a stable molecule, it is active only for a few days and as degraded
only for a few days and as degraded by the cellular machinery. Our
by the cellular machinery. Our mRNA which we use for making the vaccine
which we use for making the vaccine mimis
which we use for making the vaccine mimics the natural mRNA molecule and
mimic the natural mRNA molecula and has no
mimics the natural mRNA molecule and has no other components than the
has no other components than the naturally well—known molecules. It
naturally well-known moleculas. It is transiently
naturally well—known molecules. It is transiently active like any other
is transiently active like any other natural mRNA, it includes the spike
natural mRNA, it includes the spike protein and then rapidly degraded
protein and then rapidly degraded within a few days. Why is mRNA such
within a few days. why is mRNA such a powerful
within a few days. Why is mRNA such a powerful solution for this
a powerful solution for this pandemic? It is a molecule which was
pandemic? It is a molecula which was studied by
pandemic? It is a molecule which was studied by research more than 50
studied by research more than 50 years including basic research
years including basic research applications as well as clinical
applications as well as clinical research mRNA molecules are tested
research mRNA molecules are tested and clinical studies for more than
and clinical studies for more than 20 years. The role for this pandemic
20 years. The rola for this pandemic is
20 years. The role for this pandemic is based on the simple use of this
is based on the simple use of this technology to make a vaccine. What
technology to make a vaccine. what we do is
technology to make a vaccine. What we do is take a piece of the genetic
we do is take a piece of the genetic information of a virus and encode
information of a virus and encode this information using our mRNA
this information using our mRNA platform. Then this is formulated
platform. Then this is formulated with lipids to make a nano particle
with lipids to make a ham partida which
with lipids to make a nano particle which protects the messenger RNA so
which protects the messenger RNA so it is not to graded and it allows it
it is not to graded and it allows it to deliver it to specialise sales
to deliver it to specialise sales and the body which helps us mode a
and the body which helps us mode a strong immune response. After
strong immune response. After delivery it is done by intramuscular
delivery it is done by intramuscular injection, after a feud is the mRNA
injection, after a feud is the mRNA is dictated. —— after a few days
is dictated. -- after a few days eight as
is dictated. —— after a few days eight as degraded. It is one of the
eight as degraded. It is one of the most precise vaccine technologies,
most precise vaccine technologies, it is important it is free of virus,
it is important it is free of virus, it is a precise immune response of
it is a precise immune response of the immunised person is directed
the immunised person is directed only against coronavirus and not
only against coronavims and not against
only against coronavirus and not against anything else. It does not
against anything else. It does not integrate into the DNA and of course
integrate into the DNA and of course it is only transiently active and
it is only transiently active and non—infectious. Another advantage as
non-infectious. Another advantage as it ran
non—infectious. Another advantage as it can scale
non-infectious. Another advantage as it ran scale up
non—infectious. Another advantage as it can scale up the production to
it ran scale up the production to produce many
it can scale up the production to produce many millions of doses. Our
produce many millions of doses. Our goal is to produce more than 1.3
goal is to produce more than 1.3 billion doses and 2021 and my
billion doses and 2021 and my colleague will provide you more
colleague will provide you more background. This slide explains what
background. This slide explains what is important to understand why mRNA
is important to understand why mRNA vaccines work so the lipid
vaccines work so the lipid nanoparticles is taken up by
nanoparticles is taken up by specialised cells and then the mRNA
specialised cells and then the mRNA is translated into the spike protein
is translated into the spike protein which is the protein which makes the
which is the protein which makes the virus enter into you and sales. We
virus enter into you and sales. We get an immune response by so—called
get an immune response by so-ralled T cells
get an immune response by so—called T cells which are able to see the
T cells which are able to see the vilest inside of cells and eliminate
vilest inside of cells and eliminate them and beget antibody responses
them and beget antibody responses which bind to the spike protein and
which bind to the spike protein and prevent the virus from infection of
prevent the virus from infection of human cells. It is important this
human cells. It is important this type of vaccine induces a memory
type of vaccine induces a memory immune response so it means the
immune response so it means the immune response that is generated
immune response that is generated could stay for months, maybe years
could stay for months, maybe years to protect the vaccinated individual
to protect the vaccinated individual against infection. In the last 11
against infection. In the last 11 months to be not only did the
months to be not only did the clinical trial and evaluated the
clinical trial and evaluated the safety of the molecule but we
safety of the molecule but we analysed this mode of action and
analysed this mode of action and determined that our vaccine is
determined that our vaccine is indeed able to induce strong
indeed able to induce strong antibody responses and strong T cell
antibody responses and strong T cell responses. We have evaluated the
responses. We have evaluated the safety of the vaccine using a range
safety of the vaccine using a range of different essays and different
of different essays and different species and evaluated the vaccine
species and evaluated the vaccine and the earty
species and evaluated the vaccine and the early phase and younger and
and the earty phase and younger and older
and the early phase and younger and older adults to identify a safe and
older adults to identify a safe and highly active dose. Based on this
highly active dose. Based on this research we were able to start the
research we were able to start the face that he conical trial which has
face that he conical trial which has just explained before. These ——
just explained before. These -- phase three
just explained before. These —— phase three clinical trial. We are
phase three clinical trial. We are continuing though with the
continuing though with the distribution of the vaccine. Thank
distribution of the vaccine. Thank 7°“-
distribution of the vaccine. Thank you, I
distribution of the vaccine. Thank you, lam responsible
distribution of the vaccine. Thank you, I am responsible for
you, I am responsible for distribution at BioNTech. Just to
distribution at BioNTech. just to start
distribution at BioNTech. Just to start about how we are going to
start about how we are going to effectively distribute globally the
effectively distribute globally the vaccine. We have two highly
vaccine. We have two highly effective partnerships who have a
effective partnerships who have a significant and ﬂat
effective partnerships who have a significant and flat structure to
significant and ﬂat stmcture to help, the
significant and flat structure to help, the first is Pfizer which is a
help, the first is Pfizer which is a partnership we set out in the
partnership we set out in the spring, one of the largest
spring, one of the largest pharmaceutical companies and the
pharmaceutical companies and the world, present and more than 100
world, present and more than 100 countries and it has a through
countries and it has a through Mendis the successful track record
Mendis the successful track record in vaccine franchises and numerous
in vaccine franchises and numerous approvals. This expertise also
approvals. This expertise also extends to global logistics
extends to global logistics infrastructure to ensure we can get
infrastmclure to ensure we ran get the
infrastructure to ensure we can get the vaccine it to everyone very
the vaccine it to everyone very quickly and together with our
quickly and together with our partner, this is our
quickly and together with our partner, this is ourfirst
quickly and together with our partner, this is our first vaccine
partner, this is our first vaccine we are testing second—generation
we are testing second-generation vaccine
we are testing second—generation vaccine candidates and the clinic
vaccine candidates and the clinic and formulations as well. Our
and formulations as well. Our partnership and China is with one of
partnership and China is with one of the largest Chinese pharmaceutical
the largest Chinese pharmaceutical companies with over 28,000
companies with over 28,000 employees, providing end—to—end
employees, providing end-to-end capabilities
employees, providing end—to—end capabilities in China with
capabilities in China with significant coverage of the country
significant coverage of the country “P
significant coverage of the country up to 33 of the 3A provinces. Again
up to 33 of the 34 provinces. Again chosen to help
up to 33 of the 3A provinces. Again chosen to help us get this vaccine
chosen to help us get this vaccine to everyone as quickly as we can in
to everyone as quickly as we ran in China. just
to everyone as quickly as we can in China. Just moving on. Just looking
China. just moving on. just looking at our global
China. Just moving on. Just looking at our global commitments to date.
at our global commitments to date. The important numbers to focus on
The important numbers to focus on our we have together with Pfizer
our we have together with Pfizer signed commitments to more than 570
signed commitments to more than 570 million doses committed in 2020—21
million doses committed in 2020-21 with an
million doses committed in 2020—21 with an additional 600 million doses
with an additional 600 million doses reserved as an option. These numbers
reserved as an option. These numbers change everyday. That the moment we
change everyday. That the moment we are in additional discussions with a
are in additional discussions with a number of countries which we are
number of countries which we are adding to our list and you can see
adding to our list and you ran see boxes showing
adding to our list and you can see boxes showing just what we committed
boxes showing just what we committed by which region but the most
by which region but the most important thing is what we are
important thing is what we are trying to do here is really served
trying to do here is really served everyone worldwide and the best way
everyone wortdwide and the best way be
everyone wortdwide and the best way he ran. Moving
everyone worldwide and the best way be can. Moving on to cause chain
he ran. Moving on to cause chain sunplv --
he ran. Moving on to cause chain supply -- cold
be can. Moving on to cause chain supply —— cold chain supply, this
supply -- cold chain supply, this has been
supply —— cold chain supply, this has been developed specifically for
has been developed specifically for the UK because we are talking a
the UK because we are talking a particular about the UK today. The
particular about the UK today. The doses we have for the UK and
doses we have for the UK and currently being packed by our
currently being packed by our colleagues at Pfizer at the facility
colleagues at Pfizer at the facility in Belgium ready for shipping
in Belgium ready for shipping quickly. These go into what we call
quickly. These go into what we all thermal
quickly. These go into what we call thermal boxes that aloe up to 1500
thermal boxes that aloe up to 1500 doses which we will ship by a lorry
doses which we will ship by a lorry or plane whatever is most
or plane whatever is most appropriate. These boxes are
appropriate. These boxes are temperature controlled and we have a
temperature controlled and we have a tracker to provide a minute by
tracker to provide a minute by minute information on the
minute information on the temperature before me deliver it to
temperature before me deliver it to the site of distribution and the UK
the site of distribution and the UK or injection. Some facts about the
or injection. Some facts about the vials, I mentioned the trays can
vials, I mentioned the trays ran take up to
vials, I mentioned the trays can take up to 1000 doses, one vial is
take up to1000 doses, one vial is one tree of
take up to 1000 doses, one vial is one tree of vaccine is sufficient
one tree of vaccine is sufficient for at least 100 people. Each vial
for at least100 peopla. Each vial contains
for at least 100 people. Each vial contains five doses, they littered
contains five doses, they littered with normalcy Ein solution —— they
with normalcy Ein solution -- they littered
with normalcy Ein solution —— they littered with normal saline solution
littered with normal saline solution -- it is
littered with normal saline solution —— it is more than enough to
-- it is more than enough to vaccinate
—— it is more than enough to vaccinate five people from one vial.
vaccinate five people from one vial. A bit about administration. This is
A bit about administration. This is no different than any other
no different than any other vaccination, you go to your centre,
vaccination, you go to your centre, you roll up your sleeve and you
you roll up your sleeve and you receive in the arm and injection at
receive in the arm and injection at room temperature of this vaccine. It
room temperature of this vaccine. It is they littered and saline.
—— it is diluted in saline. You can
-- it is diluted in saline. You ran store it at -74
—— it is diluted in saline. You can store it at —74 for
-- it is diluted in saline. You ran store it at -74 for up
—— it is diluted in saline. You can store it at —74 for up to 15 days,
store it at -74 for up to 15 days, you ran open
store it at —74 for up to 15 days, you can open the box twice a day and
you ran open the box twice a day and this gives under
you can open the box twice a day and this gives under one flexibility
this gives under one flexibility because you can put it on a table
because you ran put it on a table and take
because you can put it on a table and take the vials out and if you so
and take the vials out and if you so choose you ran
and take the vials out and if you so choose you can take them out of the
choose you ran take them out of the box and put
choose you can take them out of the box and put them in a fridge and
box and put them in a fridge and keep them stable in the fridge for
keep them stable in the fridge for five days. In addition we have
five days. In addition we have worked at looking at transport and
worked at looking at transport and how it might affect the stability of
how it might affect the stability of the vaccine if we defrost it and
the vaccine if we defrost it and transported it and we have done this
transported it and we have done this to consider some of the satellite
to consider some of the satellite centres which everyone wants to
centres which everyone wants to reach, particularly care home must
reach, particularty rare home must resume
reach, particularly care home must resume not want to transport people
resume not want to transport peopla and
resume not want to transport people and the homes to a centre but the
and the homes to a centre but the other way round and we have
other way round and we have stability studies supporting the
stability studies supporting the evidence being able to transport up
evidence being able to transport up to six hours at two to 8 degrees so
to six hours at two to 8 degrees so you ran take
to six hours at two to 8 degrees so you can take vials from a
you can take vials from a vaccination centre, put them and a
vaccination centre, put them and a has
vaccination centre, put them and a bag and take them to the care
bag and take them to the rare homes where they ran
bag and take them to the care homes where they can be administered
where they ran be administered directly to
where they can be administered directly to patients. The UK is the
directly to patients. The UK is the first approval today, we are
first approval today, we are absolutely delighted about that. We
absolutely delighted about that. We are not stopping there, we have the
are not stopping there, we have the United States review on the 10th of
United States review on the 10th of December, European Union here is
December, European Union here is expected to come to a decision and
expected to come to a decision and December and we expect from that
December and we expect from that regulatory discussions with a number
regulatory discussions with a number of regulatory parties and bodies
of regulatory parties and bodies across the world and the coming
across the world and the coming weeks and months. It is worth saying
weeks and months. It is worth saying that we are deeply involved with the
that we are deeply involved with the regulatory authorities, BioNTech
regulatory authorities, BioNTech being marketing authorisation
being marketing authorisation holders means we have a
holders means we have a responsibility with our partners but
responsibility with our partners but primarily BioNTech as responsible
primarily BioNTech as responsible for this product and owns it and the
for this product and owns it and the United States, Europe and the United
United States, Europe and the United Kingdom as well as Canada and other
Kingdom as well as Canada and other countries. With that I think we can
countries. with that I think we ran move into any
countries. With that I think we can move into any questions and you may
move into any questions and you may have an answer is we may give.
have an answer is we may give. ladies
have an answer is we may give. Ladies and gentlemen we are happy to
ladies and gentlemen we are happy to take your
Ladies and gentlemen we are happy to take your questions and to ask a
take your questions and to ask a question please usually chat
question please usually chat function and type your question. The
function and type your question. The first question is from ITV. Is this
first question is from ITV. Is this the first mRNA vaccine are you on
the first mRNA vaccine are you on anyone else have had approved? Yes,
anyone else have had approved? Yes, it is. How important is it any
it is. How important is it any reminder that other vaccines are
reminder that other vaccines are approved in order to support this
approved in order to support this programme? We believe that news
programme? We believe that news conference from BioNTech and those
conference from BioNTech and those who set up the company, you mi have
who set up the company, you mi have read profiles of this couple who
read profilas of this couple who have
read profiles of this couple who have become rock stars of the
have become rock stars of the medical world to have developed this
medical world to have developed this vaccine to be approved for
vaccine to be approved for distribution by the regular Tory
distribution by the regular Tory authorities here and they were
authorities here and they were talking -- the
authorities here and they were talking —— the regulatory
talking —— the regulatory authorities. They are hoping to
authorities. They are hoping to produce 1.3 billion doses next year
produce 1.3 billion doses next year and they but explaining how that
and they but explaining how that vaccine works. We will have more
vaccine works. We will have more analysis of that later but coming up
analysis of that later but coming up as Prime Minister’s Questions so
as Prime Minister’s Questions so it’s go to Westminster. What you
it’s go to Westminster. what you expected it?
org—mac, This should be a much less
org-mac, This should be a much lass difficult
org—mac, This should be a much less difficult Prime Minister’s Questions
difficult Prime Minister’s Questions for Boris
difficult Prime Minister’s Questions for Boris
difficult Prime Minister’s Questions for BorisJohnson than it looked
for Boris johnson than it looked last night.
for BorisJohnson than it looked last night. He is coming to the
last night. He is coming to the dispatch box under the biggest rebel
dispatch box under the biggest rebel into his leadership so far, 55
into his leadership so far, 55 Tories were against his tiered
Tories were against his tiered approach. He will be approaching PM
approach. He will be approaching PM Os with a big boost from that. We
Os with a big boost from that. We see Labour pushing at the Government
see labour pushing at the Government from things like
see Labour pushing at the Government from things like being too slow
from things like being too slow duﬂng
from things like being too slow during the pandemic and this will
during the pandemic and this will allow Boris
during the pandemic and this will allow BorisJohnson to say, we are
allow Boris johnson to say, we are the first
allow BorisJohnson to say, we are the first to have approved this and
the first to have approved this and it offers a light at the end of the
it offers a light at the end of the tunnel, a way out of these tiered
tunnel, a way out of these tiered restrictions so expect to hear a lot
restrictions so expect to hear a lot about that and I would expect him to
about that and I would expect him to poke at labour a
about that and I would expect him to poke at Labour a bit about their
poke at labour a bit about their decision
poke at Labour a bit about their decision to abstain on those tiered
decision to abstain on those tiered restrictions yesterday. Labour are
restrictions yesterday. labour are likely to
restrictions yesterday. Labour are likely to point out that even with
likely to point out that even with that big hope of the vaccine and the
that big hope of the vaccine and the roll-out
that big hope of the vaccine and the roll—out starting from next week,
roll-out starting from next week, there is
roll—out starting from next week, there is still going to be many more
there is still going to be many more months that we will be living under
months that we will be living under restrictions and I will expect
restrictions and I will expect labour
restrictions and I will expect Labour to be pushing on the economic
labour to be pushing on the economic impact of that
Labour to be pushing on the economic impact of that and how the
impact of that and how the Government plans to deal with that
Government plans to deal with that and to fix it, and in particular
and to fix it, and in particular there is a document that the
there is a document that the Government has which apparently
Government has which apparently shows some analysis of the worst hit
shows some analysis of the worst hit sectors. They have not released
sectors. They have not released that. We’ll expect Keir Starmer to
that. We’ll expect Keir Starmer to push for the release of that
push for the release of that particular document. Downing Street,
particular document. Downing Street, the Prime Minister’s official
the Prime Minister’s official spokesman yesterday said this
spokesman yesterday said this document was made up of publicly
document was made up of publicly available information but I would
available information but I would expect that to be something we hear
expect that to be something we hear about in this PMQs. Unusually late
about in this PMQs. Unusually late starting today. I think the speaker
starting today. I think the speaker is introducing PMQs. Let’s listen
is introducing PMQs. Let’s listen in. Today I’m proudly wearing purple
in. Today I’m proudly wearing purpla to
in. Today I’m proudly wearing purple to celebrate the International Day
to celebrate the International Day for disabled people tomorrow. Make
for disablad peopla tomorrow. Make sure we
for disabled people tomorrow. Make sure we will publish a national
sure we will publish a national strategy for disabled people which
strategy for disablad peopla which will
strategy for disabled people which will be the most ambitious
will be the most ambitious intervention in this area for a
intervention in this area for a generation including fairness at the
generation including fairness at the heart of the Government’s work and
heart of the Government’s work and levelling up so that everybody has
levelling up so that everybody has the opportunity to fully participate
the opportunity to fully participate in the life of this country. I know
in the life of this country. I know that the whole House will want to
that the whola House will want to join me in
that the whole House will want to join me in welcoming the fantastic
join me in welcoming the fantastic news that the MHRA has formally
news that the MHRA has formally authorised the Pfizer vaccine for
authorised the Pfizer vaccine for Covid—19. It will be made available
Covid-19. It will be made available across
Covid—19. It will be made available across the UK from next week. I pay
across the UK from next week. I pay tribute to those who have made this
tribute to those who have made this possible. It is the protection of
possible. It is the protection of vaccines that will ultimately allow
vaccines that will ultimately allow us to reclaim our lives and get our
us to reclaim our lives and get our economy moving again. This morning,
economy moving again. This morning, I had meetings with ministerial
I had meetings with ministerial colleagues and others in addition to
colleagues and others in addition to my duties in this house I shall have
my duties in this house I shall have other such meetings later today. I’d
other such meetings later today. I’d like to share the congratulations
like to share the congratulations with the Prime Minister on the
with the Prime Minister on the creation of this new vaccine at the
creation of this new vaccine at the speed with which it has gone out and
speed with which it has gone out and to give that congratulations
to give that congratulations especially to the engineers,
especially to the engineers, technicians and scientists who
technicians and scientists who delivered it. I believe we should
delivered it. I believe we should support the widest distribution of
support the widest distribution of safe and effective medicines, but
safe and effective medicines, but does my honourable friend I agree it
does my honourable friend I agree it should be taken on a wholly
should be taken on a wholly voluntary basis by individuals and
voluntary basis by individuals and families? Absolutely, I
voluntary basis by individuals and families? Absolutely, Istrongly
families? Absolutely, Istrongly urge that people take up the vaccine
urge that people take up the vaccine but it is no part of our culture or
but it is no part of our culture or our ambition
but it is no part of our culture or ourambition in
but it is no part of our culture or our ambition in this country to make
our ambition in this country to make vaccines mandatory. That’s not how
vaccines mandatory. That’s not how we do things. The Leader of the
we do things. The Leader of the Opposition, the Right Honourable
Opposition, the Right Honourable Keir Starmer. I
Opposition, the Right Honourable Keir Starmer. Ijoined the Prime
Keir Starmer. Ijoined the Prime Minister and his comments on
Minister and his comments on disabled people and like the Prime
disabled people and like the Prime Minister, I start with the fantastic
Minister, I start with the fantastic news about the licensing of a
news about the licensing of a vaccine. This pandemic has caused so
vaccine. This pandemic has caused so much grief and so much loss but we
much grief and so much loss but we are now a big step closer to the end
are now a big step closer to the end of the tunnel and, like the Prime
of the tunnel and, like the Prime Minister, ran
of the tunnel and, like the Prime Minister, can I expect my thanks to
Minister, ran I expect my thanks to everyone
Minister, can I expect my thanks to everyone across the house, all the
everyone across the house, all the scientists who have worked on this
scientists who have worked on this and everybody who has taken part in
and everybody who has taken part in the trials. Delivering a vaccine
the trials. Delivering a vaccine fairty
the trials. Delivering a vaccine fairly quickly and safely will now
fairty quickly and safely will now be the
fairly quickly and safely will now be the next major challenge facing
be the next major challenge facing the country and whatever our
the country and whatever our differences across this house, we
differences across this house, we all have a duty to play our part in
all have a duty to play our part in this national effort and to reassure
this national effort and to reassure the public about the safety of the
the public about the safety of the vaccine. This morning, a priority
vaccine. This morning, a priority list has been published for the
list has been published for the first phase of the rollout. We
first phase of the rollout. We understand that around 800,000 doses
understand that around 800,000 doses will soon be available and that’s
will soon be available and that’s good news. Because of the two doses
good news. Because of the two doses required, 400,000 people can be
required, 400,000 people can be vaccinated in the first batch so can
vaccinated in the first batch so ran the Prime
vaccinated in the first batch so can the Prime Minister tell the house,
the Prime Minister tell the house, who does he expect to receive the
who does he expect to receive the vaccine next week? I’m grateful to
vaccine next week? I’m grateful to the Right honourable gentleman for
the Right honourable gentleman for his point about the roll—out and let
his point about the roll-out and let me update the
his point about the roll—out and let me update the house on what the
his point about the roll—out and let me update the house on what theJCVI
me update the house on what the jCVI has
me update the house on what theJCVI has concluded so far. The priority
has concluded so far. The priority list will be residence in care
list will be residence in rare homes,
list will be residence in care homes, older
list will be residence in care homes, olderadults
list will be residence in care homes, older adults and their carers
homes, older adults and their carers to stop transmission of all those 80
to stop transmission of all those 80 years of age and older, front line
years of age and older, front line health care and social care workers
health rare and social rare workers and all
health care and social care workers and all those of 75 years of age and
and all those of 75 years of age and over and all those of 70 years of
over and all those of 70 years of age and over, the clinically
age and over, the clinically extremely vulnerable individuals and
extremely vulnerable individuals and then a list that I am sure the House
then a list that I am sure the House will want to study closely but I
will want to study closely but I believe does represent common sense.
believe does represent common sense. I think it’s very important at this
I think it’s very important at this stage for us all to recognise that
stage for us all to recognise that this is unquestionably good news.
this is unquestionably good news. It’s very, very good news but it is
It’s very, very good news but it is by no means the end of the story. It
by no means the end of the story. It is not the end of our national
is not the end of our national struggle against coronavirus and
struggle against coronavirus and that’s why it’s very important that
that’s why it’s very important that the package of moderate but tough
the package of moderate but tough measures that the House voted for
measures that the House voted for last night, the tiered system, is
last night, the tiered system, is followed across the country because
followed across the country because that’s how we will continue to beat
that’s how we will continue to beat the vims.
that’s how we will continue to beat the virus. The Prime Minister
the virus. The Prime Minister referenced the priority for the
referenced the priority for the first phase in the top two groups
first phase in the top two groups are residents in care homes and
are residents in rare homes and older
are residents in care homes and older adults and carers, those 80
older adults and carers, those 80 years old and over and front line
years old and over and front line social care workers. I’m not
social care workers. I’m not criticising that list in the
criticising that list in the slightest but it’s obvious that that
slightest but it’s obvious that that is more than 400,000 people in the
is more than 400,000 peopla in the Prime
is more than 400,000 people in the Prime Minister will understand how
Prime Minister will understand how anxious people in those particular
anxious peopla in those particular EWUPS
anxious peopla in those particular groups are
anxious people in those particular groups are after having sacrificed
groups are after having sacrificed so much so can the Prime Minister
so much so ran the Prime Minister tell us the
so much so can the Prime Minister tell us the answer to the question
tell us the answer to the question that they are going to be asking
that they are going to be asking this morning, which is when does he
this morning, which is when does he expect that people in those two top
expect that people in those two top EWUPS
expect that people in those two top groups ran
expect that people in those two top groups can expect to be vaccinated?
groups ran expect to be vaccinated? I think at
groups can expect to be vaccinated? I think at this stage it is very,
I think at this stage it is very, very important that people do not
very important that peopla do not get
very important that people do not get their hopes up too soon about
get their hopes up too soon about the speed with which we will be able
the speed with which we will be able to roll out this vaccine. It is
to roll out this vaccine. It is beginning from next week. We are
beginning from next week. We are expecting several million doses of
expecting several million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine before
the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine before the end of the year and we will then
the end of the year and we will then be rolling it out as fast as we
be rolling it out as fast as we possibly can but that is why I have
possibly ran but that is why I have put so much
possibly can but that is why I have put so much emphasis on the
put so much emphasis on the continuing importance of the tiering
continuing importance of the tiering system and mass community testing at
system and mass community testing at the same time as we go forward
the same time as we go forward through these tough winter months
through these tough winter months because we will need at the same
because we will need at the same time as we roll out the vaccine, and
time as we roll out the vaccine, and he’s right to ask about timetables,
he’s right to ask about timetables, as we roll out the vaccine over the
as we roll out the vaccine over the next few weeks, we will need to keep
next few weeks, we will need to keep that tough tiering and testing
that tough tiering and testing regime in place. Can I press the
regime in place. (“an I press the Prime
regime in place. Can I press the Prime Minister 3 bit further about
Prime Minister a bit further about the plan for
Prime Minister 3 bit further about the plan for care homes? I do so
the plan for rare homes? I do so because
the plan for care homes? I do so because we all want this to work
because we all want this to work because that top category is
because that top category is residents in care homes and that all
residents in rare homes and that all of us to be
residents in care homes and that all of us to be a huge concern for many
of us to be a huge concern for many peopla. This
of us to be a huge concern for many people. This morning, the Welsh
people. This morning, the Welsh Government has already raised
Government has already raised practical problems about the
practical problems about the delivery of vaccines into care
delivery of vaccines into rare homes.
delivery of vaccines into care homes. That is hearing in mind the
homes. That is hearing in mind the temperatures at which the vaccines
temperatures at which the vaccines have to be stored. The Prime
have to be stored. The Prime Minister must know this is going to
Minister must know this is going to be a four nation problem. Obviously
be a four nation problem. Obviously we all want to overcome this problem
we all want to overcome this problem and it’s in that spirit that I ask
and it’s in that spirit that I ask the Prime Minister what plans has he
the Prime Minister what plans has he put in place to address these
put in place to address these particular problems of getting the
particular problems of getting the vaccine safely and quickly into care
vaccine safely and quickly into care homes, given the practical
homes, given the practical difficulties of doing so and the
difficulties of doing so and the anxiety that those care homes will
anxiety that those rare homes will have
anxiety that those care homes will have about getting it quickly? He is
have about getting it quickly? He is entirely right to raise the issue of
entirely right to raise the issue of rare
entirely right to raise the issue of care homes and the ability to
care homes and the ability to distribute this particular type of
distribute this particular type of vaccine rapidly into care homes
vaccine rapidly into rare homes because
vaccine rapidly into care homes because it does need to be kept at
because it does need to be kept at -70
because it does need to be kept at —70 Celsius as I think the House
—70 Celsius as I think the House understands —— —70 degrees. 50 I
understands -- -70 degrees. Sol think there
understands —— —70 degrees. 50 I think there are challenges to get
think there are challenges to get people access to the vaccine. We are
people access to the vaccine. We are working on it with all of the
working on it with all of the devolved administrations in order to
devolved administrations in order to ensure the NHS across the country is
ensure the NHS across the country is able and it’s the NHS that will be
able and it’s the NHS that will be in the lead, the NHS is able to
in the lead, the NHS is able to distribute it as fast and as
distribute it as fast and as sensibly as possible to the most
sensibly as possible to the most vulnerable groups but he is right to
vulnerable groups but he is right to raise that particular logistical
raise that particular logistical difficulty, that’s why it’s also
difficulty, that’s why it’s also important that we get the
important that we get the AstraZeneca vaccine which we hope
AstraZenera vaccine which we hope will also
AstraZeneca vaccine which we hope will also come on stream and while
will also come on stream and whila he is paying
will also come on stream and while he is paying tribute to those who
he is paying tribute to those who have been involved in the vaccines,
have been involved in the vaccines, perhaps he could also pay tribute to
perhaps he could also pay tribute to the work of the vaccine task force
the work of the vaccine task force which secured the deal with Pfizer
which secured the deal with Pfizer and which I think you criticise only
and which I think you criticise only a few weeks ago. I pay tribute to
a few weeks ago. I pay tribute to everybody who has got us this far
everybody who has got us this far and will work with all of them to
and will work with all of them to get us where we need to go. This has
get us where we need to go. This has to be something on which we all pull
to be something on which we all pull together to deliver this as quickly
together to deliver this as quickly and safely as possible over the next
and safely as possible over the next few months and I’ve made that offer
few months and I’ve made that offer to the premise to before and I’ll do
to the premise to before and I’ll do it again. It’s in that vein that I
it again. It’s in that vein that I turn to the next question, which is
turn to the next question, which is pub“:
turn to the next question, which is public confidence in the vaccine
public confidence in the vaccine which is a real cause for concern
which is a real cause for concern because that’s going to be crucial
because that’s going to be crucial to the success of getting this
to the success of getting this rolled out across the country,
rolled out across the country, getting our economy back up and
getting our economy back up and mnning. As
getting our economy back up and running. As the Prime Minister
mnning. As the Prime Minister knows, we
running. As the Prime Minister knows, we got the highest regulatory
knows, we got the highest regulatory and medical safety standards in the
and medical safety standards in the world, but it’s really important we
world, but it’s really important we do everything possible to counter
do everything possible to counter dangerous, frankly life—threatening
dangerous, frankly life—threatening disinformation about vaccines. We
disinformation about vaccines. We rail for
disinformation about vaccines. We call for legislation to be
call for legislation to be introduced to clamp down on this
introduced to clamp down on this with financial penalties for
with financial penalties for companies that fail to act so will
companies that fail to act so will the premise work with us on this and
the premise work with us on this and bring forward emergency legislation
bring forward emergency legislation in the coming days which I think the
in the coming days which I think the whola
in the coming days which I think the whole house would support? We are
whola house would support? We are working to
whole house would support? We are working to tackle all kinds of
working to tackle all kinds of disinformation across the Internet
disinformation across the Internet and he’s right that the
and he’s right that the anti—vaxxers, who I think are
anti-vanes, who I think are totally wrong
anti—vaxxers, who I think are totally wrong in their approach, and
totally wrong in their approach, and he’s right to encourage the take—up
he’s right to encourage the take-up of
he’s right to encourage the take—up of vaccines across the country and
of vaccines across the country and we will be publishing paper very
we will be publishing paper very shortly on online harms designed to
shortly on online harms designed to tackla
shortly on online harms designed to tackle the very disinformation that
tackle the very disinformation that he speaks of. Can I also urge the
he speaks of. (“an I also urge the Prime
he speaks of. Can I also urge the Prime Minister, once the Government
Prime Minister, once the Government has a communications plan for the
has a communications plan for the vaccine, ran
has a communications plan for the vaccine, can he share it with the
vaccine, ran he share it with the House so
vaccine, can he share it with the House so we can all say the same
House so we ran all say the same thing in the
House so we can all say the same thing in the same way to the country
thing in the same way to the country and encourage as many people to take
and encourage as many peopla to take “P
and encourage as many people to take up the vaccine as possible? The
up the vaccine as possibla? The arrival of
up the vaccine as possible? The arrival of a vaccines office a
arrival of a vaccines office a wonderful news but it will come too
wonderful news but it will come too late to many who have lost their
late to many who have lost their jobs already and I want to turn to
jobs already and I want to turn to the collapse of Arcadia and
the collapse of Arcadia and Debenhams in the last 48 hours which
Debenhams in the last 48 hours which has put 25,000 jobs at risk and
has put 25,000 jobs at risk and caused huge anxiety to many families
caused huge anxiety to many families at the worst possible time and
at the worst possible time and threatens to rip the heart out of
threatens to rip the heart out of many high streets in our towns and
many high streets in our towns and cities. (“an
many high streets in our towns and cities. Can the Prime Minister tell
cities. (“an the Prime Minister tell the House,
cities. Can the Prime Minister tell the House, what is he going to do
the House, what is he going to do now to protect the jobs and pensions
now to protect the jobs and pensions of all those affected by these
of all those affected by these closures?
of all those affected by these closures? We are looking at what we
closures? We are looking at what we ran do to
closures? We are looking at what we can do to protect all of the jobs
ran do to protect all of the jobs that
can do to protect all of the jobs that have been lost across the
can do to protect all of the jobs that have been lost across the
that have been lost across the country and my friend Max the
country and my friend Max the Secretary of State for skills has
Secretary of State for skills has written to the insolvency Department
written to the insolvency Department of the Arcadia directors and will be
of the Arcadia directors and will be doing everything we can to restore
doing everything we ran to restore the high
doing everything we can to restore the high streets of this country
the high streets of this country with our £1 billion high streets
with our £1 billion high streets fund and a levelling up fund, but I
fund and a levelling up fund, but I must say I think it is a bit much
must say I think it is a bit much that the honourable gentleman should
that the honourable gentleman should attack the economic consequences of
attack the economic consequences of the fight against coronavirus when
the fight against coronavirus when last night, neither he nor his
last night, neither he nor his troops could be bothered to vote for
troops could be bothered to vote for measures, sensible, balanced
measures, sensible, balanced measures that would open up the
measures that would open up the economy and allow businesses to
economy and allow businesses to trade. How can he attack the
trade. How can he attack the economic consequences of our battle
economic consequences of our battle against coronavirus when he won’t
against coronavirus when he won’t even support measures to open up the
even support measures to open up the economy? when
even support measures to open up the economy? When I abstain, I come to
economy? when I abstain, I come to the House
economy? When I abstain, I come to the House and explain. When the
the House and explain. when the Prime
the House and explain. When the Prime Minister abstains, he runs
Prime Minister abstains, he runs away to Afghanistan and gives the
away to Afghanistan and gives the taxpayer a £20,000 bill. 0n the
taxpayer a £20,000 bill. 0n the question of
taxpayer a £20,000 bill. 0n the question ofjobs, there are serious
question ofjobs, there are serious questions that need to be answered
questions that need to be answered about the collapse of these
about the collapse of these businesses and I don’t want the
businesses and I don’t want the Prime Minister to deflect that and
Prime Minister to deﬂact that and what it
Prime Minister to deflect that and what it means for many families
what it means for many families because this isn’t an isolated
because this isn’t an isolated incident. Over
because this isn’t an isolated incident. 0ver200,000
because this isn’t an isolated incident. Over 200,000 retail
because this isn’t an isolated incident. Over 200,000 retailjobs
incident. Over 200,000 retailjobs have been lost this year. That’s
have been lost this year. That’s 200,000 individuals and their
200,000 individuals and their families, 20,000 stores have been
families, 20,000 stores have been closed on our high streets and
closed on our high streets and that’s before the latest
that’s before the latest restrictions. I suspect if we had
restrictions. I suspect if we had seen that scale of
restrictions. I suspect if we had seen that scale ofjob losses and
seen that stale ofjob losses and any other
seen that scale ofjob losses and any other sector, there would have
any other sector, there would have been much greater action already so
been much greater action already so I urge the Prime Minister to take
I urge the Prime Minister to take this seriously. Don’t deflect. As
this seriously. Don’t deﬂact. As well as
this seriously. Don’t deflect. As well as providing emergency support,
well as providing emergency support, will the Prime Minister work with
will the Prime Minister work with ours, with the trade unions and the
ours, with the trade unions and the sector, to finally bring forward a
sector, to finally bring forward a comprehensive plan to save retail
comprehensive plan to save retail jobs and provide the sector with a
jobs and provide the sector with a much greater support it needs during
much greater support it needs during this crisis? These are real people
this crisis? These are real peopla with real jobs
this crisis? These are real people with realjobs and families facing
with real jobs and families facing the
with realjobs and families facing the sack. They really need to hear
the sack. They really need to hear from you. We are of course
from you. We are of course supporting every
from you. We are of course supporting everyjob we possibly can
supporting every job we possibly ran as well
supporting everyjob we possibly can as well as every life and livelihood
as well as every life and livelihood with a £200 million programme but I
with a £200 million programme but I would take it more seriously if he
would take it more seriously if he did not abstain on a vote to open up
did not abstain on a vote to open up the economy and keep the virus down.
the economy and keep the virus down. We are getting on with our programme
We are getting on with our programme of rolling out the vaccine with
of rolling out the vaccine with sensible tiering measures, in
sensible tiering measures, in addition to which we are delivering
addition to which we are delivering more hospitals and 20,000 more
more hospitals and 20,000 more police officers and he talks about
police officers and he talks about abstention. When it came to
abstention. when it came to protecting
abstention. When it came to protecting our veterans from unfair
protecting our veterans from unfair prosecution, he chose to abstain.
prosecution, he chose to abstain. when it
prosecution, he chose to abstain. When it came to protecting the
when it came to protecting the peopla of
When it came to protecting the people of this country from
people of this country from coronavirus at this critical moment,
coronavirus at this critical moment, he told his troops to abstain.
he told his troops to abstain. Captain Hindsight is rising rapidly
Captain Hindsight is rising rapidly “P
Captain Hindsight is rising rapidly up the ranks and has become General
up the ranks and has become General Indecision. That’s what’s happening,
Indecision. That’s what’s happening, I’m afraid. He dithers, we get on
I’m afraid. He dithers, we get on with the job.
I’m afraid. He dithers, we get on with thejob. Next
I’m afraid. He dithers, we get on with the job. Next week marks one
with the job. Next week marks one year since the Prime Minister one a
year since the Prime Minister one a mighty majority and turn the Redwall
mighty majority and turn the Redmll blue, ensuring
mighty majority and turn the Redwall blue, ensuring communities would no
blue, ensuring communities would no longer be neglected. A new
longer be neglected. A new infrastructure bank has been
infrastmclure bank has been promised.
infrastructure bank has been promised. Mr Speaker, Wakefield is
promised. Mr Speaker, Wakefield is the crossroads of the kingdom. Our
the crossroads of the kingdom. Our cathedral spire of the tallest in
cathedral spire of the tallast in God’s
cathedral spire of the tallest in God’s on country and historically
God’s on country and historically the principal city of West Yorkshire
the principal city of West Yorkshire and the red wall, which make it the
and the red wall, which make it the perfect city for the new bank’s
perfect city for the new bank’s home. Will he commit to put the new
home. Will he commit to put the new infrastructure bank in Wakefield and
infrastmclure bank in Wakefield and restore
infrastructure bank in Wakefield and restore the city’s glory? He is a
restore the city’s glory? He is a magnificent campaigner for Wakefield
magnificent campaigner for Wakefield and I know the Chancellor will
and I know the Chancellor will listen closely to his call for the
listen closely to his call for the national infrastructure bank to be
national infrastructure bank to be established in Wakefield and he
established in Wakefield and he should wait on events. Let’s go up
should wait on events. Let’s go up to Scotland with the leader of the
to Scotland with the leader of the SNP, Ian Blackford. This morning for
SNP, Ian Blackford. This morning for the first time in months, people
the first time in months, peopla have
the first time in months, people have woken up with a genuine sense
have woken up with a genuine sense of hope. The news of a vaccine
of hope. The news of a vaccine approval is the news we have all
approval is the news we have all been waiting for but, Mr Speaker,
been waiting for but, Mr Speaker, that hope on the horizon remains far
that hope on the horizon remains far too distant. There are millions who
too distant. There are millions who still have not had a single penny of
still have not had a singla penny of support from
still have not had a single penny of support from the UK Government. As
support from the UK Government. As others rightly received help, they
others rightly received help, they received none. Prime Minister,
received none. Prime Minister, yesterday I met with a group who
yesterday I met with a group who represent many of these 3 million
represent many of these 3 million citizens. For
represent many of these 3 million citizens. Forthe
represent many of these 3 million citizens. For the past nine months
citizens. For the past nine months we have been living without any help
we have been living without any help or hope and it is now tragically
or hope and it is now tragically costing lives. Prime Minister, they
costing lives. Prime Minister, they told me something genuinely
told me something genuinely shocking, they are aware of eight
shocking, they are aware of eight people who have taken their lives in
people who have taken their lives in the last ten days. Eight people in
the last ten days. Eight peopla in ten days.
the last ten days. Eight people in ten days. Prime Minister, we are now
ten days. Prime Minister, we are now a little over three weeks from
a little over three weeks from Christmas. These people need help.
Christmas. These people need help. will the
Christmas. These people need help. Will the Prime Minister committed to
will the Prime Minister committed to looking again
Will the Prime Minister committed to looking again at the support package
looking again at the support package for the excluded to ensure no one is
for the excluded to ensure no one is left behind? I obviously sympathise
left behind? I obviously sympathise "TY
left behind? I obviously sympathise very much with those who have taken
very much with those who have taken their lives and their families and
their lives and their families and this has been a very tough time for
this has been a very tough time for the country. We are investing
the country. We are investing massively in mental health support
massively in mental health support across the country, as he notes,
across the country, as he notes, which ﬂows to Scotland through the
which ﬂows to Scotland through the Barnett consequence and we put in a
Barnett consequence and we put in a huge package of support. There are
huge package of support. There are hard to reach people but they are
hard to reach peopla but they are also
hard to reach people but they are also supported with the increases in
also supported with the increases in Universal Credit and the many other
Universal Credit and the many other means of support that are currently
means of support that are currently on offer and I think when you look
on offer and I think when you look at the overall level of support,
at the overall level of support, this Government has given to people
this Government has given to people across the country, it compares
across the country, it compares favourably with any other Government
favourably with any other Government around the world. I have to say with
around the world. I have to say with regret, that simply isn’t good
regret, that simply isn’t good enough. These people need help and
enough. These people need help and I’m asking the Prime Minister to
I’m asking the Prime Minister to think very carefully about this.
think very carefully about this. This has been an abject failure by
This has been an abject failure by the UK Government and the Prime
the UK Government and the Prime Minister has been missing in action.
Minister has been missing in action. The Government has you turned on
The Government has you turned on everything else so why can’t the
everything else so why can’t the Prime Minister and the Chancellor
Prime Minister and the Chancellor change their minds on their support
change their minds on their support for these 3 million people? These
for these 3 million people? These are people working in events,
are people working in events, construction, education,
construction, education, hospitality, retail and health care
hospitality, retail and health rare who
hospitality, retail and health care who haven’t
hospitality, retail and health care who haven’tjust been left behind
who haven’t just been left behind but
who haven’tjust been left behind but been ignored for nine months.
but been ignored for nine months. The Chancellor has repeatedly dogged
The Chancellor has repeatedly dogged this issue. Excluded UK haven’t been
this issue. Excluded UK haven’t been offered one formal meeting with the
offered one formal meeting with the Government minister. Will the Prime
Government minister. will the Prime Minister
Government minister. Will the Prime Minister commit today to a meeting
Minister commit today to a meeting and working with Excluded UK on a
and working with Excluded UK on a meaningful package of support or is
meaningful package of support or is the Prime Minister simply going to
the Prime Minister simply going to abandon these people three weeks
abandon these people three weeks from Christmas? We have abandoned
from Christmas? We have abandoned nobody and are continuing to support
nobody and are continuing to support peopla. We
nobody and are continuing to support people. We have announced nearly, in
peopla. We have announced nearty, in addition to
people. We have announced nearly, in addition to the support I’ve
addition to the support I’ve mentioned, nearly 400 million
mentioned, nearly 400 million families through the winter. We have
families through the winter. We have increased Universal Credit, increase
increased Universal Credit, increase [oral housing
increased Universal Credit, increase local housing allowance, provided
local housing allowance, provided billions more to local authorities
billions more to [oral authorities to help
billions more to local authorities to help those who are hard to reach,
to help those who are hard to reach, but I may say to the honourable
but I may say to the honourable gentleman that the best way to help
gentleman that the best way to help the self—employed, to help the
the self-employed, to help the economy of
the self—employed, to help the economy of this whole country, is to
economy of this whola country, is to get us moving
economy of this whole country, is to get us moving again with the package
get us moving again with the package of measures that the House voted for
of measures that the House voted for last night, to allow retail to start
last night, to allow retail to start “P
last night, to allow retail to start up again, to allow business to start
up again, to allow business to start “P
up again, to allow business to start up again. It’s shameful. We on this
up again. It’s shameful. We on this side of the House do not think
side of the House do not think retailers shameful. We want
retailers shameful. We want businesses to open up again and that
businesses to open up again and that is the nature of the package that
is the nature of the package that was voted for last night which I
was voted for last night which I think was quite right. It’s a great
think was quite right. It’s a great shame that the honourable gentleman
shame that the honourable gentleman opposite could not bring himself to
opposite could not bring himself to support it. At this time of enormous
support it. At this time of enormous pressure on our health care, can I
pressure on our health rare, ran I welcome
pressure on our health care, can I welcome the Government and the NHS’s
welcome the Government and the NHS’s continued
welcome the Government and the NHS’s continued commitment to the new
continued commitment to the new combined medical
continued commitment to the new combined medicalfacility in
combined medical facility in Edenbridge.
combined medicalfacility in Edenbridge. Can he confirm to me
Edenbridge. (“an he confirm to me that the
Edenbridge. Can he confirm to me that the sale of the existing
that the sale of the existing Memorial Hospital which was built by
Memorial Hospital which was built by pub“:
Memorial Hospital which was built by public donation about a century ago
public donation about a century ago will now help fund the new building?
will now help fund the new building? He is investing £20 million in the
He is investing £20 million in the medicines manufacturing fund to
medicines manufacturing fund to benefit Wales, Scotland, England and
benefit Wales, Scotland, England and Northern Ireland so will he join
benefit Wales, Scotland, England and Northern Ireland so will hejoin me
Northern Ireland so will he join me in welcoming
Northern Ireland so will hejoin me in welcoming the skill of all those
in welcoming the skill of all those in the NHS and indeed the Health
in the NHS and indeed the Health Secretary in making historic
Secretary in making historic donations work for our communities
donations work for our communities today? I ran,
donations work for our communities today? I can, and I congratulate him
today? I ran, and I congratulate him on his campaign.
today? I can, and I congratulate him on his campaign. Any decision to
on his campaign. Any decision to allow for the sale of the hospital
allow for the sala of the hospital as a
allow for the sale of the hospital as a matter for the local CCG ——
allow for the sale of the hospital as a matterfor the local CCG —— is
as a matter for the [oral CCG -- is a matter, but
as a matter for the [oral CCG -- is a matter, butl
as a matterfor the local CCG —— is a matter, but I know he is
a matter, butl know he is supporting
a matter, but I know he is supporting the £12 million we put in
supporting the £12 million we put in for the development of a new health
for the development of a new health and well-being
for the development of a new health and well—being Centre for
and well—being Centre for Edenbridge. To Wales with Liz Savo
Edenbridge. To Walas with Liz Savo Roberts.
Edenbridge. To Wales with Liz Savo Roberts. I’d like to welcome the
Roberts. I’d like to welcome the vaccine, this is a ray of light in
vaccine, this is a ray of light in dark times, but last week his
dark times, but last week his Government published a statement of
Government published a statement of funding showing a reduction in the
funding showing a reduction in the amount Wales receives through
amount Wales receives through transport to in England from 80.9%
transport to in England from 80.996 to 3611.
transport to in England from 80.9% to 36%. This reveals in black and
to 3696. This reveals in black and white
to 36%. This reveals in black and white the iniquity of the rail
white the iniquity of the rail betrayal being inflicted on Wales.
betrayal being inﬂicted on Wales. Welsh
betrayal being inflicted on Wales. Welsh taxpayers are paying for
Welsh taxpayers are paying for English transport and H52 but don’t
English transport and H52 but don’t get a fair return. Could he inform
get a fair return. Could he inform the House how much investment he is
the House how much investment he is funnelling away from Wales due to
funnelling away from Walas due to his
funnelling away from Wales due to his Government’s decision to label
his Government’s decision to label this white elephant in England and
this white elaphant in England and Walas
this white elephant in England and Wales scheme despite not a single
Wales scheme despite not a single inch of the railway being in Wales?
inch of the railway being in Wales? I simply failed to recognise the
I simply failed to recognise the characterisation that the honourable
characterisation that the honourable lady makes of investment across the
lady makes of investment across the whole of the UK. The Welsh
whole of the UK. The Welsh Government will receive an
Government will receive an additional £1.3 billion next year
additional £15 billion next year and we
additional £1.3 billion next year and we are providing 200 million
and we are providing 200 million more to support industries, to
more to support industries, to support fisheries in Wales, and the
support fisheries in Wales, and the last time I looked at transport in
last time I looked at transport in Walos,
last time I looked at transport in Wales, the Welsh Labour Government
Wales, the Welsh labour Government spent £144
Wales, the Welsh Labour Government spent £141; million on a plan for a
spent £144 million on a plan for a M4 bypass
spent £141; million on a plan for a MA bypass which they then junked.
M4 bypass which they then junked. The peopla
M4 bypass which they then junked. The people of Abercrombie would like
The peopla of Abercrombie would like to thank
The people of Abercrombie would like to thank the Prime Minister for his
to thank the Prime Minister for his earty
to thank the Prime Minister for his early Christmas present in this
earty Christmas present in this vaccine.
early Christmas present in this vaccine. Like many presents, we
vaccine. Like many presents, we might not have made it, but this
might not have made it, but this Government, this union could afford
Government, this union could afford to buy it for this country. This
to buy it for this country. This Saturday I was talking with small
Saturday I was talking with small businesses who have had to deal with
businesses who have had to deal with ﬂooding in
businesses who have had to deal with flooding in February and the
ﬂooding in February and the pandemic
flooding in February and the pandemic since March. All they want
pandemic since March. All they want to do is trade so will my honourable
to do is trade so will my honourable friend join me in thanking the
friend join me in thanking the peopla who
friend join me in thanking the people who battled through a really
people who battled through a really difficult 2020, and does he agree
difficult 2020, and does he agree that this news of a vaccine and its
that this news of a vaccine and its licensing gives real hope to these
licensing gives real hope to these three women, these three
three women, these three entrepreneurs and thousands like
entrepreneurs and thousands like them across the UK, hope for a
them across the UK, hope for a better 2021? Yes indeed, Mr Speaker.
better 2021? Yes indeed, Mr Speaker. I congratulate the three female
I congratulate the three female entrepreneurs that he mentions and
entrepreneurs that he mentions and they will be helped by the vaccine
they will be helped by the vaccine and they will be allowed to do
and they will be allowed to do business again and what a shame it
business again and what a shame it is that our programme to sensibly
is that our programme to sensibly and safely open up the economy was
and safely open up the economy was not supported by the gent—mac. To
not supported by the gent-mac. To Preston
not supported by the gent—mac. To Preston with Sir Mark Hendry. The
Preston with Sir Mark Hendry. The Prime Minister has put at risk the
Prime Minister has put at risk the Good Friday Agreement and peace in
Good Friday Agreement and peace in Northern Ireland after promising the
Northern Ireland after promising the peopla of
Northern Ireland after promising the people of this country he would not.
peopla of this country he would not. He
people of this country he would not. He promised the country a world
He promised the country a world beating track and trace system and
beating track and trace system and conveniently forgot to provide the
conveniently forgot to provide the track and trace part of the promise.
track and trace part of the promise. He promised to deal with the EU to
He promised to deal with the EU to win the 2019 general election and we
win the 2019 general election and we look like having no deal. When will
look like having no deal. when will the
look like having no deal. When will the Prime Minister follow through on
the Prime Minister follow through on his promises instead of behaving
his promises instead of behaving like a second—hand car salesman? If
like a second-hand rar salesman? If the
like a second—hand car salesman? If the honourable gentleman is saying
the honourable gentleman is saying that he wants to keep this country
that he wants to keep this country in the EU, which I think was the
in the EU, which I think was the gist of that, then he’s going to be
gist of that, then he’s going to be sorely disappointed and so will the
sorely disappointed and so will the party opposite. They said that
party opposite. They said that Britain was a nation of shopkeepers
Britain was a nation of shopkeepers and in Stockton, we are proud to
and in Stockton, we are proud to have some of the best retailers in
have some of the best retailers in the country. They’ve had a tough
the country. Therve had a tough year. They are
the country. They’ve had a tough year. They are grateful for the
year. They are grateful for the support they have received from the
support they have received from the Government but remain concerned
Government but remain concerned about the future of business rates.
about the future of business rates. (“an my
about the future of business rates. Can my honourable friend confirm the
Can my honourable friend confirm the Government remains committed to a
Government remains committed to a fundamental review of business rates
fundamental review of business rates and will he join
fundamental review of business rates and will hejoin me in encouraging
and will he join me in encouraging peopla to get
and will hejoin me in encouraging people to get down to their local
peopla to get down to their [oral high
people to get down to their [oral high street
people to get down to their local high street and shop local this
high street and shop local this Christmas? Yes, indeed. My
Christmas? Yes, indeed. My honourable friend reminds me it is a
honourable friend reminds me it is a small business Saturday this
small business Saturday this Saturday and everybody should be
Saturday and everybody should be shopping local, but I can also tell
shopping local, but I ran also tell him that
shopping local, but I can also tell him that the Treasury are calling
him that the Treasury are falling for
him that the Treasury are calling for business rates in ahead of the
for business rates in ahead of the review and spring. We all know it
review and spring. We all know it will take a long time for many
will take a long time for many industries to recover from the
industries to recover from the impact of coronavirus. The aviation
impact of coronavirus. The aviation sector and its supply chain which
sector and its supply chain which supports almost a quarter of 1
supports almost a quarter of1 million jobs
supports almost a quarter of 1 millionjobs has been impacted. Many
million jobs has been impacted. Many workers
millionjobs has been impacted. Many workers and their families at GE
workers and their families at GE aviation in Pontypridd have been
aviation in Pontypridd have been financially ruined and I know it is
financially mined and I know it is a familiar
financially ruined and I know it is a familiar scenario for families up
a familiar scenario for families up and down the country. The Prime
and down the country. The Prime Minister needs to wake up to this
Minister needs to wake up to this situation urgently so will he commit
situation urgently so will he commit to a sector specific support deal to
to a sector specific support deal to save our aviation industry before it
save our aviation industry before it is too late? We are doing a huge
is too late? We are doing a huge amount to support our aviation
amount to support our aviation industry but I appreciate the stress
industry but I appreciate the stress and difficulty is that many families
and difficulty is that many families are in at the moment because of the
are in at the moment because of the threats to that sector, which are
threats to that sector, which are global because people just are not
global because peopla just are not ﬂying
global because people just are not ﬂying the
global because people just are not flying the way that they were before
ﬂying the way that they were before the
flying the way that they were before the pandemic, but I have every hope
the pandemic, but I have every hope that it will bounce back very
that it will bounce back very strongly, particularly in this
strongly, particularty in this country
strongly, particularly in this country which is a world leader in
country which is a world leader in aviation. Once we get the economy
aviation. Once we get the economy moving again as I hope we can. In
moving again as I hope we ran. In North
moving again as I hope we can. In North Somerset, Small businesses are
North Somerset, Small businesses are the lifeblood of the economy, like
the lifeblood of the economy, like in the rest of the UK, providing 60%
in the rest of the UK, providing 6096 of other jobs.
in the rest of the UK, providing 60% of otherjobs. After Covid we will
of other jobs. After Covid we will require a
of otherjobs. After Covid we will require a private sector Small
require a private sector Small business led recovery. Can I ask the
business led recovery. (“an I ask the Prime
business led recovery. Can I ask the Prime Minister if he will require a
Prime Minister if he will require a new discipline in the form of a
new discipline in the form of a small business test so that every
small business test so that every tax and bit of legislation is
tax and bit of legislation is measured against whether or not it
measured against whether or not it will provide support for this sector
will provide support for this sector which will be vital for recovery? He
which will be vital for recovery? He is a great champion of small
is a great champion of small businesses. Every measure the
businesses. Every measure the Government produces is judged
businesses. Every measure the Government produces isjudged by the
Government produces is judged by the effect it
Government produces isjudged by the effect it has but we are also
effect it has but we are also providing for these particularly
providing for these particularly difficult circumstances about £100
difficult circumstances about £100 billion of business support. The
billion of business support. The bounce back loans and many other
bounce back loans and many other forms of support. The best thing for
forms of support. The best thing for businesses large and small as to
businesses large and small as to shop loral
businesses large and small as to shop local and allow the economy,
shop [oral and allow the economy, cautiously
shop local and allow the economy, cautiously and prudently, to reopen.
cautiously and pmdenﬂy, to reopen. I want to
cautiously and prudently, to reopen. I want to congratulate the Prime
I want to congratulate the Prime Minister is next week marks his
Minister is next week marks his first year in post. However, in that
first year in post. However, in that time, over
first year in post. However, in that time, over71,000
first year in post. However, in that time, over 71,000 Covid deaths, the
time, over 71,000 Covid deaths, the highest rate in Europe, over 2
highest rate in Europe, over 2 trillion in debt, the worst
trillion in debt, the worst performing economy in the G7.
performing economy in the G7. Failing Brexit negotiations and at
Failing Brexit negotiations and at least 1.5 billion of taxpayers’
least 1.5 billion of taxpayers“ money
least 1.5 billion of taxpayers’ money spent on contracts to Tory
money spent on contracts to Tory friends and donors. Whilst at the
friends and donors. whilst at the same
friends and donors. Whilst at the same time whipping his MPs to vote
same time whipping his MPs to vote against meals for hungry children.
against meals for hungry children. which
against meals for hungry children. Which one of these achievements as
which one of these achievements as he most proud
Which one of these achievements as he most proud of?
Which one of these achievements is he most proud of? I take her point
he most proud of? I take her point more seriously if she and her party
more seriously if she and her party could be bothered to vote for
could be bothered to vote for measures... Sorry, she defied the
measures... Sorry, she defied the labour whip,
measures... Sorry, she defied the Labour whip, forgive me, Mr Speaker,
labour whip, forgive me, Mr Speaker, she defied
Labour whip, forgive me, Mr Speaker, she defied the injunction to dither
she defied the injunction to dither from the ditherer in chief, but it
from the ditherer in chief, but it would be a good thing, she didn’t
would be a good thing, she didn’t obey the instructions to dither, but
obey the instmctions to dither, but I would
obey the instructions to dither, but I would take a more seriously if her
I would take a more seriously if her party leader would vote for measures
party leader would vote for measures that would open up the economy
that would open up the economy whilst protecting lives across the
whilst protecting lives across the UK. Let’s head to Lincoln.
UK. Let’s head to Lincoln. Good afternoon, Mr Speaker. I would
Good afternoon, Mr Speaker. I would like to thank my right honourable
like to thank my right honourable friend and his Cabinet colleagues
friend and his Cabinet colleagues for last week for Grant to my
for last week for Grant to my question for the relief road around
question for the relief road around my constituency in looking. I look
my constituency in looking. I look forward to seeing the combustion
forward to seeing the combustion engine vehicles for many decades to
engine vehidas for many decades to come. My
engine vehicles for many decades to come. My constituents have been
come. My constituents have been clear on the decisions on lockdown
clear on the decisions on lockdown as they normally and refreshingly.
as they normally and refreshingly. Lincolnshire is a very big space,
Lincolnshire is a very big space, will my right honourable friend
will my right honourable friend seriously consider allowing local
seriously consider allowing local decision—makers the chance to set
decision-makers the chance to set tier
decision—makers the chance to set tier decisions locally? Local
tier decisions locally? Local decision makers know their patch is
decision makers know their patch is far better than any Whitehall
far better than any Whitehall decision. Local businesses include
decision. Local businesses include Agero three UK members who are yet
Agero three UK members who are yet to receive any support and are
to receive any support and are desperate to get back to work in
desperate to get back to work in five of the UK economy. I repeat
five of the UK economy. I repeat what I said to the head several
what I said to the head several times yesterday afternoon and I’m
times yesterday afternoon and I’m grateful to my honourable friend, of
grateful to my honourable friend, of course we want to
grateful to my honourable friend, of course we we nt to reflect
grateful to my honourable friend, of course we want to reflect local
course we we nt to reflect local conditions as closely and
course we want to reflect local conditions as closely and accurately
conditions as closely and accurately as we can in taking our decisions
as we ran in taking our decisions about tiering,
as we can in taking our decisions about tiering, but we must look at
about tiering, but we must look at the entire national picture and on
the entire national picture and on his point about internal combustion
his point about internal combustion engines, I
his point about internal combustion engines, Ijust remind him that a
engines, Ijust remind him that a hydrogen engine can also be an
hydrogen engine ran also be an internal
hydrogen engine can also be an internal combustion engine. My
internal combustion engine. My constituent was diagnosed with ME in
constituent was diagnosed with ME in 2019 and, earlier this year, her
2019 and, eartier this year, her employer
2019 and, earlier this year, her employer agreed she was no longer
employer agreed she was no longer able to work and do the job she
able to work and do the job she loved. She applied for PIP but the
loved. She applied for PIP but the DWP has ruled she is fit to work and
DWP has mled she is fit to work and not engaged
DWP has ruled she is fit to work and not engaged with her previous
not engaged with her previous employer who can give a wealth of
employer who can give a wealth of evidence to the contrary. Her life
evidence to the contrary. Her life has been devastated by the state
has been devastated by the state diagnosis and said as a disabled
diagnosis and said as a disablad person, she
diagnosis and said as a disabled person, she cannot stand up for
person, she cannot stand up for herself so will the Prime Minister
herself so will the Prime Minister meet with me to ensure that there
meet with me to ensure that there are benefits for the sufferers of
are benefits for the sufferers of chronic fatigue and does not link to
chronic fatigue and does not link to singla points
chronic fatigue and does not link to single points of evidence? I am
single points of evidence? I am grateful for
single points of evidence? I am gratefulfor her
single points of evidence? I am grateful for her question, she
single points of evidence? I am gratefulfor her question, she is
grateful for her question, she is raising an
gratefulfor her question, she is raising an important issue, I know
raising an important issue, I know that many suffer from the syndrome
that many suffer from the syndrome she describes, I will ensure she
she describes, I will ensure she gets proper read sensation and
gets proper read sensation and meeting with the relevant minister
meeting with the relevant minister to discuss her objectives.
Anti—vex is some in the media only
Anti-wax is some in the media only discussed
Anti—vex is some in the media only discussed levelling up through
Anti—vax is some in the media only discussed levelling up through the
discussed levelling up through the prism of the North—South divide.
prism of the North—South divide. Cornwall has pockets of deprivation
Cornwall has pockets of deprivation and many communities in my
and many communities in my constituency is of North Cornwall
constituency is of North Cornwall will also need in support and
will also need in support and investments I welcome the levelling
investments I welcome the levelling “P
investments I welcome the levelling up fund and the decision to review
up fund and the decision to review the Green book so projects outside
the Green book so projects outside of London and the south—east are
of London and the south-east are more likely to
of London and the south—east are more likely to benefit from
more likely to benefit from Government investment. However, in
Government investment. However, in light of the new spending
light of the new spending commitments, can my Right Honourable
commitments, ran my Right Honourable friend
commitments, can my Right Honourable friend confirm the Shared Prosperity
friend confirm the Shared Prosperity Fund are separate to the
Fund are separate to the levelling “P
Fund are separate to the levelling up fund and there will be an
up fund and there will be an announcement on that soon and it
announcement on that soon and it will be simpler and less time
will be simpler and lass time consuming
will be simpler and less time consuming for small businesses to
consuming for small businesses to access than the owner of EU schemes
access than the owner of EU schemes they are replacing. Yes, indeed, Mr
they are replacing. Yes, indeed, Mr Speaker, I
they are replacing. Yes, indeed, Mr Speaker, Ithank
they are replacing. Yes, indeed, Mr Speaker, I thank my honourable
Speaker, I thank my honourable friend but is completely right about
friend but is completely right about the importance of the new UK Shared
the importance of the new UK Shared Prosperity Fund. It will be
Prosperity Fund. It will be different from the levelling up fund
different from the levelling up fund and we are going to work closely
and we are going to work closely with him and with people in Cornwall
with him and with peopla in Cornwall to make
with him and with people in Cornwall to make sure that we use the
to make sure that we use the additional funding
to make sure that we use the additionalfunding best to
to make sure that we use the additional funding best to fund the
additional funding best to fund the needs of communities in Cornwall.
needs of communities in Cornwall. Thank you, Mr Speaker the Scottish
Thank you, Mr Speaker the Scottish Government announced a £500 bonus
Government announced a 500 bonus scheme
Government announced a £500 bonus scheme for health and social care is
scheme for health and social rare is heroes
scheme for health and social care is heroes who have cared to West for
heroes who have ﬁred to West for the pandemic.
heroes who have cared to West for the pandemic. As opposed to the
the pandemic. As opposed to the Scottish Conservatives have tried to
Scottish Conservatives have tried to claim credit over the last few
claim credit over the last few hours. The Prime Minister is not
hours. The Prime Minister is not responsible for health in Scotland,
responsible for health in Scotland, but is responsible for it in England
but is responsible for it in England so well he put as governments money
so well he put as governments money where his Scottish colleague’s
where his Scottish colleague’s mouths are and much that bonus
mouths are and much that bonus initiative for health workers in
initiative for health workers in England and will he instruct the
England and will he instruct the Chancellor that whenever a bonus
Chancellor that whenever a bonus scheme Magnet is introduced, the
scheme Magnet is introduced, the will not try to take back the tax
will not try to take back the tax from it and let it be paid tax free?
from it and let it be paid tax free? Well, on the last point of course,
Well, on the last point of course, that’s a matter for the Scottish
that’s a matter for the Scottish Government which has the fiscal
Government which has the fiscal freedom to do that, but I found
freedom to do that, but I found health and social care workers, in
health and social rare workers, in Scotland
health and social care workers, in Scotland and across the whole
Scotland and across the whola country,
Scotland and across the whole country, and I’m proud of the
country, and I’m proud of the increases we’ve been able to put in,
increases we’ve been able to put in, 12.8%
increases we’ve been able to put in, 12.896 over
increases we’ve been able to put in, 12.8% over the last three years, and
12.896 over the last three years, and a pay rise for
12.896 over the last three years, and a pay rise for1
12.8% over the last three years, and a pay rise for1 million
12.8% over the last three years, and a pay rise forl million people in
a pay rise for1 million peopla in the NHS
a pay rise forl million people in the NHS as part of the biggest ever
the NHS as part of the biggest ever investment in the NHS, even before
investment in the NHS, even before Covid began, and it will continue
Covid began, and it will continue under this Government. In ten days’
under this Government. In ten days“ time, the
under this Government. In ten days’ time, the Government is
under this Government. In ten days’ time, the Government is hosting the
time, the Government is hosting the UN climate summit ahead of next
UN climate summit ahead of next year. I
UN climate summit ahead of next year. Iurge
UN climate summit ahead of next year. I urge the Prime Minister not
year. I urge the Prime Minister not to curb your enthusiasm for the
to curb your enthusiasm for the environment and will he show
environment and will he show international leadership by setting
international leadership by setting “P
international leadership by setting up an ambitious but achievable
up an ambitious but achievable target for emissions in 2030 as the
target for emissions in 2030 as the UK is a national contribution on the
UK is a national contribution on the Path to net zero Britain? I am proud
Path to net zero Britain? I am proud that the UK led the way in
that the UK led the way in instituting a target of net zero by
instituting a target of net zero by 2050, in all the nations developing,
2050, in all the nations developing, we were the first and we are looking
we were the first and we are looking at our national determined
at our national determined contribution which is extremely
contribution which is extremely ambitious and will be published
ambitious and will be published around the time of the climate
around the time of the climate summit on the 12th of December this
summit on the 12th of December this year. Final question. Thank you,
year. Final question. Thank you, Mr Speaker. The Prime Minister
Speaker. The Prime Minister mentioned the Universal Credit
mentioned the Universal Credit eartier.
mentioned the Universal Credit earlier. If the chancellors decision
eartier. If the chancellors decision to
earlier. If the chancellors decision to increase it by £20 a week during
to increase it by £20 a week during the pandemic, an admission of what
the pandemic, an admission of what my constituents have known for
my constituents have known for 79575-
my constituents have known for years, the Universal Credit simply
years, the Universal Credit simply isn’t enough to live on. In
years, the Universal Credit simply isn’t enough to live on. InJanuary,
isn’t enough to live on. In january, his
isn’t enough to live on. InJanuary, his Government will cap the benefits
his Government will rap the benefits of
his Government will cap the benefits of thousands on Universal Credit,
of thousands on Universal Credit, the average losses will be £250 a
the average losses will be £250 a month, mainly to families of
month, mainly to families of children. We already know it’s not
children. We already know it’s not enough to live on. Will he now
enough to live on. Will he now committed to scrapping it and to
committed to scrapping it and to continue the £20 per week uplift or
continue the £20 per week uplift or as he going to throw these families
as he going to throw these families to the boards just like 3 million
to the boards just like 3 million excluded? I
to the boards just like 3 million excluded? Ijust repeat the point I
excluded? Ijust repeat the point I made earlier on about the huge sums
made eartier on about the huge sums the
made earlier on about the huge sums the Government has invested in
the Government has invested in looking after families and
looking after families and livelihoods across the whole of the
livelihoods across the whole of the UK, well north of £200 billion now,
UK, well north of £200 billion now, an uplift of Universal Credit of
an uplift of Universal Credit of £1000, and we will continue to
£1000, and we will continue to support families across this country
support families across this country throughout the pandemic, but the
throughout the pandemic, but the objective must be, as I hoped he
objective must be, as I hoped he would agree, to get the economy
would agree, to get the economy moving again and get people back
moving again and get peopla back into
moving again and get people back into work in the way that I think
into work in the way that I think everybody would want and it’s a
everybody would want and it’s a fact, Mr Speaker, under
everybody would want and it’s a fact, Mr Speaker, underthis
fact, Mr Speaker, under this Government,
fact, Mr Speaker, underthis Government, in spite of all the
Government, in spite of all the difficulties we have faced, the
difficulties we have faced, the unemployment rate is lower in the UK
unemployment rate is lower in the UK than it is in France, Spain, Italy,
than it is in France, Spain, Italy, Canada and the USA. And we will
Canada and the USA. And we will continue to work to look after every
continue to work to look after every job we ran. In
continue to work to look after every job we can. In order to allow the
job we ran. In order to allow the state exit
job we can. In order to allow the state exit of members...
m:
We will
We will leave Prime Minister’s Questions and a want to bring you
Questions and a want to bring you from Nicola Sturgeon speaking during
from Nicola Sturgeon speaking during that and she said that the first
that and she said that the first peopla in
that and she said that the first people in Scotland will get the
people in Scotland will get the vaccine next Tuesday. We have not
vaccine next Tuesday. We have not had that specific for England but in
had that specific for England but in Scotland she sang the first vaccine
Scotland she sang the first vaccine will be administered next Tuesday
will be administered next Tuesday provided they get the supplies as
provided they get the supplies as expected. Scotland is
expected. Scotland is getting 320,000 doses and Nicole Sturgeon
320,000 doses and Nicola Sturgeon said
320,000 doses and Nicole Sturgeon said the first
320,000 doses and Nicola Sturgeon said the first vaccinated will be
said the first vaccinated will be those carrying out the vaccines.
As you’ve been hearing there the UK become the first
country in the world to approve the Pfizer—Biontech
coronavirus vaccine — with around 800,000 doses of the jab
being made available as early as next week.
The vaccine offers up to 95% protection against coronavirus.
A0 million doses have been pre—ordered by the government.
DrJune Raine, Chief Executive of the Medicines and Healthcare
products Regulatory Agency said no corners had been cut
in the development of the Pfizer—Biontech vaccine,
and that it was now safe to be rolled out.
The recommendation has been reached following a scientific and thorough
review of all the evidence of safety, effectiveness
and of quality of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine.
The UK Government has now accepted this advice and has made
the decision to approve the vaccine for use with some conditions.
In adults aged 16 and over.
The safety of the public will always come first.
Separate teams have been working in parallel to deliver the most
rigorous review of this vaccine.
No corners have been cut.
Our expert scientists and clinicians have worked round the clock,
carefully, methodically poring over tables and analyses and grafts
on every single piece of data.
Hundreds over 1,000 pages of data and absolutely critically analysing
the preclinical evidence, the clinical trials,
the manufacturing and quality controls and then down
to the final sample.
We have also reviewed and agreed the prescribing information
so that the public and health care professionals are very clear and can
be very confident that the vaccine is being used in the correct way,
understanding what is involved.
And going forward from today, our National Institute
for biological standards and control will be independently laboratory
tested so that every single vaccine that goes out meets the same high
standards of safety and quality.
Our health correspondent Nick Triggle is here.
How is it that the UK has become the first to authorise the use? We have
first to authorise the use? We have been talking about how it has been a
been talking about how it has been a vaccine has been developed very
vaccine has been developed very quickly and know the regulatory
quickly and know the regulatory process has been done very fast. You
process has been done very fast. You ran see the drugs
process has been done very fast. You can see the drugs regulator was at
ran see the drugs regulator was at pains to stress
can see the drugs regulator was at pains to stress that no corners have
pains to stress that no corners have been cut and steps taken. The final
been cut and steps taken. The final trial results were only made
trial results were only made available three weeks ago. Pfizer
available three weeks ago. Pfizer submitted all their data only two
submitted all their data only two weeks ago but he regulator was able
weeks ago but he regulator was able to do this and a very rapid
to do this and a very rapid timescale because they had been
timescale because they had been ready for the last sprint. They had
ready for the last sprint. They had been looking at the data in
been looking at the data in real—time so started working with
real-time so started working with the drugs
real—time so started working with the drugs company and trial
the drugs company and trial organisers in the summer and had
organisers in the summer and had been monitoring what had been
been monitoring what had been happening so it when the final data
happening so it when the final data was presented to them the but end a
was presented to them the but end a very strong position to do the final
very strong position to do the final checks and balances and approve it
checks and balances and approve it so the UK can start vaccinating any
so the UK ran start vaccinating any next
so the UK can start vaccinating any next weeks. We have held
next weeks. We have held specifically from Nicola Sturgeon
specifically from Nicola Sturgeon Tuesday, nothing specific from
Tuesday, nothing specific from Westminster. What is clear at this
Westminster. what is clear at this point about
Westminster. What is clear at this point about Khomeini doses of the
point about Khomeini doses of the vaccine are going to be
vaccine are going to be distributed -- how many
vaccine are going to be distributed —— how many doses and who will be in
-- how many doses and who will be in the first
—— how many doses and who will be in the first tranche. We have 800,000
the first tranche. We have 800,000 doses arriving within days so talk
doses arriving within days so talk of the vaccination programme
of the vaccination programme starting next week makes sense. The
starting next week makes sense. The NHS have been busy working behind
NHS have been busy working behind the scenes to get ready, Tortuga
the scenes to get ready, Tortuga ready for December fast and it is a
ready for December fast and it is a network of more than 1000 GP centres
network of more than 1000 GP centres designated. We have vaccination
designated. We have vaccination hubs, conference centres and
hubs, conference centres and stadiums to do mass vaccinations but
stadiums to do mass vaccinations but because we only have a limited
because we only have a limited sunplv
because we only have a limited supply initially next week. Hospital
supply initially next week. Hospital hubs, about 50 starting to do some
hubs, about 50 starting to do some of that initial vaccinating and
of that initial vaccinating and assuring that there is enough supply
assuring that there is enough supply of the vaccine into the country is
of the vaccine into the country is going to be a big hurdle in the
going to be a big hurdla in the coming
going to be a big hurdle in the coming weeks and months. 50 million
coming weeks and months. 50 million peopla in
coming weeks and months. 50 million people in the over 65 working and
peopla in the over 65 working and health
people in the over 65 working and health care sectors, each need
health rare sectors, each need to doses so
health care sectors, each need to doses so there is a big autistic or
doses so there is a big autistic or challenge getting all those
challenge getting all those vaccinated and that is why we are
vaccinated and that is why we are also waiting for the results of two
also waiting for the results of two more vaccines, one by the US firm
more vaccines, one by the US firm and by Oxford, both before the
and by Oxford, both before the regulator and if we hear of that
regulator and if we hear of that soon it will help fast remote next
soon it will help fast remote next year. Even at everything goes
year. Even at everything goes smoothly when we are talking about
smoothly when we are talking about the numbers at is going to be a
the numbers at is going to be a process that will take some time.
process that will take some time. That is why ministers are often
That is why ministers are often talking about life to start
talking about life to start returning to some normality around
returning to some normality around Easter, restrictions are starting to
Easter, restrictions are starting to ease. The Pfizer vaccination is an
ease. The Pfizer vaccination is an tme
ease. The Pfizer vaccination is an true doses of three weeks apart and
tme doses of three weeks apart and then
true doses of three weeks apart and then another week for full immunity
then another week for full immunity to kick in. The Pfizer vaccine has
to kick in. The Pfizer vaccine has been brought in from Belgium, we
been brought in from Belgium, we should have several million doses by
should have several million doses by the end of the year and A0 million
the end of the year and 40 million by the spring.
the end of the year and A0 million by the spring. The Oxford University
by the spring. The Oxford University vaccine, several million and already
vaccine, several million and already in the country manufactured to your
in the country manufactured to your so that gets the green light that
so that gets the green light that will help, the third vaccine, the
will help, the third vaccine, the Moderna we are not due to get any
Moderna we are not due to get any doses until the spring so it is
doses until the spring so it is going to take some months for this
going to take some months for this to have an impact in terms of the
to have an impact in terms of the distractions we are seeing. —— and
distractions we are seeing. -- and the
distractions we are seeing. —— and the restrictions we are seeing.
Ben Osborn is the UK country manager for Pfizer,
earlier he spoke to our medical Editor Fergus Walsh and gave his
reaction to the news.
It’s an incredible moment for society, and I really think
this is now a turning point in the fight against this pandemic,
both here in the UK and across the globe.
I couldn’t be prouder right now.
And in terms of doses, give us an idea of how many doses
you can get to the UK, where they’re coming from and how soon
we’ll get them.
We are working to supply 800,000 doses this week to the NHS
and we’re scaling up from from there.
Our intention is across the globe that this year we will provide
up to 50 million doses and through 2021 will
provide 1.3 billion doses around the world.
Now, just give us an idea, because it has to be stored
minus 70 to 80.
So what sort of logistical problems does that present in getting
it to the UK?
Yes, this is something actually we’re very familiar with.
Cold chain transport is something that we’ve got a deep history
of with with many vaccines.
Yes, it needs to be transported at minus 70.
I think the point we need to really all be clear on is once it reaches
the NHS and is ready for deployment, this vaccine can actually be stored
in a normal refrigerator between two to eight degrees for five days.
Does it come in a special box when it’s being delivered
with dry ice.
Just paint a picture for me.
If once it leaves the factory, what sort of what sort of container
is it in and and what does that involve?
So the best way to think about this is the individual vials
are packed into a tray, which essentially looks
like a very flash pizza box.
A number of these pizza boxes are then put into a thermal shipper,
which is packed with dry ice, which maintains very carefully
the temperature of the individual vaccines at minus 70 for ten days.
And just give me a sense, when it comes in to the UK
and then comes to the NHS, it obviously then has to be unpacked
off those shippers and then packed in something the NHS has — does each
time it’s transferred from one cold chain to another.
Is there a limit for the number of times that can happen?
So we’re working under sort of very clear processes
and regulations to to do that.
Ourjob as Pfizer is to provide it in line with the with
the authorisation for the MHRA into the deployment system
for the NHS.
They then pick it up from there.
Now, in terms of then because people have said we won’t be able
to immunise people in care homes because it needs to be stored
in in dry ice at minus 70.
But can you just explain to us that, in fact, that it’s not quite
as complex as that?
Yeah, I think this is a really critical point, once
the vaccine actually reaches the site of deployment, the vaccine
can be stored under refrigerated conditions.
So that’s between two to eight degrees for up to five days.
So that’s a really important point.
And that will allow many populations across the UK to benefit
from this vaccine.
We see the vials coming off your production line.
How many doses are in each vial?
Yeah, in each vial there are five individual doses to be drawn up.
I see, so you can have five people, one after another, on each
of those bottles, each obviously with their own fresh syringe, gets
gets a bit of that.
And how big is the dose?
It’s 30 micrograms?
And essentially what you do is a very simple draw
up of the of the dosage and then that’s diluted
and then essentiallyjabbed into the individual patients.
How soon after they’ve had the first dose to people
then have to have the second one?
After the first dose
it’s 21 days later that they have the second dose
of this vaccine.
And when does the the full protection, when are you saying
the full protection that it gives kicks in?
So our study essentially was measured after seven days
after the second dose.
So from that point onwards, we were assessing the efficacy
of this vaccine.
Some people will be asking, you don’t know anything about this.
They’ll be turning on their TVs and thinking, gosh, that was quick,
that the MHRA managed to come up with this.
This approval is there.
How would you answer the question that it might have all been done
a bit quickly?
So I’m going to make two points.
The first is after the provision of clean water, vaccines are actually
the single most effective public health intervention
we can make.
The second point very specific to this vaccine is the independence
of the process over the last ten months.
So the study was independently assessed.
It wasn’t assessed by Pfizer and biotech. by
Pfizer and biontech.
It was assessed by an independent panel.
Of course, we then looked at the data subsequently,
but the efficacy and safety test was done by an independent panel.
That data is then taken to an independent regulator
with very clear standards and expectations for safety, efficacy
and our manufacturing control.
And I think, thirdly, the really important point is we’ve also
had our data assessed by theJBI who will be making recommendations
to the UK Government for which populations should be treated
with our vaccine.
We’ve preordered A0 million doses of this, enough
for 20 million people.
Give us a sense of how soon you’ll get most
or all of those A0 million doses to the NHS.
Yes, A0 million doses that the government have bought
essentially will be phased in line with their NHS deployment plan
through 2020 and building up in 20 21.
building up in 2021.
This is a complex logistical process across the wider vaccination
programme.
So we are supplying in line with the government’s expectations.
We’ve had this pandemic.
The only way we knew we were going to ever going to get
out of this with was through science.
How does it feel to now be in a position with your company
to be able to offer a vaccine that should see the beginning
of the end of this pandemic.
Right from the very start we said science will win.
We sit here today now, science is winning.
And it’s just an incredibly proud moment forfor us, not
just here in the UK, but for scientists around the world.
More on the vaccine coming up on the one o’clock News.
"Our planet is broken" — that’s the warning the Secretary
General of the United Nations will give later when he outlines
that tackling global warming is now the central objective of the UN.
In a special BBC broadcast, Antonio Guterres also says
"there is no vaccine for the planet".
Here’s our chief environment correspondent, Justin Rowlatt.
2020 has been a year of dramatic weather extremes.
Greenhouse gas concentrations are still rising in the atmosphere,
despite the Covid—19lockdowns, says the head of the United Nations.
In a speech to be broadcast later today exclusively on BBC News, UN
Secretary—General Antonio Guterres, will say there is no
vaccine for the planet.
Biodiversity is collapsing, deserts are spreading,
oceans are choking with plastic waste, and apocalyptic fires
and floods, cyclones and hurricanes are the new normal.
Terrible wildfires raged across Australia, burning vast areas.
And there were huge wildfires in California,
and even Arctic Siberia.
The UN Secretary—General says the world now faces
a moment of truth.
Every country, city, financial institution and company
should adopt plans for transition to net zero emissions by 2050.
And take decisive action now to put themselves on the right path.
It is five years since the world came together in Paris to agree,
for the first time, that every nation needs to play a part
in tackling climate change.
Some progress has been made, but not enough, according
to the UN Secretary—General.
Mr Guterres will say economic pressure should be used
to help curb emissions.
It is time that those who pollute the atmosphere with greenhouse gases
pay a price for that pollution, he will say.
He will urge countries to end all subsidies forfossilfuels,
and will say that taxes should move from income to carbon.
It is a bold agenda, putting tackling climate
change at the very heart of the United Nations’ role.
But the science is clear.
The Secretary General will say unless the world reduces
emissions, we face disaster.
Justin Rowlatt, BBC News.
And you can hear the speech from the UN
Secretary General on our special programme ‘State
of the Planet’ at eight thirty this evening here on the BBC News
Channel.
Antonio Guterres will also be joined by climate activists
from around the world, including Sir David Attenborough.
Simon McCoy is coming up with the BBC News at One.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Darren Bett
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Darren Bett
The weather below can feel very different over the next couple of
different over the next couple of days, getting colder already but
days, getting colder already but feeling cold through the week,
feeling cold through the week, turning more unsettled which means
turning more unsettled which means wet weather, rain for many, sleet
wet weather, rain for many, sleet and snow more likely over the in the
and snow more likely over the in the north. Because pushes end to the
north. Because pushes end to the north—west of the UK now sweeping
north-west of the UK now sweeping across
north—west of the UK now sweeping across the whole country tonight and
across the whola country tonight and into
across the whole country tonight and into tomorrow. That is the straight
into tomorrow. That is the straight for the bit, the complication is we
for the bit, the complication is we end up with an area of more pressure
end up with an area of more pressure bringing bands of wet weather,
bringing bands of wet weather, threatening snow and it is going to
threatening snow and it is going to be difficult to get the detail
be difficult to get the detail exactly right. The cold here brings
exactly right. The cold here brings in the showers, continuing through
in the showers, continuing through this evening, the damp and drizzly
this evening, the damp and driuly weather
this evening, the damp and drizzly weather cleared from the south—east
weather cleared from the south-east and the
weather cleared from the south—east and the showers in the north—west
and the showers in the north-west across
and the showers in the north—west across Northern Ireland and Scotland
across Northern Ireland and Scotland turning increasingly wintry. That
turning increasingly wintry. That for in icy conditions in Scotland
for in icy conditions in Scotland and Northern Ireland with a frost
and Northern Ireland with a frost more likely here, not quite so cold
more likely here, not quite so cold across England and Wales because the
across England and Wales because the cloud increases later, wet weather
cloud increases later, wet weather into Wales and the south—west and
into Walas and the south-west and that will push
into Wales and the south—west and that will push enter much of England
that will push enter much of England and Wales through the day.
and Wales through the day. Eventually some snow over the Welsh
Eventually some snow over the Welsh hills. Brighten another angle, still
hills. Brighten another angle, still some wintry showers but in Scotland
some wintry showers but in Scotland and Northern Ireland they tend to
and Northern Ireland they tend to push away suffered many a cold and
push away suffered many a cold and crisp quite sunny day but
crisp quite sunny day but temperatures are barely above
temperatures are barely above freezing. Highest across the south
freezing. Highest across the south coast of England when wetter weather
coast of England when wetter weather develops. That could arrive and to
develops. That could arrive and to the south—east on Thursday but at
the south-east on Thursday but at the same
the south—east on Thursday but at the same time later and the innate
the same time later and the innate wet weather into Scotland which is
wet weather into Scotland which is brings snow to many levels, could be
brings snow to many levels, could be heavy on the hose, gradually turning
heavy on the hose, gradually turning to rain across most places but we
to rain across most places but we are stuck with wetter weather across
are stuck with wetter weather across northern England, the Midlands and
northern England, the Midlands and east Anglia, some snow and sleet and
east Anglia, some snow and sleet and snow levels, drier weather to wants
snow levels, drier weather to wants parts of south Wales and the
parts of south Wales and the south—west but another cold day and
south-west but another cold day and when the
south—west but another cold day and when the arrowed coastal areas as
when the arrowed coastal areas as well. Enter
when the arrowed coastal areas as well. Enterthe
when the arrowed coastal areas as well. Enter the weekend it gradually
well. Enter the weekend it gradually comes, still in the cold air but
comes, still in the cold air but turning drier, winds dropping
turning drier, winds dropping through the weekend, still patchy
through the weekend, still patchy wet weather around and mostly rain
wet weather around and mostly rain on Saturday, looks a lot drier on
on Saturday, looks a lot drier on Sunday, still only cold air and
Sunday, still only cold air and still a frost risk at night.
The UK becomes the first country in the world to approve the Pfizer
coronavirus vaccine.
Immunisation will start next week — the Prime Minister tells the House
of Commons the development is fantastic news.
It is the protection of vaccines that will ultimately allow us
to reclaim our lives.
And get our economy moving again.
The medicines regulator says checks have been thorough,
no corners have been cut, as Pfizer says shipping
will happen very, very quickly.
It’s an incredible moment for society, and I really think this
is now a turning point in the fight against this pandemic, both
here in the UK and across the globe.
I couldn’t be prouder right now.
We’ll be asking, "Who will get the vaccine first and how?"
with our medical editor and our health editor.
Also this lunchtime:
55 million go into the strictest tiers in England, as new
restrictions replace the second national lockdown.
Hello, Darling! When did we last cuddle? February.
At last, a hug for loved ones, as care homes prepare to give
Covid tests to visitors.
After 266 long days, the return of fans to English league
football is finally here, but the number of
supporters is limited.
And coming up on BBC News:
British driver George Russell says he’s unbelievably grateful
to Williams and Mercedes, after being confirmed
as Lewis Hamilton’s replacement for this weekend’s
Sakhir Grand Prix.
Good afternoon, and welcome to the BBC News at One.
‘Help is on its way’ — the words used by the Health
Secretary, Matt Hancock, on the news that the UK has become
the first country in the world to approve a coronavirus vaccine
for widespread use.
The firstjabs could be given within days —
for those who need it most, like NHS staff, care home
workers and residents.
The UK has already ordered A0 million doses, enough
to vaccinate 20 million people, with the first 800,000
arriving in the coming days.
95% effective, the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is the fastest ever to go
from concept to reality, taking only ten months
to follow the same steps that normally span a decade.
The medicine regulator says no corners have been cut.
Now the country prepares for one of the biggest civilian
projects in history.
Our health correspondent, Jim Reed, reports.
Another crucial hurdle cleared, as
Another crucial hurdla cleared, as the world
Another crucial hurdle cleared, as the world tries to get back to
the world tries to get back to normal. This time next week, these
normal. This time next week, these vaccines made by the drugs companies
vaccines made by the drugs companies BioNTech and Pfizer will be
BioNTech and Pfizer will be available to people in this country.
available to peopla in this country. It came
available to people in this country. It came as the medicines regulator
It came as the medicines regulator gave the green light for the jab to
gave the green light for the jab to be rolled out nationwide. The
be rolled out nationwide. The vaccine will be made available
vaccine will be made available across the UK from next week. I
across the UK from next week. I would like to pay tribute to and to
would like to pay tribute to and to thank all those who have made it
thank all those who have made it possible. It is the protection of
possible. It is the protection of vaccines that will ultimately allow
vaccines that will ultimately allow us to reclaim our lives and get our
us to reclaim our lives and get our economy moving again. The UK
economy moving again. The UK regulator the MHRA says the Pfizer
regulator the MHRA says the Pfizer jab, which offers up to 95%
jab, which offers up to 9596 protection
jab, which offers up to 95% protection against the Covid—19
protection against the Covid-19 illness, is
protection against the Covid—19 illness, is now safe to begin a full
illness, is now safe to begin a full roll-out
illness, is now safe to begin a full roll—out after giving emergency
roll-out after giving emergency approval. It
roll—out after giving emergency approval. It is an incredible moment
approval. It is an incredible moment for society and I really think this
for society and I really think this is now a turning point in the fight
is now a turning point in the fight against this pandemic, both here in
against this pandemic, both here in the UK and across the globe. I
the UK and across the globe. I couldn’t be prouder right now. It is
couldn’t be prouder right now. It is the fastest ever vaccine to go from
the fastest ever vaccine to go from concept to reality, taking only ten
concept to reality, taking only ten months to follow the same scientific
months to follow the same scientific steps that normally take a decade.
steps that normally take a decade. Separate teams have been working in
Separate teams have been working in parallel to deliver the most
parallel to deliver the most rigorous review of this vaccine. No
rigorous review of this vaccine. No corners have been cut. Our expert
corners have been cut. Our expert scientists and clinicians have
scientists and clinicians have worked round the clock, carefully,
worked round the dock, carefully, methodically
worked round the clock, carefully, methodically poring over tables and
methodically poring over tables and analyses and graphs. On every single
analyses and graphs. On every single piece of data. Ministers say 800,000
piece of data. Ministers say 800,000 doses of this vaccine will be
doses of this vaccine will be available from next week and met
available from next week and met with millions more before the end of
with millions more before the end of the year. It will need two
the year. It will need two injections, three weeks apart. A
injections, three weeks apart. A panel of government advisers has set
panel of government advisers has set out who gets it first based on
out who gets it first based on clinical need. This morning, they
clinical need. This morning, they published their
clinical need. This morning, they published theirfinal
published their final recommendations. They said around a
recommendations. They said around a million older care home residents
million older rare home residents and
million older care home residents and staff should be first in line,
and staff should be first in line, followed by the over 80 group, other
followed by the over 80 group, other health and social workers. This is
health and social workers. This is phase one of the programme

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 02/12/2020, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/17678623X?bcast=133345438 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)