Welcome to BBC News.
I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
The first coronavirus death in Europe.
A Chinese tourist in his 80s dies after being diagnosed in
France.
Canada leads renewed calls for Iran to hand over the black
boxes from the Ukrainian airliner brought down over
Tehran in January.
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
Health officials in China have reported that the total number
of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600 —
with 139 new deaths and more than 1,800 new cases confirmed
in the last couple of hours.
In France, an 80—year—old Chinese tourist has died
from the virus after visiting Hubei province, the epicentre
of the outbreak.
It’s the first fatality from the disease in Europe.
It comes as the head of the World Health Organization
has said that it’s too early to know if the outbreak
will become a global pandemic.
Nick Beake reports from Hong Kong.
China has declared war on an invisible killer. Sending more
invisible killer. Sending more doctors as well as soldiers
doctors as well as soldiers into the worst affected area.
But now the new coronavirus has claimed its first victim
outside Asia — an elderly Chinese man who had
travelled to France.
TRANSLATION: Last night, I was informed of the death
of an 80—year—old patient who had been hospitalised
at the Bichat Hospital since the 25th of January
and who was suffering from a coronavirus lung infection.
Back in China, all those returning to the capital
Beijing after what’s been an extended holiday have been
told they must quarantine themselves for two weeks.
Passengers of many nationalities are still stuck
aboard the Diamond Princess off the coast of Japan.
285 people have now tested positive for the virus
on the ship and America says it will remove all of its citizens
tomorrow and fly them home.
There is no such escape from Wuhan, the Chinese city
where the outbreak began.
Officials have reported more than 2&00 new cases
there and 139 new deaths.
In the rest of the world we only have 505 cases and two
deaths while in China we have more than 66,000 cases.
Let me be clear.
It is impossible to predict which direction this
epidemic will take.
Beijing claims it’s acted quickly and decisively
to try to stop the spread, but few are willing to predict
what the global impact of this crisis will be.
Nick Beake, BBC News, Hong Kong.
And for more details on the outbreak, go
to our website.
You can find information on the spread of the disease,
as well as in depth articles like this one, about how
effective it is to wear a mask.
Just go to bbc.com/news to find all of that.
Canada hosted has meeting at the Munich Security
Conference along with the four other countries, which lost
citizens when Iran’s military shot down a Ukrainian passenger
plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people on board.
Canada is pushing Iran to release the black boxes
from the crash so their data can be properly analysed
by facilities in France.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet sat
down with the Canadian Foreign Minister after the meeting
in Munich and asked him whether any progress
had been made.
After 30 days of trying, we have to come to the conclusion
that you need to look at another alternative,
and we know at that point that the French have offered
that they have the latest technology, they have
the expertise, to read the content of the black box,
to download the content, and to do that in a transparent
fashion.
But would you consider Iran’s request from the Foreign
Minister, saying, give us the technical support
to examine the black boxes in Iran?
Couldn’t you do that?
Well, the experts have spoken.
The experts have said it’s not the type of equipment
you can transport.
It looks more like a lab.
For those who are watching at home.
It is not like a piece of equipment you can put
in your luggage.
It is the software and the hardware you need to have
to do that, especially when the black boxes
have been damaged.
So what we are saying is we saw that you requested that,
the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side
there is no way that we can do that in Iran.
So the only remaining alternative is to send it
to a third country which would be in this case France,
which has offered to assist, because I think France
understands the international community has a lot
of questions.
And I always say that the best antidote to conspiracy
is transparency.
Have you made any other progress here on the other big
issue, which is compensation?
You say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out
of 176 were Canadian.
Iran says they were Iranians.
They of course have the two passports.
So the compensation you are asking for, Iran
says, they cannot accept.
Is this something where compromise can be found?
Are you finding it?
Well, what we have hopefully established by now is
that the compensation to be paid to the heirs
of the victims will be the same to everyone.
And we also said that this process of negotiation,
on a global settlement, should start quickly.
I remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents,
I mean, this is a tragedy.
You know, let me bring it back to, for Canada,
this has been a national tragedy.
Families have lost their loved ones.
I was there with Prime Minister Trudeau, we went to meet
families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
Stand up to the regime.
Make sure that they are accountable.
We wa nt closure, we we nt accountability, we want
justice, we want transparency.
That is what animates me every time I meet them.
And that is why Prime Minister Trudeau said he went to attend
the meeting you had with the Foreign Minister
of Iran, some of the families are expressing concern
about the look of that, the photos of a smiling
encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
Well, the Prime Minister came with one purpose.
It was to make sure that the Iranians counterpart
understood how serious the issue was.
Not only for the grieving families in Canada, not only
for the government of Canada, but I think for the world.
I think having 3 Prime Minister come into the room
and states that, itjust reinforced the message.
That was the Canadian Foreign Minister speaking a little
Minister speaking a little earlier.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The British television presenter, Caroline Flack,
has been found dead at her home in London.
A lawyer for her family said she had taken her own life.
The AO—year—old had hosted one of the UK’s top TV shows,
Love Island.
But in December she stood down as the host of the show ahead
of a trial next month for allegedly assaulting her
partner.
She denied the charge.
At least eight Ecuadorean football fans have died
when their bus plunged into a ravine in Peru.
They were supporters of Barcelona de Guayaquil
and were celebrating their team’s win in Lima.
Police in Paris have arrested a Russian performance artist
who posted a sex tape online which ended the election
campaign of President Macron’s candidate for mayor of Paris.
Petr Pavlensky, who has previously set fire to a door
at Russia’s state security headquarters, said he had
wanted to expose what he said was Benjamin Griveaux’s
"hypocrisy".
Prosecutors said Mr Pavlensky was being questioned
about an alleged fight.
The US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in Senegalfor talks
with President Macky Sail about security ties
and economic cooperation.
His visit is taking place as the United States seeks
to reduce its military presence in Africa.
As we’ve been hearing, the television presenter
Caroline Flack, host of some of the UK’s biggest reality TV
shows has been found dead at her home in east London.
Herfamily says she took her own life.
Ms Flack who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next
month, accused of assaulting her partner, an allegation
she denied.
She fronted programmes that garnered many millions
of viewers, including ITV’s The X Factor and Love Island.
She won Strictly Come Dancing in 2014.
Here’s our media correspondent, David Sillito.
It’s the return of the Flack!
Love Island, X Factor, I’m a Celebrity, Caroline Flack
was a presenter on some of the biggest programmes
on British television.
She was, until a few weeks ago, the face of Love Island —
the glamorous, escapist fun.
Let’s talk love.
Who’s looking for the real thing?
But everything unravelled after she was arrested
and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
In court in December it was clear that she
was deeply distressed.
Today, she was found dead at her flat.
Her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
Friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock
and heartbreak at the news.
Love Island is a show that thrives on its impact on social
media and tonight thousands were expressing their grief
and sympathy.
But her court appearance was proof enough that she was also
facing intense scrutiny.
Both in the press and online.
On its best days, social media is a very powerful tool
for these presenters because they can effortlessly
and immediately communicate with so many different fans
and really bring their own personality to the fore.
The problem is that on the bad days, that scrutiny
and attention does not go away.
It stays with them.
The MacDonut Brothers!
Her TV career went back nearly 20 years.
This, TMI on Children’s BBC, and in 2014 she won
Strictly Come Dancing.
The night she won, elation.
But she spoke afterwards of her struggles with depression
and then came the assault charge.
She was accused of hitting her boyfriend while she slept.
He stood by her, but they were not allowed to communicate
before her forthcoming trial.
She was also advised to stay off social media —
but she did post this on Instagram.
She thanked those who had been kind to her and added,
"this kind of scrutiny and speculation is a lot
to take for one person."
Another post read simply:
"In a world where you can be anything, be kind."
Caroline Flack — who has died at the age of A0.
Homes have been evacuated in the Scottish Borders,
where rivers swollen by the weekend’s storms
are expected to cause extensive flooding.
Two people were rescued from a car which was swept off
a road in Newcastleton, when a river burst its banks.
In West Yorkshire, the Army has been drafted in to shore up
flood defences, with river levels expected
to peak overnight.
Helena Wilkinson reports.
Amongst the first evidence of damage by Storm Dennis
was here in South Wales.
This village is where people’s homes are under serious threat.
A similar picture tonight in Harberton in Devon.
Dozens of flood warnings are still in place across
the country as the rain continues to fall.
In Ilkley and Calderdale in West Yorkshire —
areas still recovering from last week’s storm —
the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
There are a number of places where the local resilience
authorities thought they had a problem with the flood
defences that are currently in place so we have been asked
to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences
in in both places.
Some of the worst affected parts could see up to 140
millimetres of rainfall and gusts of up to 80
miles an hour.
Certainly with the amount of rain that is forecast,
100mm or a month’s worth of rainfall on top of what is
incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk
and that’s why we are warning people to take action
and that’s why we are doing the kind of things
we’re doing here.
Not far away, in Hebden Bridge, there’s no respite from
the persistent rain.
The Scottish Environment Protection Agency has issued
flood warnings and advice for residents here in Dumfries
and Galloway plus elsewhere in the Borders, South Lanarkshire
and South Ayrshire.
For many, the half term getaway has ended up with a lesson
in travel disruption.
Easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
Almost 100 from here at Gatwick.
At Heathrow, 60 flights were grounded — most of them
British Airways.
And on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
Tonight, there are amber warnings for rain for most
of the country, meaning flooding could cause
a danger to life.
Communities are waiting and hoping that their preparations
will be enough to protect them.
Helena Wilkinson, BBC News.
Our correspondent Phil Bodmer is in Mytholmroyd in
West Yorkshire which took a heavy hit during Storm Ciara
last week.
Tonight, the rain is falling under the rivers
are still rising.
This is the Calder and you can see how quickly it is now
moving.
You can maybe see these big bags of ballast which have been
brought into bolster the flood defences.
Earlier today we saw the arrival of about 100
soldiers from the North Scots, they have been helping
to install temporary flood barriers.
They are being supported by around another 100 part—time
soldiers from the Yorkshire Regiment who have been
dispersed between here, the Calder Valley, and up
in Ilkley, where there is great concern about the falling rain
tonight.
The Environment Agency say they are expecting peak river
levels here on the Calder in the early hours of this
morning sometime between 23m and ham, but that rain
is still coming down tonight stop in the meantime,
people living all along this valley, all they can do
is watch, wait and hope that we do not see a repeat
of what we saw here last weekend.
And for the latest information on Storm Dennis in your area,
you can find out more, on your local BBC Online pages,
or tune in to your local radio station.
More from the Munich Security Conference.
Senior American and Afghan sources say the first phase
of a US deal with the Afghan Taliban is set to begin shortly
with the start of what is known as a seven—day reduction
in violence by Taliban forces.
A joint statement is expected from Afghan and US—led NATO
forces, and the Taliban are also expected to make
an announcement.
We’re joined by Jarrett Blanc who is a senior fellow
at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
It’s good to speak to you again. What is the risk
again. What is the risk involved in this? We spoke
involved in this? We spoke yesterday, obviously, but what
yesterday, obviously, but what do you think both sides have to
do you think both sides have to lose from this? Obviously there
lose from this? Obviously there are things to win in terms of
are things to win in terms of peace, there always is, but
peace, there always is, but what are the risks involved?
what are the risks involved? Let’s look at the short term
Let’s look at the short term and longer term.
Let’s look at the short term and longerterm. In
Let’s look at the short term and longer term. In the short
and longer term. In the short term, the risk associated with
term, the risk associated with a reduction of violence and
a reduction of violence and conditioning the beginning of
conditioning the beginning of Taliban— Afghan swords on a
Taliban- Afghan swords on a recess
Taliban— Afghan swords on a recess full does make a
recess full does make a successful reduction of
successful reduction of violence is that spoilers
violence is that spoilers wither of the most important
wither of the most important part of this agreement, which
part of this agreement, which is the beginning of inter—
is the beginning of inter- Afghan
is the beginning of inter— Afghan swords. Over the longer
Afghan swords. Over the longer term, the risk is the peace
term, the risk is the peace talks don’t work and either the
talks don’t work and either the Taliban want to much in the
Taliban want to much in the government and legitimate
government and legitimate opposition don’t get their act
opposition don’t get their act together to make a reasonable
together to make a reasonable set of proposals and demands to
set of proposals and demands to the Taliban and you end up in a
the Taliban and you end up in a situation where you are and a
situation where you are and a declining number of American
declining number of American troops and ongoing civil war.
troops and ongoing civil war. What
troops and ongoing civil war. what is
troops and ongoing civil war. What is the timeline for this?
what is the timeline for this? There is
What is the timeline for this? There is this joint statement
There is this joint statement expected soon. A reduction in
expected soon. A reduction in violence, when is that expected
violence, when is that expected to start? Well, the Americans
to start? Well, the Americans have been a little bit cagey
have been a little bit ragey about
have been a little bit cagey about that so far. My
about that so far. My understanding is it is very
understanding is it is very soon, maybe in the couple of
soon, maybe in the couple of days. One speculation is they
days. One speculation is they are trying to get that in time
are trying to get that in time for President Trump to somehow
for President Tmmp to somehow be
for President Trump to somehow be involved in the formal
be involved in the formal conclusion of the deal on his
conclusion of the deal on his trip to India. And one of the
trip to India. And one of the headlines involved here as
headlines involved here as would be expected is, US troops
would be expected is, US troops potentially leaving
potentially leaving Afghanistan. What with the
Afghanistan. What with the effects of that be? The
effects of that be? The immediate effect of going from
immediate effect of going from 13,000 troops now to 8000
13,000 troops now to 8000 troops in a few months is
troops in a few months is really minimal. There will
really minimal. There will still be more troops in
still be more troops in Afghanistan at the end of that
Afghanistan at the end of that initial drawdown down there
initial drawdown down there where in the Obama
where in the Obama administration, so it really is
administration, so it really is not that important. As you go
not that important. As you go from that number, 8000, down to
from that number, 8000, down to potentially zero, either you
potentially zero, either you are going to have a peace deal
are going to have a peace deal which all parties adhere to, or
which all parties adhere to, or you are going to end up in a
you are going to end up in a situation where there is still
situation where there is still an ongoing civil war. And if
an ongoing civil war. And if that is the case then the
that is the case then the drawdown will have to be
drawdown will have to be measured very carefully to
measured very carefully to allow the government forces to
allow the government forces to sustain themselves and not
sustain themselves and not suffered the psychological blow
suffered the psychological blow that would be devastating in
that would be devastating in the ongoing conflict. Quite a
the ongoing conﬂict. Quite a few
the ongoing conflict. Quite a few parties involved. It is
few parties involved. It is going to be interesting to see
going to be interesting to see how they align this agreement,
how they align this agreement, if it does end up happening.
if it does and up happening. jarrett
if it does end up happening. Jarrett Blanc, that is all we
jarrett Blanc, that is all we have
Jarrett Blanc, that is all we have time for, but Jarrett
have time for, butjarrett Blanc,
have time for, but Jarrett Blanc, thank you. Live for us
Blanc, thank you. Live for us in Washington.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
A Chinese tourist in his 80s has died in France
after contracting coronavirus — it’s the first fatality
from the disease outside Asia.
The Love Island presenter Caroline Flack has been found
dead at her London flat.
The AO—year—old had been due to stand trial next month
for assault, a charge she denied.
Herfamily say she took her own life.
Let’s stay with that story now, and earlier my colleague
Martine Croxall spoke to the TV critic Scott Bryan
and to the entertainment journalist, Caroline Frost
who said Caroline Flack was integral to the successful
reboot of Love Island.
She personified the charm, on that programme’s best
days, it’s about glamour and fun and romance
and the promise of a glittering future.
And she seemed
to personify all of that, she seemed to be on the side
of the contestants, she seemed to effortlessly handle
the show and within the format of it, really make
the contestants feel as though she was rooting for them.
And as all presenters talk about it, it’s much,
much harder than it looks.
It takes huge professionalism and a massive does of
authenticity.
ﬂ
I think it would have been very apparent if she was to have
apparent if she was to have faked that kind of appeal.
As Scott has said, it wasn’t a one—off.
She’d in other shows, she won Strictly Come Dancing
in 2014, she was on the Extra Factor and then
on the X—Factor and her career was on the rise and culminating
WY."
She can almost single—handedly take a lot of the credit
for that incredible reboot.
Love Island, it can’t be overestimated, the surprise hit
factor of it.
Every other TV show in the demographic
is falling by the wayside, people going to YouTube
and other platforms.
Love Island has kept that young, crucialaudience
in its millions tuning in year after year and I think
if nothing else, her legacy will show that she really
was up there with the very, very best of prime—time
presenters.
It’s easy to dismiss programmes like that but if you’ve got
the right programme with the right host,
it can make all the difference.
And you will soon be shown up
if you’re not really, if you don’t have the skills
or talent to cope.
TV is a powerful medium with that authenticity,
you are able to have a relationship as if that
person is a friend or somebody close to them, even if it’s
through a different lens.
And it’s also the fact
that they are able to really guide through people
when being on TV is a difficult thing.
I think we’re going to have a discussion,
as we have had many times before,
that even though someone taking their own life,
there are many complex issues, what we will be having
a discussion about is the care of people in the public eye
who get scrutiny because of our personal lives, who have
tabloid stories written about them, who have social
media with instant reaction from the public on what they’re
saying and what they’re doing.
About what they are saying and what they are doing
and I think people are going to be thinking very carefully
about their own conduct and we are going to have a discussion
in terms of reality TV shows and their role in their lives
and I think this is an important discussion
to have as well.
And if you’ve been affected by any of the issues raised,
information and support is available from BBC
Action Line, and there’s the number for you there
on your screen.
The Venezuelan government says huge numbers of soldiers
and civilians have begun a two—day military drill
to prepare for what it describes as the "threat
of invasion" by US—led forces.
The opposition leader, Juan Guaido, dismissed
the manoeuvres as a "propaganda exercise by a dictatorship."
With me is our Americas editor, Leonardo Rocha.
The another, thank you for joining us. Why is Nicolas
joining us. Why is Nicolas Maduro doing this? Is in a way
Maduro doing this? Is in a way making a statement and sending
making a statement and sending out a message to the United
out a message to the United States that the Venezuelan
States that the Venezuelan peopla,
States that the Venezuelan people, or at least more than 2
peopla, or at least more than 2 million
people, or at least more than 2 million people who are part of
million peopla who are part of this
million people who are part of this Melissa will support him,
this Melissa will support him, I prepared for anything. His
I prepared for anything. His advisers, his military
advisers, his military advisors, R Cuban, many of them
advisors, R Cuban, many of them are trained in Cuba and they
are trained in Cuba and they learned from the Cuban example.
learned from the Cuban example. If you arm the population, if
If you arm the population, if you have a well—organised
you have a well—organised neighbourhood committees,
neighbourhood committees, anyone who tries to get into
anyone who tries to get into Venezuelan knows that there
Venezuelan knows that there would be a bloodbath. So he is
would be a bloodbath. So he is pitching himself and the people
pitching himself and the peopla against
pitching himself and the people against America? Against
against America? Against America and now there are two
America and now there are two big neighbours of Venezuela,
big neighbours of Venezuela, Colombia and Brazil, having
Colombia and Brazil, having hostile governments. So this
hostila governments. So this right-wing
hostile governments. So this right—wing government, one of
right-wing government, one of the
right—wing government, one of the reason of these exercises
the reason of these exercises is Nicolas Maduro said those
is Nicolas Maduro said those two countries are harbouring
two countries are harbouring terrorist groups, training in
terrorist groups, training in their territory to prepare a
their territory to prepare a possible invasion if the
possible invasion if the opportunity is right. His
opportunity is right. His strategy at the moment is to
strategy at the moment is to align a nationalistic hope and
align a nationalistic hope and get that up against what he
get that up against what he would say are his enemies in
would say are his enemies in surrounding countries? Yes. We
surrounding countries? Yes. We have to bear in mind that
have to bear in mind that Venezuela has behaved inflation
Venezuela has behaved inﬂation in the
Venezuela has behaved inflation in the world. Violence more
in the world. Violance more than 5
in the world. Violence more than 5 million Venezuelans have
than 5 million Venezuelans have left the country in the last
left the country in the last few years. The economy is in a
few years. The economy is in a mess. The police are in a
mess. The police are in a stalemate, you have a very
stalemate, you have a very difficult situation. What the
difficult situation. What the opposition says is he is
opposition says is he is creating a diversion. You
creating a diversion. You create the threat of an enemy,
create the threat of an enemy, Nicolas Maduro says the
Nicolas Maduro says the American Empire is trying to
American Empire is trying to invade Venezuela, it has the
invade Venezuela, it has the biggest known oil reserves in
biggest known oil reserves in the world. So there is all that
the world. So there is all that on his side was that he is
on his side was that he is hoping the economy will
hoping the economy will recover, it has recovered
recover, it has recovered somewhat in the meantime, so he
somewhat in the meantime, so he could gain the confidence of
could gain the confidence of the majority of Venezuelans.
the majority of Venezuelans. What is one Guaido’s plan here?
what is one Guaido’s plan here? -- juan Guaido?
What is one Guaido’s plan here? ——Juan Guaido? He
What is one Guaido’s plan here? —— Juan Guaido? He seems to
-- juan Guaido? He seems to have lost
—— Juan Guaido? He seems to have lost momentum. His
have lost momentum. His strategy is to keep pushing and
strategy is to keep pushing and be there if the opportunity
be there if the opportunity comes. If the government
comes. If the government deteriorates he is there but he
deteriorates he is there but he lost the momentum somehow. It
lost the momentum somehow. It has been one year since the US
has been one year since the US recognised him as the
recognised him as the legitimate leader of Venezuela
legitimate leader of Venezuela but nothing has happened in
but nothing has happened in real terms since then. It will
real terms since then. It will be interesting to see how this
be interesting to see how this mobilisation of millions of
mobilisation of millions of peopla
mobilisation of millions of people and is and whether they
peopla and is and whether they will
people and is and whether they will ever use them. Leonardo
will ever use them. Leonardo Rocha, thank you for the
Rocha, thank you for the update.
The Venezuelan government says huge numbers of soldiers
The Duchess of Cambridge has been speaking about one
of the most personal moments of her life,
dealing with the birth of her first child.
Appearing on the ‘Happy Mum, Happy Baby’ podcast,
she talks about the pregnancy, and the crippling morning
sickness that forced her into hospital.
Here’s our Royal correspondent, Daniela Relph.
The podcast was recorded during a visit to this south
London nursery.
Improving the lives of families with young children is now
the priority for the Duchess of Cambridge and dominates
her royal work.
With podcast host Giovanna Fletcher, the Duchess spoke
personally about everything from the value of her own
stable upbringing to the guilt that can come with motherhood.
Here leaving hospital after being admitted
with severe morning sickness while pregnant
with Prince George, she also described the terrible strain
of the condition.
Lots of people have it far, far worse, but it was definitely
a challenge, notjust for me but also for your loved ones
around you and William did not feel he could do much to help.
And it is hard for everyone to see suffering without actually
being able to do anything about it.
Catherine revealed she used hypno—birthing —
a breathing and relaxation technique — when pregnant.
And she was asked about that very public hospital departure.
What is it like?
It was slightly terrifying, I’m not going to lie!
And for us to be able to share that joy and appreciation
with the public, Ifelt, that was really important.
But equally, it was coupled with a newborn baby and sort
of inexperienced parents and the uncertainty
about what that held.
These insights tie in with the Duchess’ campaign to get
more help earlierfor vulnerable families.
She said billions of pounds were spent fixing the problems
in later life — a cost she described as crazy.
Daniela Relph, BBC News.
Now the weather with Chris Fawkes.
Hello.
Hello. Storm Dennis continues to but have written. This was
to but have written. This was at Abbott Aaron. We have all
at Abbott Aaron. We have all seen lots of rain as well. The
seen lots of rain as well. The rain has been causing problems,
rain has been causing problams, particularty
rain has been causing problems, particularly across parts of
particularly across parts of northern England, Wales, the
northern England, Wales, the west Midlands and south—west
west Midlands and south-west England.
west Midlands and south—west England. There are lots of
England. There are lots of ﬂood
England. There are lots of flood warnings in force and a
ﬂood warnings in force and a number
flood warnings in force and a number of flawed warnings
number of flawed warnings continue does make flood
continue does make ﬂood warnings
continue does make flood warnings continue to rise hour
warnings continue to rise hour by hour. with
warnings continue to rise hour by hour. With more heavy rain
by hour. with more heavy rain in the
by hour. With more heavy rain in the forecast, that is
in the forecast, that is dearty
in the forecast, that is clearly not a good thing.
dearty not a good thing. Looking
clearly not a good thing. Looking at the satellite
Looking at the satellite picture, this is Storm Dennis
picture, this is Storm Dennis because of the centre is near
because of the centre is near Iceland but this trailing
Iceland but this trailing weather front stretching for a
weather front stretching for a couple of,000 miles into the
couple of,000 miles into the Atlantic is causing problems
Atlantic is causing problems because the winds are blowing
because the winds are blowing parallel to the front, rather
parallal to the front, rather than
parallel to the front, rather than across it. That means the
than across it. That means the front get stuck. What that
front get stuck. What that means is we have more heavy
means is we have more heavy rain to come as we head into
rain to come as we head into the first part of Sunday. Some
the first part of Sunday. Some of the heaviest bowls of rain
of the heaviest bowls of rain will be across Wales, the west
will be across Wales, the west Midlands and south—west
Midlands and south-west England.
Midlands and south—west England. If anything, the rain
England. Ifanything, the rain is much
England. If anything, the rain is much heavier than we saw on
is much heavier than we saw on Saturday, for example. And
Saturday, for example. And there will be some heavy falls
there will be some heavy falls as well in northern England at
as well in northern England at times. Given that we are ready
times. Given that we are ready have a number flood warnings at
have a number ﬂood warnings at invoice,
have a number flood warnings at invoice, things could get
invoice, things could get really quite nasty for a time
really quite nasty for a time here as we head into the first
here as we head into the first part of Sunday morning. Colder
part of Sunday morning. Colder air across the north with
air across the north with blustery showers. Looking
blustery showers. Looking through the picture for the
through the picture for the rest of Sunday, our
rest of Sunday, our weather front tracks its way to the
front tracks its way to the south—east. There is a risk
south-east. There is a risk this front
south—east. There is a risk this front could be slower to
this front could be slower to clear in southern and is in
clear in southern and is in areas of England. In other
areas of England. In other words, there could be quite a
words, there could be quite a bit of rain left over even into
bit of rain left over even into the afternoon here. It’s going
the afternoon here. It’s going to be a windy day everywhere,
to be a windy day everywhere, gusts in than 50—60 miles an
gusts in than 50-60 milas an hour, 70 on
gusts in than 50—60 miles an hour, 70 on some ghosts and
hour, 70 on some ghosts and those winds strong enough to
those winds strong enough to bring down and old tree or two
bring down and old tree or two -- gusts was
bring down and old tree or two —— gusts was not whether from
-- gusts was not whether from the ﬂooding
—— gusts was not whether from the flooding rain or from those
the ﬂooding rain or from those very
the flooding rain or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
very powerful gusts of wind. Showers continue to feed inland
Showers continue to feed inland across the north and west as we
across the north and west as we go on into Sunday night. If
go on into Sunday night. If anything, the winds are going
anything, the winds are going to get stronger
anything, the winds are going to get strongerfor a
anything, the winds are going to get stronger for a time
to get stronger for a time across the far north of England
across the far north of England and Scotland as Storm Dennis
and Scotland as Storm Dennis passes the far north of
passes the far north of Scotland. The wind is picking
Scotland. The wind is picking “P
Scotland. The wind is picking up could cause problems here
up could cause problams here for transport
up could cause problems here for transport as we head into
for transport as we head into Monday morning for Scotland.
Monday morning for Scotland. For the rest of Monday, the
For the rest of Monday, the days broadly and showery. The
days broadly and showery. The winds taking a while before
winds taking a while before they eased down gradually to
they eased down gradually to the afternoon. The winds will
the afternoon. The winds will continue to make it feel quite
continue to make it feel quite chilly across the eastern and
chilly across the eastern and northern areas. Beyond that it
northern areas. Beyond that it feels unsettled for the rest of
feels unsettled for the rest of the week ahead. The rain cells
the week ahead. The rain cells in the forecast for most days
in the forecast for most days and it will stay quite 20. For
and it will stay quite 20. For most of us it will also stay on
most of us it will also stay on the mild side. In London,
the mild side. In London, temperatures up to M next
temperatures up to M next weekend. That’s your weather.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
Health officials in China say the total number of deaths
from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600 —
with 139 new deaths and more than 1,800 new cases confirmed.
In France, an 80—year—old Chinese tourist has died,
the first COVID—19 death in Europe.
The British TV presenter, Caroline Flack, has been found dead
at her London flat.
The AO—year—old had been due to stand trial next month
for assault, an allegation she denied.
Herfamily say she took her own life.
Flack stood down from the dating show Love Island
after being charged.
Much of western Europe is being battered by a storm front
that’s causing severe travel disruption.
In Britain, winds have been gusting at up to 120 kilometres an hour.
In the north of England, troops have been deployed
in villages under threat of flooding.
A British Asian singer Arjun, who’s had millions of views
on YouTube, is warning young people about heart attacks.
Arjun’s wife died suddenly and unexpectedly six months
He’s now organising a concert this weekend
to raise awareness of the risk of heart disease to young people.
It’s the first time he’s spoken about his loss to the BBC
Asian Network’s Shabnam Mahmood.
Singer Arjun has not notched up millions of views on YouTube,
including his latest video dedicated to his wife ofjust six months.
# My baby, gone.
# Can you see me down here?#
It was the first time I’ve actually able to been put my feelings
onto paper after about a year and a half of trying
to work out how to deal with things.
Part of my therapy was to write things down in song.
The first time I had seen our footage from the wedding
was actually in the video, really, so after that it was quite painful.
Natasha passed away due to a sudden cardiac arrest in September 2018.
She just collapsed, and we called 999 and they were doing CPR
for a long time, that was bad, a harrowing process and that was it,
she was declared dead on the spot.
Nice to meet you.
For the first time since his wife’s death, Arjun has agreed
to have a heart check—up.
Every week, over 12 young people under 35 in the UK die
from heart—related conditions.
In 80% of cases, there are no prior symptoms.
And on what should have been his second wedding anniversary,
he’s organising a concert with a host of stars in memory
of his late wife.
He is hoping the show will raise money for the charity CRY,
Cardiac Arrest in the Young, which offers screening tests
to identify those at risk.
Shabnam Mahmood, BBC News.
Now on BBC News it’s time for the Travel Show.
Coming up on this week’s programme:
Electric tuk—tu ks. ..
It is almost silent, the suspension is still the same though.
Fatphobia and the woman that beat it.
And, look away now if you don’t like snakes.
LAUGHS.
HORNS BEEPING.
We are starting ourjourney in Sri Lanka’s capital city Colombo,
where the two kings of the road are the tuk—tuks, also known as auto
rickshaws or three—wheelers.
HORN HONKS.
Ahh!
And where honking seems to be a national sport.
Nothing like the great honking horn of a giant bus to put fear in you.
There is actually over a million tuk—tuks here in Sri Lanka and it
definitely shows, because these things are everywhere.
That’s a pretty high number for a country ofjust over
20 million people.
The prospect of good money has prompted many young people to become
a driver here.
The number of tuk—tuks hasjumped eightfold in the last 15 years,
causing a little bit of congestion on Colombo’s roads.
And it is notjust the pros.
Driving a rented tuk—tuk is increasingly popular
with tourists too.
Why are you renting a tuk—tuk today?
What is it about a tuk—tuk that made you go, I will get in one
of these today?
Well it’s because of the convenience — I can stop it wherever
I want and I ran go wherever I want.
Having that freedom is really important to you then?
How excited are you honour scale of one to ten?
0h,100.
LAUGHS.
Tourists need a local driving license to drive a tuk—tuk here,
but also some practice.
OK, this definitely is not as straightforward as I thought
it would be.
I think I need some assistance!
0K.
Thushari has been a tuk—tuk driver for four years.
Female drivers remain a rare sight in Sri Lanka,
but times are slowly changing.
Say in neutral, otherwise I’ll jump forward, gotcha.
So the horn is my friend.
Friend, yes.
Right, so they are your top tips?
I think I am ready for the road, thank you.
You really feel that lack of suspension.
And there are so many potholes here, oh!
Once you reach that level of comfort with driving,
the best thing about driving a tuk—tuk is that you can just take
in all the gorgeous scenery.
And on my left is the beautiful ocean.
But the gentle ocean breeze isn’t enough to disperse the emissions
produced by the millions of vehicles on Sri Lanka’s roads.
Air pollution in its capital city regularly exceeds the levels
recommended by the World Health Organization.
Ten years ago the government banned the import of the most polluting
rickshaws, the 2—stroke engines, but several hundreds of thousands
remain on the roads.
The pollution definitely isn’t as bad as I thought it would be,
but it is definitely palpable — in fact I think Ijust ate some.
As part of the global fight against climate change,
Sri Lanka has pledged to reduce its greenhouse gas
emissions by 30% by 2030.
This man hopes his invention will help achieve his country’s goals.
50 his is what you have been working on?
Yes, this is our electric tuk—tuk, this didn’t really look like this
earlier, it was a very old chassis that I used.
We basically took the engine off here and fixed the motor
to the old gearbox and then we have the battery pack
that is placed under the seat.
Sasiranga de Silva won a UN award for creating a simple kit
which converts petrol tuk—tuk engines to electric.
What inspired you to develop this electric technology,
what was the inspiration behind it?
As you can see Sri Lanka is a beautiful country,
but since recently we noticed that the emission levels are higher,
so the respiratory diseases, levels of disease are going high
there, so I thought, you know, as an engineer,
if I do my best, to contribute to bring the emissions down in Sri
Lenka.
What do you think it is going to take to get your conversion get
up and running, produced on a mass scale?
Because it is quite high, and a tuk—tuk is quite a low cost
product, so the conversion cost has to be as low as possible for drivers
to afford it.
So I have been doing so many research so I can downside
the battery so I can reduce the cost.
Sasiranga hopes he can bring the cost of his conversion kit down
by a quarter, to the equivalent of about US$1700 or £1300.
And here’s another eye—catching innovation —
an emission—free electric model.
Of course the litmus test will be whether electric tuk—tuks
are accepted by local drivers.
This is where the magic happens.
So I have asked this Thushari to join me on a taster session.
So this is it, yeah, 3 bit different to what we’re used to.
I am going in the back though.
Makes a change, to be driven around.
It’s so quiet, isn’t it?
Compared to the four stroke engine, it’s almost silent.
(LAUGHS).
The suspension’s still the same though, still getting rattled around
in the back.
We’re pretty lucky though, we’re among the first people to try
this electric tuk—tuk.
Excellent driving, excellent driving.
So how was it, how did it feel?
Ifeel your pain.
And would you one day like to own one of these?
The issue of affordability will decide whether electric
tuk—tuks are ever developed on a mass scale.
But here, the project’s manager is bullish about the future.
Whether we like it or not, the future is electrification
of the transportation system.
So I think in the next five years or so, it is going to come
into the streets, and even bikes and even scooters,
so it is going to happen in the nearfuture, yeah.
Five years is ambitious, but who knows — the spirit
of innovation and a smattering of political will might be just
enough to clear the air in Colombo.
Stay with us, because still to come: the traveller who took
on the fatphobes and won.
And snakes in the rainforest — how thisjungle paradise
is about to quadruple in size.
LAUGHS.
So don’t go away.
Right in the heartland of Sri Lanka lies Kandy,
a bustling historical and religious town, set around a tranquil
artificial lake and surrounded by scenic hills.
There are hundreds of hotels here to choose from in Kandy,
but there is one that beats all others for one thing —
Eccentricity.
This hotel was built in the 19305, and its current owner Helga has
filled it with a mishmash of art pieces adorned with antique
furniture and wall—to—wall ceiling paintings and photographs.
This quirky art was originally a form of therapy.
I was going through a rather dark period myself,
going through a bitter divorce.
And my father said to just get out of your system,
paint it out.
At first it was all black and then came the gold monkeys,
see no evil, speak and hear, you know.
Itjust progressed from there, and I thought this was fun.
This place is just completely covered in beautiful old photos.
What you get is a real sense of pride in the family’s
history and heritage.
They have had some really famous visitors here too
— like Gandhi.
You have got quite an eccentric style.
How would you define your style though?
Well, I don’t think I am particularly eccentric.
I mean, this is a minimalist’s nightmare.
As somebody said, this place doesn’t have a theme —
I said life doesn’t have a theme.
With the dark lighting and the cobwebs and the kind of dark
artwork along this corridor, there is a real eerie,
ghostly feel to this place.
I kinda feel I am going to meet someone, orsomething
at the end of it.
There definitely was someone around...
A couple freshly settled in their room for the night.
I kind of like this because the room is really nice, you can see it’s
all pink, thank god it’s not black.
For sure I’m not coming out of the room in the night,
that’s for sure.
LAUGHS.
I don’t want to get killed.
Art must be fun.
I like art to make people smile, I like people to smile.
CHUCKLES.
Next this week, the latest part in our series about travelling
differently.
This time we met the woman who decided that bodyshamers
would not stop doing what she loves most.
I am such an explorer, a naturally nomadic person.
I want to see the world and so travel for me
as my happy place.
It’s joy.
But when I am in one place for too long, I feeljust not myself.
Like, I always want to be on the go.
I’m Kellie Brown, I’m a YouTuber, influencer
and traveller.
Good morning.
It is our first full day in Lisbon.
We got here yesterday.
Delirium, jetlag, checking in to the Airbnb, all we did
was take a walk around the neighbourhood.
But today we are out and about and we will explore.
So as much as travel excites me, there are things that
can be intimidating.
Being a plus size person, you never know what levels of fat
phobia you may be exposed to.
Different cultures are a little more outwardly fat phobic but it’s not
something that would stop me from going where I want to be.
Just a couple of girls on their way to Barcelona.
We have a long flight and we’re about to have a lot
of fun, so come with us.
Come!
When it comes to flights, I think it is something that
I didn’t realise how many larger people were really afraid of,
until I would talk about travelling on my YouTube channel.
I want to talk to you about travelling while fat.
AKA, being a plus size person who loves to travel.
And, you know, I would get comments like I am terrified of flying,
not because I am afraid of the plane, but I am afraid of how
people perceive me or my seatmate or if I have to ask
for a seatbelt extender.
I had someone roll their eyes one time, I was walking past their seat
and they rolled their eyes like "You sitting with me?"
and I wasn’t.
I ended up being lucky in having a whole row to myself,
to which I was laid
out and they were all crushed.
I’m like "That’s what you get".
will pass it to you so discreetly, ‘Here Honey, here you go.‘
And I’m like, ‘Thank you!‘
Click.
Just wandering down random alleys in a strange land.
Whether you’re travelling in Europe or Asia, Africa,
throughout the US, in Australia, you know, I think there
are going to be people with an opinion about your weight no
matter where you go.
And so how that informs the places — the choices I make when it comes
to travel is to not make that a thing.
You know?
The first thing I care about is safety and what’s happening
globally —
like are they in crisis or war?
These are the things you think about when you travelling
because if you worry about how every single person in any given country
or city is going to receive your largeness,
you would not go anywhere.
I could go down the street to the grocery store and someone can
have an opinion about me.
But it’s not prevent me from walking around the city
in which I live.
I can’t let that stop me from exploring the world.
And there you have it, ladies and gentlemen.
Your dance break.
Now Sri Lanka is like heaven for nature lovers.
Almost half the people who come here do some sort
of wildlife activity.
Beyond the big beasts like leopards and elephants,
there’s a trove
of smaller critters — many that you will find nowhere else
on the planet.
And that’s why we have come to the wet zone on the south—west
of the island.
Now, I know you can’t see much apart from really tall trees
but Mother Nature’s soundtrack is truly spectacular.
BIRDS CHIRPING.
This is the edge of Sri Lanka’s last primary rainforest,
Sinharaja.
It’s a hotspot for biodiversity —
rare plants, unique bird species, amphibians and snakes
all thrive here.
It’s so important ecologically, that there are plans to quadruple
it in size.
The only way to explore it is by foot.
And for that you’ll need some serious legwear.
So the forest is also home to bloodthirsty leeches,
so I picked up
these attractive anti—leech socks in the hopes that I make it out
without any of them attached to my skin.
Ridma used to hike and swim in the forest as a child.
It’s so dense.
Yeah.
Just a tiny amount of sunlight coming through.
He now runs tours of the jungle around the island.
It’s slippery.
The Sinharaja Forest covers more than 8,000 hectares but you do not
need to walk very far to spot some wildlife.
Here, look.
It is a kangaroo lizard.
It’s tiny!
It almost doesn’t look real.
Some of it is after your blood.
He’s just moving until he can settle down and then he will suck
blood from me.
The way it moves is creeping me out at the moment and it’s so small.
I shouldn’t be scared.
When he sucks the blood he will grow three times the size.
And now he is getting and I can feel it.
Really?
What does he feel like?
Just a tiny little pinch.
Oh, you can see it getting bigger!
Now he is sucking blood.
In truth, every inch of this rainforest is buzzing with life.
There are plenty of spiders of course, but we’re
here for something a bit more slippery.
See there.
It’s a green pit viper.
Under the leaf.
Oh, my gosh!
Almost the same colour as the leaf.
It’s tiny.
It’s a big one.
If this snake bites me what happens?
It’s quite painful.
It gives you cramp.
And like, it depends on your condition.
Stay away.
Ridma’s expert eyes soon spotted another baby snake on our path.
What’s the name of this snake?
It is an ahaetulla, eye catcher, eye catch snake.
Because they are used to — here on the trees at your eye
level and with this...
See?
He tried to go for you!
He is a little one.
He has no venom but he does have teeth.
He will bite you until blood comes out.
Oh, my God.
Wow!
You weren’tjoking, weren’t you, when you said it was worth it?
Every time I come into here it is notjust going
into thejungle.
I come into a big living creature.
The rainforest is alive.
Is it true that there are plans to quadruple the size
of the rainforest?
It’s on the papers now but it is a big project
and it takes time.
And it’s good because Sinharaja gives us a lot of things,
you know, like the rain to the whole other part of the country.
This will be amazing for Sri Lanka.
Across the country.
Not only for Sri Lanka but for the world.
Yeah.
We made it!
There are 104 different types of snakes in Sri Lanka.
Only six are deadly to humans.
But with about 80,000 bites a year, this country has one of the world’s
highest bite rates per capita.
Most victims are local farmers working in paddy fields.
Once they are treated in hospital they often turn to people
like Pieris for the after—care.
Pieris has been an ayuverdic doctorfor over A0 years.
He says he has treated more snake bites than he can remember.
So this is how you make the treatment for your patients?
Oh, that looks painful!
What happened 7
This villager is lucky.
A bite from a hump—nosed viper can be fatal.
This mixture of herbs will make the swelling disappear.
So is this exactly what ayuverdic treatment is?
Using herbs to treat snake bites?
0K.
I’m not going to touch this hand but I want to wish you all the luck
with your healing process.
It sounds like you are in good hands.
It has been an honour to meet you.
Thank you so much and good luck with everything.
I’m so glad I survived the crawling beasts.
Well, that’s all we have time for you this week,
but coming up next
week, Mike is in Rio ahead of the biggest party of the year
and we find outjust how much work goes into preparing
the Carnival each year.
All the welding, the sewing, the machines, everybody is working
on one show, your parade.
Yes.
Everything.
For now from me, Lucy Hedges and the rest of the travel team
here in Sri Lanka, it’s goodbye.
Hello.
Storm Dennis continues to better Britain.
Looking back at Saturday, well, it was windy everywhere,
wasn’t it, but the strongest gust of wind was at Aberdare
in the Llyn Peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here,
and we’ve seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been causing
problems particularly across parts of northern England,
Wales, the West Midlands and south—west England.
Now, there are lots of flood warnings in force and the number
of flood
warnings continues to rise hour by hour.
And with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’s clearly not
a good thing.
Now, looking at the satellite picture, this is Storm Dennis.
The centre actually near Iceland.
But it’s this trailing weather front stretching for thousands of miles
out into the Atlantic that’s causing the problems.
Because the winds are blowing parallel and the front rather
than across is and what that means is the front gets stuck
and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain to come
as we head into the first part of Sunday.
Some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across Wales,
the West Midlands and south—west England, if anything,
the rain much heavier than we saw on Saturday for example,
and there will be some heavy falls as well in northern
England at times.
Given that we already have a number of flood warnings out in force,
things could get really quite nasty for a time here as we head
into the first part of Sunday morning.
Cooler air across the north—west with blustery showers.
Now, looking at the weather picture thorugh the rest of Sunday,
our weather front tracks its way towards the south—east.
Now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear southern
and eastern areas of England.
In other words, still could be quite a bit of rain left over
even into the afternoon here but it’s going to be
a windy day everywhere.
Gusts inland, 50, 60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong enough
to bring down an odd tree or two.
So there is the risk of transport disruption
whether from the flooding rain or those very powerful
gusts of wind.
Showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
And as we go on into Sunday night, if anything, the winds will get
stronger for a time as the centre of Dennis passes close
to the north of Scotland.
So the winds picking up could cause problems here for transport
as we head into Monday morning for Scotland.
As we head through the rest of Monday, it’s a day broadly
speaking of sunny spells and showers.
And the winds will continue to make it feel quite chilly
across these northern areas.
Beyond that, it stays unsettled for gthe rest of the week ahead.
Rain or showers in the forecast for most of us and it will stay
quite windy but the most of us it will say on the mild side.
Temperatures up to M degrees for London next weekend.
That’s your weather.
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
I’m Simon Pusey.
Health officials in China have reported the total number
of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600
— with 142 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
In France — an 80—year—old Chinese tourist has died
from the virus after visiting Hubei province.
It’s the first fatality from the disease in Europe.
It comes as the head of the World Health Organization
said that it’s too early to know if the outbreak
will become a global pandemic.
Nick Beake reports from Hong Kong.
China has declared war on an invisible killer, sending more
invisible killer, sending more doctors and soldiers into the
doctors and soldiers into the worst affected areas. Now, the
worst affected areas. Now, the new coronavirus has claimed its
new coronavirus has claimed its first victim outside of Asia.
first victim outside of Asia. An elderty
first victim outside of Asia. An elderly Chinese man who
An elderly Chinese man who travelled to France.
travelled to France. TRANSLATION: Last night, I was
TRANSLATION: Last night, I was informed of the death of an
informed of the death of an eight—year—old patient who had
eight-year-old patient who had been
eight—year—old patient who had been hospitalised since the
been hospitalised since the 25th of January and who was
25th of january and who was suffering
25th of January and who was suffering from a coronavirus
suffering from a coronavirus long infection. Back in China,
long infection. Back in China, all of those returning to the
all of those returning to the capital Beijing after what has
capital Beijing after what has been an extended holiday have
been an extended holiday have been told that they must
been told that they must quarantine themselves for two
quarantine themselves for two weeks. Passengers of many
weeks. Passengers of many nationalities are still stuck
nationalities are still stuck aboard the Diamond Princess of
aboard the Diamond Princess of the coast of Japan. 285 people
the coast of japan. 255 peopla have
the coast of Japan. 285 people have now tested positive for
have now tested positive for the virus on the ship. America
the virus on the ship. America 5575
the virus on the ship. America says it will remove all of its
says it will remove all of its citizens and fly them home.
citizens and ﬂy them home. There is
citizens and fly them home. There is no such escape from
There is no such escape from Wuhan, the Chinese city from
Wuhan, the Chinese city from where the outbreak began. For
where the outbreak began. For the rest of the world, we only
the rest of the world, we only have 500 cases and two deaths
have 500 cases and two deaths in China, there are more than
in China, there are more than 66,000 cases. Let me be clear,
66,000 cases. Let me be clear, it is impossible to read it
it is impossible to read it which direction this epidemic
which direction this epidemic will take. Beijing claims its
will take. Beijing claims its acted quickly and decisively to
acted quickly and decisively to try and stop the spread but few
try and stop the spread but few are willing to predict what the
are willing to predict what the global impact of this crisis
global impact of this crisis will be.
And for more details on the outbreak go
to our website.
You can find information on the spread of the disease,
as well as in depth articles like this one, about how
effective it is to wear a mask.
Just go to bbc.com/news to find all of that.
At least eight football fans from Ecuador have died
after their bus plunged into a ravine in Peru.
They were on their way home from celebrating their club’s
qualifaction for the next stage of the Copa Libertadores —
South America’s biggest club tournament.
Aaron Safir reports.
A fall of 15 metres and a crash so violent it pulled the roof
so violent it pulled the roof from this bus. At least A0
from this bus. At least 40 peopla
from this bus. At least A0 people were injured, the driver
people were injured, the driver seems to have lost control in
seems to have lost control in the earty
seems to have lost control in the early hours of the morning.
the early hours of the morning. TRANSLATION: I was asleep at
TRANSLATION: I was ashep at the
TRANSLATION: I was asleep at the time of the accident. I
the time of the accident. I couldn’t tell you what
couldn’t tell you what happened. I
couldn’t tell you what happened. Ijust felt
couldn’t tell you what happened. I just felt the
happened. I just felt the impact, the blow. It happened
impact, the blow. It happened near this town notoriously
near this town notoriously dangerous stretch of the
dangerous stretch of the Pan—American Highway in
Pan—American Highway in northern Peru. Supporters of
northern Peru. Supporters of the Ecuadorian team were
the Ecuadorian team were salivating their teams
salivating their teams qualification of the next date
qualification of the next date of the Cope
qualification of the next date of the Copa Libertadores.
of the Copa Libertadores. Dangerous curves, poor
Dangerous curves, poor maintenance and scant
maintenance and sca nt enforcements
maintenance and scant enforcements make driving on
enforcements make driving on Pem’s
enforcements make driving on Peru’s Road is dangerous. They
Pam’s Road is dangerous. They claim at
Peru’s Road is dangerous. They claim at nine lives a day
claim at nine lives a day according to the government.
according to the government. Ecuador’s President has
Ecuador’s President has expressed his condolences and
expressed his condolences and pledged help for the families
pledged help for the families of the victims whose loved ones
of the victims whose loved ones are celebrations turns to
are celebrations turns to tragedy.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news:
The British television presenter, Caroline Flack,
has been found dead at her home in London.
A lawyer for her family said she had taken her own life.
The AO—year—old had hosted one of the UK’s top TV shows —
The AO—year—old had hosted one of the UK’s top TV shows —
Love Island.
But in December, she stood down as the host of the show ahead
of a trial for allegedly assaulting her partner.
She denied the charge.
Police in Paris have arrested a Russian performance artist
who posted a sex tape online which ended the election
campaign of President Macron’s candidate for mayor of Paris.
Petr Pavlensky, who has previously set fire to a door
at Russia’s State Security Headquarters, said he had
wanted to expose what he said was Benjamin
Griveaux’s hypocrisy.
The US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in Senegalfor talks
with President Macky Sail about security ties
and economic cooperation.
His visit is taking place as the United States seeks
His visit is taking place as the United States seeks
to reduce its military presence in Africa.
As we’ve been hearing the television presenter,
Caroline Flack, host of some of the UK’s biggest reality TV
shows has been found dead at her home in east London.
Herfamily says she took her own life.
Ms Flack who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next
month, accused of assaulting her
partner, an allegation she denied.
She fronted programmes that garnered many millions
of viewers, including ITV’s The X Factor and Love Island.
She won Strictly Come Dancing in 2014.
Here’s Our Media correspondent, David Sillito.
It’s the return of the Flack!
Love Island, X Factor, I’m a Celebrity, Caroline Flack
was a presenter on some of the biggest programmes
on British television.
She was, until a few weeks ago, the face of Love Island —
the glamorous, escapist fun.
Let’s talk love.
Who’s looking for the real thing?
But everything unravelled after she was arrested
and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
In court in December it was clear that she
was deeply distressed.
Today, she was found dead at her flat.
Her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
Friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock
and heartbreak at the news.
Love Island is a show that thrives on its impact on social
media and tonight thousands were expressing their grief
and sympathy.
But her court appearance was proof enough that she was also
facing intense scrutiny.
Both in the press and online.
On its best days, social media is a very powerful tool
for these presenters because they can effortlessly
and immediately communicate with so many different fans
and really bring their own personality to the fore.
The problem is that on the bad days, that scrutiny
and attention does not go away.
It stays with them.
The MacDonut Brothers!
Her TV career went back nearly 20 years.
This, TMI on Children’s BBC, and in 2014 she won
Strictly Come Dancing.
The night she won, elation.
But she spoke afterwards of her struggles with depression
and then came the assault charge.
She was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
He stood by her, but they weren’t allowed to communicate
before her forthcoming trial.
She was also advised to stay off social media —
but she did post this on Instagram.
She thanked those who had been kind to her and added:
Another post read simply:
Caroline Flack — who has died at the age of A0.
Earlier my colleague Martine Croxall spoke to the TV
critic Scott Bryan and to the Entertainmentjournalist,
Caroline Frost who said Caroline Flack was integral
to the successful reboot of Love Island.
She personified the charm, on that programme’s best days,
it’s about glamour and fun and romance and the promise
of a glittering future.
And she seemed to personify all of that, she seemed to be
on the side of the contestants, she seemed to effortlessly
handle the show and within the format of it, really make
the contestants feel as though she was rooting for them.
And as all presenters talk about it, it’s much,
much harder than it looks.
It takes huge professionalism and a massive does
of authenticity.
I think it would have been very apparent if she was to have
faked that kind of appeal.
As Scott has said, it wasn’t a one—off.
She’d in other shows, she won Strictly Come Dancing
in 2014, she was on the Extra Factor and then on the X Factor
and her career was on the rise and culminating now.
She can almost single—handedly take a lot of the credit
for that incredible reboot.
Love Island, it can’t be overestimated, the surprise hit
factor of it.
Every other TV show in the demographic is falling
by the wayside, people going to YouTube and other platforms.
Love Island has kept that young, crucialaudience
in its millions tuning in year after year and I think
if nothing else, her legacy will show that she really
was up there with the very, very best of
prime—time presenters.
It’s easy to dismiss programmes like that but if you’ve got
the right programme with the right host,
it can make all the difference.
And you will soon be shown up if you’re not really,
if you don’t have the skills or talent to cope.
TV is a powerful medium with that authenticity,
you are able to have a relationship as if that
person is a friend or somebody close to them, even if it’s
through a different lens.
And it’s also the fact that they are able to really
guide through people when being on TV is a difficult thing.
I think we’re going to have a discussion,
as we have had many times before, that even though
someone taking their own life, there are many complex issues,
what we will be having a discussion about is the care
of people in the public eye who get scrutiny
because of our personal lives, who have tabloid stories
written about them, who have social media with instant
reaction from the public on what they’re saying
and what they’re doing.
About what they are saying and what they are doing
and I think people are going to be thinking very carefully
about their own conduct and we are going to have a discussion
in terms of reality TV shows and their role in their lives
and I think this is an important discussion
to have as well.
That was Scott Brian and Karen Frost speaking a little
Frost speaking a little earlier.
And if you’ve been affected by any of the issues raised,
information and support is available from BBC
Action Line, and there’s the numberfor you.
Homes have been evacuated in the Scottish Borders,
where rivers swollen by the weekend’s storms
are expected to cause extensive flooding.
Two people were rescued from a car which was swept off
a road in Newcastleton, when a river burst its banks.
In West Yorkshire, the Army has been drafted in to shore up
flood defences, with river levels expected
to peak overnight.
Helena Wilkinson reports.
Amongst the first evidence of damage by Storm Dennis
was here in South Wales.
This village is where people’s homes are under serious threat.
A similar picture tonight in Harberton in Devon.
Dozens of flood warnings are still in place across
the country as the rain continues to fall.
In Ilkley and Calderdale in West Yorkshire —
areas still recovering from last week’s storm —
the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
There are a number of places where the local resilience
authorities thought they had a problem with the flood
defences that are currently in place so we have been asked
to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences
in in both places.
Some of the worst affected parts could see up to 140
millimetres of rainfall and gusts of up to 80
miles an hour.
Certainly with the amount of rain that is forecast,
100mm or a month’s worth of rainfall on top of what is
incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk
and that’s why we are warning people to take action
and that’s why we are doing the kind of things
we’re doing here.
Not far away, in Hebden Bridge, there’s no respite from
the persistent rain.
The Scottish Environment Protection Agency has issued
flood warnings and advice for residents here in Dumfries
and Galloway plus elsewhere in the Borders, South Lanarkshire
and South Ayrshire.
For many, the half term getaway has ended up with a lesson
in travel disruption.
Easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
Almost 100 from here at Gatwick.
At Heathrow, 60 flights were grounded — most of them
British Airways.
And on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
Tonight, there are amber warnings for rain for most
of the country, meaning flooding could cause
a danger to life.
Communities are waiting and hoping that their preparations
will be enough to protect them.
Helena Wilkinson, BBC News.
Our correspondent Phil Bodmer is in Mytholmroyd in
West Yorkshire which took a heavy hit during Storm Ciara
last week.
Tonight, the rain is falling and the rivers
are still rising.
This is the Calder and you can see how quickly it’s
now moving.
You maybe can see these big bags of ballast which have been
brought into bolster the flood defences.
Earlier today we saw the arrival of about 100
soldiers from the North Scots, they have been helping
to install temporary flood barriers.
They are being supported by around another 100 part—time
soldiers from the Yorkshire Regiment who have been
dispersed between here, the Calder Valley, and up
in Ilkley, where there is great concern about the falling
rain tonight.
The Environment Agency say they are expecting peak river
levels here on the Calder in the early hours of this
morning sometime between 23m and ham, but that rain
is still coming down tonight stop in the meantime,
people living all along this valley, all they can do
is watch, wait and hope that we do not see a repeat
of what we saw here last weekend.
And for the latest information on Storm Dennis in your area,
you can find out more, on your local BBC Online pages,
or, tune in, to your local radio station.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
China says deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have
now passed 1,600.
And in France an 80—year—old Chinese tourist has become
the first European Covid—19 fatality.
At least eight people have been killed, after a bus carrying
football fans from Ecuador plunges into a ravine in Peru.
Now, Canada has hosted a meeting at the Munich
Security Conference
along with the four other countries, which lost
citizens when Iran’s military shot down a Ukrainian passenger
plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people on board.
Canada is pushing Iran to release the black boxes
from the crash so their data can be properly analysed
by facilities in France.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet sat
down with the Canadian Foreign Minister after the meeting
in Munich and asked him whether any progress
had been made.
After 30 days of trying, you have to come to
the conclusion that you need to look at another alternative.
And we know at that point that the French have offered
that they have the latest technology, they have
the expertise, to read the content of the black box,
to download the content, and to do that in a transparent
fashion.
But would you consider Iran’s request from the Foreign
Minister, saying, give us the technical support
to examine the black boxes in Iran?
Couldn’t you do that?
Well, the experts have spoken.
The experts have said it’s not the type of equipment
you can transport.
It looks more like a lab.
For those who are watching at home.
It is not like a piece of equipment you can put
in your luggage.
It’s the software and the hardware you need
to have
to do that, especially when the black boxes
have been damaged.
So what we are saying is we saw that you requested that,
the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side
there’s no way that we can send that in Iran.
So the only remaining alternative is to send it
to a third country which would be in this case France,
which has offered to assist, because I think France
understands the international community has a lot
of questions.
And I always say that the best antidote to conspiracy
is transparency.
Have you made any other progress here on the other big
issue, which is compensation?
You say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out
of 176 were Canadian.
Iran says they were Iranians.
They of course have the two passports.
So the compensation you are asking for, Iran says,
they cannot accept.
Is this something where a compromise can be found?
Are you finding it?
Well, what we have hopefully established by now is
that the compensation to be paid to the heirs
of the victims will be the same to everyone.
And we also said that this process of negotiation,
of a global settlement, should start quickly.
I remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents,
I mean, this is a tragedy.
You know, let me bring it back to, for Canada,
this has been a national tragedy.
Families have lost their loved ones.
I was there with Prime Minister Trudeau, we went to meet
families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
Stand up to the regime.
Make sure that they’re accountable.
We wa nt closure, we we nt accountability, we want
justice, we want transparency.
That’s what animates me every time I meet them.
And that is why Prime Minister Trudeau said he went to attend
the meeting you had with the Foreign Minister
of Iran, even though it was at a Foreign Minister level.
But some of the families are expressing concern
about the look of that, the photos of a smiling
encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
Well, the Prime Minister came with one purpose.
It was to make sure that the Iranian counterpart
understood how serious the issue was.
Not only for the grieving families in Canada, not only
for the government of Canada, but I think for the world.
I think having 3 Prime Minister come into the room and
state that, itjust reinforced the message.
That was the Canadian Foreign Minister speaking to Lyse
Minister speaking to Lyse Doucet earlier.
The Venezuelan government says huge numbers of soldiers
and civilians have begun a two—day military drill
to prepare for what it describes as the threat
of invasion by US—led forces.
The opposition leader, Juan Guaido, dismissed
the manoeuvres as a propaganda exercise by a dictatorship.
Earlier the BBC’s Americas editor, Leonardo Rocha,
explained why President Maduro had decided to hold
the military exercises now.
He is, in a way, making a statement and giving —
sending out a message to the United States
that the Venezuelan people,
or at least more than 2 million people who are part of this
militia who support him, are prepared for anything.
His advisers — his military advisors are Cuban,
many of them trained in Cuba and they learned
from the Cuban example.
If you arm the population, if you have well—organised
neighbourhood committees, anyone that tries to get
into Venezuelan knows that there’ll be a bloodbath.
So he’s pitching himself and the people against America?
Against America and now — I mean, there are —
the two big
neighbours of Venezuela.
Colombia and Brazil have hostile governments.
Jair Bolsonaro in Brazil and Ivan Duque, right—wing
governments, which is one of the reasons of why these
exercises — Nicolas Maduro said those two countries
are harbouring terrorist groups, they are training
on their territory to prepare a possible invasion if things —
if the opportunity’s ripe.
They might launch attacks and invade Venezuela.
50 his strategy at the moment is to align a nationalistic
hope and get that up against what he would say
are his enemies in surrounding countries?
Yes.
We have to bear in mind the fact that Venezuela has
the highest inflation in the world.
Violence, more than almost 5 million Venezuelans have left
the country in the last few years.
So, the economy is in a mess.
The political situation is in a stalemate,
you have a very difficult situation.
And what the opposition says is he’s creating a diversion.
You create the threat of an enemy, while Nicolas Maduro
says the Empire — American Empire is trying
to invade Venezuela, it has the biggest known oil
reserves in the world.
So there is all that playing on his side.
In the meantime he is hoping the economy will recover.
it has recovered somehow, so he could gain the confidence
of the majority of Venezuelans.
What isJuan Guaido’s strategy here?
This time last year he was big news every day in terms
of would he be taking the presidency, but he seems
to have pushed back.
He seems to have lost the momentum.
His strategy is to keep pushing and be there
if the opportunity comes.
If the government deteriorates he’s there, but he’s lost
the momentum somehow.
It’s been one year since the US recognised him
as the legitimate leader of Venezuela but nothing has
happened in real terms since then.
A British Asian singer on YouTube is warning her audience
YouTube is warning her audience of the risk of heart disease to
of the risk of heart disease to young people.
This singer has not stuck millions of years on YouTube
millions of years on YouTube including his latest video
including his latest video dedicated to his wife of
including his latest video dedicated to his wife ofjust
dedicated to his wife ofjust six months. That’s the first
six months. That’s the first time I had been able to put my
time I had been able to put my feelings onto paper about after
feelings onto paper about after a year and a half. Especially
a year and a half. Especially about dealing with things.
about dealing with things. Writing it down in a song. The
Writing it down in a song. The first time I had seen him was
first time I had seen him was in the video, and really after
in the video, and really after that it was quite painful.
that it was quite painful. Natasha passed away after a
Natasha passed away after a sudden cardiac arrest in
sudden cardiac arrest in September, 2018. He
sudden cardiac arrest in September, 2018. Hejust
September, 2018. He just collapsed,
September, 2018. Hejust collapsed, frankly she just
collapsed, frankly she just collapsed and I called Mark 999
collapsed and I rallad Mark 999 and
collapsed and I called Mark 999 and did CPR for a long time.
and did CPR for a long time. That was a harrowing process
That was a harrowing process but that was it. She was
but that was it. She was declared dead on the spot. For
declared dead on the spot. For the first time since his wife’s
the first time since his wife’s depth, Arjun has agreed to have
depth, Arjun has agreed to have a hard check—up. Every week,
a hard check-up. Every week, over 12 young
a hard check—up. Every week, over 12 young people under 35
over 12 young peopla under 35 in the
over 12 young people under 35 in the UK die from heart
in the UK die from heart —related conditions. In 80% of
-related conditions. In 8096 of uses,
—related conditions. In 80% of cases, there are no prior
rases, there are no prior symptoms.
cases, there are no prior symptoms. And on what should
symptoms. And on what should have been his second wedding
have been his second wedding anniversary, is organising a
anniversary, is organising a concert with a host of stars in
concert with a host of stars in memory of his late wife. He is
memory of his late wife. He is hoping the show will raise
hoping the show will raise money for the charity CRY —
money for the charity CRY - cardiac
money for the charity CRY — cardiac arrest in the young.
The Duchess of Cambridge has been speaking about one
of the most personal moments of her life —
dealing with the birth
of herfirst child.
Appearing on the ‘Happy Mum, Happy Baby’ podcast,
she talks about the pregnancy and the crippling morning
sickness that forced her into hospital.
Here’s our Royal correspondent, Daniela Relph.
The podcast was recorded during a visit to this south
London nursery.
Improving the lives of families with young children is now
the priority for the Duchess of Cambridge and dominates
her royal work.
With podcast host Giovanna Fletcher, the Duchess spoke
personally about everything from the value of her own
stable upbringing to the guilt that can come with motherhood.
Here leaving hospital after being admitted
with severe morning sickness while pregnant
with Prince George, she also described the terrible strain
of the condition.
Lots of people have it far worse but it was definitely
a challenge, notjust for me but also for your loved ones
around you and William did not feel he could do much to help
and it is hard for everyone to see suffering without actually
being able to do anything about it.
Catherine revealed she used hypno—birthing —
a breathing and relaxation technique — when pregnant.
And she was asked about that very public hospital departure.
It was slightly terrifying, I’m not going to lie!
And actually, for us to be able to share thatjoy
and appreciation
with the public, Ifelt, was really important.
But equally, it was coupled with a newborn baby and sort
of inexperienced parents and the uncertainty
about what that held.
These insights tie in with the Duchess’ campaign to get
more help earlierfor vulnerable families.
She said billions of pounds were spent fixing the problems
in later life — a cost she described as crazy.
Daniela Relph, BBC News.
Time now the weather with Chris Fawkes.
Hello.
Storm Dennis continues to better Britain.
Looking back at Saturday, well, it was windy everywhere,
wasn’t it?
But the strongest gust of wind was at Aberdare
in the Llyn Peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here,
and we’ve seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been
causing problems particularly across parts of northern
England, Wales, the West Midlands and south—west
England.
Now, there are lots of flood warnings in force
and the number of flood warnings continues to rise
hour by hour.
And with more heavy rain in the forecast, that’s clearly
not a good thing.
Now, looking at the satellite picture, this is Storm Dennis.
The centre actually near Iceland.
But it’s this trailing weather front stretching for thousands
of miles out into the Atlantic that’s causing the problems.
Because the winds are blowing parallel and the front rather
than across is and what that means is the front gets stuck
and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain
to come as we head into the first part of Sunday.
Now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across Wales,
the West Midlands and south—west England.
If anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on Saturday
for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well
in northern England at times.
Given that we already have a number of flood warnings
out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time
here as we head into the first part of Sunday morning.
Cooler air across the north—west with blustery
showers.
Now, looking at the weather picture through the rest
of Sunday, our weather front tracks its way
towards the south—east.
Now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear
southern and eastern areas of England.
In other words, still could be quite a bit of rain left over
even into the afternoon here but it’s going to be
a windy day everywhere.
Gusts inland, 50, 60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong
enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
So there is the risk of transport disruption
whether from the flooding rain or those very powerful
gusts of wind.
Showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
And as we go on into Sunday night, if anything, the winds
will get stronger for a time as the centre of Dennis passes
close to the north of Scotland.
So the winds picking up could cause problems
here for transport as we head into Monday morning for
Scotland.
As we head through the rest of Monday, it’s a day broadly
speaking of sunny spells and showers.
And the winds will continue to make it feel quite chilly
across these northern areas.
Beyond that, it stays unsettled for the rest of the week ahead.
Rain or showers in the forecast for most of us and it will stay
quite windy but the most of us it will say on the mild side.
Temperatures up to M degrees for London next weekend.
That’s your weather.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
Health officials in China say the total number of deaths
from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600 —
with 139 new deaths and more than 1,800 new cases confirmed.
In France — an 80 year old Chinese tourist has died —
the first Covid—19 fatality in Europe.
The British TV presenter, Caroline Flack, has been found dead
at her London flat.
The AO—year—old had been due to stand trial next month
for assault — an allegation she denied.
Herfamily say she took her own life.
Flack stood down from the dating show Love Island
after being charged.
Much of western Europe is being battered by a storm front
that’s causing severe travel disruption.
In Britain, winds have been gusting at up to 120 kmph.
In the north of England, troops have been deployed
in villages under the threat of flooding.
Now on BBC News: Dateline London
Hello and welcome to Dateline London.
I’m Carrie Gracie.
This week: Children die in the snows of northwest Syria.
Will anyone do anything to stop a new grim chapter in this tragedy?
A brutal and messy Government reshuffle demonstrates the maxim
that a week is a long time in British politics.
And all sides agree that Ireland has a new electoral landscape.
But who will actually govern?
That remains shrouded in fog.
My guests today: Agnes Poirier of French news weekly L’Express.
Irish writer Brian O’Connell.
Veteran New York times reporterJohn Fischer Burns.
Political commentator Steve Richards.
Welcome to you all.
The Syrian war will soon go into a 10th year with so much
suffering for civilians that it’s hard to imagine there could be
a new low.
But the current assault against Idlib, Syria’s last rebel
held enclave, is a humanitarian catastrophe.
The United Nations says that many of the 800,000 people fleeing
the town are children and some are now dying
in sub—zero temperatures.
John, can you start us off on this, Damascus says
that it is attempting to eradicate the terrorist threat in north—west
Syria right now.
What is its strategic objectives as it also bombs
schools, hospitals, shops?
I’d like to answer you something of a personal apology,
like so many people who see this devastation on the nightly news,
it makes me want to weep.
And with a particularly personal edge to it because I was among those
who felt in 2003 that toppling Saddam Hussein at an acceptable cost
would be a good idea.
We now see 17 years later what a complete catastrophe
was triggered by the American invasion of Iraq.
was triggered by the American invasion of Iraq.
And invasion of Iraq. you trace Assyrian events to
that?
Absolutely, the times that the Americans invaded Syria
was always a brutal dictatorship, but nobody could have imagined then
the catastrophe that has ensured.
Invaded Iraq?
As a matter of fact, when I was running the New York
Times operation in Baghdad with my wife, it was,
there was an underground railroad by which we help staff members
who wanted to get out of the devastation of Iraq,
the safe place to go was Syria.
Fortunately some of them, not all of them, got out of Syria
and went west to the United States or the United Kingdom,
but many didn’t and got caught up in all this.
When you think of the vast expenditure of money,
trillions of dollars thousands of American soldiers who have died,
that it should come to this with the United States essentially
standing on the sidelines by its own choice, I think
it is an absolute tragedy.
We in the US have the financial means and we still have enough
muscle, diplomatic muscle to do something about this,
and it’s past time that we did it.
We will come back to that there a moment, the western role.
Sticking with the now, in terms of those people suffering
in north—west Syria, some of them, the children weren’t even born
when the 2003 invasion happen.
—— happened.
They need a solution and desperately need a solution now.
What is the Syrian strategic move there?
Is it simply to regain all that territory as fast as possible
whatever the cost?
Of course, whatever the cost.
We have seen before with his use of chemical weapons,
the barrel bombing from helicopters and so forth which continued even
this week, we saw a helicopter being shot down average bean barrel
borrowing summer over Idlib —— barrel bombing.
I think there is no limit to the brutality of Assad,
with his curious north London shyness, is prepared to espouse,
Assad.
The key new is Moscow.
Moscow, and Brian, let me ask you about Turkey.
Many of these refugees are heading north and coming to a close
——To a closed Turkish border.
Is there any hope that Turkey will budge?
Obviously it already has nearly four million refugees,
playing host to them.
But here are more in desperate need.
I don’t think the Turks will be prepared to open that border.
As you say, they have got around four million Syrians
in their country already.
Since December, I think it is something like 800,000,
over three quarters of a million anyway, have moved north
and are all being funnelled into that little north—western
bit of Syria.
This is, as far as Assad is concerned, the endgame,
and he is not going to stop, asJohn suggested there.
The only thing that can stop him as Vladimir Putin.
Let’s talk about that...
Putin and a Erdogan, between them they have the power
to do it.
The west is standing on the sidelines, the Germans have
talked about a safe zone which is a possibility on the border
I don’t think, as David Miliband suggested this morning,
I don’t think anything will work without a ceasefire first.
The former British Foreign Secretary and currently running a big NGO.
These people are there
because they are fleeing shelling and air strikes.
Until that stops, they are not going to stop.
More and more people are going to...
A ceasefire has to come first.
The cruel irony is that we almost did something in 2013,
and we could have, you could have been more efficient at the time,
but the UK Parliament voted against it.
As a result, Obama stood back and said well, we’re not
going to go.
The French president at the time said yes,
because he didn’t have to ask the permission of the
National Assembly.
We miss that moment and now we look completely, utterly powerless.
Interestingly, the current French president
is trying to knock heads together in Europe over strategic planning...
He said you can’t be both weak and defined at the Munich
International Security conference, it is time for dialogue with Russia.
That is Macron’s foreign policy, new strategy.
Look at the UN, it has been successful in the past.
At the Security Council, they will have Russia.
Think about Bosnia, of course it is a different case
because America was actually bombing one side of the story,
but in Cyprus, the UN is very good at peacekeeping.
Not at peacemaking.
In that civil war there is no peace to keep.
The UN role...
ii
It was ceded to the Astana process a few years ago.
There is a current one, forgotten about him,
trying to secure a new constitution, but nobody cares because he is not
going to achieve anything.
Stephen, on the question of where does this leave these
so—called international rules—based order?
Because as Agnes has explained, the UN is ineffective on this
at the moment.
The US, asJohn has explained, is nowhere to be seen.
And as Brian has been saying, really, it is Russia and Turkey
who are making the run—in with Syria and Iran,
in terms of diplomacy.
Where is the rules—based order?
The first time you said the so—called rules—based order.
It has always been partly mythological.
In reference to the war in Iraq, that didn’t get the famous second UN
resolution to legally give it the go ahead,
the rules—based order,
So when did the rules —based
So when did the mles -based politic
So when did the rules —based politics dominate global politics?
In this case it is much more complicated.
What form should intervention to?
I slightly disagree with Agnes about the 2013 moment.
Obama has always insisted retrospectively he was pleased it
didn’t happen, because it wouldn’t have worked.
That the targeting would not have been decisive.
It reflects also that British vote which went against in 2013,
a reflection of what had happened in Iraq and the ineffectiveness
and counter productivity of intervention, so how
do you intervene?
We are at the moment where even if there was an answer
to that, the US under Trump are keeping their distance
to the point of indifference.
The EU can play a mediating role, but doesn’t have its own
foreign policy.
Britain has opted to become a sort of isolated island on its own.
That is why Vladimir Putin is absolutely the key,
because he has got the military might and the pull over Assad,
so he is the figure who can do something.
Trump too to be critical in this.
We have heard a great dealfrom him in resetting relationships
with Russia, it hasn’t advanced very far.
The US still has enormous influence if it chooses to use it.
It doesn’t choose to use it because...
Because they won’t commit troops.
The American public wants out.
They are tired of seeing American boys killed,
they are tired of the $2 trillion plus costs...
m:
We are back to the new... CROSSTALK
If there is anybody who caused Vladimir Putin to think again,
it would be Trump, and if I may say so...
It gives a bit of space perhaps...
..the British Prime Minister.
In my estimation, most useful endeavours in international affairs
of the Second World War have involved one principal condition,
which is the President of the United States
and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom should act
in concert in pursuit of a common end.
If they chose to use their positions as a bully pulpit to engender public
opinion, a wave of public opinion and use their influence
with Vladimir Putin, which would still be considerable,
maybe that would be the way to turn this thing around.
In the absence of that, the negotiations between Turkey
and Mr Putin will be in Moscow this coming week,
so we will watch this space there.
We need to move on.
Last week a British Prime Minister told his Government
it was time to deliver.
That’s easier said than done.
This Government has to deliver not just Brexit but also the levelling
up that BorisJohnson promised disadvantaged areas of the country
in exchange for their votes.
And whether by accident or design, he’s just lost a key player
in his delivery team.
Steve, was it an accident or design?
I think it was an accident, I think he hoped the Chancellor,
as was Sajid Javid, would stay in post, but accept the humiliation
of sacking all his special advisers.
This is a very interesting development.
On one level, it is soap opera.
And a familiar one in British politics.
It is Downing Street senior advisors
not liking the Chancellor’s special advisers and just wanting to prevail
over them and get rid of them.
On another level, it is much deeper.
Here is at Number 10, theoretically anyway,
pursuing spend, spend, spend, Boris, infrastructure,
infrastructure, railways, bridges, huge money into the NHS.
And the Treasury will be instinctively cautious.
And the Treasury on one level is more numerically
powerful than Number 10.
Johnson has policy advisers, he hasn’t got a big economics
department working with them.
The Chancellor has the whole of the might of the Treasury.
This has been an attempt to redress that balance.
Other prime ministers have tried it — it has never worked.
But there is a theoretical merit in addressing that imbalance,
because Number 10 went to spend, spend, spend.
And they have got to have the Treasury on board.
We are in a very interesting position, a lot of the Conservative
Party remains committed to a kind of Thatcherite approach
to economics, but they are pledging to do something very different.
They haven’t explained how, where the money is going
to come from.
It is a very interesting junction in British politics,
and hovering over it all still, Brexit.
And whether that so diminishes is the economy.
Brian, where’d you stand?
I agree with everything that Steve said.
What I doubt is that your average voter...
This is really for political scientists and political nerds
and political correspondents...
I think your average voter doesn’t really care,
as long as the railway gets built or the Universal Credit get specs
or what tiers or housing or the health service and so on.
Having said that, I think that BorisJohnson does love
infrastructure, he loves the idea of H52 and,
if it works for him, if he can do it without squeezing
the lemon till the...
What was it Gordon Brown used to say?
Until the pips come out.
By increasing taxes, it will be fine.
As it comes to the trade talks on the get deep into those
and realise how tough it will be, BorisJohnson will need a bridge
or a railway to say look at this nice new shiny thing over here,
don’t worry about that, that will be fine, we have our sovereignty back,
that is why we are building a railway even if it is
the Chinese or whoever.
How do you like the bridge?
I don’t think it will work.
This is the Mayor of London who decided to spend...
Agnes, how credible is this going to be with the market?
I don’t know, but what I know is that it is watch very keenly
by the French right, because how red a Tory can you be?
If BorisJohnson manages to be that sort of right—wing figure,
he will have really achieved something, and it really gives ideas
not only
to probably the French right, but actually to all those
centre—right
parties that have sort of collapsed and disappeared
in the last few years.
What is the idea that it gives them, exactly?
Well, the fact that you are socially conservative, but the politics,
are at least on the economy, is going left.
The end of austerity and all those public services that people
are really
relying on and one more of.
You could talk about the yellow vest movement in France,
they want more public services, is it possible in the country that
actually gives so much public service, more than any other
country in Europe?
But this sort of red tourism is very interesting,
because you need to finance it.
And they might achieve something that Labour actually wanted to do.
So, are they going to go French and have a mansion tax?
Because they will have to either borrow, but perhaps borrow
or tax the rich?
Fury will come from traditional conservatives who just want low
taxes and smaller government.
It’s fascinating to watch.
John, you can only borrow to spend rather than tax
to spend if rates are low, it becomes a lot
harder and if you’re doing long—term
spending on bridges or railways or whatever it is.
I have a narrow perspective on this.
In BorisJohnson we have 3 Prime Minister who has famously
and single—handedly won this sweeping election victory
with a fairly clearly stated programme about levelling up
in the Northern Powerhouse.
He needs to be in control of his Government.
What he did in the case of Mr Sajid Javid the other day
was dramatic, but it does at least put him squarely in control
of fiscal and economic policy, and I think that he is
watching the clock.
Five years, and some people suggest ten, unless the Labour Party can
put its house in order, five years is going to go by very
quickly.
He may find himself at the end of this year
with an impasse of his negotiations with Europe.
He needs to show progress of his negotiations.
It seems churlish to deny him the right that any Prime Minister
has to have a firm control of his own government.
Now, Ireland — healthcare and housing — two of the great
public
grievances that triggered an electoral earthquake
in Ireland last weekend.
Many voters turned away from the familiar two—horse politics
of Fine Gael and Fianna Fail to support the nationalist party
Sinn Fein.
But neither Sinn Fein nor any other party has enough seats
to govern alone.
So, what next?
It will be difficult for anyone to form a government.
Sinn Fein don’t have the numbers.
They didn’t run enough candidates.
If they had run twice as many of candidates they probably
would have got
twice as many seats.
They did exceptionally well.
The got the larger share of the popular vote,
although they got one seat less than Fianna Fail did.
So even if you put all the other independents together
and the smaller left—wing parties together, you still don’t get
to an overall majority.
You have to go into power with Fianna Fail.
They are still saying they want it.
Fine Gael have also said they won’t do it,
and they do mean it.
The big question in Irish politics now is, can Martin be persuaded
to go into some sort of agreement with Sinn Fein,
although he promised voters that he wouldn’t?
Tell us briefly why wouldn’t he?
There is this kind of bogeyman about history and IRA lengths,
this is a relatable woman who takes TV camera shopping with her.
She really and IRA threat?
No.
Most of the support that this surge came from people under
35, who were very young when the Good Friday Agreement
was signed.
People who are 60—65, you know, do still feel that that link that
you talk about to the IRA and the past would stop them voting.
But for me, Hall Martin, the leader of Fianna Fail,
the big problem is that their policy agenda is not compatible.
Sinn Fein are a left—wing party, Fianna Fail Art Centre,
centre—right party.
To tackle the problem is that mid—on has been accusing the other parties
of ignoring, she will have to put up taxes, housing,
talking about crumbling public health service,
the high cost of childcare.
Apparently Ireland has amongst the highest childcare
costs in Europe.
So, all of those will require more money.
That has to come from taxation because Fianna Fail...
Stephen, Shirley the point that all of those Tweedledee
and Tweedledumer, as Sinn Fein called them, old—style parties,
they have to respond to what they both aside,
even if they don’t like Sinn Fein, don’t they?
The result is a challenge for all the parties,
because I know Brian thinks could well be another general
election if they cannot form a government in the coming weeks.
So the result remind me, or certainly the performance
of Sinn Fein, reminded me a bit of the British election in 2017,
when no—one expected Jeremy Corbyn and Labour then to do
as well as they did in that election.
And it was over, younger people voting about housing,
tuition fees at universities and so on.
And a promise of sort of radical change on that agenda.
So the thing that they have to address is, can they retain this
momentum?
Because Corbyn, they lost it afterwards.
And for the other parties, I bet there will be,
if there is another election, a much greaterfocus on pledging
various things to address the concerns of under 35s,
because that is clearly where Sinn Fein sought.
But I was speaking to a very senior figure in the SNP the other day,
and they made an interesting observation or posed the question,
‘Why is that the parties of the left who also advocate a national agenda,
independence of various forms, do well, whereas other parties
on the left don’t?‘
I know you don’t think that played a big part in the Sinn Fein success,
but both the SNP, which is an effective party of the left,
and Sinn Fein are nationalist parties doing well, and other left
parties are doing badly.
I think that is interesting.
Let’s go back to Brian briefly on that question
of the unification agenda.
Yes.
That’s been the chief pledge of Sinn Fein,
are they going to insist on a referendum if they move
into some
sort of coalition?
Well, it wasn’t a huge issue on the doorsteps.
All the other stuff like housing was the big issue.
But if you asked Mary Lou McDonald, she would say we have a five year
plan, going to do it properly not next year or thereafter,
it will take five years.
According to the rules, Mary Lou McDonald,
even if she was Taoiseach, couldn’t decide if the people
of Northern Ireland should or shouldn’t hold a referendum,
that is the British government.
And under the Good Friday Agreement
the British government will only do that, according to the wording
of the agreement, if there is a possibility that more people
may want reunification than not.
Let’s leave that issue and go back in a way to what Stephen was just
saying,
which I think resonates with what you’re saying
about the red right—wing, that in a way the establishment
parties
have got to think about how to appeal to what is a left—wing
nationalist vote.
Completely.
But it is interesting that you don’t think unity had anything to do...
I’m not suggesting that, I’m saying the main reason was...
I’m not suggesting that, I’m saying the main reason was...
It looks as if, I remember very well just after the referendum on Brexit
in 2016, almost four years ago, we thought on the continent
that the logic, the inherent and historical logic to Brexit was,
the independence of Scotland.
Which sounded completely fantastical at the time.
The unification of Ireland, and now it is not a fantasy anymore,
it’s a growing possibility.
What the northern Irish voters would be voting on,
is not only the unity of Ireland, but de facto a second
referendum on Brexit.
There also has to be a referendum south of the border as well.
Of course, but is very different from the Scottish,
who will have to go throughjoining the EU.
That is interesting.
Everyone is nodding here, we have 30 seconds left,
John?
If I can take license, given my Scottish and Irish
heritage, to say there could be worse outcomes for Ireland
for the next
year or so, than the Belgian solution, like when you don’t
have a government and muddle through.
It does strike me as somewhat odd that the Tweedledum—Tweedledee
parties in Ireland are reluctant to sit down with Sinn Fein north
of the border.
And they have just established that power—sharing agreement. Sorry to
power-sharing agreement. Sorry to cut you short.
That’s it for Dateline London for this week.
We’re back next week at the same time.
Goodbye.
Hello again.
Storm Dennis continues to better Britain.
Looking back at Saturday, well, it was windy everywhere, wasn’t it?
It’s worse before they get better. Over the next two hours the heaviest
Over the next two hours the heaviest rain hits parts of south—west
rain hits parts of south-west England,
rain hits parts of south—west England, definitely Wales, the west
England, definitely Wales, the west Midlands are times in northern
Midlands are times in northern England, too. These are areas that
England, too. These are areas that already have a number flood warnings
already have a number ﬂood warnings out in
already have a number flood warnings out in force so it could get quite
out in force so it could get quite nasty here as we had to Sunday
nasty here as we had to Sunday morning. Eventually our brand of
morning. Eventually our brand of rain pushes upwards and is good but
rain pushes upwards and is good but it could be even slower, so there is
it could be even slower, so there is the potential for some
it could be even slower, so there is the potentialfor some rain
the potential for some rain lingering
the potentialfor some rain lingering across southern and
lingering across southern and eastern areas well into the
eastern areas well into the afternoon. It is going to be a windy
afternoon. It is going to be a windy day again, in than gusts of 50, 60
day again, in than gusts of 50, 60 mils an
day again, in than gusts of 50, 60 miles an hour, 70 on the coast. That
milas an hour, 70 on the coast. That could bring some
miles an hour, 70 on the coast. That could bring some trees down. It gets
could bring some trees down. It gets even windier through Sunday night in
even windier through Sunday night in Scotland. That is your latest
Scotland. That is your latest weather.
Welcome to BBC News — I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
China says deaths from the coronavirus epidemic
have now passed 1,600 — and in France, an 80 year
old Chinese tourist becomes the first European,
Covid—19 fatality.
At least eight people are killed as a bus carrying
football fans from Ecuador plunges into a ravine in Peru.
Canada leads renewed calls for Iran to hand over the black
boxes from the Ukrainian airliner brought down over
Tehran in January.
The popular British tv presenter Caroline Flack,
has been found dead at her London home.
Herfamily say she took her own life.
Troops are deployed in the north of England,
as Storm Dennis hits the UK and northern Europe.
Health officials in China have reported the total number
of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600 —
with 142 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
In France — an 80 year old Chinese tourist has died
from the virus after visiting Hubei province.
It’s the first fatality from the disease in Europe.
It comes as the head of the World Health Organisation
said that it’s too early to know if the outbreak
will become a global pandemic.
Nick Beake reports from Hong Kong.
China has declared war on an invisible killer,
sending more doctors and soldiers into the worst
affected areas.
Now, the new coronavirus has claimed its first victim
outside of Asia.
An elderly Chinese man who travelled to France.
TRANSLATION: Last night, I was informed of the death
of an 80—year—old patient who had been hospitalised
at the Bichat Hospital since the 25th of January
and who was suffering from a coronavirus lung infection.
Back in China, all those returning to the capital
Beijing after what’s been an extended holiday have been
told that they must quarantine themselves for two weeks.
Passengers of many nationalities are still stuck
aboard the Diamond Princess off the coast of Japan.
285 people have now tested positive for the virus
on the ship.
And America says it will remove all of its citizens
and fly them home.
There’s no such escape from Wuhan — the Chinese city
where the outbreak began.
For the rest of the world, we only have 500 cases
and two deaths.
While in China, there are more than 66,000 cases.
Let me be clear, it is impossible to predict
which direction this epidemic will take.
Beijing claims it’s acted quickly and decisively
to try to stop the spread but few are willing to predict
what the global impact of this crisis will be.
Nick Beake, BBC News, Hong Kong.
As China announces a drop in new cases from the coronavirus
new cases from the coronavirus a break for a
new cases from the coronavirus a breakfor a third
new cases from the coronavirus a break for a third consecutive
a break for a third consecutive days.
And for more details on the outbreak go
to our website.
You can find information on the spread of the disease,
as well as in depth articles like this one, about how
effective it is to wear a mask.
Just go to BBC.COM/news to find all of that.
At least eight football fans from Ecuador have died
after their bus plunged into a ravine in Peru.
They were on their way home from celebrating their club’s
qualifaction for the next stage of the Copa Libertadores —
South America’s biggest club tournament.
Aaron Safir reports.
A fall of 15 metres and a crash so violent it pulled the roof
from this bus.
At least A0 people were injured, the driver seems
to have lost control in the early hours of the morning.
TRANSLATION: I was asleep at the time of the accident.
I couldn’t tell you what happened.
I just felt the impact, the blow.
It happened near Mancora on a notoriously dangerous
stretch of the Pan—American Highway in northern Peru.
Supporters of the Ecuadorian team Barcelona SC were
celebrating their team’s qualification for the next
stage of the Copa Libertadores.
Dangerous curves, poor maintenance and scant
enforcements make driving on Peru’s roads dangerous.
They claim nine lives a day according to the Government.
Ecuador’s president has expressed his condolences
and pledged help for the families of the victims
whose loved ones celebrations turned to tragedy.
Aaron Safir, BBC News.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news:
Let’s get some of the day’s other news:
Mark Zuckerberg has expressed concern over
excessive or authoritarian internet regulations,
as they could compromise the internet’s ability
to spread information freely.
Facebook’s chief executive urged governments to come up
with something stricter than phone companies’
regulation — which are not held responsible for customers’
conversations — but less strict than
newspapers’ regulation.
Police in Paris have arrested a Russian performance
artist who posted a sex tape online which ended the election
campaign of President Macron’s candidate for mayor of Paris.
Petr Pavlensky — who has previously set fire to a door
at Russia’s state security headquarters — said he had
wanted to expose what he said was Benjamin
Griveaux’s hypocrisy.
The US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
is in Senegal for talks with President Macky Sail
about security ties and economic cooperation.
His visit is taking place as the United States seeks
to reduce its military presence in Africa.
Canada has hosted a meeting at the Munich
Security Conference along with the four other countries,
which lost citizens when Iran’s military shot down a Ukrainian
passenger plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people
on board.
Canada is pushing Iran to release
the black boxes from the crash so their data can be properly
analysed by facilities in France.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet sat
down with the Canadian Foreign Minister after the meeting
in Munich and asked him whether any progress
had been made.
After 30 days of trying, you have to come to
the conclusion that you need to look at another alternative.
And we know at that point that the French have offered
that they have the latest technology, they have
the expertise, to read the content of the black box,
to download the content, and to do that in a
transparent fashion.
But would you consider Iran’s request from the foreign
minister, saying, give us the technical support
to examine the black boxes in Iran?
Couldn’t you do that?
Well, the experts have spoken.
The experts have said it’s not the type of equipment
you can transport.
It looks more like a lab.
For those who are watching at home.
It is not like a piece of equipment you can put
in your luggage.
It’s the software and the hardware you need to have
to do that, especially when the black boxes
have been damaged.
So what we are saying is we saw that you requested that,
the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side
there’s no way that we can send that in Iran.
So the only remaining alternative is to send it
to a third country which would be in this case France,
which has offered to assist, because I think France
understands the international community has a lot
of questions.
And I always say that the best antidote to conspiracy
is transparency.
Have you made any other progress here on the other big
issue, which is compensation?
You say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out
of 176 were Canadian.
Iran says they were Iranians.
They of course have the two passports.
So the compensation you are asking for, Iran says,
they cannot accept.
Is this something where a compromise can be found?
Are you finding it?
Well, what we have hopefully established by now is
that the compensation to be paid to the heirs
of the victims will be the same to everyone.
And we also said that this process of negotiation,
of a global settlement, should start quickly.
I remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents,
I mean, this is a tragedy.
You know, let me bring it back to, for Canada,
this has been a national tragedy.
Families have lost their loved ones.
I was there with Prime Minister Trudeau, we went to meet
families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
Stand up to the regime.
Make sure that they’re accountable.
We wa nt closure, we we nt accountability, we want
justice, we want transparency.
That’s what animates me every time I meet them.
And that is why Prime Minister Trudeau said he went to attend
the meeting you had with the Foreign Minister
of Iran, even though it was at a Foreign Minister level.
But some of the families are expressing concern
about the look of that, the photos of a smiling
encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
Well, the Prime Minister came with one purpose.
It was to make sure that the Iranian counterpart
understood how serious the issue was.
Not only for the grieving families in Canada, not only
for the government of Canada, but I think for the world.
I think having 3 Prime Minister come into the room and state
that, itjust reinforced the message.
That was the Canadian Foreign Minister they’re speaking to
Minister therre speaking to us.
More from the Munich security conference:
Senior American and Afghan sources say the first phase
of a US deal with the Afghan Taliban is set to begin shortly
with the start of what is known as a 7—day reduction
in violence by Taliban forces.
Jarrett Blanc, senior fellow
at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace,
told us what the risk of such a deal might be.
Let’s look at the and the longer term.
Let’s look at the and the longerterm. In
Let’s look at the and the longer term. In the short term,
longer term. In the short term, the risk associated with the
the risk associated with the reduction in violence and
reduction in violence and conditioning the beginning of
conditioning the beginning of Taliban Afghan talks on a
Taliban Afghan talks on a successful reduction of
successful reduction of violence is that they will be
violance is that they will be problams.
violence is that they will be problems. They will be spoilers
problams. They will be spoilars to
problems. They will be spoilers to commit acts of violence that
to commit acts of violance that will
to commit acts of violence that will throw off the first part
will throw off the first part of the agreement which are
of the agreement which are intra-
of the agreement which are intra— Afghan talks. The longer
intra- Afghan talks. The longer term, the
intra— Afghan talks. The longer term, the risk is that the
term, the risk is that the peace talks don’t work and that
peace talks don’t work and that over Taliban demand too much or
over Taliban demand too much or the government and the
the government and the legitimate opposition don’t get
legitimate opposition don’t get their act together to make a
their act together to make a reasonable set of proposals and
reasonable set of proposals and demands to the Taliban. And
demands to the Taliban. And unit with a situation where you
unit with a situation where you have fewer and a declining
have fewer and a declining number of American troops and
number of American troops and an ongoing civil war. Was a
an ongoing civil war. Was a timeline for this? There is a
timeline for this? There is a joint statement expected soon
joint statement expected soon and a reduction of violence...
and a reduction of violance... What
and a reduction of violance... what is
and a reduction of violence... What is expected to start? The
What is expected to start? The Americans have been a little
Americans have been a little bit ragey
Americans have been a little bit cagey about that so far. My
bit cagey about that so far. My understanding is that it is
understanding is that it is very soon, maybe the next
very soon, maybe the next couple of days. Once
couple of days. Once speculation is that they are
speculation is that they are trying to get it done in time
trying to get it done in time for President Trump to somehow
for President Tmmp to somehow be
for President Trump to somehow be involved in the formal
be involved in the formal conclusion of the deal. On his
conclusion of the deal. On his trip to India. What are the
trip to India. What are the headlines involved here, as
headlines involved here, as could properly be expected, is
could property be expected, is US troops
could properly be expected, is US troops potentially leaving
US troops potentially leaving Afghanistan. What would be
Afghanistan. What would be effect of that because yellow
effect of that because yellow immediate effect of going from,
immediate effect of going from, let’s say 13,000 troops now, to
let’s say 13,000 troops now, to 8000 troops in a few months is
8000 troops in a few months is really minimal. There will
really minimal. There will still be more troops in
still be more troops in Afghanistan at the end of that
Afghanistan at the end of that initial drawdown than they were
initial drawdown than they were at the end of the Obama
at the end of the Obama administration. It is really
administration. It is really not that important. As you go
not that important. As you go from that number, 8000, down to
from that number, 8000, down to potentially zero. Either you’re
potentially zero. Either you’re going to have a peace deal that
going to have a peace deal that all parties adhere to what you
all parties adhere to what you going to end up in a situation
going to end up in a situation where there is still an ongoing
where there is still an ongoing civil war.
where there is still an ongoing civilwar. If
where there is still an ongoing civil war. If that is the case,
civil war. If that is the use, then the
civil war. If that is the case, then the drawdown will have to
then the drawdown will have to be managed very carefully to
be managed very carefully to allow the government forces to
allow the government forces to sustain themselves and not to
sustain themselves and not to suffer a psychological blow
suffer a psychological blow that would be devastating in
that would be devastating in the ongoing conflict.
Stay with us on BBC World News.
Still to come:
the 3—day long race across a frozen lake:
we’ll hear from participants in one of sport’s
more extreme events.
Nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into Afghanistan,
the last Soviet troops were finally coming home.
The withdrawal completed in good order, but the army
defeated in the task it had been sent to perform.
Malcolm has been murdered.
That has a terrible effect on the morale of the people.
I am terrified of the repercussions on the streets.
One wonders who is next.
As the airlift got under way,
there was no let—up in the eruption itself.
Lava streams from an event low in the crater
flow into the sea on the east of the island,
away from the town for the time being,
but could start flowing again at any time.
The Russians heralded a new—generation space station
with a spectacular night launch.
They called it Mir, the Russian for peace.
This is BBC News.
The latest headlines:
Chinese authorities say deaths from the coronavirus epidemic
have now passed 1,600, and in France, an 80—year—old
Chinese tourist becomes the first European,
Covid—19 fatality.
At least eight people are killed as a bus carrying
football fans from Ecuador plunges into a ravine in Peru.
As we’ve been hearing, the television presenter,
Caroline Flack, host of some of the UK’s biggest reality TV
shows, has been found dead at her home in east London.
Herfamily says she took her own life.
Ms Flack, who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next
month, accused of assaulting her partner, an allegation
she denied.
She fronted programmes that garnered many millions
of viewers, including ITV’s The X Factor and Love Island.
She won Strictly Come Dancing in 2014.
Here’s our media correspondent David Sillito.
It’s the return of the Flack!
Love Island, X Factor, I’m A Celebrity —
Caroline Flack was a presenter on some of the biggest
programmes on British television.
She was, until a few weeks ago, the face of Love Island —
the glamorous, escapist fun.
Let’s talk love.
Who’s looking for the real thing?
But everything unravelled after she was arrested
and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
In court in December,
it was clear that she was deeply distressed.
Today, she was found dead at her flat.
Her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
Friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock
and heartbreak at the news.
Love Island is a show that thrives on its impact on social
media, and tonight, thousands were expressing
their grief and sympathy.
But her court appearance was proof enough
that she was also facing intense scrutiny,
both in the press and online.
On its best days, social media is a very powerful tool
for these presenters because they can effortlessly
and immediately communicate with so many different fans
and really bring their own personality to the fore.
The problem is that on the bad days, that scrutiny
and attention does not go away.
It stays with them.
The MacDonut Brothers!
Her TV career went back nearly 20 years.
This, TMI on Children’s BBC,
and then in 2014, she won Strictly Come Dancing.
The night she won, elation.
But she spoke afterwards of her struggle with depression.
Then came the assault charge.
She was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
He stood by her, but they weren’t allowed to communicate
before her forthcoming trial.
She was also advised to stay off social media,
but she did post this on Instagram.
She thanked those who had been kind to her and added:
"This kind of scrutiny and speculation
is a lot to take for one person."
Another post read simply:
Caroline Flack, who has died at the age of A0.
A second major storm in less than a week has hit Britain
and other parts of northern Europe.
Homes have been evacuated in the Scottish borders
where rivers, swollen by the weekend’s storms,
are expected to cause extensive flooding.
In West Yorkshire, the Army has been drafted in to shore up
flood defences with river levels expected to peak
overnight.
Helena Wilkinson reports.
Amongst the first evidence of damage by Storm Dennis
was here in South Wales.
This village is where people’s homes are under serious threat.
A similar picture tonight in Harberton in Devon.
Dozens of flood warnings are still in place across
the country as the rain continues to fall.
In Ilkley and Calderdale in West Yorkshire,
areas still recovering from last week’s storm,
the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
There are a number of places where the local resilience
authorities thought they had a problem with the flood
defences that are currently in place, so we have been asked
to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences
in in both places.
Some of the worst affected parts could see up to MOmm
of rainfall and gusts of up to 80mph.
Certainly, with the amount of rain that is forecast,
100mm or a month’s worth of rainfall on top of what is
incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk
and that’s why we’re warning people to take action
and that’s why we’re doing the kind of things
we’re doing here.
Not far away, in Hebden Bridge,
there’s no respite from the persistent rain.
The Scottish Environment Protection Agency has issued
flood warnings and advice for residents here in Dumfries
and Galloway, plus elsewhere in the Borders,
South Lanarkshire and South Ayrshire.
For many, the half—term getaway
has ended up with a lesson in travel disruption.
Easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
Almost 100 from here at Gatwick.
At Heathrow, 60 flights were grounded —
most of them British Airways.
And on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
Tonight, there are amber warnings for rain
for most of the country,
meaning flooding could cause a danger to life.
Communities are waiting and hoping
that their preparations will be enough to protect them.
Helena Wilkinson, BBC News.
The Venezuelan government says
a huge numbers of soldiers and civilians
have begun a 2—day military drill
to prepare for what it describes
as the threat of invasion by US—led forces.
The opposition leader, Juan Guaido, dismissed
the manoeuvres as a propaganda exercise by a dictatorship.
Earlier, the BBC’s Americas editor, Leonardo Rocha,
explained why President Maduro
had decided to hold the military exercises now.
He is, in a way, making a statement and giving —
sending out a message to the United States
that the Venezuelan people, or at least more than 2 million
people who are part of this militia who support him,
are prepared for anything.
His advisers — his military advisors are Cuban,
many of them trained in Cuba and they learned
from the Cuban example.
If you arm the population,
if you have well—organised neighbourhood committees,
anyone that tries to get into Venezuelan
knows that there’ll be a bloodbath.
So, he’s pitching himself and the people against America?
Against America and now — I mean, there are —
the two biggest neighbours of Venezuela —
Colombia and Brazil — have hostile governments.
Jair Bolsonaro in Brazil and Ivan Duque, right—wing
governments, which is one of the reasons of why these
exercises — Nicolas Maduro said that those two countries
are harbouring terrorist groups, they are training
in their territory to prepare possible invasion if things —
if the opportunity’s ripe,
they might launch attacks and invade Venezuela.
50, his strategy here at the moment is to align
a nationalistic hope and get that up against what he would
say are his enemies in surrounding countries?
Yes.
We have to bear in mind the fact that Venezuela has
the highest inflation in the world.
Violence, more than — almost 5 million Venezuelans
have left the country in the last few years.
So, the economy is in a mess.
The political situation is in a stalemate,
you have a very difficult situation.
And what the opposition says is he’s creating a diversion.
You create the threat of an enemy, while Nicolas Maduro
says the Empire — the American Empire is trying
to invade Venezuela, it has the biggest known oil
reserves in the world.
So there is all that playing on his side.
In the meantime, he hopes the economy will recover.
It has recovered somehow,
so he will regain the support of the majority of Venezuelans.
What isJuan Guaido’s strategy here?
This time last year he was big news every day in terms
of would he be taking the presidency,
but he seems to have pushed back.
He seems to have lost the momentum.
Juan Guaido’s strategy is to keep pushing and be
there if the opportunity comes.
If the government deteriorates, he’s there.
But he’s lost the momentum somehow.
It’s been one year since the US recognised him
as the legitimate leader of Venezuela, but nothing has
happened in real terms since then.
The Democrats continue their campaign to choose a candidate
campaign to choose a candidate to stand
campaign to choose a candidate to stand against Donald Trump
to stand against Donald Tmmp in
to stand against Donald Trump in November. The week—long
in November. The week-long process
in November. The week—long process finishes next Saturday.
process finishes next Saturday. It is seen as an important test
It is seen as an important test for joe Biden
It is seen as an important test forJoe Biden who lost heavily
for joe Biden who lost heavily in Iowa
forJoe Biden who lost heavily in Iowa and New Hampshire. His
in Iowa and New Hampshire. His team argues Nevada could help
team argues Nevada could help to improve the fortunes. Bernie
to improve the fortunes. Bernie Sanders is a current
Sanders is a current frontrunner in the Democratic
frontrunner in the Democratic Party.
Now to a race with a difference —
the track is the surface of a frozen lake.
It’s the Ice Storm contest,
held annually in the far east of Russia,
and it could just be the toughest race in the world.
Take a look at this.
TRANSLATION: It’s like meditation.
At the start, there are lots of people
but after two minutes, you are alone.
TRANSLATION: Anything can happen.
We’ve already stepped in a lot of cracks.
-15!
Rather them than me.
The Swedish pole vaulter Armand Duplantis has set
a new world record for the second week in a row.
The 20—year—old easily cleared 6.18 metres
in Glasgow on Saturday.
Duplantis is coached by his father Greg,
also a successful pole vaulter.
A quick reminder of our top story:
China has insisted the outbreak of the new coronavirus
is gradually coming under control after the latest
figures showed a drop in the number of new cases
for the third consecutive day.
However, the World Health Organization says
it may yet become a global epidemic.
They’ve also asked China to elaborate
on how it’s diagnosing the disease.
In a new measure to control its spread, the country has
announced that it will disinfect banknotes and keep
them out of circulation for M days.
And for more details on the outbreak,
go to our website.
You can find information on the spread of the disease.
Just go to BBC.com/news to find all of that.
You can get in touch with me or
You ran get in touch with me or any of the team
You can get in touch with me or any of the team on Twitter.
any of the team on Twitter. Thank you for watching. Stay
Thank you for watching. Stay tuned right here for much more
tuned right here for much more news and you can also go to our
news and you ran also go to our website.
news and you can also go to our website. There is also news on
website. There is also news on the [oral
website. There is also news on the local radio stations if you
the [oral radio stations if you are
the local radio stations if you are worried about the weather
are worried about the weather conditions out there. Thank you
conditions out there. Thank you for watching.
Hello.
Storm Dennis continues to better Britain.
Looking back at Saturday, well, it was windy everywhere,
wasn’t it, but the strongest gust of wind was at Aberdare
in the Llyn Peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here,
we’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been
causing problems, particularly across parts of northern
England, Wales, the West Midlands and south—west
England.
Now, there are lots of flood warnings in force
and the number of flood warnings continues to rise
hour by hour.
And with more heavy rain in the forecast,
that’s clearly not a good thing.
Now, looking at the satellite picture, this is Storm Dennis.
The centre actually near Iceland.
But it’s this trailing weather front stretching for a couple
of thousand miles out into the Atlantic
that’s causing the problems.
Because the winds are blowing parallel and the front rather
than across is and what that means is the front gets stuck
and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain
to come as we head into the first part of Sunday.
Now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across Wales,
the West Midlands and south—west England,
if anything, the rain much heavier than we saw on Saturday
for example, and there will be some heavy falls as well
in northern England at times.
Given that we already have a number of flood warnings
out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time
here as we head into the first part of Sunday morning.
Cooler air across the north—west
with blustery showers.
Now, looking at the weather picture through the rest
of Sunday, our weather front tracks its way
towards the south—east.
Now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear
southern and eastern areas of England.
In other words, there could still be quite a bit
of rain left over even into the afternoon
here, but it’s going to be a windy day everywhere.
Gusts inland, 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong
enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
So there is the risk of transport disruption
whether from the flooding rain or those very powerful
gusts of wind.
Showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
And as we go on into Sunday night, if anything, the winds
are going to get stronger for a time as the centre
of Dennis passes close to the north of Scotland.
So the winds picking up could cause some problems
here for transport as we head into Monday morning for
Scotland.
As we head through the rest of Monday, it’s a day broadly
speaking of sunny spells and showers.
The winds will continue to make it feel quite chilly
across these northern areas.
Beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest
of the week ahead.
Rain or showers in the forecast for most of us and it will stay
quite windy, but for the most of us, it will say
on the mild side.
Temperatures up to M degrees for London next weekend.
That’s your weather.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
Health officials in China say the total number of deaths
from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600,
with almost 150 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
In France, an 80—year—old Chinese tourist has died,
the first Covid—19 fatality in Europe.
At least eight football fans from Ecuador have died
after their bus plunged into a ravine in Peru.
They were on their way home from celebrating their club’s
qualifaction for the next stage of South America’s biggest club
tournament, The Copa Libertadores.
A0 other supporters were injured.
Canada is leading a renewed call for Iran to hand over the black
boxes from the Ukrainian airliner, brought down over Tehran inJanuary.
All 176 people on board were killed.
Canadian authorities
say they need the contents so the data can be analysed properly
by facilities in France.
A British Asian singer Arjun, who’s had millions of views
on YouTube, is warning young people about heart attacks.
Arjun’s wife died suddenly and unexpectedly six months
into their marriage.
He’s now organising a concert this weekend
to raise awareness of the risk of heart disease to young people.
Singer Arjun has not notched up millions of views on YouTube,
including his latest video dedicated to his wife ofjust six months.
# My baby, gone.
# Can you see me down here?#
It was the first time I’ve actually able to been
put my feelings onto paper after about a year and a half
of trying to work out how to deal with things.
Part of my therapy was to write things down in song.
The first time I had seen our footage from the wedding
was actually in the video, really, so after that it was quite
painful.
Natasha passed away due to a sudden cardiac arrest in September 2018.
She just collapsed, and we called 999
and they were doing CPR for a long time, that was bad,
a harrowing process and that was it, she was declared dead on the spot.
Nice to meet you.
For the first time since his wife’s death,
Arjun has agreed to have a heart check—up.
Every week, over 12 young people under 35 in the UK die
from heart—related conditions.
In 80% of cases, there are no prior symptoms.
And on what should have been his second wedding anniversary,
he’s organising a concert with a host of stars in memory
of his late wife.
He is hoping the show will raise money for the charity CRY,
Cardiac Arrest in the Young, which offers screening tests
to identify those at risk.
Shabnam Mahmood, BBC News.
Now on BBC News, Our World.
Panzuto was a mafia boss, for years he played a key role
in Naples’ Camorra, but now he has turned state witness and is helping
put his former associates behind bars.
This film contains descriptions of violence which some viewers
may find upsetting.
Naples, where police waged a constant battle
against organised crime.
We are now in the Torretta district, one of the poorest areas of Naples,
as the officers look for sentinels, lookouts.
The Camorra is the city’s mafia, one of the world’s most deadly
and secretive criminal networks.
But now, one of its bosses and killers is breaking
the code of silence.
Gennaro Panzuto was a dangerous criminal in Naples.
A criminal who has now turned on the Camorra,
Gennaro Panzuto was a dangerous criminal in Naples.
A criminal who has now turned on the Camorra,
putting his brothers behind bars, leaving him a marked man.
This is the story of Gennaro Panzuto, the man
who murdered for the mafia, and then confessed all.
In a prison in the Italian Alps, the secrets are being unlocked —
the secrets of the Camorra clans, the secrets of a life spent
committing terrible crimes.
Gennaro Panzuto, a former leader of the Naples Camorra,
is what Italians call a ‘Pentito,’ a state witness who has helped
prosecute his associates.
He is in a special prison unit for his own safety.
The Italian authorities have allowed us exclusive access
to hear his story, but not to show his face.
Now 45 years old, he has spent a decade injail,
reflecting on what he has done.
Camorra didn’t become a killer overnight.
As a teenager, he learnt how to be a street thief,
working Italy’s tourist hotspots, snatching watches.
He was talent—spotted by his uncle, Rosario, who headed the Camorra
cigarette smuggling operation.
Panzuto grew up in this dark, dead—end alley.
Now, he had found an escape route from poverty.
He was soon involved in extortion and drugs for the Camorra.
Based on two big clans, the Camorra operates like no other
mafia in the world, according to expert Dr Felia Allum.
So those two clans or those two alliances, in order to be powerful
and in order to be strong, what they have tended to do
is to recruit smaller clans.
So in every district, you will find a criminal family that
controls the territory.
So it’s kind of alliance building.
That’s the flexibility and the fluidity of the Camorra.
By the time he was just 21, Panzuto had already spent
time injail.
Now, the Camorra wanted him to carry out their dirtiest work.
He shows me where.
This.
This one here?
Yes.
This is where it began?
Yeah.
Mergelina Marina, the beautiful place where what Panzuto
calls his descent into hell began.
In 1996, Camorra families were turning on each other in deadly
rows over drugs territory.
Panzuto was called to a meeting on the pier.
He was given an instruction to defend his uncle from a rival
They are asking you to kill somebody.
Did you not think that is the wrong thing to do?
Why not?
With a handshake, Panzuto’s life changed.
With a handshake, Panzuto’s life changed.
He became a killer.
By his early 305, he was clan leader, after his uncle was jailed.
His nickname was ‘Terramoto’ — Earthquake.
Using the gun to defend territory, it was a time of blood.
So we’re talking about targeted killings.
Yes, and to be efficient, they have to decide on specific
individuals, to give a message.
They follow them around, they pinpoint where they are,
and they kill them in order to win territory, but also to give a symbol
and a message to that clan.
One of the victims was rival Graziano Borelli, shot dead
in the street.
Pietro Ioia was a drug trafficker, but for years he has worked to steer
people away from the Camorra.
He tried with the young Panzuto, but failed.
Pietro Ioia was a drug trafficker, but for years he has worked to steer
people away from the Camorra.
He tried with the young Panzuto, but failed.
Panzuto’s violence made him a target for one of Italy’s
elite anti—mafia judges.
I think at the time, Gennaro Panzuto was the most
dangerous criminal in Naples, in Italy.
Michele Del Prete was determined to bring down the young leader
before he grew any stronger.
The net was closing in on Gennaro Panzuto.
InJune 2006, an arrest warrant was issued.
He was now wanted for mafia association and murder,
and that’s when he took a fateful decision.
He went on the run.
Panzuto came here, north—west England.
Not exactly a gangster’s paradise, you might think.
At first he lay low at a caravan park in a quiet corner of rural
Lancashire.
So this is where he used to live.
Yes, number one, up the stairs.
Resident Mick Bury met Panzuto when the Italian gangster
accidentally pranged his car.
He reversed into my car over there.
He reversed into your car?
And after that, we’ve become friends.
Was was he like then?
A very friendly, sociable bloke, yeah.
A bit of charm about him.
He liked to enjoy himself, yeah.
He liked to barbecue.
He used to have them outside on the patio.
Away from the bloodshed of Naples, Gennaro Panzuto was coming
to enjoy his new life in the north—west.
But it was a curious choice for a mobsterfrom southern Italy.
So why did he choose to come here?
I’m a daughter of an ex—mafia boss in Italy.
This was many years ago.
We’re talking about nearly 30 years ago.
Marisa Merico and herfather served time in prison before
renouncing the mafia.
She settled here in Lancashire.
Although she doesn’t know Panzuto, she understands why he came here.
I was shocked, but in a way I wasn’t, because Britain is a sort
of a safe haven, in a way.
What would make the UK so attractive to a member of the mafia?
You know, you don’t have to walk around with an ID,
carta di identita elettronica, like they call it in Italy.
Also, to set up a business is very easy.
Companies housed here, within a few days you have
documentation, whereas in Italy you have to go through
a course, a procedure.
There’s a lot more to it, a lot more background checks,
where in the UK there isn’t.
And none of that is lost on foreign crime gangs.
They became more aware of it, and how lax the laws are in certain
areas, and still are.
The mafia became more aware of it?
Yeah, oh definitely.
Panzuto came to north—west England because he had local criminal
contacts he had made back in Naples.
Contacts who are now willing to help him.
Panzuto’s white—collar helpers set up dozens of companies to trade
goods between northern England and Naples.
Panzuto’s white—collar helpers set up dozens of companies to trade
goods between northern England and Naples.
It was a big tax—dodging scam, which started with shoes.
His court carousel fraud, goods moved between companies that
are closed down before any VAT is paid.
It costs governments across Europe billions in lost taxes.
Carousel fraud is really, really profitable.
Carousel fraud is a good tool even to money launder,
or to move money from a country to another.
So, it’s really important to organised crime groups?
Yeah, it’s a paradise!
Because you can earn really a huge amount of money
with very simple skill.
What about the role played by Panzuto’s British associates?
Did those people know that you were using that money
to help your Camorra associates in Naples?
Back at the caravan park,
Mick Bury was completely in the dark.
Hejust remembers his Italian friend’s generosity.
I’ve got something to show you here.
These are the shoes he gave me.
He gave you those shoes?
He gave me these shoes, yeah.
Because I said I like dancing
and he said these are proper Italian shoes.
Made in Italy, as well! Made in Italy, yeah.
Panzuto had struck a bargain with his British associate.
They taught him about fraud.
He showed them how to call in debts, the Camorra way.
He set up a late—night meeting designed to send a message
to all those who owed money.
According to Panzuto, his British associates were there.
But his time on the run was coming to an end.
By 2007, Panzuto was directing events in Naples from this village.
But little did he know, the Italian authorities found him
thanks to phone tapping and in May 2007, he was
arrested and extradited.
When you discovered this mafia connection, what was your reaction?
First of all, you question yourself, you say, what an earth is going on?
It was in the papers and stuff, I thought,
oh, my God!
And they were saying, have you seen?
He nearly moved in my house in Blackpool as well.
With Panzuto facing a life sentence,
he did the unthinkable for a mafia man — he talked,
and he told prosecutors about his British helpers.
When you heard the names of Gennaro Panzuto’s associates
in the UK, what did you tell the British police?
So, what happened to those people that Panzuto named?
We know that Lancashire Police investigated,
but it appears that nobody was arrested,
and nobody was ever charged.
For legal reasons, we can’t name them.
On the streets of Panzuto’s hometown, Naples,
police here are still fighting powerful mafia clans.
A sign of that power,
a shrine in memory of the son of a clan leader
who was killed in a shooting.
We are out with the squadron Moberly, Italy’s flying squad,
patrolling some of the toughest estates in the city.
Yes, it’s a place where drugs are sold?
This is the home of another clan
and we are driving terribly slowly through some lowrise blocks
as the officers look for sentinels, the lookouts.
This is a constant daily battle for these police officers
from the Naples flying squad, trying to stop these steps of crime,
drug dealing, and the fear is that the money made
here is funnelled into some of the most dangerous crime groups
in the world.
Many Camorra bosses are now in prison,
put there by witnesses like Panzuto.
The result — some clans are now run by teenagers,
nicknamed Baby Gangs.
They are less organised, but very violent.
We are sitting in on the start of a trial of men
accused of murder, drug trafficking and extortion.
The defendant greets a Carabinieri officer like an old friend.
A coming together of opponents in a never—ending battle
to control the streets.
But we are warned by the city’s Chief anti—mafia prosecutor
not to focus on the violence.
We should follow the money.
And yet, there are signs of hope in Panzuto’s old neighbourhood.
It’s an after—school club
where basically the nuns try to get the kids off the street
in order to give them things to do and make them do homework.
Gennaro Panzuto came here as a child.
The nuns are still trying to stop the gangs
from grooming the next generation.
How do the Camorra recruit young people here in this area?
Ida is a volunteer
and 20 years ago, some in herfamily were Panzuto’s deadly rivals.
She said this centre saved her life as a child.
Do you have hope for the future?
From his prison in the mountains at the other end of Italy,
ex—Camorrista Gennaro Panzuto is scathing about his old gang.
They are finished.
They’re finished?
Why did he turn against them?
His decision to choose family over the clan has cost him dear.
What is the personal price for you in doing that?
Too much. Too much.
Gennaro Panzuto was the street thief who became a mafia killer.
After more than a decade behind bars, he will soon be released,
but he will always be looking over his shoulder.
For a man brought up in violence,
this could be the hardest fight of all.
Hello.
Storm Dennis continues to better Britain.
Looking back at Saturday, well, it was windy everywhere,
wasn’t it, but the strongest gust of wind was at Aberdaron
in the Llyn Peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here,
we’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been
causing problems, particularly across parts of northern
England, Wales, the West Midlands and south—west
England.
Now, there are lots of flood warnings in force
and the number of flood warnings continues to rise
hour by hour.
And with more heavy rain in the forecast,
that’s clearly not a good thing.
Now, looking at the satellite picture, this is Storm Dennis.
The centre actually near Iceland.
But it’s this trailing weather front stretching for a couple
of thousand miles out into the Atlantic
that’s causing problems,
because the winds are blowing parallel and the front rather
than across it, and what that means is the front gets stuck
and what that means is we’ve got a lot more heavy rain
to come as we head into the first part of Sunday.
Now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across Wales,
the West Midlands and south—west England.
If anything, the rain much heavier than we saw
on Saturday, for example, and there will be
some heavy falls as well
in northern England at times.
Given that we already have a number of flood warnings
out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time
here as we head into the first part of Sunday morning.
Cooler air across the north—west
with blustery showers.
Now, looking at the weather picture through the rest
of Sunday, our weather front tracks its way
towards the south—east.
Now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear
southern and eastern areas of England.
In other words, there could still be quite a bit
of rain left over even into the afternoon
here, but it’s going to be a windy day everywhere.
Gusts of wind inland again 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong
enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
So there is the risk of transport disruption
whether from the flooding rain
or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
Showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
As we go on into Sunday night, if anything, the winds
are going to get stronger for a time across the far north as the centre
of Dennis passes close to the north of Scotland.
So the winds picking up could cause some problems
here for transport as we head into Monday morning for
Scotland.
As we head through the rest of Monday, it’s a day broadly
speaking of sunny spells and showers.
The winds staying strong, and will continue to make it feel
quite chilly across these northern areas.
Beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest
of the week ahead.
Rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay
quite windy, but for the most of us, it will also stay on the mild side.
Temperatures up to M degrees for London next weekend.
That’s your weather.
This is BBC News.
Welcome if you’re watching here in the UK or around the globe.
I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
China says deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have
now passed 1,600, and in France, an 80—year—old Chinese
tourist becomes the first European Covid—19 fatality.
At least eight people are killed as a bus carrying
football fans from Ecuador plunges into a ravine in Peru.
Canada leads renewed calls for Iran to hand over the black
boxes from the Ukrainian airliner brought down over
Tehran in January.
The popular British TV presenter Caroline Flack,
has been found dead at her London home.
Herfamily say she took her own life.
Troops are deployed in the north of England,
as Storm Dennis hits the UK and northern Europe.
Health officials in China have reported the total number
of deaths from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600,
with 142 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
In France, an 80—year—old Chinese tourist has died
from the virus after visiting Hubei province.
It’s the first fatality from the disease in Europe.
It comes as the head of the World Health Organisation
said that it’s too early to know if the outbreak
will become a global pandemic.
Nick Beake reports from Hong Kong.
China has declared war on an invisible killer,
sending more doctors and soldiers into the worst
affected areas.
Now, the new coronavirus has claimed its first victim
outside of Asia.
An elderly Chinese man who travelled to France.
TRANSLATION: Last night, I was informed of the death
of an 80—year—old patient who had been hospitalised
at the Bichat Hospital since the 25th of January
and who was suffering from a coronavirus lung infection.
Back in China, all those returning to the capital
Beijing after what’s been an extended holiday have been
told that they must quarantine themselves for two weeks.
Passengers of many nationalities are still stuck
aboard the Diamond Princess off the coast of Japan.
285 people have now tested positive for the virus
on the ship.
And America says it will remove all of its citizens
and fly them home.
There’s no such escape from Wuhan — the Chinese city
where the outbreak began.
For the rest of the world, we only have 500 cases
and two deaths.
While in China, there are more than 66,000 cases.
Let me be clear, it is impossible to predict
which direction this epidemic will take.
Beijing claims it’s acted quickly and decisively
to try to stop the spread but few are willing to predict
what the global impact of this crisis will be.
Nick Beake, BBC News, Hong Kong.
And as China announces a drop in new cases
How the quarantine is enforced depends on where you live and
depends on where you live and where you work. In my compound,
where you work. In my compound, we are not allowed to have any
we are not allowed to have any visitors. And the guards live
visitors. And the guards live in the compound so they can
in the compound so they ran enforce
in the compound so they can enforce that. They say this is
enforce that. They say this is an order from the local
an order from the local government authority for
government authority for our area. But I know that in other
area. But I know that in other areas, where my friends are in
areas, where my friends are in Beijing, their
Beijing, their property managers or their guards may
managers or their guards may not be enforcing the same
not be enforcing the same mles, or
not be enforcing the same rules, ortheir
rules, or their local government authority
rules, ortheir local government authority might even
government authority might even have different rules regarding
have different mles regarding guests. So
have different rules regarding guests. 50 this
have different rules regarding guests. 50 thisjust
have different rules regarding guests. 50 this just goes to
guests. So this just goes to show
guests. 50 this just goes to show that there is a lot of
show that there is a lot of patchy enforcement in Beijing
patchy enforcement in Beijing and also that in order to
and also that in order to enforce these laws, what we
enforce these laws, what we have seen happen is the
have seen happen is the kickstarting of this
kickstarting of this network, the system of surveillance,
the system of surveillance, which has always existed in
which has always existed in Beijing and across major cities
Beijing and across major cities in China, where the district is
in China, where the district is divided up into these
divided up into these compounds, which have lots
compounds, which have lots of ﬂats,
compounds, which have lots of flats, where lots of people
ﬂats, where lots of peopla live in
flats, where lots of people live in Chinese cities, and the
live in Chinese cities, and the mles are
live in Chinese cities, and the rules are enforced on the level
mles are enforced on the level of the
rules are enforced on the level of the block of flats. If you
of the block of ﬂats. If you have
of the block of flats. If you have not been to Hubei
have not been to Hubei province, where the
province, where the outbreak started, I think the
started, I think the restrictions are generally much
restrictions are generally much less and you can go out on your
loss and you ran go out on your own wearing a
less and you can go out on your own wearing a facemask to get
own wearing a facemask to get groceries and so on. But I
groceries and so on. But I think the general rule is not
think the general mle is not to
think the general rule is not to allow lots of visitors or
to allow lots of visitors or even one visitor. If you have
even one visitor. If you have been to Hubei province, I hear
been to Hubei province, I hear that things can get a lot more
that things ran get a lot more severe.
that things can get a lot more severe. For example, a
severe. For example, a journalist I know was visited
journalist I know was visited several times a day by guards
several times a day by guards who would check up on her and
who would check up on her and see if she was having people
see if she was having peopla over.
see if she was having people over. And how often she was
over. And how often she was leaving the ﬂat and whether
leaving the ﬂat and whether she was wearing a
leaving the flat and whether she was wearing a mask when she
she was wearing a mask when she left the flat. In Beijing it is
left the ﬂat. In Beijing it is still
left the flat. In Beijing it is still possible to survive
still possible to survive without venturing too far from
without venturing too far from your ﬂat thanks to the
your ﬂat thanks to the ubiquity of online delivery and
ubiquity of online delivery and grocery delivery and so on. But
grocery delivery and so on. But for somebody in that situation
for somebody in that situation it is still obviously not a
it is still obviously not a great situation.
And as China announces a drop in new cases
from the coronavirus outbreak for a third consecutive day,
you can can find information on the spread of the disease,
as well as in—depth articles like this one, about how
effective it is to wear a mask.
Just go to bb.com/news to find all of that.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Mark Zuckerberg has expressed concern over
excessive or authoritarian internet regulations,
as they could compromise the internet’s ability
to spread information freely.
Facebook’s chief executive urged governments to come up
with something stricter than phone companies’
regulation, which are not held responsible for customers’
conversations, but less strict than newspapers’
regulation.
Police in Paris have arrested a Russian performance artist
who posted a sex tape online which ended the election
campaign of President Macron’s candidate for mayor of Paris.
Petr Pavlensky, who has previously set fire to a door
at Russia’s state security headquarters, said he had
wanted to expose what he said was Benjamin Griveaux’s
"hypocrisy."
The US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in Senegalfor talks
with President Macky Sail about security ties
and economic cooperation.
His visit is taking place as the United States seeks
to reduce its military presence in Africa.
Canada has hosted a meeting at the Munich Security Conference
along with the four other countries, which lost
citizens when Iran’s military shot down a Ukrainian passenger
plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people on board.
Canada is pushing Iran to release the black boxes
from the crash so their data can be properly analysed
by facilities in France.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet sat
down with the Canadian Foreign Minister after the meeting
in Munich and asked him whether any progess
had been made.
After 30 days of trying, you have to come to
the conclusion that you need to look at another alternative.
And we know at that point that the French have offered
that they have the latest technology, they have
the expertise, to read the content of the black box,
to download the content, and to do that in a transparent
fashion.
But would you consider Iran’s request from the Foreign
Minister, saying, give us the technical support
to examine the black boxes in Iran?
Couldn’t you do that?
Well, the experts have spoken.
The experts have said it’s not the type of equipment
you can transport.
It looks more like a lab.
For those who are watching at home.
It is not like a piece of equipment you can put
in your luggage.
It’s the software and the hardware you need to have
to do that, especially when the black boxes
have been damaged.
So what we are saying is we saw that you requested that,
the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side
there’s no way that we can send that in Iran.
So the only remaining alternative is to send it
to a third country which would be in this case France,
which has offered to assist, because I think France
understands the international community has a lot
of questions.
And I always say that the best antidote to conspiracy
is transparency.
Have you made any other progress here on the other big
issue, which is compensation?
You say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out
of 176 were Canadian.
Iran says they were Iranians.
They of course have the two passports.
So the compensation you are asking for, Iran says,
they cannot accept.
Is this something where a compromise can be found?
Are you finding it?
Well, what we have hopefully established by now is
that the compensation to be paid to the heirs
of the victims will be the same to everyone.
And we also said that this process of negotiation,
of a global settlement, should start quickly.
I remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents,
I mean, this is a tragedy.
You know, let me bring it back to, for Canada,
this has been a national tragedy.
Families have lost their loved ones.
I was there with Prime Minister Trudeau, we went to meet
families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
Stand up to the regime.
Make sure that they’re accountable.
We wa nt closure, we we nt accountability, we want
justice, we want transparency.
That’s what animates me every time I meet them.
And that is why Prime Minister Trudeau said he went to attend
the meeting you had with the Foreign Minister
of Iran, even though it was at a Foreign Minister level.
But some of the families are expressing concern
about the look of that, the photos of a smiling
encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
Well, the Prime Minister came with one purpose.
It was to make sure that the Iranian counterpart
understood how serious the issue was.
Not only for the grieving families in Canada, not only
for the government of Canada, but I think for the world.
I think having 3 Prime Minister come into the room and state
that, itjust reinforced the message.
That was the Canadian Foreign Minister speaking to a
Minister speaking to 3 international correspondent,
international correspondent, Elise Doucet.
More from the Munich security conference.
Senior American and Afghan sources say the first phase
of a US deal with the Afghan Taliban is set to begin shortly
with the start of what is known as a 7—day reduction
in violence by Taliban forces.
Jarrett Blanc, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, told us what the risk of such
a deal might be.
Well, let’s look at the short term and longer term.
In the short term, the risk associated with the reduction
of violence and conditioning the beginning of Taliban—Afghan
talks on a successful reduction of violence
is that there will be problems.
Spoilers will commit acts of violence that will throw off
the most important part of this agreement,
which is the beginning of intra—Afghan talks.
Over the longer term, you know, the risk is the peace talks
don’t work and either the Taliban demand too much
in the government and legitimate opposition don’t
get their act together to make a reasonable set of proposals
and demands to the Taliban, and you end up in a situation
where you have fewer and a declining number
of American troops and an ongoing civil war.
What is the timeline for this?
There’s this joint statement expected soon.
And a reduction in violence, when is that expected to start?
Well, the Americans have been a little bit cagey
about that so far.
My understanding is it that it’s very soon,
maybe in the couple of days.
One speculation is that they are trying to get that in time
for President Trump to somehow be involved in the formal
conclusion of the deal on his trip to India.
And one of the headlines involved here, as would be
expected is, US troops potentially leaving
Afghanistan.
What with the effects of that be?
Well, the immediate effect of going from let’s say 13,000
troops now to 8,000 troops in a few months
is really minimal.
There will still be more troops in Afghanistan at the end
of that initial drawdown down than there where at the end
of the Obama administration.
So it’s really not that important.
As you go from that number, 8,000, down potentially
to potentially zero, either you’re going to have a peace
deal which all parties adhere to, or you’re going to end up
in a situation where there’s still an ongoing civil war.
And if that’s the case then the drawdown will have to be
measured very carefully to allow the government forces
to sustain themselves and not suffer a psychological blow
that would be devastating in the ongoing conflict.
Stay with us on BBC World News.
Still to come: the 3—day—long race across a frozen lake.
We’ll hear from participants in one of sport’s more extreme
events.
Nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into Afghanistan,
the last Soviet troops were finally coming home.
The withdrawal completed in good order, but the army
defeated in the task it had been sent to perform.
Malcolm has been murdered.
That has a terrible effect on the morale of the people.
I am terrified of the repercussions on the streets.
One wonders who is next.
As the airlift got under way, there was no let—up
in the eruption itself.
Lava streams from an event low in the crater flow into the sea
on the east of the island, away from the town for the time
being, but could start flowing again at any time.
The Russians heralded a new—generation space station
with a spectacular night launch.
They called it Mir, the Russian for peace.
This is BBC World News.
The latest headlines:
Chinese authorities say deaths from the coronavirus epidemic
have now passed 1,600, and in France, an 80—year—old
Chinese tourist becomes the first European Covid—19
fatality.
At least eight people are killed as a bus carrying
football fans from Ecuador plunges into a ravine in Peru.
As we’ve been hearing, the television presenter,
Caroline Flack, host of some of the UK’s biggest reality TV
shows, has been found dead at her home in east London.
Herfamily says she took her own life.
Ms Flack, who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next
month, accused of assaulting her partner, an allegation
she denied.
She fronted programmes that garnered many millions
of viewers, including ITV’s The X Factor and Love Island.
She won Strictly Come Dancing in 2014.
Here’s our media correspondent David Sillito.
It’s the return of the Flack!
Love Island, X Factor, I’m A Celebrity —
Caroline Flack was a presenter on some of the biggest
programmes on British television.
She was, until a few weeks ago,
the face of Love Island’s the glamorous, escapist fun.
Let’s talk love.
Who’s looking for the real thing?
But everything unravelled after she was arrested
and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
Step back!
In court in December,
it was clear that she was deeply distressed.
Today, she was found dead at her flat.
Her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
Friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock
and heartbreak at the news.
Love Island is a show that thrives on its impact on social
media, and tonight, thousands were expressing
their grief and sympathy.
But her court appearance was proof enough
that she was also facing intense scrutiny,
both in the press and online.
On its best days, social media is a very powerful tool
for these presenters because they can effortlessly
and immediately communicate with so many different fans
and really bring their own personality to the fore.
The problem is that on the bad days,
that scmtiny and attention does not go away.
It stays with them.
The MacDonut Brothers!
Her TV career went back nearly 20 years.
This, TMI on Children’s BBC,
and then in 2014, she won Strictly Come Dancing.
The night she won, elation.
But she spoke afterwards of her struggle with depression.
Then came the assault charge.
She was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
He stood by her, but they weren’t allowed to communicate
before her forthcoming trial.
She was also advised to stay off social media,
but she did post this on Instagram.
She thanked those who had been kind to her and added:
Another post read simply:
Caroline Flack, who has died at the age of A0.
Storm Dennis is continuing to bring heavy rain
and strong winds to many parts of the UK.
Rivers in Yorkshire are expected to peak around now.
The Army was brought in to shore up flood defences.
In Scotland, there are three severe flood warnings in place.
And across England, Scotland and Wales,
there are a total of 205 flood warnings.
Helena Wilkinson reports.
Amongst the first evidence of damage by Storm Dennis
was here in South Wales.
This village is where people’s homes are under serious threat.
A similar picture tonight in Harberton in Devon.
Dozens of flood warnings are still in place across
the country as the rain continues to fall.
In Ilkley and Calderdale in West Yorkshire,
areas still recovering from last week’s storm,
the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
There are a number of places where the local resilience
authorities thought they had a problem with the flood
defences that are currently in place, so we have been asked
to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences
in in both places.
Some of the worst affected parts could see up to MOmm
of rainfall and gusts of up to 80mph.
Certainly, with the amount of rain that is forecast,
100mm or a month’s worth of rainfall on top of what is
incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk
and that’s why we’re warning people to take action
and that’s why we’re doing the kind of things
we’re doing here.
Not far away, in Hebden Bridge,
there’s no respite from the persistent rain.
The Scottish Environment Protection Agency has issued
flood warnings and advice for residents here in Dumfries
and Galloway, plus elsewhere in the Borders,
South Lanarkshire and South Ayrshire.
For many, the half—term getaway
has ended up with a lesson in travel disruption.
Easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
Almost 100 from here at Gatwick.
At Heathrow, 60 flights were grounded —
most of them British Airways.
And on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
Tonight, there are amber warnings for rain
for most of the country,
meaning flooding could cause a danger to life.
Communities are waiting and hoping
that their preparations will be enough to protect them.
Helena Wilkinson, BBC News.
The Venezuelan government says a huge numbers of soldiers
and civilians have begun a 2—day military drill
to prepare for what it describes
as the threat of invasion by US—led forces.
The opposition leader, Juan Guaido, dismissed
the manoeuvres as a propaganda exercise by a dictatorship.
Earlier, the BBC’s Americas editor, Leonardo Rocha,
explained why President Maduro had decided to hold
the military exercises now.
He is, in a way, making a statement and giving —
sending out a message to the United States
that the Venezuelan people, or at least more than 2 million
people who are part of this militia who support him,
are prepared for anything.
His advisers — his military advisors are Cuban,
many of them trained in Cuba and they learned
from the Cuban example.
If you arm the population,
if you have well—organised neighbourhood committees,
anyone that tries to get into Venezuela
knows that there’ll be a bloodbath.
So, he’s pitching himself and the people against America?
Against America and now — I mean, there are —
the two biggest neighbours of Venezuela —
Colombia and Brazil — have hostile governments.
Jair Bolsonaro in Brazil and Ivan Duque,
right—wing governments,
which one of the reasons of why these exercises —
Nicolas Maduro said those two countries
are harbouring terrorist groups, they are training
in their territory to prepare possible invasion if things —
if the opportunity’s ripe,
they might launch attacks and invade Venezuela.
50, his strategy here at the moment is to align
a nationalistic hope and get that up against what he would
say are his enemies in surrounding countries?
Yes.
We have to bear in mind the fact that Venezuela has
the highest inflation in the world.
Violence, more than — almost 5 million Venezuelans
have left the country in the last few years.
So, the economy is in a mess.
The political situation is in a stalemate,
you have a very difficult situation.
And what the opposition says is he’s creating a diversion.
You create the threat of an enemy,
while Nicolas Maduro says the Empire —
the American Empire is trying to invade Venezuela,
it has the biggest known oil reserves in the world.
So there is all that playing on his side.
In the meantime, he hopes that the economy recovers.
It has recovered somehow,
so he will regain the support of the majority of Venezuelan
people.
What isJuan Guaido’s strategy here?
This time last year, he was big news every day
in terms of would he be taking the presidency,
but he seems to have pushed back.
He seems to have lost the momentum.
I thinkJuan Guaido’s strategy is to keep pushing
and be there if the opportunity comes.
If the government deteriorates, he’s there.
But he lost the momentum somehow.
It’s been one year since the United States recognised
him as the legitimate leader of Venezuela, but nothing has
happened in real terms since then.
Early voting has begun in the US state of Nevada
as the Democrats continue their campaign to chose
a candidate to stand against Donald Trump in November.
The week—long process in the state
finishes next Saturday.
It’s seen as an important test forJoe Biden,
who lost heavily in Iowa and in New Hampshire.
His team argues Nevada,
with its more diverse population,
could help to improve Mr Biden’s fortunes.
Senator Bernie Sanders, though,
is the current front—runner in the Democratic Party race.
Now to a race with a difference —
the track is the surface of a frozen lake.
It’s the Ice Storm contest,
held annually in the far east of Russia,
and it could just be the toughest race in the world.
Take a look at this.
TRANSLATION: It’s like meditation.
At the start, there are lots of people
but after two minutes, you are alone.
TRANSLATION: Anything can happen.
We’ve already stepped in a lot of cracks.
Amazing scenes.
The Swedish pole vaulter Armand Duplantis has set
a new world record for the second week in a row.
The 20—year—old easily cleared 6.18 metres
in Glasgow on Saturday.
Duplantis is coached by his father Greg,
also a successful pole vaulter.
A reminder of our top story: China has insisted the outbreak
of the new coronavirus is gradually coming under
control after the latest figures showed a drop
in the number of new cases for the third consecutive day.
However, the World Health Organization says it may yet
become a global epidemic.
They’ve also asked China to elaborate on how it’s
diagnosing the disease.
Don’t forget, you can get in touch with me and some
of my team on Twitter.
I’m @sipusey.
For now, that is it from us. Do stay tuned.
Hello.
Storm Dennis continues to better Britain.
Looking back at Saturday, well, it was windy everywhere,
wasn’t it, but the strongest gust of wind was at Aberdaron
in the Llyn Peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here.
We’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been
causing problems, particularly across parts of northern
England, Wales, the West Midlands
and south—west England.
Now, there are lots of flood warnings in force
and the number of flood warnings continues to rise
hour by hour.
And with more heavy rain in the forecast,
that’s clearly not a good thing.
Now, looking at the satellite picture, this is Storm Dennis.
The centre actually near Iceland.
But it’s this trailing weather front stretching for a couple
of thousand miles out into the Atlantic that’s
causing problems, because the winds are blowing parallel
to the front rather than across it, and that
means the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve
got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head
into the first part of Sunday.
Now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across Wales,
the West Midlands and south—west England.
If anything, the rain much heavier than we saw
on Saturday, for example, and there will be some heavy
falls as well in northern England at times.
Given that we already have a number of flood warnings
out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time
here as we head into the first part of Sunday morning.
Cooler air across the north—west
with blustery showers.
Now, looking at the weather picture through the rest
of Sunday, our weather front tracks its way
towards the south—east.
Now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear
southern and eastern areas of England.
In other words, there could still be quite a bit
of rain left over even into the afternoon here,
but it’s going to be a windy day everywhere.
Gusts of wind inland again 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong
enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
So there is the risk of transport disruption
whether from the flooding rain
or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
Showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
As we go on into Sunday night, if anything, the winds
are going to get stronger for a time across the far north
of England and Scotland as the centre of Dennis passes
close to the north of Scotland.
So the winds picking up could cause some problems
here for transport as we head into Monday morning
for Scotland.
As we head through the rest of Monday, it’s a day broadly
speaking of sunny spells and showers.
The winds staying strong, takin ga while to ease
gradually, and will continue to make it feel quite chilly
across these northern areas.
Beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest
of the week ahead.
Rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay
quite windy.
But for most of us, it will also stay
on the mild side.
Temperatures up to M degrees for London next weekend.
That’s your weather.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
Health officials in China say the total number of deaths
from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600,
with almost 150 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
In France, an 80—year—old Chinese tourist has died,
the first Covid—19 fatality in Europe.
At least eight football fans from Ecuador have died
after their bus plunged into a ravine in Peru.
They were on their way home from celebrating their club’s
qualifaction for the next stage of South America’s biggest club
tournament, The Copa Libertadores.
A0 other supporters were injured.
Canada is leading a renewed call for Iran to hand over the black
boxes from the Ukrainian airliner, brought down over Tehran inJanuary.
All 176 people on board were killed.
Canadian authorities say they need the contents so the data can be
analysed properly by facilities in France.
Now on BBC News, it’s time for Click.
This week: Kitchen hacks go to pot.
Football scores, and the ﬂippable foldable phone.
Flat or bended?
Last week, YouTube revealed for the first time just how much
cash it’s making parent company Google.
That was $15,000,000,000 last year.
Announcing its results for the first time seems like a right of passage —
Last week, YouTube revealed for the first time just how much
cash it’s making parent company Google.
That was $15,000,000,000 last year.
Announcing its results for the first time seems like a right of passage —
it has grown up and is standing on its own to feed.
—— two feet.
I visited their London office to find out how it has come of age.
Kevin, YouTube used to be the place where video went viral,
but now it seems a lot of that happens on Facebook or TikTok.
How do you think things have changed?
The Internet is bigger.
It is much easier to make a beautiful video now
than it was ten years ago.
When you look at now what the most popular videos on YouTube are,
they are not viral hit videos, but coming from channels producing
lots of content regularly and that have large audiences.
I think YouTube has moved from this unintentional kind of quick video
thing which we all associate with the early years of YouTube
to this sort of new world in which you have creators who have
businesses and build audiences.
Few could have predicted some of the most successful genres.
Tell me about ASMR.
It is short for Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response.
These are whispered videos where people whisper or do things
quietly to make audiences react.
What sort of things might they do?
They might whisper, or cook, or rub things on the microphone.
It is a very unusual form of entertainment.
But it is not designed necessarily to make you laugh or do the things
that we think about for traditional entertainment.
It is designed to help you relax or calm down.
Another big trend is recipes.
Making something the old—fashioned way can be time—consuming
and fiddly.
So some of the videos online, particularly many have gone viral,
make it look very simple.
But is it always possible to do what you are watching?
Well, Chris Fox has been finding out.
You’ve probably been seeing food hacks like these online before —
top tricks for tasty treats — but are they too good to be true?
Millions of videos like this have turned up on YouTube and Facebook,
but do the all the tips and recipes work, orwilltheyjust
waste your time and ingredients?
Here is a milk carton flan from the lifestyle channel Blossom.
This video’s had 17 million views.
You put the ingredients in the carton, microwave it,
cool it, and out pops a perfect carton flan.
Now, Ifollowed this video step—by—step.
I’ve used the exact same quantities.
Now, the first problem came when I tried to put this
in the microwave, because the milk carton was too tall,
it wouldn’t fit.
And that got me thinking, well, how did they fit their milk carton
full of ingredients in the microwave?
And it looks like they didn’t, because if you rewatch the video,
you’ll see that they actually just cut the bottom
of the milk carton off.
Not to be deterred, I put the mixture into a gym shaker
and followed the rest of the video, putting it in the microwave to boil
for ten minutes.
And did I get a flan at the end of it?
No, I did not.
Next up, Gummy Bear Hacks: Easy DIY Dessert Recipes for the Weekend,
recipes from So Yummy.
3.2 million views.
In this video, melting Gummy Bears turns them intojelly.
Here’s me copying what I saw in the video.
It turns out gummy bears are actually very thick and gloopy
when they are melted, not runny like liquid jelly.
Will my spoon go into the jelly just as effortlessly
as in the So Yummy video?
Well, no it will not.
Because, as you might expect, this gummy mixture at the bottom
of the glass is rock solid.
Let’s have one more.
This is from S—Minute Crafts.
If you’ve run out of popcorn, why notjust shove an ear of corn
in the microwave to make some popcorn?
Now, I don’t need to tell you that if you put an ear of fresh corn
into the microwave it will not come out as popcorn but willjust
be hot corn.
But I was willing to be proved wrong, so I tried it out
in the name of science.
When it comes out, it is warmer than before!
I’m not the only one who has been intrigued by this —
Ann Reardon is a food scientist and runs a cookery channel
on YouTube, and she’s been investigating, too.
It’s the fake news of the cooking work —
it’s faked baking.
The reason why it works is that it’s more clickable,
and clickbait content is currently working on the YouTube algorithm.
And apparently working on Facebook, too.
Ann’s been trying a lot of these recipes on her YouTube channel, too.
There’s one on So Yummy where they make cake icing out
of strawberry ice cream.
Now, Ann tried it, and it didn’t work.
I’ve also tried it, and it doesn’t work.
Having a food science degree, I know what properties different
things have and whether that will work or not.
It’s not possible to whip up ice cream, because the fat content
is not high enough.
Even if you get the most luxurious ice cream you will get,
it will not whip and make frosting.
That’s an example of the faked ones, but there are now some
which are going to dangerous territory as well.
One on S—Minute Crafts they have one when they put a strawberry
in bleach to make it white.
If a child was to watch that and do it, they could consume a lot
of bleach, which is obviously not good for them.
There is another video where molten caramel is put over a spinning whisk
to make a sort of bird’s nest decoration to put on top
of a dessert.
Molten caramel is hot — like, it’s hotter than boiling water.
So we made a box and put plastic wrap in front of it.
The hot caramel melted right through it.
While we’re here, those melted caramel cake decorations they show,
that’s not the best way to make those, either.
It takes a long time to melt one sweet, and usually theyjust burn
and stick to the pan.
The professional — and just as easy —
way, according to Ann, is to put your sweets in a blender,
put a thin layer of that on greaseproof paper and put it
in the oven forjust a few minutes.
That’s an easy way to make caramel cake decorations that you can
try at home.
That was Chris, and Chris is here now.
You didn’t manage to bring me lunch, though, did you?
I should have saved you some of my sweaty egg flan!
I’m not sure it looked that appetising!
What did the companies have to say?
S—Minute Crafts, which made the popcorn video that didn’t pop,
they didn’t reply to my email.
And First Media, which runs the So Yummy and Blossom channel,
well, they invited me to their studios in LA to prove
that the recipes work, but they said I couldn’t film
them doing it.
They told me they only put recipes in the videos that do work,
although I suspect not as shown in the video because
we tried it and they didn’t work,
and the food scientist, Ann, she said some of the recipes,
there’s no way they would work,
even if you followed the instructions and used
the most luxurious ingredients.
So why are people so busy sharing these videos?
I think they are obviously very visual, they are nicely produced.
Companies would say that the purpose of this is entertainment,
they give you cooking ideas and inspiration.
And, crucially, most of the people who watch these videos aren’t
actually going to actually try these recipes, theyjust like the visuals.
Clearly.
And this is what happened when I asked Kevin at
YouTube about this.
You seem to love these videos and share them a lot,
but they’re clearly not actually trying to make the food.
I think for a lot of life hack videos, or kitchen hack videos,
it’s not about trying to take that fact or hack and use it
in your life, it’s just oddly
satisfying to see it play out in front of you.
It’s just another form of entertainment.
Does it not matter? Is truth that thing of past?
Truth is not a thing of the past,
but I think that there is some contexts in which pure accuracy,
perhaps, is not always paramount.
Keeping up with the pace of technological change can be
difficult at the best of times — particularly for parents,
who want to be able to keep track of what their children are doing,
how much screen time they’re having, whether all the content
is appropriate.
And never has this been more true than when it comes to videogames.
So Mark Cieslak has been looking at this very problem with a spot
of help from one of the best—known faces in football.
Father—of—three and ex—Manchester United and England footballer
Rio Ferdinand is fronting a campaign to encourage parents to learn
about the parental controls they can use in their children’s videogames.
I was someone who’s been fairly involved in gaming
throughout my adult life, and my children play,
and we thought we’ve had a good balance in our house.
You get in, you do your school work, you do your chores about the house,
you have a balance between the gaming and being outside.
But having an understanding of what your children are actually
doing, that’s always so invaluable to me
to understand what I can actually do
in terms of actually controlling what type of games that they’re on.
Do you think parents have to take more responsibility as far
as videogames and their children are concerned?
You have to take a key interest,
like you take a key interest in your child’s school life,
take an interest in their game life
because it’s an integral part of their life nowadays
like it or not.
The Get Smart About Play campaign is the work of the UK games
industry trade body.
It provides online guides about parental controls on consoles
and computers, controls which can limit play time and prevent children
spending real—world money on virtual items.
Well, we know that more than half of parents in the UK in particular
have concerns about the amount of time their children and people
in their care are spending playing games and on screens in general.
This is part of an overall society digital literacy agenda.
You know, so, really understanding boundaries,
understanding how to protect yourself, understanding how
to protect your privacy, it’s part of a wider thing
in society that I think we need to really pay attention to.
Research suggests that up to 99% of children in the UK aged
between eight and 15 play video games regularly.
Compare this to research carried out by the NSPCC which found only 19%
of parents with children between aged of five and 15 actually
use parental controls on devices which connect to the Internet.
But some parents think that the games industry should bear
a greater response ability.
Are they trying to empower parents, or are they passing the buck?
They have a purpose and a responsibility to actually
protect the mental well—being of our children.
That is part of their role as I see it.
Every company that is producing content for our children has to take
on that responsibility.
Features in games like loot boxes, randomised in—game virtual items
which can be bought with real—world cash, have been compared
to gambling, and have led to increased scrutiny
of the industry.
So does it need to clean up its act?
We are businesses at the end of the day,
and these parental controls and family are important,
because you can turn of in—game spending.
That’s why the conversation is really important,
so it is a shared responsibility.
While learning about parental controls improves digital literacy,
perhaps some parents who play video games with their children
might enjoy the experience as well.
Hello and welcome to the Week in Tech.
It was a week that Google started its appeal against a £2
billion fine by the European Commission.
It’s alleged the company abused its power by of favouring
its own shopping comparison service over others.
The world’s largest mobile show, Mobile World Congress,
has been cancelled over coronavirus concerns.
The decision comes after high—profile companies,
including Nokia, LG,
and Vodafone pulled out of the event.
And speaking of the coronavirus, in Times Square in New York,
a robot has been providing information to curious passers—by
about the virus.
US and German intelligence services were outed for spying on governments
through the control of a Swiss encryption firm.
From the Cold War era up to the 20005, Crypto AG supplied
encoding devices which harvested secrets from countries including
Iran, India and Pakistan.
The first human clinical controls of a blood—drawing robot have
started this week.
Researchers at Rutgers University found that it performed as well
or better than human clinicians.
And, finally, some people are heavy—handed,
I know I am,
but now there’s a robotic hand they can do the heavy lifting
as well as have a delicate touch.
It is capable of handling various objects and tools,
like an egg, and playing the piano.
It is expected these hands will be used in industrial sites,
as well as everyday life.
This week saw Samsung’s Unpacked event.
Yes, it’s a phone launch time again.
Here I have the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip.
Now, whether you find this appealing or not,
I have to say that on Click, we’ve been to a fair few phone
launches and it’s quite refreshing to find one that doesn’tjust look
like a rectangle.
This is Samsung’s second foldable phone and is a more compact offering
than the first, even though its ultra—thin foldable glass opens
up to a 6.7—inch screen.
And on the front here you have a display where it can give
you all your notifications, when you get phone calls or text
messages, they’ll pop up there and there’s a camera
so you can take selfies without even opening the device.
But once you do open it, well, some apps are optimised to be able
to provide you with a viewing zone and an interaction zone.
It wasn’t long ago that the Motorola Razr was announced and one
of the criticisms that that’s received is that the line
in the middle where the phone actually folds
is a bit too prominent.
Now, how much that crease would bother me if this
was my regular phone, I don’t know.
I can see a line there but it is a folding phone,
so I don’t really know what you’d expect.
Oh, and it would set you back £1,300, by the way.
Here I have the Samsung Galaxy 520 Ultra.
Now, Samsung say the main reason people upgrade their phones
is to get a better camera and that’s definitely the focus here.
In fact, it has up to 100 times zoom.
If you take a look behind me,
there are two small figurines up there.
I’m going to try taking a photograph of them using this device,
zooming in and see how clear it’s going to be.
The camera has 10—times optical zoom
and beyond that moves into digital zoom.
Now, once you’re in the realms of using the 100 times,
the camera engages Al to clean up the image as well.
OK, it’s definitely zoomed in, but the image is very shaky,
so I think you’d really struggle to do this holding onto the phone
if on a tripod it still looks like this, but you can see more,
you can get a clearer image of what you’re looking at.
The question is — how much use is that photo?
You certainly wouldn’t want something that looked like that
put on your mantelpiece, would you?
This shot has been taken using the A8mp camera
and the AI has helped create a clear shot.
Let’s compare that to this image,
which was taken using the 108mp camera,
and then after the photo was taken, the picture was zoomed in on.
So, that one is sort of clearer in a way.
This one looks more like a work of art.
Over the past few years,
Rwanda’s become a hub for technology in sub—Saharan Africa.
Jane Copestake has been to look at a unique project hoping to bring
electricity to the whole country and possibly avert disaster.
Lake Kivu in Rwanda is one of East Africa’s great lakes.
The beautiful landscape is attracting tourists for kayaking
and fishing with hopes of generating a lot of revenue for the country,
but something even more valuable is hidden deep within this lake.
We’re going 14km offshore to see the Kiquatt project.
It’s where they’re extracting methane gas
from below the surface of the lake.
It’s the only project like it in the world.
This barge took seven years to construct and lies on the lake’s
border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The engineers here work 2A hours a day in 12—hour shifts,
monitoring the conditions of the lake.
Kivu is highly saturated with gases, including methane and carbon dioxide
from millions of years of decomposition and volcanic activity.
These gases are kept under pressure at significant depths.
The lake is 480m deep.
However, any disturbance to the lake from seismic activity or a lava flow
could result in the gases leaking out.
Kivu is one of only three known lakes in the world
where the specific conditions for this catastrophic
event could occur.
They are known as the killer lakes.
In 1986, a similar lake, Lake Nyos in Cameroon,
suffered a carbon dioxide leak.
The resulting gas cloud killed over 1,700 people in nearby villages
and all other living creatures in its path.
If the gases in Lake Kivu escaped,
it could have even more deadly consequences —
it’s over 1,700 times bigger than Lake Nyos
and over 2 million people live around it.
In Lake Kivu, there’s a lot of concentration here,
which, of course, is far much more than what we have in Lake Nyos,
so this is why it’s very, very important to embark on such
projects to reduce the content of the gas on the lakebed.
There are 300 billion cubic metres of carbon dioxide
and 60 billion cubic metres of methane in the lake.
Safely extracting the methane will help generate electricity
for Rwanda, something it desperately needs.
This project is contributing about 30%
to the need of the country.
30% — that’s impressive.
So, that 30% wasn’t there before you started?
Which was not there before, exactly.
Large pipes below the barge bring in the gas—saturated water.
This water is forced into a separator.
At a certain depth, the gas starts to separate from the water.
The phenomena there is one we would liken to opening
a bottle of champagne.
When you’re allowing the water to be siphoned upwards,
then it’s also boosted by the lake pressure itself
and it’s pushing the water upwards.
Water with a mixture of carbon dioxide, methane and hydrogen
sulphide is sent to the barge’s wash towers and cleaned.
The carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulphide are removed.
The de—gassed water is returned to the lake,
and methane is delivered by a suspended pipeline
to the shore—based power plant for electrical generation.
This is the definition of innovation,
building the project right from the design stage
up until construction and now into operation.
Currently, 51% of Rwandans have access to electricity.
By 2024, the government hopes that will rise to 100%.
The Kiquatt project plans to deploy three additional barges here to help
the country reach this ambitious target.
Now, over the past few weeks, we’ve been showing you some
of the films nominated in the Oscars Best Visual Effects
category, but we have saved the best for last,
and this week, we have Sam Mendes’ epic First World War drama 1917
in store for you.
This was the one that took the Oscar,
and if you haven’t seen it yet,
what is pretty remarkable is the way that
the film is supposed to look like one continuous shot.
GENERAL ERINMORE: Your orders are to deliver a message
falling off tomorrow morning’s attack.
If you fail, it will be a massacre.
What Sam’s always wanted to do is to have the idea
of the audience being sort of, a part of the story.
Instead of being in a window to the world of something,
it gives the idea that the audience is travelling, going along
with the story as an extra character, should we say.
That, in itself, brings some really difficult challenges.
91% of that film has a visual effect in it,
from digital doubles or environment extensions, atmospherics.
We put in houses or trees or bushes or canals,
and it works at this angle, but then the camera carries
on and two minutes later, we’re looking at the reverse angle,
something like that, and aesthetically it doesn’t work,
so we had a lot of logistical sort of issues to work out.
What we talked about really was feeling.
It’s a strange word to use
because obviously with visual effects...
To help quantify it is we break it down into shots and this gets
digitally stitched together, but actually it’s more
about a feeling of a sequence or a beat.
Go, go, go!
No men’s [and is a really interesting sequence,
because obviously that sort of sets the tone for the journey.
This was all shot in England.
One of our primary ideas or principles was to make sure
that it looked like the north of France.
MPC created CG horses, we did environment extensions,
fake barbed wire, added a huge amount of craters.
Sam had this vision for the end scene.
3, 2, 1, go, go!
Our work is really to tidy up and emphasise what had already gone
on, because a lot of it was all in camera once again,
we were only adding a little bit to the story but we weren’t
dramatically changing anything from battle apart from adding a few
more dangerous, sort of, explosions that were closer
to our heroes, and obviously the 500 extras who were on the set
at that point.
We were really adding a little bit more danger and making sure that
from a cinematic point of view,
it was visually a beautiful scene for them.
COLONEL MACKENZIE: There is only one way this ends.
Well, that’s it for this week’s show.
You can keep track of the team throughout the week
on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter —
@BBCclick.
Thanks for watching.
Hello.
Storm Dennis continues to better Britain.
Looking back at Saturday, well, it was windy everywhere,
wasn’t it, but the strongest gust of wind was at Aberdaron
in the Llyn Peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here.
We’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been
causing problems, particularly across parts of northern
England, Wales, the West Midlands
and south—west England.
Now, there are lots of flood warnings in force
and the number of flood warnings continues to rise
hour by hour.
And with more heavy rain in the forecast,
that’s clearly not a good thing.
Now, looking at the satellite picture, this is Storm Dennis.
The centre actually near Iceland.
But it’s this trailing weather front stretching for a couple
of thousand miles out into the Atlantic that’s
causing problems, because the winds are blowing parallel
to the front rather than across it, and that
means the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve
got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head
into the first part of Sunday.
Now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across Wales,
the West Midlands and south—west England.
If anything, the rain much heavier than we saw
on Saturday, for example, and there will be some heavy
falls as well in northern England at times.
Given that we already have a number of flood warnings
out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time
here as we head into the first part of Sunday morning.
Cooler air across the north—west
with blustery showers.
Now, looking at the weather picture through the rest
of Sunday, our weather front tracks its way
towards the south—east.
Now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear
southern and eastern areas of England.
In other words, there could still be quite a bit
of rain left over even into the afternoon here,
but it’s going to be a windy day everywhere.
Gusts of wind again inland 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong
enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
So there is the risk of transport disruption
whether from the flooding rain
or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
Showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
As we go on into Sunday night, if anything, the winds
are going to get stronger for a time across the far north
of England and Scotland as the centre of Dennis passes
close to the north of Scotland.
So the winds picking up could cause some problems
here for transport as we head into Monday morning
for Scotland.
As we head through the rest of Monday, it’s a day broadly
speaking of sunny spells and showers.
The winds staying strong, taking a while before they ease
gradually in the afternoon, and will continue to make it feel
quite chilly across these northern areas.
Beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest
of the week ahead.
Rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay
quite windy.
But for most of us, it will also stay
on the mild side.
Temperatures up to M degrees for London next weekend.
That’s your weather.
This is BBC World News.
I’m Simon Pusey.
Our top stories:
China says deaths from the coronavirus epidemic have
now passed 1,600 — and in France, an 80—year—old
Chinese tourist becomes the first European, COVID—19
fatality.
At least eight people are killed as a bus carrying
football fans from Ecuador plunges into a ravine in Peru.
Canada leads renewed calls for Iran to hand over the black
boxes from the Ukrainian airliner brought down over
Tehran in January.
The popular British TV presenter Caroline Flack,
has been found dead at her London home.
Herfamily say she took her own life.
Troops are deployed in the north of England,
as storm Dennis hits the UK and northern Europe.
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
The US Government says it sending two aircraft to Japan
on Sunday to evacuate American citizens quarantined on board
a giant cruise ship in the Japanese port of Yokohama.
There are now 355 cases of coronavirus infection
from the ship.
Meanwhile, China has insisted the outbreak
of the new coronavirus is gradually coming under
control after the latest figures showed a drop
in the number of new cases for the third consecutive day.
Aaron Safir reports.
Hubei province, where the coronavirus first emerged in
coronavirus first emerged in December, remains the epicentre
December, remains the epicentre of what is a national epidemic
of what is a national epidemic and a global outbreak. Another
and a global outbreak. Another drop in the number of new cases
drop in the number of new rases is, China says,
drop in the number of new cases is, China says, more proof that
is, China says, more proof that the virus is being managed
the virus is being managed effectively. At that management
effectively. At that management means ever more stringent
means ever more stringent measures. China now says
measures. China now says banknotes will be disinfected
banknotes will be disinfected and stored for M days before
and stored for 14 days before being put
and stored for M days before being put back into
being put back into circulation. And Beijing has
circulation. And Beijing has ordered everyone returning to
ordered everyone returning to the city to go into quarantine
the city to go into quarantine for 14 days.
the city to go into quarantine for M days. The quarantine
for 14 days. The quarantine depends on
for M days. The quarantine depends on where you live and
depends on where you live and where you work. For example,
where you work. For example, the guard at the gate has told
the guard at the gate has told me we are not allowed to have
me we are not allowed to have any visitors and, of course, he
any visitors and, of course, he knows everybody who lives in
knows everybody who lives in the compound, so he can enforce
the compound, so he ran enforce that very much
the compound, so he can enforce that very much himself stop by
that very much himself stop by the virus has claimed its first
the virus has claimed its first life outside of Asia, with the
life outside of Asia, with the death of a Chinese tourist in
death of a Chinese tourist in France, and Africa has seen its
France, and Africa has seen its first rase to,
France, and Africa has seen its first case to, in Egypt. But
first use to, in Egypt. But the
first rase to, in Egypt. But the largest
first case to, in Egypt. But the largest coronavirus
the largest coronavirus outbreak outside China remains
outbreak outside China remains on a cruise liner Docter of
on a cruise liner Docter of Yokohama in
on a cruise liner Docter of Yokohama inJapan. There are
Yokohama in japan. There are hearty 4000
Yokohama inJapan. There are nearly 4000 people on board the
nearly 4000 people on board the Diamond Princess, and despite
Diamond Princess, and despite strict quarantine conditions,
strict quarantine conditions, the number of cases continues
the number of rases continues to rise.
the number of cases continues to rise. More than 350 people
to rise. More than 350 peopla have
to rise. More than 350 people have the illness and more than
have the illness and more than two—thirds of those on board
two-thirds of those on board have
two—thirds of those on board have not even been tested. On
have not even been tested. On Sunday, Canada and Hong Kong
Sunday, (‘anada and Hong Kong joined the
Sunday, Canada and Hong Kong joined the United States in
joined the United States in making arrangements to pick up
making arrangements to pick up their citizens from the liner
their citizens from the liner and bring them home. Meanwhile,
and bring them home. Meanwhile, a passenger who been on board
a passenger who been on board another cruise ship, now docked
another cmise ship, now docked in
another cruise ship, now docked in Cambodia, has tested
in Cambodia, has tested positive for the virus. The
positive for the virus. The Westerdam had been barred from
Westerdam had been barred from several Asian ports before
several Asian ports before passengers were allowed off.
passengers were allowed off. Now an 83—year—old American
Now an 83-year-old American woman
Now an 83—year—old American woman has tested positive after
woman has tested positive after arriving by air in Malaysia.
arriving by air in Malaysia. Back in China, the World Health
Back in China, the World Health Organization is conducting an
Organization is conducting an investigation into the
investigation into the outbreak. And while another
outbreak. And whila another drop in
outbreak. And while another drop in new cases will be
drop in new cases will be welcomed, is insisting it’s
welcomed, is insisting it’s still too early to predict
still too early to predict whether the coronavirus
whether the coronavirus outbreak will become a global
outbreak will become a global epidemic.
Aaron Safir, BBC News.
And as China announces a drop in new cases
from the coronavirus outbreak for a third consecutive day,
you can can find information on the spread of the disease,
as well as in depth articles like this one, about how
effective it is to wear a mask.
Just go to bbc.com/news to find all of that.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Mark Zuckerberg has warned the internet risks losing
its ability to spread information freely if it’s
subjected to excessive regulation.
The chief executive of Facebook acknowledged that the company
should accept some form of state regulation,
but that currently it sits somewhere between a phone
company and a newspaper.
Police in Paris have arrested a Russian performance artist
who posted a sex tape online which ended the election
campaign of President Macron’s candidate for mayor of Paris.
Petr Pavlensky, who has previously set fire to a door
at Russia’s state security headquarters, said he had
wanted to expose what he said was Benjamin Griveaux’s
"hypocrisy".
The US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in Senegalfor talks
with President Macky Sail about security ties
and economic cooperation.
His visit is taking place as the United States seeks
to reduce its military presence in Africa.
At least eight football fans from Ecuador have died
after their bus plunged into a ravine in Peru.
They were on their way home from celebrating their club’s
qualifaction for the next stage of the Copa Libertadores —
South America’s biggest club tournament.
Richard Forrest reports.
A fall of 15 metres and a crash so violent it pulled the roof
from this bus.
At least A0 people were injured, the driver seems
to have lost control in the early hours of the morning.
TRANSLATION: I was asleep at the time of the accident.
I couldn’t tell you what happened.
I just felt the impact, the blow.
It happened near Mancora on a notoriously dangerous
stretch of the Pan—American Highway in northern Peru.
Supporters of the Ecuadorian team Barcelona SC were
celebrating their team’s qualification for the next
stage of the Copa Libertadores.
Dangerous curves, poor maintenance, and scant
enforcements make driving on Peru’s roads dangerous.
They claim nine lives a day according to the Government.
Ecuador’s president has expressed his condolences
and pledged help for the families of the victims
whose loved ones celebrations turned to tragedy.
Richard Forrest, BBC News.
Canada has hosted a meeting at the Munich Security Conference
along with the four other countries, which lost
citizens when Iran’s military shot down a Ukrainian passenger
plane five weeks ago, killing all 176 people on board.
Canada is pushing Iran to release the black boxes
from the crash so their data can be properly analysed
by facilities in France.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet sat
down with the Canadian Foreign Minister after the meeting
in Munich and asked him whether any progress
had been made.
After 30 days of trying, you have to come to
the conclusion that you need to look at another alternative.
And we know at that point that the French have offered
that they have the latest technology, they have
the expertise, to read the content of the black box,
to download the content, and to do that in a transparent
fashion.
But would you consider Iran’s request from the Foreign
Minister, saying, give us the technical support
to examine the black boxes in Iran?
Couldn’t you do that?
Well, the experts have spoken.
The experts have said it’s not the type of equipment
you can transport.
It looks more like a lab.
For those who are watching at home.
It is not like a piece of equipment you can put
in your luggage.
It’s the software and the hardware you need to have
to do that, especially when the black boxes
have been damaged.
So what we are saying is we saw that you requested that,
the answer has come back to say that on the equipment side
there’s no way that we can send that in Iran.
So the only remaining alternative is to send it
to a third country which would be in this case France,
which has offered to assist, because I think France
understands the international community has a lot
of questions.
And I always say that the best antidote to conspiracy
is transparency.
Have you made any other progress here on the other big
issue, which is compensation?
You say, many say, that 57 of the passengers out
of 176 were Canadian.
Iran says they were Iranians.
They of course have the two passports.
So the compensation you are asking for, Iran says,
they cannot accept.
Is this something where a compromise can be found?
Are you finding it?
Well, what we have hopefully established by now is
that the compensation to be paid to the heirs
of the victims will be the same to everyone.
And we also said that this process of negotiation,
of a global settlement, should start quickly.
I remember meeting this young girl who lost both parents,
I mean, this is a tragedy.
You know, let me bring it back to, for Canada,
this has been a national tragedy.
Families have lost their loved ones.
I was there with Prime Minister Trudeau, we went to meet
families, grieving families, who said, stand up for us.
Stand up to the regime.
Make sure that they’re accountable.
We wa nt closure, we we nt accountability, we want
justice, we want transparency.
That’s what animates me every time I meet them.
And that is why Prime Minister Trudeau said he went to attend
the meeting you had with the Foreign Minister
of Iran, even though it was at a Foreign Minister level.
But some of the families are expressing concern
about the look of that, the photos of a smiling
encounter, holding hands, was that a mistake?
Well, the Prime Minister came with one purpose.
It was to make sure that the Iranian counterpart
understood how serious the issue was.
Not only for the grieving families in Canada, not only
for the government of Canada, but I think for the world.
I think having 3 Prime Minister come into the room and state
that, itjust reinforced the message.
That was Canada’s Foreign Minister speaking a little
Minister speaking a little earty.
Also at the Munich security conference, SeniorAmerican
and Afghan sources say the first phase of a US deal
with the Afghan Taliban is set to begin shortly with the start
of what is known as a seven day reduction in violence
by Taliban forces.
Jarrett Blanc, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, told us what the risk of such
a deal might be.
Let’s look at the and the longer term.
In the short term, the risk associated with the reduction
in violence and conditioning the beginning of Taliban—Afghan
talks on a successful reduction of violence
is that there will be problems.
There will be spoilers who commit acts of violence
that will throw off the first part of the agreement
which are the beginning intra—Afghan talks.
The longer term, the risk is that the peace talks don’t
work.
That the Taliban demand too much or the government
and the legitimate opposition don’t get their act together
to make a reasonable set of proposals and demands
to the Taliban.
And you end up in a situation where you have fewer
and a declining number of American troops and
an ongoing civil war.
What’s the timeline for this?
There is a joint statement expected soon and a reduction
of violence...
When is that expected to start?
The Americans have been a little bit cagey about
that so far.
My understanding is that it is very soon, maybe in the next
couple of days.
One speculation is that they are trying to get it done
in time for President Trump to somehow be involved
in the formal conclusion of the deal on his trip to India.
What are the headlines involved here, as would probably be
expected, is US troops potentially leaving
Afghanistan.
What would the effect of that be?
The immediate effect of going from, let’s say 13,000
troops now, to 8,000 troops in a few months
is really minimal.
There will still be more troops in Afghanistan at the end
of that initial drawdown than there were at the end
of the Obama administration.
It’s really not that important.
As you go from that number, 8,000, down to potentially
min-1-
Either you’re going to have a peace deal which all parties
adhere to or you’re going to end up in a situation
where there’s still an ongoing civil war.
If that is the case, then the drawdown will have
to be managed very carefully to allow the government forces
to sustain themselves and not to suffer a psychological blow
that would be devastating in the ongoing conflict.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: The three day long race across a frozen lake.
We’ll hear from participants
in one of sport’s more extreme events.
Nine years and 15,000 deaths after going into Afghanistan,
the last Soviet troops were finally coming home.
The withdrawal completed in good order, but the army
defeated in the task it had been sent to perform.
Malcolm has been murdered.
That has a terrible effect on the morale of the people.
I am terrified of the repercussions on the streets.
One wonders who is next.
As the airlift got under way,
there was no let—up in the eruption itself.
Lava streams from an event low in the crater
flow into the sea on the east of the island,
away from the town for the time being,
but could start flowing again at any time.
The Russians heralded a new—generation space station
with a spectacular night launch.
They called it Mir, the Russian for peace.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines:
Chinese authorities say deaths from the coronavirus epidemic
have now passed 1,600 —
and in France, an 80—year—old Chinese tourist
becomes the first European, COVID-19 fatality.
At least eight people are killed as a bus carrying
At least eight people are killed as a bus carrying
football fans from Ecuador plunges into a ravine in Peru.
The television presenter Caroline Flack, host of some
of the UK’s biggest reality TV shows, has been found dead
at her home in east London.
Herfamily says she took her own life.
Ms Flack who was 40, was on bail awaiting trial next
month, accused of assaulting her partner,
an allegation she denied.
She fronted programmes that garnered many millions
of viewers, including ITV’s The X Factor and Love Island.
She won Strictly Come Dancing in 2014.
Here’s Our Media correspondent, David Sillito.
It’s the return of the Flack!
Love Island, X Factor, I’m A Celebrity —
Caroline Flack was a presenter on some of the biggest
programmes on British television.
She was, until a few weeks ago, the face of Love Island —
glamorous, escapist fun.
Let’s talk love.
Who’s looking for the real thing?
But everything unravelled after she was arrested
and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
In court in December,
it was clear that she was deeply distressed.
Today, she was found dead at her flat.
Her lawyer said she had taken her own life.
Friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock
and heartbreak at the news.
Love Island is a show that thrives on its impact on social
media, and tonight, thousands were expressing
their grief and sympathy.
But her court appearance was proof enough
that she was also facing intense scrutiny,
both in the press and online.
On its best days, social media is a very powerful tool
for these presenters because they can effortlessly
and immediately communicate with so many different fans
and really bring their own personality to the fore.
The problem is that on the bad days,
that scmtiny and attention does not go away.
It stays with them.
The MacDonut Brothers!
Her TV career went back nearly 20 years.
This, TMI on Children’s BBC,
and then in 2014, she won Strictly Come Dancing.
The night she won, elation.
But she spoke afterwards of her struggle with depression.
Then came the assault charge.
She was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
He stood by her, but they weren’t allowed to communicate
before her forthcoming trial.
And she was also advised to stay off social media,
but she did post this on Instagram.
She thanked those who had been kind to her and added:
Caroline Flack — who has died at the age of A0.
Storm Dennis is continuing to bring heavy rain
and strong winds to many parts of the UK.
Rivers in Yorkshire are expected to peak.
The Army has been brought in to shore up flood defences.
In Scotland there are three severe flood warnings in place.
And across England, Scotland and Wales there are a total
of 205 flood warnings.
Helena Wilkinson reports.
Amongst the first evidence of damage by Storm Dennis
was here in South Wales.
This village is where people’s homes are under serious threat.
A similar picture tonight in Harberton in Devon.
Dozens of flood warnings are still in place across
the country as the rain continues to fall.
In Ilkley and Calderdale in West Yorkshire,
areas still recovering from last week’s storm,
the army has been called in to strengthen the flood defences.
There are a number of places where the local resilience
authorities thought they had a problem with the flood
defences that are currently in place, so we have been asked
to support them by putting some more makeshift flood defences
in in both places.
Some of the worst affected parts could see up to MOmm
of rainfall and gusts of up to 80mph.
Certainly, with the amount of rain that is forecast,
100mm or a month’s worth of rainfall on top of what is
incredibly saturated ground, we are worried about the risk
and that’s why we’re warning people to take action
and that’s why we’re doing the kind of things
we’re doing here.
Not far away, in Hebden Bridge,
there’s no respite from the persistent rain.
The Scottish Environment Protection Agency has issued
flood warnings and advice for residents here in Dumfries
and Galloway, plus elsewhere in the Borders,
South Lanarkshire and South Ayrshire.
For many, the half—term getaway
has ended up with a lesson in travel disruption.
Easyjet have cancelled around 350 flights over the weekend.
Almost 100 from here at Gatwick.
At Heathrow, 60 flights were grounded —
most of them British Airways.
And on the roads, driving conditions were tricky.
Tonight, there are amber warnings for rain
for most of the country,
meaning flooding could cause a danger to life.
Communities are waiting and hoping
that their preparations will be enough to protect them.
Helena Wilkinson, BBC News.
The Venezuelan government says a huge numbers of soldiers
and civilians have begun a two—day military drill
to prepare for what it describes as the threat
of invasion by US—led forces.
The opposition leader, Juan Guaido, dismissed
the manoeuvres as a propaganda exercise by a dictatorship.
Earlier the BBC’s Americas editor , Leonardo Rocha
explained why President Maduro had decided to hold
the military exercises now
He is, in a way, making a statement and giving —
sending out a message to the United States
that the Venezuelan people, or at least more than 2 million
people who are part of this militia who support him,
are prepared for anything.
His advisers — his military advisors are Cuban,
many of them trained in Cuba and they learned
from the Cuban example.
If you arm the population,
if you have well—organised neighbourhood committees,
anyone that tries to get into Venezuelan
knows that there’ll be a bloodbath.
So, he’s pitching himself and the people against America?
Against America and now — I mean, there are —
the two biggest neighbours of Venezuela —
Colombia and Brazil — have hostile governments.
Jair Bolsonaro in Brazil and Ivan Duque, right—wing
governments, which is one of the reasons of why these
exercises — Nicolas Maduro said that those two countries
are harbouring terrorist groups, they are training
in their territory to prepare possible invasion if things —
if the opportunity’s ripe,
they might launch attacks and invade Venezuela.
50, his strategy here at the moment is to align
a nationalistic hope and get that up against what he would
say are his enemies in surrounding countries?
Yes.
We have to bear in mind the fact that Venezuela has
the highest inflation in the world.
Violence, more than — almost 5 million Venezuelans
have left the country in the last few years.
So, the economy is in a mess.
The political situation is in a stalemate,
you have a very difficult situation.
And what the opposition says is he’s creating a diversion.
You create the threat of an enemy, while Nicolas Maduro
says the Empire — the American Empire is trying
to invade Venezuela, it has the biggest known oil
reserves in the world.
So there is all that playing on his side.
In the meantime, he hopes the economy will recover.
It has recovered somehow,
so he will regain the support of the majority of Venezuelans.
What isJuan Guaido’s strategy here?
This time last year he was big news every day in terms
of would he be taking the presidency,
but he seems to have pushed back.
He seems to have lost the momentum.
Juan Guaido’s strategy is to keep pushing and be
there if the opportunity comes.
If the government deteriorates, he’s there.
But he’s lost the momentum somehow.
It’s been one year since the US recognised him
as the legitimate leader of Venezuela, but nothing has
happened in real terms since then.
Early voting has begun in the US state of Nevada,
as the Democrats continue their campaign to chose
a candidate to stand against Donald Trump in November.
The week—long process in the state finishes
next Saturday.
It’s seen as an important test forJoe Biden, who lost heavily
in Iowa and New Hampshire.
His team argues Nevada, with its more diverse
population, could help to improve Mr Biden’s fortunes.
Senator Bernie Sanders is the current front—runner
in the Democratic Party race.
Now to a race with a difference —
the track is the surface of a frozen lake.
It’s the Ice Storm contest, held annually in the far east
of Russia, and it could just be the toughest race in the world.
Take a look at this:
TRANSLATION: It’s like meditation.
At the start, there are lots of people
but after two minutes, you are alone.
TRANSLATION: Anything can happen.
We’ve already stepped in a lot of cracks.
The Swedish pole vaulter Armand Duplantis has set
a new world record for the second week in a row.
The 20—year—old easily cleared 6.18 metres
in Glasgow on Saturday.
Duplantis is coached by his father Greg,
also a succesful pole vaulter.
A reminder of our top story:
China has insisted the outbreak of the new coronavirus
is gradually coming under control after the latest
figures showed a drop in the number of new cases
for the third consecutive day.
However the World Health Organization says it may yet
become a global epidemic.
They’ve also asked China to elaborate on how it’s
diagnosing the disease.
Don’t forget you can get in touch with me and some
of my team on Twitter — I’m @sipusey.
You can get in touch with some
You ran get in touch with some of the
You can get in touch with some of the team there. And also our
of the team there. And also our website has all the stories we
website has all the stories we have covered and much more. By
have covered and much more. By now, thanks for watching and
now, thanks for watching and stay tuned here on BBC World
stay tuned here on BBC World News.
Hello.
Storm Dennis continues to better Britain.
Looking back at Saturday, well, it was windy everywhere,
wasn’t it, but the strongest gust of wind was at Aberdaron
in the Llyn Peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here.
We’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been
causing problems, particularly across parts of northern
England, Wales, the West Midlands
and south—west England.
Now, there are lots of flood warnings in force
and the number of flood warnings continues to rise
hour by hour.
And with more heavy rain in the forecast,
that’s clearly not a good thing.
Now, looking at the satellite picture, this is Storm Dennis.
The centre actually near Iceland.
But it’s this trailing weather front stretching for a couple
of thousand miles out into the Atlantic that’s
causing problems, because the winds are blowing parallel
to the front rather than across it, and that
means the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve
got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head
into the first part of Sunday.
Now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across Wales,
the West Midlands and south—west England.
If anything, the rain much heavier than we saw
on Saturday, for example, and there will be some heavy
falls as well in northern England at times.
Given that we already have a number of flood warnings
out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time
here as we head into the first part of Sunday morning.
Cooler air across the north—west
with blustery showers.
Now, looking at the weather picture through the rest
of Sunday, our weather front tracks its way
towards the south—east.
Now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear
southern and eastern areas of England.
In other words, there could still be quite a bit
of rain left over even into the afternoon here,
but it’s going to be a windy day everywhere.
Gusts of wind inland again 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong
enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
So there is the risk of transport disruption
whether from the flooding rain
or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
Showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
As we go on into Sunday night, if anything, the winds
are going to get stronger for a time across the far north
of England and Scotland as the centre of Dennis passes
close to the north of Scotland.
So the winds picking up could cause some problems
here for transport as we head into Monday morning
for Scotland.
As we head through the rest of Monday, it’s a day broadly
speaking of sunny spells and showers.
The winds staying strong, takin ga while to ease
gradually, and will continue to make it feel quite chilly
across these northern areas.
Beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest
of the week ahead.
Rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay
quite windy.
But for most of us, it will also stay
on the mild side.
Temperatures up to M degrees for London next weekend.
That’s your weather.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
Health officials in China say the total number of deaths
from the coronavirus epidemic has now passed 1,600,
with almost 150 new deaths and more than 2,000 new cases confirmed.
In France, an 80—year—old Chinese tourist has died —
the first Covid—19 fatality in Europe.
At least eight football fans from Ecuador have died
after their bus plunged into a ravine in Peru.
They were on their way home from celebrating their club’s
qualification for the next stage of South America’s biggest club
tournament, the Copa Libertadores.
Forty other supporters were injured.
Canada is leading a renewed call for Iran to hand over the black
boxes from the Ukrainian airliner, brought down over Tehran inJanuary.
All 176 people on board were killed. Canadian authorities
say they need the contents so the data can be analysed properly
by facilities in France.
Coming up at six o’clock, Breakfast with Louise Minchin
and RogerJohnson — but now it’s time for a look back
at the Week In Parliament.
Hello and Welcome to The Week In Parliament.
As the reshuffle derails some Cabinet careers,
it’s full steam ahead for the H52 Express.
And a sign to the world that in the 21st Century,
this United Kingdom still has the vision to dream big dreams
and the courage to bring those dreams about.
Will new rules on bullying stop MPs treating Commons staff like this?
That member then found me in a remote corridor in the House
of Commons later that day, shouted at me, sort of basically
pinned me against the well, did the whole, you know,
don’t you know who I am, how long have I been here,
what do you think you’re doing?
And a new play explores the political deals behind Britain’s
abolition of slavery.
And I think it is about time that the public really knew
what went into the Abolition Act and what wasn’t really delivered.
But first, let’s be honest, some people thought Westminster life
would be a bit dull after BorisJohnson’s crushing
election victory and MP5 voting to get Brexit done.
How wrong they — we — were.
It’s true we no longer have the knife—edge votes of the May
years or the serial government defeats and ministerial
resignations, but there’s no shortage of political drama
at the moment.
The new Cabinet met on Friday.
Many of those faces around the table were familiar,
some less so.
More striking were the absentees, chief among them the former
Chancellor.
On Thursday, Sajid Javid quit afterjust seven months in the job.
He refused to accept BorisJohnson’s terms for staying on —
to fire his advisers.
Several other Cabinet ministers also lost theirjobs,
including Julian Smith — only weeks after the Northern
Ireland Secretary played a key role in restoring devolution to Stormont.
Questions for the minister from the Department
for Digital Media, Culture and Sport, Robert Courts.
As the drama unfolded, parliamentary life continued as usual.
There was Culture Questions — minus the outgoing Culture
Secretary, Lady Morgan, who’s now a peer.
Oral questions, Attorney General, Alex Norris.
And Attorney General Questions — without the Attorney General.
Geoffrey Cox was among the reshuffle casualties.
Others were not taking their survival chances for granted.
I look forward to working with him and his committee,
I hope, in this...
..in this important...
I’ll put my phone on speaker on the dispatch box!
MPs — well, some of them — finally caught up with the news
during questions to the Leader of the Commons.
Given the events of the day, I suppose we should congratulate
the Leader of the House for surviving the current Cabinet
cull that is under way, at least thus far.
We should be grateful that our business is led by someone
who has proven his indispensability to the Prime Minister.
Mr Speaker, I am most grateful to the honourable gentleman
for his gracious welcome on my continuing presence here.
If I am suddenly called away, I am sure my honourable friend
will be more than able to take over throughout the rest of the session.
Can we have a statement on the surprising news
that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has been sacked?
Mr Speaker, Madam Deputy Speaker, the honourable gentleman is ahead
of me on the news cycle.
Later, a government whip — in a rare speaking role —
tried to lower the tension among his ambitious colleagues.
We’ve had this debate today with a little bit of news
going on in the background in the reshuffle.
I am sure that many of my honourable and right honourable friends have
been waiting eagerly by their phones for that call.
Ilike to...
I want to make sure that people don’t have that impression of me
so I’lljust leave that there.
The only thing I can see at the moment is a missed call
from my mother.
I suspect the call from your mother was asking has Boris rung yet?
Sorry, Mrs Andrew, no, he hasn’t.
Not yet.
But fret not, Mrs Andrew, the call finally came
and Stuart Andrew was promoted to become the new government
Deputy Chief Whip.
One of the reshuffle changes will see a new full—time minister
for the controversial high—speed HS2 rail link.
It’s already years late, billions over budget and rather
unpopular with more than a few Conservative MPs.
But BorisJohnson says it will now go ahead.
The Prime Minister said it had been a difficult decision
but he would draw a line under poor management of the scheme so far.
The first phase of the route will travel between London
and Birmingham, with a second phase going to Manchester and Leeds.
Before donning the obligatory hi—vis jacket, he presented the package
to MP5 as part of a "public transport revolution",
with £5 billion promised over five years to improve bus and cycling
services in England.
On high—speed rail, he said his generation
faced a choice.
We can try to get by with the existing routes from north
to south, we can consign the next generation to overcrowding,
standing up in the carriageways, or we can have the guts
to take a decision.
No matter how difficult.
Unlike the party opposite, by the way, Mr Speaker.
No matter how difficult and how controversial,
that will deliver prosperity to every part of the country.
So, today, Mr Speaker, the Cabinet has given high—speed
rail the green signal.
We are going to get this done.
And to ensure that we do so without further blow outs on cost
or schedule, we are today taking the decisive action to restore
discipline to the programme.
Besides HSZ, he said railways in the north of England would be
improved, part of a wider transport revolution featuring electric buses,
driverless cars and new networks of cycle paths.
This Government will deliver a new anatomy of British transport,
a revolution in this nation’s public transport provision,
and a sign to the world that in the 21st Century,
this United Kingdom still has the vision to dream big dreams
and the courage to bring those dreams about, and I commend this
statement to the House.
The Labour leader supported rail and bus improvements but questioned
whether Boris Johnson’s government could deliver.
It is a government that has proved itself unable to manage
infrastructure projects properly and incapable of keeping a lid
on the costs.
Today’s piecemeal announcements don’t add up to a serious plan
to rebalance the economy or to tackle the serious climate
emergency that we all face.
And he looked at Boris Johnson’s own record.
Mr Speaker, the Prime Minister is clearly fond of announcing
big shiny projects.
Like the scheme to build a bridge over the Irish Sea.
Why not go the whole hog and make it a garden bridge?
Connect it to an airport in the sea.
It stands as much chance of actually being built as any of those failed
projects by the former Mayor of London put forward.
The saddest thing, Mr Speaker, about today’s announcement
is the high likelihood that so much of it won’t be delivered.
HS2 is a dire reflection on this government’s environmental
credentials, with the destruction of 100 ancient woodlands
and a miserably small modal shift ofjust 5% of passengers
who would otherwise fly or drive.
Many Conservative MPs are unhappy with the plan but the opposition
in the Commons was muted.
Would my right honourable friend agree with me that it is very,
very important that as HS2 is now going ahead that we also compensate
well those people in my constituency and his, and his who will be
affected by HSZ.
Mr Speaker, the short answer to that is of course.
HS2 is unloved, unwanted, and has been grossly mismanaged.
It very adversely affects my constituents.
Does the Prime Minister appreciate my and my constituents’
concerns that this could well be an albatross around this
government’s and the country’s neck moving forward,
and doesn’t it set the her very low for the future delivery
of infrastructure projects on—time and on budget by future governments?
Mr Speaker, every great infrastructure project is opposed
by the people at this stage.
The M25 had 39 separate planning...
The Treasury, I seem to remember delivering the Olympics
and the problems with Crossrail.
Every single infrastructure project is opposed at this critical moment.
We’ve got to have the guts and the foresight to
drive it through.
The Prime Minister, who says the first HS2 trains could be
running within 10 years.
Complaints about bullying and sexual harassment by MPs are to be handled
differently in what’s been described as a "seismic shift" for staff.
The new system will be completely independent of MPs,
with an expert panel replacing the committee of MPs that currently
has the final say on action taken.
The plan follows the recommendations of the retired High Courtjudge,
Dame Laura Cox whose report on bullying in Parliament
was published in 2018.
I asked Dr Hannah White of the Institute for Government,
who’s a former Commons clerk, how the system works at the moment.
There is a new system which has been in place for a couple of years now
and fundamentally what happens is there is an independent officer
called the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards.
She oversees an investigation of a complaint that is made
and she can determine some lower—level sanctions against an MP
if it is something that is not deemed to be very serious
but if there is a more serious complaint, that will go
to the Committee on Standards, which is a committee made up half
of MPs and half lay members, and they get to decide
what the sanction should be against an MP.
So, what is the big difference the new system will make?
The new system, which is out for consultation, would find that
you have an independent panel of experts and the most serious
complaints, the most serious allegations where the Commissioner
does an investigation and says, I think there would be as a serious
sanction for this, so either suspension of an MP from the House,
or possibly their expulsion from the House, then,
that would go to that expert committee and that committee
would be completely independent, it wouldn’t involve any MP5,
and there is a question about whether it might involve
a former MP, but it would be distinct so people could have
confidence that MPs weren’t involved.
Everybody says this is long overdue, why hasn’t it been done before?
I think it has been very slow, since the sort of Me Too scandal,
the bullying scandal first hit Westminster.
A number of different enquiries took place,
there have been three big enquiries that have all found problems.
The first one to report more than 15 months ago recommended something
like this, recommended we needed an independent process
for investigating complaints and sanctioning MPs.
It has been slow.
The House of Commons is slow about some of these things sometimes
but also there have been vested interests involved,
who it hasn’t been in their interests to move much faster.
Does the fact that the Speaker has changed make a difference?
It has certainly made a difference to the atmosphere around this
question in Westminster.
It was fundamentally really difficult while John Bercow
was Speaker of the House of Commons and there are these outstanding
allegations of bullying against him which haven’t been investigated
because the Committee for Standards which I mentioned had decided
the complains were too old so they shouldn’t be
investigated and I think that was really problematic
because it meant he couldn’t defend himself against these allegations
which he denies and the people making these allegations couldn’t
see them investigated and that really undermined everybody’s
confidence that this system was being the change that
needed to happen.
You were a Commons clerk for a long time, did you experience
this bullying culture?
I certainly experienced inappropriate workplace behaviour.
I once had a situation when I was a new clerk,
clerking a committee, I gave advice to the chair that
a member should bring his remarks to a close
because they were irrelevant, that member then found me
in a remote corridor in the House of Commons later that day,
shouted at me, basically pinned me against the wall,
did the whole, don’t you know who I am?
How long have I been here?
What do you think you are doing?
And I was really shaken by that.
I was lucky I was never sort of subject to any campaign
of bullying like some of my colleagues were but I certainly
saw inappropriate behaviour.
And if something like that happened in the future,
are you more confident that somebody in your position would be able
to deal with it, to get it sorted?
I think there are two things.
I think people will feel more confident that they can take
a complaint like that and have it taken seriously but also
there are definite efforts being made now to track these
complaints being made.
If something looks like a pattern of behaviour,
then the Parliamentary Commissioner can take account of that
when she is looking into and investigating bullying complaints.
Hannah White.
Emergency legislation designed to end the release of people
convicted of terrorism offences halfway through their sentence has
been backed by MPs.
The new law was drawn up after the knife attack at Streatham
in south London earlier this month.
The perpetrator, Sudesh Amman, had been freed from prison
10 days earlier.
The measures will apply in England, Scotland and Wales.
TheJustice Secretary explained how terrorist prisoners
would be affected.
There are two main elements to this.
First, to standardise the earliest point of which they may be
considered for released at two thirds of the sentence imposed
and secondly, to require that the parole board assess
whether they are safe to release between that point and the end
of their sentence.
This will apply to all terrorists and terrorist related offences
with a maximum penalty above two years, Including those offences
for which Sudesh Amman was sentenced.
The issue of rehabilitation, the work that is done both in prison
and out of prison is so important.
There has been many efforts of this over the years,
but as recent incidents have seen, that has not always
been with success.
Does my right honourable friend agree that actually,
we will never deal with this issue of terrorism until we deal
with the ideology that drives it, and will he reassure me
that the government is taking extra efforts to find new paths to ensure
that we can turn people away from the extremism and the terrorism
that takes other people’s lives?
There is a constant, if you like, a self questioning amongst those
responsible for these particular programmes,
to make sure they are properly calibrated, that they understand
the particular drivers that mean people are compelled
to commit these acts.
Labour supported the measure in principle.
I do think the host today is entitled to ask the question
as to why we have ended up requiring this law to be made
via emergency legislation.
Automatic early release is hardly new.
It’s been part of our system for many years and could have
already been dealt with by a government that took
a more strategic approach.
The SNP had a warning.
Because I’m always conscious of the analogy of wasps in a jar.
If you shake them all about and then you let them out, then you’re
going to get stung.
And the Bill now goes to the Lords when Parliament returns
from its half term break the week after next.
Ministers hope it will become law by the end of the month.
Time now for a look at what else has been happening around Westminster.
And the Health Secretary, Matt Hancock, has issued new powers
in England to keep people in quarantine to stop
the coronavirus spreading.
The Department of Health has described the virus as a "serious
and imminent threat" to public health.
I’ve laid an instrument before the house to confirm the power we’ve
taken to isolate those at risk of spreading the virus
and if necessary, to keep them isolated as part of our belts
and braces approach to protecting the public.
The powers are proportionate and will help us slow down
transmission of the virus and make it easier for NHS and public health
staff to do theirjobs.
A GP practice in Brighton was temporarily closed after a staff
member tested positive for coronavirus.
People want and need more timely and accurate information,
not just about washing hands and tissue use,
vital though that is, but about things like what does self
isolation actually look like?
I think we need a much higher profile public health campaign.
Helen McCourt’s killing thirty two years ago is to lead to a new law
making it harderfor murderers to be released from prison if they refuse
to reveal the whereabouts of their victim’s body.
Helen’s killer, Ian Simms, has been released despite never
revealing where he hid the remains of the 22—year—old.
The legislation, The Prisoners Disclosure of Information
about Victims Bill, is known as Helen’s Law.
It follows a long campaign from her mother, Marie.
Her MP paid tribute.
I want to acknowledge her because it might seem a strange thing to say,
Madam Deputy Speaker, when we are discussing what I feel
is a technical bill, but the genesis of us
being here today and to hear the second reading is in love.
It is in love of Marie McCourt for her daughter Helen.
I am so proud and pleased to see her and her husband John
and their close family friend Fiona was on so much to see this come
to fruition today.
The Home Secretary Priti Patel apologised to Yvette Cooper
after a Conservative activist was jailed for sending threatening
messages to the senior Labour MP who shared details of them
in the Commons.
I’m organising, amazing what crackheads will do for £100.
I’m going to get her beat up.
The chair of the local Association has today written to me expressing
regrets and apologies for what he describes as the grave
and unacceptable actions of the member who has
since been expelled.
I welcome that letter and that support.
But it is a concern to me that there has been thus far,
no similar combination or sense of regret for expressed
by the national party.
Let me say this right now before the house,
that is categorically unacceptable and wrong.
There is no place for intimidation at all.
She can take it from me right now, I am hugely apologetic
for what she has had to endure.
The former Commons Speaker John Bercow has said
there is a "conspiracy" to keep him out of the House of Lords.
He named no names, but said it was "blindingly obvious"
that there was a "concerted campaign" to prevent him
from being given a peerage.
It means he’ll miss out on a rise in their lordships’ daily allowance.
The new deliverance for unaccountable peers
being stuffed into the House of Lords by the Prime Minister
are set to rise to £323.
The monthly allowance for a single person over 25
on Universal Credit is £317.
Is that the levelling up the Prime Minister
keeps talking about?
I hate agreeing with these people.
I do find that it is odd that House of Lords has chosen to do that.
BorisJohnson and the SNP finding something to agree on.
Let’s look back now at some stories from the wider world of politics.
Gary Connor has our countdown.
He’s out.
Sajid Javid resigns, the’s excuse was that he died.
How does the Prime Minister’s top adviser Cummings answer
a difficult question?
At three, good news in Northern Ireland with the first
same—sex marriage taking place this week.
More than five years after it became legal in England and Wales.
At two, going up, the price forfixing Big Ben.
Coming in at almost £80 million.
Repairs turned out to be more tricky than they thought.
At one, plans to get rid of furry little visitors.
It might be helpful that squirrels are extremely good to eat!
—— At three, good news in Northern Ireland with the first
same—sex marriage taking place this week.
More than five years after it became legal in England and Wales.
At two, going up, the price forfixing Big Ben.
Coming in at almost £80 million.
Repairs turned out to be more tricky than they thought.
At one, plans to get rid of furry little visitors.
It might be helpful that squirrels are extremely good to eat!
Gary Connor.
Now in 1833, Parliament passed an Act to abolish slavery
in Britain’s colonies.
A new play for the Royal Shakespeare Company,
based on research in the Parliamentary archives,
depicts the political deals behind a measure which proved
to have a long—term cost.
Gabrielle O’Neill reports.
The factory bill is the culmination of my parliamentary career to date.
Isn’t that what we were fighting for?
He expects the general public to give us money to overfed
West Indian planters.
In order to end slavery.
That’s far from the point!
I’ve always wanted to write about slavery and I like to find
stories that fall between the cracks of history, those stories that need
to be uncovered.
The
White this play is partly inspired by a tweet.
It was 20 million at the time, which about now is about 20 billion.
It’s a lot of money and they could have bankrupted the country,
but mortgage, the future of generations to come in order
to pay this off.
No serve, no.
When I was five I was sold.
He put me to work, he was a man who worships profit and enjoyed
the use of his.
The character of mercy price is based on a runaway slave,
Mary Prince.
when I was five, I was sold. He put me to work, sugarcane day and night.
me to work, sugarcane day and night. He enjoyed the use of his whip.
She used the fact that she was a slave to tell her story and that’s
why she wrote her autobiography and also, I’m sure carried the board
—— burdens and scars and I’m sure she uses of while.
—— used those as well.
Often overlooked, the role of women in the anti—slavery campaigns
That was like slavery through another name.
And again, I didn’t learn about this at school.
It’s not in any school textbook I’ve ever seen and I think it’s
about time that the public really knew about the Abolition Act
and what wasn’t really delivered.
May God be with you!
I have the Lord to think for my life!
Left to my Master, I would be quite dead.
Debbie Korley.
And "The Whip" is at the Swan Theatre in Stratford—upon—Avon
until the 21st of March.
Well worth the trip for MP5 and peers during their half—term break.
That’s it for the Week in Parliament.
Thank you for watching.
From me, David Cornock, bye for now.
Hello.
Storm Dennis continues to better Britain.
Looking back at Saturday, well, it was windy everywhere,
wasn’t it, but the strongest gust of wind was at Aberdaron
in the Llyn Peninsula, 91mph gusts recorded here.
We’ve all seen lots of rain as well, but the rain has been
causing problems, particularly across parts of northern
England, Wales, the West Midlands
and south—west England.
Now, there are lots of flood warnings in force
and the number of flood warnings continues to rise
hour by hour.
And with more heavy rain in the forecast,
that’s clearly not a good thing.
Now, looking at the satellite picture, this is Storm Dennis.
The centre actually near Iceland.
But it’s this trailing weather front stretching for a couple
of thousand miles out into the Atlantic that’s
causing problems, because the winds are blowing parallel
to the front rather than across it, and that
means the front gets stuck and what that means is we’ve
got a lot more heavy rain to come as we head
into the first part of Sunday.
Now, some of the heaviest falls of rain will be across Wales,
the West Midlands and south—west England.
If anything, the rain much heavier than we saw
on Saturday, for example, and there will be some heavy
falls as well in northern England at times.
Given that we already have a number of flood warnings
out in force, things could get really quite nasty for a time
here as we head into the first part of Sunday morning.
Cooler air across the north—west
with blustery showers.
Now, looking at the weather picture through the rest
of Sunday, our weather front tracks its way
towards the south—east.
Now, there is a risk that this front could be slower to clear
southern and eastern areas of England.
In other words, there could still be quite a bit
of rain left over even into the afternoon here,
but it’s going to be a windy day everywhere.
Gusts of wind again inland 50—60mph.
70 around some of our coasts, and those winds still strong
enough to bring down an odd tree or two.
So there is the risk of transport disruption
whether from the flooding rain
or from those very powerful gusts of wind.
Showers continue to feed in across the north and western.
As we go on into Sunday night, if anything, the winds
are going to get stronger for a time across the far north
of England and Scotland as the centre of Dennis passes
close to the north of Scotland.
So the winds picking up could cause some problems
here for transport as we head into Monday morning
for Scotland.
As we head through the rest of Monday, it’s a day broadly
speaking of sunny spells and showers.
The winds staying strong, taking a while before they ease down
gradually in the afternoon, and will continue to make it feel
quite chilly across these northern areas.
Beyond that, it stays unsettled through the rest
of the week ahead.
Rain or showers in the forecast for most days and it will stay
quite windy.
But for most of us, it will also stay
on the mild side.
Temperatures up to M degrees for London next weekend.
That’s your weather.
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast with Louise Minchin
and RogerJohnson.
Our headlines today:
Tributes are paid to television presenter
Caroline Flack, who was found dead at her home at the age of A0.
Storm Dennis lashes large parts of the UK,
bringing heavy rain and strong winds.
More than 250 flood warnings are in place.
There are hundreds of flood warnings
There are hundreds of ﬂood warnings enforce
There are hundreds of flood warnings enforce thanks to Storm Dennis. Some
enforce thanks to Storm Dennis. Some severe flood warnings there is more
severe ﬂood warnings there is more rain on
severe flood warnings there is more rain on the
severe ﬂood warnings there is more rain on the way.
severe flood warnings there is more rain on the way. They Met Office
rain on the way. They Met Office Amber wanting to parts of England
Amber wanting to parts of England and Wales. Northern Ireland and
and Wales. Northern Ireland and Scotland will see something brighter
Scotland will see something brighter with some showers but it will still
with some showers but it will still be windy. Details coming up.
The US and Canada prepare to airlift their citizens
quarantined onboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship,
as it emerges 355 passengers have caught the coronavirus.
Liverpool’s form is "incredible," says
Jurgen Klopp —
but the real celebrations won’t start until the Premier League
trophy is in their hands.
It’s Sunday, the 16th of February.
Our top story:
Tributes have been paid to the TV presenter Caroline Flack,
who was found dead at her home yesterday.
Her lawyer confirmed she had taken her own life.
The former Love Island presenter’s management company
criticised the Crown Prosecution Service
over an impending trial for the alleged assault
of her boyfriend, calling it a "show trial."
Here’s our media correspondent David Sillito.
Here’s our media correspondent David Sillito.
It’s correspondent David Sillito. the return of the Flack
It’s correspondent David Sillito. the return of the Flack
Island, X Factor, I am
Island, X Factor, lam make celabrity.
Island, X Factor, lam make celebrity. Caroline Flack was a
celebrity. Caroline Flack was a presenter on some of the biggest
presenter on some of the biggest programmes of the UK’s reality TV.
programmes of the UK’s reality TV. Let’s talk love. Who’s looking for
Let’s talk love. who’s looking for the real
Let’s talk love. Who’s looking for the real thing? Everything, though,
the real thing? Everything, though, unravelled after she was arrested
unravellad after she was arrested and charged
unravelled after she was arrested and charged with the assault of her
and charged with the assault of her boyfriend.
Friends and colleagues have spoken of their shock
and heartbreak at the news.
Love Island is a show that thrives on its impact
on social media, and tonight, thousands were expressing
their grief and sympathy.
But her court appearance was proof enough
that she was also facing intense scrutiny,
both in the press and online.
On its best days, social media is a very powerful tool
for these presenters because they can effortlessly
and immediately communicate with so many different fans
and really bring their own personality to the fore.
The problem is that on the bad days,
that scrutiny and attention doesn’t go away.
It stays with them.
The MacDonut Brothers!
Her TV career went back nearly 20 years.
This, TMI on Children’s BBC,
and then in 2014, she won Strictly Come Dancing.
The night she won, elation.
But she spoke afterwards of her struggle with depression.
Then came the assault charge.
She was accused of hitting her boyfriend while he slept.
He stood by her, but they weren’t allowed to communicate
before her forthcoming trial.
And she was also advised to stay off social media,
but she did post this on Instagram.
She thanked those who had been kind to her and added:
Last night, her management team criticised the decision to press
criticised the decision to press ahead with the trial, given her
ahead with the trial, given her mental state. The Crown Prosecution
mental state. The Crown Prosecution Service said its deepest sympathies
Service said its deepest sympathies go to the family and friends of
go to the family and friends of Caroline Flack, but added that given
Caroline Flack, but added that given the tragic circumstances, it would
the tragic circumstances, it would not comment further on the specifics
not comment further on the specific of the
not comment further on the specifics of the case at this stage. Caroline
of the rase at this stage. Caroline Flack
of the case at this stage. Caroline Flack had in recent weeks been
Flack had in recent weeks been advised to stay off social media,
advised to stay off social media, but she did post this on Instagram.
She thanked those who had been kind to her and added:
Another post read simply:
Lots more reaction to the news about Caroline Flack during the programme
Caroline Flack during the programme this morning.
If you or someone you know has been affected by the issues raised
this morning, you can find help and support on the BBC’s ActionLine
website, at bbc.co.uk/actionline.
Storm Dennis has been lashing large parts of the UK,
bringing rain and strong winds.
Three severe flood warnings have
been issued in Scotland, meaning there’s a danger to life,
while more than 250 flood warnings are in place
across England and Wales.
SimonJones reports.
The force of Storm Dennis is clear to see. This is a coastguard team in
to see. This is a coastguard team in Hampshire on their way to rescue a
Hampshire on their way to rescue a stranded motorist. The strong winds
stranded motorist. The strong winds have been

Citation: BBC News, 01:00 16/02/2020, BBC1 London, 300 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/1576A217?bcast=131286339 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)