Fine
This is BBC News with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
This is BBC News with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
and around the world.
Full time school for all children in England in September —
Full time school for all children in England in September.
we in England in September. hear every child will be e
to
we hear every child will be expected to be back in the classroom and they
to be back in the classroom and they will be taught the full range of
will be taught the full range of subjects with year groups grouped
subjects with year groups grouped together into bubbles meaning that
together into bubbles meaning that if someone displays signs of the
if someone displays signs of the virus a whole year group could have
virus a whola year group could have to go home.
A local lockdown to deal with a surge in coronavirus
in Leicester cases will see schools close today to all but
children of key workers.
China demands that Britain "immediately stop interfering"
in the affairs of Hong Kong, after the UK denounced Beijing’s
new security law in the territory which led to mass protests.
TRANSLATION:
Hong Kong affairs are China’s foreign affairs
and there is no place forforeign interference.
Just a political hoax — President Trump dismisses reports
that Russia paid the Taliban to kill American troops — and says secret
services didn’t even tell him about the intelligence.
Could we see an extension of the countries Britons can travel to?
Dozens more could be exempt from the UK’s quarantine rules
to allow people to go on a foreign holiday.
F5
# Over the council on the hill... #
A star studded list, featuring the likes of Ed Sheeran,
Sir Paul McCartney and Annie Lennox call on the UK Government to do more
to protect live music venues.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK or around the world 7
and stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here
and across the globe.
I’m Annita McVeigh and you can get
I’m Annita McVeigh and you ran get in touch
I’m Annita McVeigh and you can get in touch with me on Twitter about
in touch with me on Twitter about any of the stories we are covering.
any of the stories we are covering. In the last few minutes the UK
In the last few minutes the UK Government has released its
Government has released its long—awaited guidance for schools in
long-awaited guidance for schools in England, with
long—awaited guidance for schools in England, with plans for all children
England, with plans for all children to return by September. They have
to return by September. They have been told to stagger break times,
been told to stagger break times, EWUP
been told to stagger break times, group children into bubbles and
group children into bubblas and focus
group children into bubbles and focus on core subjects in some cases
focus on core subjects in some cases when
focus on core subjects in some rases when they
focus on core subjects in some cases when they return to the classroom in
when they return to the classroom in September. The government is
September. The government is expected to confirm safety plans
expected to confirm safety plans based on reducing contact rather
based on reducing contact rather than social distancing. Schools and
than social distancing. Schools and colleges are to deliver their full
colleges are to deliver their full curriculum ahead of exams next
curriculum ahead of exams next summer and plans
curriculum ahead of exams next summerand plans are
curriculum ahead of exams next summer and plans are also in place
summer and plans are also in place to prevent the spread of the virus
to prevent the spread of the virus if anyone in the school tests
if anyone in the school tests positive. Those plans will be
positive. Those plans will be formally set out by the Education
formally set out by the Education Secretary later today. But let’s go
Secretary later today. But let’s go now to our correspondent Dan
Secretary later today. But let’s go now to our correspondent DanJohnson
now to our correspondent Dan johnson who is at a
now to our correspondent DanJohnson who is at a school to discuss that
who is at a school to discuss that information released in the last few
information released in the last few minutes. So, some more details about
minutes. So, some more details about how the government envisages
how the government envisages children in England will actually be
children in England will actually be able to get back to school, how
able to get back to school, how staff will manage that. Take us
staff will manage that. Take us through that, Dan. Yes, those
through that, Dan. Yes, those details just
through that, Dan. Yes, those detailsjust emerging in
through that, Dan. Yes, those details just emerging in the last
details just emerging in the last half an hour giving teachers, head
half an hour giving teachers, head teachers, some idea of exactly what
teachers, some idea of exactly what classrooms will look like in
classrooms will look like in September because the ambition is to
September because the ambition is to have these places full of children
have these places full of children again. At the moment it is only
again. At the moment it is only restricted year groups that are
restricted year groups that are being allowed in, some of them not
being allowed in, some of them not full time, taking different days of
full time, taking different days of the week to try and keep people
the week to try and keep people spaced out. And the impossible
spaced out. And the impossible puule that
spaced out. And the impossible puzzle that teachers and the
puzzle that teachers and the government were trying to solve was
government were trying to solve was how to get a classroom full again
how to get a classroom full again whilst maintaining social distancing
whilst maintaining social distancing because that naturally limits the
because that naturally limits the number of children you can have on a
number of children you ran have on a classroom
number of children you can have on a classroom which then requires more
classroom which then requires more space if you are going to get every
space if you are going to get every child back into school. It also
child back into school. It also requires more teachers because
requires more teachers because someone has got to look after them.
someone has got to look after them. The message of this guidance is that
The message of this guidance is that social distancing will be encouraged
social distancing will be encouraged but not enforced. And particularly
but not enforced. And particularty with younger
but not enforced. And particularly with younger children, I think there
with younger children, I think there is an appreciation here that it
is an appreciation here that it wasn’t realistic to expect that all
wasn’t realistic to expect that all the time, so we expect it to be
the time, so we expect it to be effectively abandoned at primary
effectively abandoned at primary school and reduced to one metre in a
school and reduced to one metre in a secondary school like this. We will
secondary school like this. We will be able to get a few thoughts from a
be able to get a few thoughts from a secondary and primary school head
secondary and primary school head teacher who are here with me this
teacher who are here with me this morning. But let me
teacher who are here with me this morning. But let mejust bring
teacher who are here with me this morning. But let me just bring you a
morning. But let me just bring you a bit more of the detail of this
bit more of the detail of this announcement. The Department for
announcement. The Department for Education has said that it wants
Education has said that it wants schools to provide the full range of
schools to provide the full range of the curriculum next year. There was
the curriculum next year. There was a suggestion that to help children
a suggestion that to help children catch up and to manage the
catch up and to manage the restricted staffing levels that
restricted staffing levels that there would be a focus on core
there would be a focus on core subjects, just English, maths and
subjects, just English, maths and science, perhaps, to make sure that
science, perhaps, to make sure that all children can catch up but the
all children ran catch up but the Department
all children can catch up but the Department for Education emphasises
Department for Education emphasises it wants the full range of the
it wants the full range of the curriculum to be taught, although it
curriculum to be taught, although it recognises that in some cases it may
recognises that in some rases it may need to
recognises that in some cases it may need to focus with some children on
need to focus with some children on those core subjects because of how
those core subjects because of how much learning has been lost. There
much learning has been lost. There is detail about bigger bubbles. So
is detail about bigger bubbles. So at the minute classrooms have been
at the minute classrooms have been limited to something like ten or 15
limited to something like ten or 15 children only. Now that more
children only. Now that more children will be in class, that
children will be in class, that means that a bubble could become the
means that a bubble could become the size of a classroom, or it could be
size of a classroom, or it could be a whola year
size of a classroom, or it could be a whole year group, and in a
a whola year group, and in a secondary
a whole year group, and in a secondary school like this that
secondary school like this that would mean about 150 or 180 children
would mean about 150 or 180 children all being part of the same bubble.
all being part of the same bubbla. Now, what
all being part of the same bubble. Now, what that means if there is an
Now, what that means if there is an outbreak case within that bubble,
outbreak use within that bubbla, that’s
outbreak case within that bubble, that’s the sort of detail that we
that’s the sort of detail that we are just getting because the
are just getting because the Department for Education is saying
Department for Education is saying that if there are two cases in a
that if there are two cases in a fortnight, then that means action
fortnight, then that means action has to be taken on a biggest bail
has to be taken on a biggest bail and might mean a whole year group
and might mean a whola year group having to go
and might mean a whole year group having to go home and self—isolate
having to go home and self-isolate -- bigot salt.
having to go home and self—isolate —— bigot scale. That puts pupils
-- bigot salt. That puts pupils back in
—— bigot scale. That puts pupils back in the position they are mostly
back in the position they are mostly in at
hack in the position they are mostly in at the
back in the position they are mostly in at the minute, trying to learn
in at the minute, trying to learn from home. A lot to absorb and a lot
from home. A lot to absorb and a lot of detail but this is the thing
of detail but this is the thing teachers had been calling out for.
teachers had been falling out for. Let’s
teachers had been calling out for. Let’s talk to Mike, the boss at the
Let’s talk to Mike, the boss at the secondary school, Tim is here as
secondary school, Tim is here as well from the primary
secondary school, Tim is here as well from the primaryjust down the
well from the primaryjust down the road. Do you think this will solve
road. Do you think this will solve the sort of conundrum you have been
the sort of conundmm you have been facing and
the sort of conundrum you have been facing and enable you to get
facing and enable you to get classrooms back full again? I think
classrooms back full again? I think from what I’ve heard you say so far,
from what I’ve heard you say so far, it sounds quite impractical. We are
it sounds quite impractical. We are talking about offering a broad and
talking about offering a broad and balanced curriculum to have
balanced curriculum to have everybody in. That means students
everybody in. That means students will be in six lessons every day.
will be in six lassons every day. Does
will be in six lessons every day. Does that mean they will move within
Does that mean they will move within the year groups? Are they allowed to
the year groups? Are they allowed to move across the building? Are we
move across the building? Are we going to segregate them? It is very
going to segregate them? It is very difficult to do science experiments
difficult to do science experiments if you are stuck in a maths room,
if you are stuck in a maths room, and all those practical limitations.
and all those practical limitations. We haven’t got stairs that would
We haven’t got stairs that would rater
We haven’t got stairs that would cater for a one—way system.
We haven’t got stairs that would caterfor a one—way system. Even if
rater for a one-way system. Even if you are down to
caterfor a one—way system. Even if you are down to one metre social
you are down to one metre social distancing? No. Still difficult in
distancing? No. Still difficult in things like the stairs? How do we
things like the stairs? How do we regiment things like the toilets? We
regiment things like the toilets? We can’t identify a particular toilet
can’t identify a particular toilet block for a year group or a class,
block for a year group or a class, and practical considerations such as
and practical considerations such as lunch time. We have seven year
lunch time. We have seven year EWUPS
lunch time. We have seven year groups and if every year group has
groups and if every year group has half an hour, that’s three and a
half an hour, that’s three and a half hours of lunchtime. Some
half hours of lunchtime. Some students won’t get fed until half an
students won’t get fed until half an hour before they go home. What will
hour before they go home. what will it take to
hour before they go home. What will it take to solve this and get every
it take to solve this and get every child back in September? To get
child back in September? To get every son. . .
child back in September? To get every son... Is that even realistic?
every son... Is that even realistic? I don’t think it is realistic. —— to
I don’t think it is realistic. -- to get every child
I don’t think it is realistic. —— to get every child back. We have been
get every child back. We have been told, from what you have said and
told, from what you have said and what I’ve heard so far, try if you
what I’ve heard so far, try if you ran.
what I’ve heard so far, try if you can. Welcome if the rest of society
ran. Welcome if the rest of society has been
can. Welcome if the rest of society has been told one metre plus, or two
has been told one metre plus, or two metres, and whatever it might be and
metres, and whatever it might be and if at one metre plus you have to
if at one metre plus you have to have Perspex screens and people wear
have Perspex screens and people wear visors but we are just being told,
visors but we are just being told, give it a try and see if you can do
give it a try and see if you ran do it, but actually
give it a try and see if you can do it, but actually if you can’t, don’t
it, but actually if you can’t, don’t worry about it, as long as they are
worry about it, as long as they are in one part of the school or one
in one part of the school or one classroom it will be all I’d like to
classroom it will be all I’d like to know what kind of science has driven
know what kind of science has driven the decision, because I’m completely
the decision, because I’m completely unsure about that. I think it is
unsure about that. I think it is impractical to think... Yes we will
impractical to think... Yes we will do our best in terms of making sure
do our best in terms of making sure the curriculum is maintained and is
the curriculum is maintained and is as broad and balanced as possible
as broad and balanced as possibla and that
as broad and balanced as possible and that will include some kind of
and that will include some kind of home learning in all likelihood.
home learning in all likelihood. Because it looks like it is going to
Because it looks like it is going to be practically impossible to do it
be practically impossible to do it to the degree that the government
to the degree that the government are suggesting and that parents are
are suggesting and that parents are going to expect from today’s
going to expect from today’s announcement. Let’s bring in ten who
announcement. Let’s bring in ten who mns the
announcement. Let’s bring in ten who runs the primary school down the
runs the primary school down the road that feeds kids in here. There
road that feeds kids in here. There seems to be an acceptance here for
seems to be an acceptance here for younger children from the government
younger children from the government that social distancing is not as
that social distancing is not as realistic with younger kids. Do you
realistic with younger kids. Do you welcome that? I welcome the removal
welcome that? I welcome the removal of social distancing in primary
of social distancing in primary schools if primary schools are to
schools if primary schools are to function normally. I’m also pleased
function normally. I’m also pleased to hear that we are not
function normally. I’m also pleased to hear that we are notjust
to hear that we are not just focusing on
to hear that we are notjust focusing on the maths, the English
focusing on the maths, the English and science, and we are looking at
and science, and we are looking at this all—round curriculum, this
this all-round curriculum, this holistic
this all—round curriculum, this holistic curriculum, because if
holistic curriculum, because if children are going to return, they
children are going to return, they will want to experience school
will want to experience school normally and that whole curriculum,
normally and that whola curriculum, the music,
normally and that whole curriculum, the music, the art, the PE, that’s
the music, the art, the PE, that’s what they really enjoy. And just to
what they really enjoy. And just to take that point, one thing I’m not
take that point, one thing I’m not really hearing at the moment is this
really hearing at the moment is this real focus on children coming back
real focus on children coming back and filling the gaps in the
and filling the gaps in the curriculum. For my part, for the
curriculum. For my part, for the children in my school, I want them
children in my school, I want them to come back and feel happy, and
to come back and feel happy, and that happiness may take a period of
that happiness may take a period of time. Only about 20% of my school
time. Only about 2096 of my school are in at
time. Only about 20% of my school are in at the moment, therefore we
are in at the moment, therefore we will have to work with them, we will
will have to work with them, we will have to ensure that there is nurture
have to ensure that there is nurture programmes. But gradually, if
programmes. But gradually, if children are happy, if they are
children are happy, if they are engaging with their friends again
engaging with their friends again and feel that sense of normality, we
and feel that sense of normality, we are far more likely start then
are far more likely start then teaching and learning and for
teaching and learning and for children to fill those gaps which
children to fill those gaps which will be quite important in the next
will be quite important in the next year. Do you think it is realistic
year. Do you think it is realistic to get your school full again and
to get your school full again and have every child back? The
have every child back? The government says it will enforce that
government says it will enforce that with a policy of fining parents
with a policy of fining parents again if kids are not in school. We
again if kids are not in school. We have to accept the coronavirus is
have to accept the coronavirus is still out there, but the scientists
still out there, but the scientists have demonstrated that children in
have demonstrated that children in primary, or of primary age, are
primary, or of primary age, are statistically lower. And therefore
statistically lower. And therefore it is for that reason they are
it is for that reason they are encouraging all children in primary
encouraging all children in primary schools to come back in September,
schools to come back in September, and I think that’s right, but there
and I think that’s right, but there is still a risk and we must accept
is still a risk and we must accept that risk. I empathise with those
that risk. I empathise with those families who are concerned about
families who are concerned about this. Which draws me to the point
this. which draws me to the point about the
this. Which draws me to the point about the fines for parents, which I
about the fines for parents, which I really struggle with. Can you
really struggle with. Can you foresee what will happen if there is
foresee what will happen if there is an outbreak? The government is
an outbreak? The government is saying if you get two cases in a
saying if you get two cases in a fortnight then you will have to
fortnight then you will have to clear whatever you have defined as a
dear whatever you have defined as a bubble
clear whatever you have defined as a bubble and send those pupils home.
bubble and send those pupils home. (“an you accept
bubble and send those pupils home. Can you accept that level of
(“an you accept that level of dismption
Can you accept that level of disruption again if that is what is
disruption again if that is what is needed? I think so. These different
needed? I think so. These different scenarios, this flexibility will
scenarios, this ﬂexibility will need
scenarios, this flexibility will need to be reflected and I think in
need to be reﬂacted and I think in school
need to be reflected and I think in school supposed to be local risk
school supposed to be local risk assessments. How does that work for
assessments. How does that work for 7°“-
assessments. How does that work for you, Mike, if a whole year group is
you, Mike, if a whola year group is to be sent
you, Mike, if a whole year group is to be sent home if there is a case?
to be sent home if there is a use? That part of the
to be sent home if there is a case? That part of the school would have
That part of the school would have to be closed down and cleaned. The
to be closed down and cleaned. The other impact is if we haven’t do the
other impact is if we haven’t do the broad and balanced curriculum and we
broad and balanced curriculum and we need to use those rooms, it may well
need to use those rooms, it may well be that for that part of the day
be that for that part of the day that part of the school is being
that part of the school is being used by one year group and used by
used by one year group and used by another year group in another part
another year group in another part of the day so that builds in issues
of the day so that builds in issues of cross contamination at what
of cross contamination at what happens then? Is it
of cross contamination at what happens then? Is itjust about one
happens then? Is it just about one year QWUP-
happens then? Is it just about one year group, or
happens then? Is itjust about one year group, or do we say there has
year group, or do we say there has been a use
year group, or do we say there has been a case and we are going to
been a use and we are going to dose
been a use and we are going to close the
been a case and we are going to close the whole school for a day or
close the whola school for a day or two days and
close the whole school for a day or two days and completely clean it and
two days and completely clean it and then bring back some and those who
then bring back some and those who have been tested have to wait until
have been tested have to wait until they have had their test result.
they have had their test result. Thank you for your reaction to these
Thank you for your reaction to these details coming on in the last half
details coming on in the last half an hour. Lots more to consider about
an hour. Lots more to consider about the practicalities and tip apartment
the practicalities and tip apartment for education recognises this will
for education recognises this will have to be dealt with differently
have to be dealt with differently according to the age of the kids and
according to the age of the kids and the size of the School of design of
the size of the School of design of the school. For instance, this art
the school. For instance, this art classroom, there is an ambition that
classroom, there is an ambition that kids will sit in rows facing the
kids will sit in rows facing the front but these desks are not
front but these desks are not designed for that so lots of work
designed for that so lots of work for schools to do in implement in
for schools to do in implement in this guidance. We have had some
this guidance. We have had some reaction from school and college
reaction from school and college leaders, saying it will be
leaders, saying it will be immediately apparent to anyone
immediately apparent to anyone reading this guidance that it’s
reading this guidance that it’s enormously challenging to implement.
enormously challenging to implement. The logistics of keeping apart many
The logistics of keeping apart many different bubbles of children in a
different bubbles of children in a full school including whole year
full school including whola year EWUPS
full school including whole year groups comprising hundreds of pupils
groups comprising hundreds of pupils is mind—boggling. So some cautious
is mind-boggling. So some cautious reaction
is mind—boggling. So some cautious reaction to this guidance. Certainly
reaction to this guidance. Certainly questions about whether the level of
questions about whether the level of detail is actually there to make
detail is actually there to make this work.
this work. 0K, Dan, thank you very much. Let’s
0K, Dan, thank you very much. Let’s join our assistant political editor
join our assistant political editor Norman Smith at Westminster now.
Norman Smith at Westminster now. Hello to you, Norman. Challenging,
Hello to you, Norman. Challonging, as Dan
Hello to you, Norman. Challenging, as Dan was saying, in that reaction
as Dan was saying, in that reaction he was reading out to the Department
he was reading out to the Department for Education for their plans to get
for Education for their plans to get children back to school in England.
children back to school in England. A
children hack to school in England. A head
children back to school in England. A headteacher
children back to school in England. A head teacher I spoke to an earlier
A head teacher I spoke to an eartier said we
A head teacher I spoke to an earlier said we will have five lunchtimes, a
said we will have five lunchtimes, a logistical nightmare. And lots of
logistical nightmare. And lots of head teachers
logistical nightmare. And lots of headteachers are
logistical nightmare. And lots of head teachers are saying they simply
head teachers are saying they simply will not
headteachers are saying they simply will not fine parents in September
will not fine parents in September who think it is not safe to send
who think it is not safe to send their children back. So the
their children back. So the government has a lot of work to do
government has a lot of work to do on this still, doesn’t it? They do.
on this still, doesn’t it? They do. But I think reading these guidelines
But I think reading these guidelines they have reached the conclusion
they have reached the conclusion that there is no way schools can go
that there is no way schools ran go back with
that there is no way schools can go back with current social distancing
back with current social distancing in force, so that has had to be
in force, so that has had to be dramatically reduced. It is now much
dramatically reduced. It is now much more permissive than prescriptive,
more permissive than prescriptive, heads will have to encourage
heads will have to encourage adequate social distancing rather
adequate social distancing rather than enforce it. But the big hope, I
than enforce it. But the big hope, I think, is that what they have set
think, is that what they have set out a sort of a fast—track trigger
out a sort of a fast-track trigger for testing and
out a sort of a fast—track trigger for testing and closing classes,
for testing and closing classes, dosing
for testing and closing classes, closing potentially whole year
dosing potentially whola year EWUPS-
closing potentially whole year groups, even closing entire schools,
groups, even dosing entire schools, and a very low
groups, even closing entire schools, and a very low threshold for
and a very low threshold for triggering that. Two cases in two
triggering that. Two rases in two weeks
triggering that. Two cases in two weeks will mean Public Health
weeks will mean Public Health England will send in a mobile
England will send in a mobile testing unit and they will begin
testing unit and they will begin testing, initially, the class, and
testing, initially, the class, and if it seems wider spread than the
if it seems wider spread than the class they will go to the year group
class they will go to the year group and so on and leave open the option
and so on and leave open the option that entire schools could be shut
that entire schools could be shut down. Now, clearly, I
that entire schools could be shut down. Now, clearly, Iguess
that entire schools could be shut down. Now, clearly, I guess the hope
down. Now, dearty, I guess the hope is that that
down. Now, clearly, I guess the hope is that that will offer some
is that that will offer some reassurance that coronavirus isn’t
reassurance that coronavirus isn’t going to get out of hand if it
going to get out of hand if it starts in schools at all. In other
starts in schools at all. In other words, the Public Health England
words, the Public Health England will move in very quickly. But that
will move in very quickly. But that is a much bigger question about
is a much bigger question about whether test and tracing is fast and
whether test and tracing is fast and effective, whether we can turn
effective, whether we ran turn around
effective, whether we can turn around tests quickly. That’s a much
around tests quickly. That’s a much bigger question which the government
bigger question which the government has got to get on top of beyond
has got to get on top of beyond simply how they make it operate in
simply how they make it operate in schools. The other thing which I
schools. The other thing which I think is striking is the degree to
think is striking is the degree to which it seems to me the government
which it seems to me the government have basically passed the buck back
have basically passed the buck back to schools, heads and local councils
to schools, heads and local councils to sort out individual arrangements
to sort out individual arrangements in their own localities. So
in their own localities. 50 individual
in their own localities. So individual schools will have to
individual schools will have to decide how they want to structure
decide how they want to stmcture the
decide how they want to structure the school day, do they want to
the school day, do they want to stagger arrival times,
the school day, do they want to staggerarrivaltimes, break
the school day, do they want to staggerarrivaltimes, breaktimes,
stagger arrival times, break times, lunchtimes,
staggerarrivaltimes, breaktimes, lunchtimes, departure times? Though
lunchtimes, departure times? Though have to work out, do they want to
have to work out, do they want to use PPE and in what circumstances
use PPE and in what circumstances they want to use PPE, what sort of
they want to use PPE, what sort of cleaning regimes they put in, the
cleaning regimes they put in, the degree of social distancing they
degree of social distancing they want, the level of face—to—face
want, the level of face-to-face contact
want, the level of face—to—face contact time they will deem
contact time they will deem acceptable. 50 an awful lot is
acceptabla. So an awful lot is basically
acceptable. 50 an awful lot is basically passed back to the head
basically passed back to the head teachers. At one level you could say
teachers. At one level you could say that is a good thing because all
that is a good thing because all schools are different and will have
schools are different and will have their own circumstances. It does
their own circumstances. It does pose a huge amount of responsibility
pose a huge amount of responsibility on heads who are already having to
on heads who are already having to grapple with a monumentally
grapple with a monumentally difficult situation. 50 an awful lot
difficult situation. So an awful lot more
difficult situation. 50 an awful lot more work for individual head
more work for individual head teachers. 0K, Norman, thank you very
teachers. 0K, Norman, thank you very much.
China has demanded that Britain "immediately stop interfering"
in the affairs of Hong Kong, after the UK denounced Beijing’s
Boris
BorisJohnson
Boris Johnson accused
BorisJohnson accused Beijing of a
Boris johnson accused Beijing of a dear
BorisJohnson accused Beijing of a clear and serious breach of its
clear and serious breach of its treaty with Britain by imposing a
treaty with Britain by imposing a Draconian national security law on
Draconian national security law on the territory. While speaking at a
the territory. while speaking at a news
the territory. While speaking at a news conference in Beijing, Chinese
news conference in Beijing, Chinese government spokesman warned against
government spokesman warned against what he called foreign interference.
TRANSLATION: The Hong Kong compatriots, including those he
compatriots, including those he holders are all Chinese citizens.
holders are all Chinese citizens. Before Hong Kong’s return to China
Before Hong Kong’s return to China the British signed to clearly
the British signed to dearty promise
the British signed to clearly promise that they would not grant
promise that they would not grant residence permit to the BNO holders.
residence permit to the BNO holders. Now the UK, in total disregard to
Now the UK, in total disregard to China was my position, obstinately
China was my position, obstinately changed this policy and introduced a
changed this policy and introduced a new route for residence permits and
new route for residence permits and citizenship in great violation of
citizenship in great violation of its own promise, international law
its own promise, international law and international relations. China
and international relations. China strongly condemns that and reserves
strongly condemns that and reserves the right to make further reactions.
the right to make further reactions. All the consequences shall be borne
All the consequences shall be borne by the UK side. China reiterates
by the UK side. China reiterates that Hong Kong public affairs are
that Hong Kong public affairs are china’s internal affairs and there
china’s internal affairs and there is no place for
china’s internal affairs and there is no place forforeign
is no place forforeign interference. The Chinese government
interference. The Chinese government is firmly determined in upholding
is firmly determined in upholding national sovereignty, security and
national sovereignty, security and development interests.
Our China correspondent Stephen McDonnelljoins
us now from Beijing.
if:
He was in that briefing listening to it. The UK is not the only country
it. The UK is not the only country to talk about taking action over
to talk about taking action over what’s happening in China Hong Kong,
what’s happening in China Hong Kong, the USA is getting involved,
the USA is getting involved, Australia is getting involved. So
Australia is getting involved. So tell us more about what the response
tell us more about what the response was in that briefing. It was
was in that briefing. It was interesting because the language was
interesting because the language was tough but still no indication of
tough but still no indication of what Beijing actually plans to do in
what Beijing actually plans to do in response to Britain’s new BNO
response to Britain’s new BNO policy. We
response to Britain’s new BNO policy. Wejust
response to Britain’s new BNO policy. We just heard the
policy. We just heard the spokesperson saying these people are
spokesperson saying these people are Chinese citizens and they are
Chinese citizens and they are accusing Britain of breaking its
accusing Britain of breaking its promise not to offer them residency,
promise not to offer them residency, saying that China reserves the right
saying that China reserves the right for these unspecified
for these unspecified countermeasures and that rather
countermeasures and that rather ominously the UK side will be the
ominously the UK side will be the one bearing the consequences.
one bearing the consequences. Naturally, I asked
one bearing the consequences. Naturally, Iasked him, when
one bearing the consequences. Naturally, I asked him, when I going
Naturally, Iasked him, when I going to know
Naturally, I asked him, when I going to know what these consequences are,
to know what these consequences are, what will it take for you to
what will it take for you to announce China’s response. And he
announce China’s response. And he said now is not the time for us to
said now is not the time for us to reveal this. You have to be patient.
reveal this. You have to be patient. So who
reveal this. You have to be patient. 50 who knows, we
reveal this. You have to be patient. 50 who knows, wejust
reveal this. You have to be patient. 50 who knows, we just have to wait
So who knows, we just have to wait and see what they intend to do. But
and see what they intend to do. But interestingly, if you did write down
interestingly, if you did write down into this, threat was the potential
into this, threat was the potential for a response,
into this, threat was the potential fora response, not even we are
for a response, not even we are going to
fora response, not even we are going to respond, we reserve the
going to respond, we reserve the right to. So
going to respond, we reserve the right to. 50 really, who knows? We
right to. So really, who knows? We did also ask about the Australian
did also ask about the Australian government’s announcement that it
government’s announcement that it will be offering some sort of option
will be offering some sort of option for Hong Kong people to be able to
for Hong Kong peopla to be able to live
for Hong Kong people to be able to live there and migrate to Australia.
live there and migrate to Australia. Those details are yet to be
Those details are yet to be revealed. Again he told Australia
revealad. Again he told Australia also to
revealed. Again he told Australia also to but out of Hong Kong’s
also to but out of Hong Kong’s affairs. He had some very strong
affairs. He had some very strong language for the US Secretary of
language for the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, also accusing the
State Mike Pompeo, also accusing the US of meddling there. He said that
US of meddling there. He said that now that this new law is in place it
now that this new law is in place it would actually restrict this US US
would actually restrict this US US meddling in Hong Kong. The Chinese
meddling in Hong Kong. The Chinese government has long accused foreign
government has long accused foreign forces, as it caused them, of
forces, as it caused them, of masterminding the whole protest
masterminding the whole protest movement. So there we are. A lot of
movement. So there we are. A lot of tension but no concrete announcement
tension but no concrete announcement in terms of what patient wasn’t
in terms of what patient wasn’t response to Britain will be yet.
response to Britain will be yet. Strong language, and pretty robust
Strong language, and pretty robust action on the streets of Hong Kong
action on the streets of Hong Kong as well in reaction to those
as well in reaction to those protests against the official
protests against the official introduction of that new law. Were
introduction of that new law. Were you surprised that there were those
you surprised that there were those immediate arrests? Some of those
immediate arrests? Some of those arrests were for carrying a flag,
arrests were for carrying a ﬂag, for example. I
arrests were for carrying a flag, for example. I think many analysts
for example. I think many analysts kind of expected the Chinese
kind of expected the Chinese authorities to take it easy for a
authorities to take it easy for a bit, and sort of ease Hong Kong into
bit, and sort of ease Hong Kong into this new arrangement, given that the
this new arrangement, given that the law was secret until it came into
law was secret until it came into effect. But it sort of comes into
effect. But it sort of comes into effect at 11 o’clock at night and by
effect at 11 o’clock at night and by the next morning arrests were being
the next morning arrests were being made inside that first 2A hours and
made inside that first 24 hours and ten peopla
made inside that first 2A hours and ten people were arrested under this
ten people were arrested under this new state security law. Yes, it is
new state security law. Yes, it is for things like carrying a flag, not
for things like carrying a ﬂag, not even waving it
for things like carrying a flag, not even waving it in some cases,
even waving it in some cases, someone had a flag in their bag
someone had a ﬂag in their bag advocating
someone had a flag in their bag advocating independence and somebody
advocating independence and somebody else had a sort of handmade placard,
else had a sort of handmade placard, "Hong Kong independence" written on
"Hong Kong independence" written on it. That’s enough to have you
it. That’s enough to have you arrested under the new state
arrested under the new state security law. Worryingly it also
security law. Worryingly it also potentially means serious jail time
potentially means serious jail time for these types of challenges, as
for these types of challenges, as they are seen. Even just an
they are seen. Even just an individual person on streets, the
individual person on streets, the protesters there don’t even know if
protesters there don’t even know if they ran sing
protesters there don’t even know if they can sing that protest and the
they ran sing that protest and the many more if
they can sing that protest and the many more if it is going to be
many more if it is going to be interpreted in this way. Every time
interpreted in this way. Every time certain chanting went up yesterday
certain chanting went up yesterday when those protests happened, the
when those protests happened, the police would hold up their new
police would hold up their new banner warning "You are potentially
banner warning "You are potentially in breach of the state security laws
in breach of the state security laws now." More than 300 arrests were
now." More than 300 arrests were made yesterday, I should add, but
made yesterday, I should add, but that was more for your standard
that was more for your standard illegal gathering type crimes. Much
illegal gathering type crimes. Much more serious these crimes of
more serious these crimes of secession, sedition, which are
secession, sedition, which are associated with the new law which
associated with the new law which has been passed. Thank you, Stephen
has been passed. Thank you, Stephen McDonell, our China correspondent in
McDonell, our China correspondent in Beijing.
America’s top infectious disease expert has warned that the US risks
an even greater coronavirus outbreak unless it can bring the latest surge
in cases under control.
Doctor Anthony Fauci said the current spike —
of more than 52,000 new cases in the past 2A hours —
was caused by people in some states failing to follow basic rules
as the economy re—opened.
When you look at what happened in some of the states, all you have to
do is take a look at the news at night and you see people
congregating at bars without masks, congregating in different types of
groups that are well beyond the recommended number of people.
What happens when you do that and you
don’t wear a mask?
You get the kind of outbreaks we are seeing.
President Trump has insisted that he was never told by the US
secret services about reports that Russia paid Afghanistan’s Taliban
militants to kill American soldiers.
In an interview with Fox Business Network, Mr Trump said
that many of the intelligence people didn’t think it was something
that even happened.
And he claimed that the whole story was a hoax put forward
by his Democratic rivals.
The BBC’s North America Correspondent,
David Willis has more.
The White House
continues to insist that that
piece
of intelligence termination was unverified then and is unverified
unverified then and is unverified now. This is about a bounty being
now. This is about a bounty being placed on US soldiers by Russia. And
placed on US soldiers by Russia. And indeed, the president himself has
indeed, the president himself has made the point that this is all a
made the point that this is all a hoax. But why didn’t he know if it
hoax. But why didn’t he know if it was contained in the written
was contained in the written briefing? Not the oral briefing that
briefing? Not the oral briefing that is given to him by a member of the
is given to him by a member of the CIA. But the sort of written
CIA. But the sort of written briefing, intelligence briefing,
briefing, intelligence briefing, that has been presented to the
that has been presented to the President of the United States ever
President of the United States ever since the days of Harry Truman. It
since the days of Harry Tmman. It doesn’t
since the days of Harry Truman. It doesn’t look particularly good
doesn’t look particularly good either way.
doesn’t look particularly good eitherway. Did he
doesn’t look particularly good either way. Did he not know about
either way. Did he not know about this, or did he know about it and
this, or did he know about it and ignore it? And as you can imagine,
ignore it? And as you ran imagine, the
ignore it? And as you can imagine, the presumptive Democratic
the presumptive Democratic presidential rival
the presumptive Democratic presidential rivalJoe Biden has
presidential rival joe Biden has been
presidential rivalJoe Biden has been having a
presidential rivalJoe Biden has been having afield day with all
been having a field day with all this. He
been having afield day with all this. He accused President Trump of
this. He accused President Trump of dereliction of duty and made the
dereliction of duty and made the point that when he was Vice
point that when he was Vice President both he and Barack Obama
President both he and Barack Obama read the written classified briefing
read the written classified briefing from cover to cover. Kayleigh
from cover to cover. Rayleigh McEnany,
from cover to cover. Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press
McEnany, the White House press spokeswoman, was asked if options
spokeswoman, was asked if options were being prepared for the
were being prepared for the president regarding retaliation, if
president regarding retaliation, if indeed this piece of intelligence
indeed this piece of intelligence information proved true, and she
information proved true, and she said she didn’t want to get ahead of
said she didn’t want to get ahead of information that she insisted was
information that she insisted was still unverified. Nonetheless, the
still unverified. Nonetheless, the house Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who is
house Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who is of course a Democrat, is already
of course a Democrat, is already falling for US
of course a Democrat, is already calling for US sanctions on Russia
calling for US sanctions on Russia because of all this.
because of all this. David Willis there.
A New York court has lifted the temporary restraining order
against the publication of a book by President Trump s niece,
according to the Washington Post, New York Times and Associated Press.
The book is due for publication on the 20th of
The book is due for publication on the 20th ofJuly but a restraining
the 20th of july but a restraining order on
the 20th ofJuly but a restraining order on her seems to be still in
order on her seems to be still in place on her, opening up the
place on her, opening up the possibility she could be sued if it
possibility she could be sued if it goes ahead. According to the New
goes ahead. According to the New York Times, Mary Trump is still
York Times, Mary Tmmp is still bound by an
York Times, Mary Trump is still bound by an agreement she signed in
bound by an agreement she signed in 2001 after an argument about family
2001 after an argument about family inheritance.
.|JI<
UK Government sources have indicated that dozens of countries will be
that dozens of countries will be exempt from its travel quarantine
exempt from its travel quarantine from Monday. Currently most people
from Monday. Currently most peopla arriving into the
from Monday. Currently most people arriving into the UK from anywhere
arriving into the UK from anywhere apart from the Republic of Ireland
apart from the Republic of Ireland have to self—isolate for two weeks.
have to self-isolate for two weeks. Last
have to self—isolate for two weeks. Last weekend the government said it
Last weekend the government said it would relax its advice on travel
would relax its advice on travel abroad and would rate countries as
abroad and would rate countries as either green, amber or red depending
either green, amber or red depending on the prevalence of the virus.
on the prevalence of the vims. Reports from
on the prevalence of the virus. Reports from Myanmar say at least
Reports from Myanmar say at least 100 peopla
Reports from Myanmar say at least 100 people have been killed in a
100 people have been killed in a landslide at a jade mine. Deadly
landslide at a jade mine. Deadly landslides and other accidents are
landslides and other accidents are common in the poorly regulated mines
common in the poorty regulated mines which
common in the poorly regulated mines which exist in parts of the country.
which exist in parts of the country. This latest incident happened in the
This latest incident happened in the North when workers who were
North when workers who were collecting stones in the jade rich
collecting stones in the jade rich area of the state were trapped under
area of the state were trapped under of refuse, according to the
of refuse, according to the countrrs
of refuse, according to the country’s Fire Service Department. A
countrrs Fire Service Department. A rescue
country’s Fire Service Department. A rescue operation, we are told, is
rescue operation, we are told, is ongoing.
Russian election officials say that
Russian elaction officials say that with
Russian election officials say that with more than 90% of ballots
with more than 90% of ballots counted voters have overwhelmingly
counted voters have overwhelmingly approved constitutional changes
approved constitutional changes which are expected to cement
which are expected to cement President Putin’s hold on power
which are expected to cement President Putin’s hold on powerfor
President Putin’s hold on power for 16 more years.
President Putin’s hold on powerfor 16 more years. The package of
16 more years. The package of reforms were put to people in a
reforms were put to people in a week-long
reforms were put to people in a week—long referendum, as Sarah
week—long referendum, as Sarah Rainsford reports from Moscow.
In Russia, everything and nothing has just changed. That Amir Putin
has just changed. That Amir Putin has done what he often promised he’d
has done what he often promised he’d never do, and rewritten the
never do, and rewritten the Constitution to extend his stay in
Constitution to extend his stay in power. He could now run for
power. He could now nm for president
power. He could now run for president twice more and point to
president twice more and point to the resounding win at this ballot
the resounding win at this ballot has proved he has the people’s
has proved he has the people’s support for that. His critics
support for that. His critics slammed the process as project Putin
slammed the process as project Putin for ever and a sham vote.
for ever and a sham vote. TRANSLATION: Voting is a fake but
TRANSLATION: Voting is a fake but has become an open statement about
has become an open statement about what is happening in the country.
what is happening in the country. Vladimir Putin, together with a
Vladimir Putin, together with a EWUP
Vladimir Putin, together with a group of his corrupt friends and
group of his cormpt friends and colleagues
group of his corrupt friends and colleagues illegally seized power
colleagues illegally seized power and wants to be the ruler of Russia
and wants to be the rular of Russia for life.
for life. The key reform on his presidential
The key reform on his presidential terms was buried amidst a giant
terms was buried amidst a giant package of constitutional
package of constitutional amendments. There was everything
amendments. There was everything from patriotic puff to social
from patriotic puff to social welfare promises, even animal
welfare promises, even animal rights. Campaigning against the
rights. Campaigning against the changes was banned. So, whilst
changes was banned. So, whilst younger voters at polling stations
younger voters at polling stations told us they were fed up of the same
told us they were fed up of the same face in the Kremlin, this result was
face in the Kremlin, this result was never really in doubt. Sarah
never really in doubt. Sarah Rainsford, BBC News, Moscow. Some of
Rainsford, BBC News, Moscow. Some of the biggest names in pop including
the biggest names in pop including Sir Paul McCartney, Ed Sheeran and
Sir Paul Md’artney, Ed Sheeran and Annie
Sir Paul McCartney, Ed Sheeran and Annie Lennox have signed an open
Annie Lennox have signed an open letter urging the UK Government to
letter urging the UK Government to help protect live music venues from
help protect live music venues from the effects of coronavirus. They
the effects of coronavirus. They want an extension to the furlough
want an extension to the furlough scheme for those working in the
scheme for those working in the industry and the removal of VAT for
industry and the removal of VAT for tickets when shows eventually
tickets when shows eventually restart. Here is our entertainment
restart. Here is our entertainment correspondent Colin Paterson. Ed
correspondent Colin Paterson. Ed Sheeran and Coldplay, both British
Sheeran and Coldplay, both British acts that can fill stadiums around
acts that ran fill stadiums around the
acts that can fill stadiums around the world and today they are trying
the world and today they are trying to help those who work at some of
to help those who work at some of the UK’s smallest venues. They are
the UK’s smallest venues. They are amongst the 1500 acts who have
amongst the 1500 acts who have signed the letter calling for the
signed the letter calling for the government to give the live music
government to give the live music sector financial support. Arguing
sector financial support. Arguing that the lack of shows this summer
that the lack of shows this summer has left tens of thousands of
that the lack of shows this summer has left tens of thousands ofjobs
has left tens of thousands ofjobs at risk. jools
has left tens of thousands ofjobs at risk. Jools Holland has been
at risk. jools Holland has been gigging
at risk. Jools Holland has been gigging since the 19705. It filters
gigging since the 19705. It filters down through every level because the
down through every level because the smaller the venue the harder it is
smaller the venue the harder it is going to be for them. The smaller
going to be for them. The smaller the band, in their stature, the
the band, in their stature, the harder it is going to be for them.
harder it is going to be for them. It has a knock—on effect to
It has a knock-on effect to everybody.
everybody. Kaiser Chiefs was supposed to be
Kaiser Chiefs was supposed to be touring this summer. They think it
touring this summer. They think it could be a devastating year for
could be a devastating year for those who work behind the scenes.
those who work behind the scenes. You’ve got people doing jobs that
You’ve got peopla doing jobs that they do for
You’ve got people doing jobs that they do for love, for the love of
they do for love, for the love of music and of community in their
music and of community in their community. And if those people
community. And if those peopla disappear
community. And if those people disappear off because they have to
disappear off because they have to because they can’t afford to hang
because they can’t afford to hang around, then you lose those people
around, then you lose those peopla and
around, then you lose those people and they are hard to replace,
and they are hard to replace, impossible to replace. For three
impossible to replace. For three decades, and banks has put on
decades, and banks has put on concerts for the likes of Kylie
concerts for the likes of Kylie Minogue and Katy Perry. She is
Minogue and Katy Perry. She is worried that many of the UK’s grass
worried that many of the UK’s grass roots music venues will simply never
roots music venues will simply never reopen. It’s so, so disturbing. Once
reopen. It’s so, so disturbing. Once the rent isn’t paid on that venue
the rent isn’t paid on that venue any more, who is to say that it
any more, who is to say that it doesn’t get bought up and knocked
doesn’t get bought up and knocked down and becomes another block of
down and becomes another block of ﬂats, or an
down and becomes another block of flats, or an out—of—town shopping
ﬂats, or an out-of-town shopping centre, or
flats, or an out—of—town shopping centre, or whatever it is? It is so
centre, or whatever it is? It is so hard. The government say are already
hard. The government say are already providing unprecedented financial
providing unprecedented financial assistance to organisations and
assistance to organisations and artists such as loans and Job
artists such as loans and Job Retention Scheme, and they are
Retention Scheme, and they are looking at additional support the
looking at additional support the industry. As for
looking at additional support the industry. As forjust how much this
industry. As for just how much this issue has
industry. As forjust how much this issue has brought the British music
issue has brought the British music scene together, the open letter has
scene together, the open letter has been signed by both Liam and Noel
been signed by both Liam and Noel Gallagher, the first time for years
Gallagher, the first time for years feuding brothers have been willing
feuding brothers have been willing to sign the same thing. Colin
to sign the same thing. Colin Paterson, BBC News.
Hello, this is BBC News with Annita McVeigh.
The headlines:
Full class sizes and year group bubbles —
the UK Government’s just released guidance on how all pupils
in England will return in September.
A local lockdown to deal with a surge in coronavirus in Leicester.
Cases will see schools close today to all but children of key workers.
China demands that Britain "immediately stop interfering"
in the affairs of Hong Kong, after the UK denounced Beijing’s
new security law in the territory which led to mass protests.
Just a political hoax...
President Trump dismisses reports that Russia paid the Taliban to kill
American troops and says secret services didn’t even tell him
about the intelligence.
Could we see an extension of the countries Brits can travel to?
Dozens more could be exempt from the UK’s quarantine rules,
to allow people to go on a foreign holiday.
A star studded list, featuring the likes of Ed Sheeran,
Sir Paul McCartney and Annie Lennox, call on the UK Government to do more
to protect live music venues.
Guidelines on how more than eight million pupils in England
will be able to return to full—time education in September have been
released this morning.
They include plans to group children into bubbles
and to stagger start times.
John Maguire visited one school in Weston—Super—Mare to see how
teachers and parents there are preparing
for the new term.
When these children return, the number will swell
from A0 to 900.
Clearly, the social distancing rules in place now will need to change.
But change has been a constant, of late, and staff are confident
they can cope with more.
Our strategy is that we are hoping for and
anticipating and looking forward to having all of our children back
with us, in front of us, in September.
We are ready and geared up for the children to come back in.
We know that we can manage and we know that
we can navigate a way through because we have
just done it.
And where parents can decide whether or not to send children
to school now, in the autumn, attendance will once
again become compulsory.
So, anxious families will need to be persuaded.
We have been making well over 600 phone calls each week
to ourfamilies, to touch base and check
that they are OK.
And those relationships have now become strong
and that is a positive from this experience.
We will be leaning on those relationships to support them
and their children.
So, what do parents think?
On the health side of things, as long as there is guidance
for the classes to be safe I would be happy to send them back.
My daughter is already back two hours a week at secondary school
and is finding that fine.
Obviously, they are all spaced apart.
For children of different abilities and some are getting
on with their work and some are not.
My concern is doing back in September that everyone will be
at a different level and if they are considering putting
people into a bubble, as I have heard, I don’t know how
that will affect how everyone works.
I would like to know whether or not if we can still have a PE
curriculum, creative curriculum and it notjust be Monday to Friday
of core, which I know is valuable but the student’s opinion matters
and I would like...
The day, is it going to be full—time, Monday to Friday,
will they be staggering start and finish times?
Just getting a benchmark of where the kids are at,
knowing that they have sufficient time to put
the content in for the GCSEs between now and May
would be good, providing exams are not going
to be pushed back.
That would be the biggest things, just to see the kids
are still on track.
The usual September concerns about school uniform,
PE kit or new subjects will take a back—seat.
The priorities will be safety, reassurance
and hopefully a guarantee that
pupils will be able to catch up.
The back—to—school check list will be like never before.
Earlier, I spoke to Kevin Courtney, Joint General Secretary
of the National Education Union, Leah, a parent of four children
who is concerned about the safety of pupils returning and Jane Girt 7
who is the head of Carlton Bolling Academy in Bradford.
She told me how her school is attempting to prepare for September.
ﬂ
I think it’s been very, very difficult. What we’ve done is we’ve
difficult. what we’ve done is we’ve planned for
difficult. What we’ve done is we’ve planned for September, assuming all
planned for September, assuming all the children would be back without
the children would be back without social distancing, because it’s the
social distancing, because it’s the only way we could start with a plan.
only way we could start with a plan. Once we’ve done that, we can tweak
Once we’ve done that, we ran tweak it when we get
Once we’ve done that, we can tweak it when we get the details today. I
it when we get the details today. I think what is frustrating for us is
think what is frustrating for us is we only have a fortnight left of
we only have a fortnight left of school this term and the changes we
school this term and the changes we are going to have to make will have
are going to have to make will have to be quite noticeable to what we
to be quite noticeable to what we normally do in September. So we are
normally do in September. So we are fortunate, we
normally do in September. 50 we are fortunate, we are a
normally do in September. So we are fortunate, we are a school that
fortunate, we are a school that doesn’t have buses, we are a
doesn’t have buses, we are a community school so our pupils all
community school so our pupils all live in the locality. In terms of
live in the locality. In terms of 1500 children, 120 staff, 84
1500 children, 120 staff, 84 teaching spaces, we have planned
teaching spaces, we have planned that for a normal curriculum. The
that for a normal curriculum. The thought of trying to change that so
thought of trying to change that so children can stay in their bubbles,
children ran stay in their bubbles, our
children can stay in their bubbles, our bubble is a 250, 300 in the year
our bubbla is a 250, 300 in the year EWUP-
our bubble is a 250, 300 in the year group, we will be able to do it but
group, we will be able to do it but the more time we have, the better.
the more time we have, the better. But with the experience that
But with the experience that children have would be very
children have would be very different to what they normally
different to what they normally would have in September. Three lunch
would have in September. Three lunch times to get through 1500 children.
times to get through 1500 children. It looks with a new system we will
It looks with a new system we will need five lunch times, unless we say
need five lunch times, unless we say we will only give school lunches to
we will only give school lunches to those certain free school meals. All
those certain free school meals. All these decisions are up in the air at
these decisions are up in the air at the moment and as soon as we get
the moment and as soon as we get some clear advice from the
some clear advice from the Government, the easier it will be
Government, the easier it will be for head teachers like myself to
for head teachers like myself to start to put in place all the
start to put in place all the systems and processes that will have
systems and processes that will have to be there. The logistics of five
to be there. The logistic of five school
to be there. The logistics of five school lunches, that I alone I
school lunches, that I alone I imagine is a bit of a logistical
imagine is a bit of a logistical nightmare. I will come back to you
nightmare. I will come back to you in a second. Kevin Courtney on the
in a second. Kevin Courtney on the National Education Union, how much
National Education Union, how much confidence does need to be at this
confidence does need to be at this stage and how much more detail do
stage and how much more detail do you need or warrant quickly from the
you need or warrant quickly from the Government, backed up by things like
Government, backed up by things like Test and Trace and so on, of course,
Test and Trace and so on, of course, to be able to confidently back
to be able to confidently back children going back to school in
children going back to school in September in England? I think you
September in England? I think you have to start with huge sympathy for
have to start with huge sympathy for jane and every
have to start with huge sympathy for Jane and every other head teacher in
jane and every other head teacher in this country
Jane and every other head teacher in this country because that head
this country because that head teachers tell me that to plan a
teachers tell me that to plan a timetable in a big secondary school,
timetabla in a big secondary school, that ran
timetable in a big secondary school, that can take seven solid weeks.
that ran take seven solid weeks. Even
that can take seven solid weeks. Even with the fantastic computer
Even with the fantastic computer programmes you have to aid that at
programmes you have to aid that at the moment. So the idea with
programmes you have to aid that at the moment. So the idea withjust
the moment. So the idea with just two
the moment. 50 the idea withjust two weeks to go,
the moment. So the idea withjust two weeks to go, you can work out of
two weeks to go, you ran work out of planning that
two weeks to go, you can work out of planning that will do all of the
planning that will do all of the staggered starts, staggered breaks
staggered starts, staggered breaks and lunch times, there is a real
and lunch times, there is a real practical difficulty to that. I
practical difficulty to that. I think what you asked is what back—up
think what you asked is what back-up do we
think what you asked is what back—up do we need? We need these plans to
do we need? We need these plans to be out and in public and then we
be out and in public and then we really need scientists. Public
really need scientists. Public Health England and Sage to say they
Health England and Sage to say they confirm that these are safe. We
confirm that these are safe. We would want children to be back in
would want children to be back in September and with a fair wind, may
September and with a fair wind, may be across than eight weeks between
be across than eight weeks between now and September the virus level
now and September the virus level drops even more people feel safer.
drops even more people feel safer. There is obviously risk that unless
There is obviously risk that unless they are in Bradford, where the
they are in Bradford, where the virus level is higher than average,
virus level is higher than average, that that might not be the case but
that that might not be the use but we need
that that might not be the case but we need scientists to confirm. We
we need scientists to confirm. We need Sage, they looked at the
need Sage, they looked at the question of schools are reopening in
question of schools are reopening in papers that were released in
question of schools are reopening in papers that were released inJune.
papers that were released in june. They were
papers that were released inJune. They were worried about transmission
They were worried about transmission networks within schools and the idea
networks within schools and the idea that we have these big bubbles with
that we have these big bubbles with no social distancing, so classes of
no social distancing, so classes of 30 or 30 plus sometimes, and then
30 or 30 plus sometimes, and then mixing those classes. The question
mixing those classes. The question of if the virus is circulating, how
of if the virus is circulating, how much you ran
of if the virus is circulating, how much you can circulate in that sort
much you ran circulate in that sort of big bubble is
much you can circulate in that sort of big bubble is an issue that we
of big bubble is an issue that we really need Sage to say they have
really need Sage to say they have looked at this, not the words on the
looked at this, not the words on the paper of a government plan but how
paper of a government plan but how the actual reality will be that they
the actual reality will be that they think that will be safe in terms of
think that will be safe in terms of transmission networks. The second
transmission networks. The second thing is we need safety for some
thing is we need safety for some individuals to be confirmed. So we
individuals to be confirmed. So we know that children, by and large,
know that children, by and large, the huge majority, do not suffer
the huge majority, do not suffer this disease badly. But adults can
this disease badly. But adults ran foster
this disease badly. But adults can foster parents and staff who are
foster parents and staff who are working. If you are in a class of 30
working. If you are in a class of 30 children effectively with no social
children effectively with no social distancing and with no PPE, quite
distancing and with no PPE, quite often classrooms have poor
often classrooms have poor ventilation, for their scientists to
ventilation, for their scientists to 55V
ventilation, for their scientists to say yes, it’s absolutely safe to be
say yes, it’s absolutely safe to be or relatively safe to be in that is
or relatively safe to be in that is something that the Government needs
something that the Government needs to give us. Sorry to know that
to give us. Sorry to know that children, by and large, the huge
children, by and large, the huge majority, do not suffer this disease
majority, do not suffer this disease badly. But adults can foster parents
badly. But adults ran foster parents and
badly. But adults can foster parents and staff who are working. If you
and staff who are working. If you are in a class of 30 children
are in a class of 30 children effectively with no social
effectively with no social distancing and with no PPE, quite
distancing and with no PPE, quite often classrooms have poor
often classrooms have poor ventilation, for their scientists to
ventilation, for their scientists to 55V
ventilation, for their scientists to say yes, it’s absolutely safe to be
say yes, it’s absolutely safe to be or relatively safe to be in that is
or relatively safe to be in that is something that the Government needs
something that the Government needs to give us. Sorry to go at the
to give us. Sorry to go at the school and anyone else they might
school and anyone else they might come into contact with. Let me bring
come into contact with. Let me bring in Leah and her son
come into contact with. Let me bring in Leah and her sonJacob. Are you
in Leah and her son jacob. Are you excited to
in Leah and her sonJacob. Are you excited to be on TV this morning?
excited to be on TV this morning? Yeah! jacob is
excited to be on TV this morning? Yeah! Jacob is 11. So
excited to be on TV this morning? Yeah! Jacob is 11. 50 due to start
Yeah! jacob is 11. So due to start secondary
Yeah! Jacob is 11. So due to start secondary school in September,
secondary school in September, jacob? Yes.
secondary school in September, Jacob? Yes. So you have four
jacob? Yes. So you have four children, you
Jacob? Yes. 50 you have four children, you could have sent two of
children, you could have sent two of them back to school, Leah, already
them back to school, Leah, already but you decided not to, why is that?
but you decided not to, why is that? just for safety
but you decided not to, why is that? Just for safety reasons, really.
just for safety reasons, really. Obviously,
Just for safety reasons, really. Obviously, like we said, Jacob would
Obviously, like we said, jacob would have gone
Obviously, like we said, Jacob would have gone back to school and my
have gone back to school and my other son in year one but I didn’t
other son in year one but I didn’t feel ? the
other son in year one but I didn’t feel 7 the school has done a
feel 7 the school has done a fantastic
feel ? the school has done a fantastic job,
feel 7 the school has done a fantasticjob, providing 7 they have
fantasticjob, providing ? they have done a
fantasticjob, providing 7 they have done a fantastic
fantasticjob, providing 7 they have done a fantasticjob providing them
done a fantastic job providing them with
done a fantasticjob providing them with work. They have had ample
with work. They have had ampla amounts
with work. They have had ample amounts of things to do and I
with work. They have had ample amounts of things to do and Ijust
amounts of things to do and Ijust felt that with the bubbles that they
felt that with the bubbles that they couldn’t make the children say. Or,
couldn’t make the children say. Or, equally, the adults. I do feel that
equally, the adults. I do feel that with the going back in September, I
with the going back in September, I just don’t feel that safety is taken
just don’t feel that safety is taken on board. Lots of head teachers have
on board. Lots of head teachers have been saying today they simply
been saying today they simply wouldn’t be fining parents if they
wouldn’t be fining parents if they decided not to send their children
decided not to send their children back but if push came to shove,
back but if push fame to shove, would you
back but if push came to shove, would you pay a fine rather than
would you pay a fine rather than send your children back if you
send your children back if you didn’t feel it was confident for
didn’t feel it was confident for them to do that safely? 100%. My
them to do that safely? 100%. My husband is black and I would never
husband is black and I would never forgive myself if something
forgive myself if something happened, if the children brought
happened, if the children brought something back to the home. It’s
something back to the home. It’s like a miniature operation when we
like a miniature operation when we leave the house. I only go to the
leave the house. I only go to the supermarket but I wear gloves, 3
supermarket but I wear gloves, a mask, I disinfect everything that
mask, I disinfect everything that comes back into the house, just
comes back into the house, just because I literally would never
because I literally would never forgive myself if something happened
forgive myself if something happened to my family. Of course. Jacob, I
to my family. Of course. jacob, I guess you are
to my family. Of course. Jacob, I guess you are really excited and
guess you are really excited and hoping you can start secondary
hoping you ran start secondary school
hoping you can start secondary school in September? Yes, because
school in September? Yes, because it’s a new school. I’ve been at
it’s a new school. I’ve been at primary school for a long time so
primary school for a long time so going to a new school would be fun,
going to a new school would be fun, new activities, teachers and
new activities, teachers and friends. My thanks to all those
friends. My thanks to all those guests involved in the discussion
guests involved in the discussion around returning to schools in
around returning to schools in September in England.
There have now been almost 2.7 million confirmed cases
of coronavirus in the United States.
It is by far the worst affected country in the world and many
are questioning how and why.
Speaking exclusively to the BBC’s Today programme,
Doctor Anthony Fauci, the United State’s top infectious
disease expert, and director of the National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases, explained that the number of cases
in the US has not been reduced to baseline because of the way
lockdown was approached.
m:
We got hit very badly, worse than any country, with regard to the
any country, with regard to the number of cases and the number of
number of rases and the number of deaths.
number of cases and the number of deaths. The problem we are facing
deaths. The problem we are facing now is that an intent to so—called
now is that an intent to so-ralled open or reopen
now is that an intent to so—called open or reopen the Government and
open or reopen the Government and give -- get it back
open or reopen the Government and give —— get it back to some form of
give -- get it back to some form of normality, we are
give —— get it back to some form of normality, we are seeing disturbing
normality, we are seeing disturbing spikes in different individual
spikes in different individual states in the United States,
states in the United States, particularly most recently Florida,
particularty most recently Florida, Arizona,
particularly most recently Florida, Arizona, Texas and California, some
Arizona, Texas and California, some of which are really big states with
of which are really big states with high populace. So what we have seen
high populace. So what we have seen over the last several days is a
over the last several days is a spike in cases that are well beyond
spike in rases that are well beyond the
spike in cases that are well beyond the worst spikes that we’ve seen.
the worst spikes that we’ve seen. That is not good news. We have to
That is not good news. We have to get that under control or we risk an
get that under control or we risk an even greater outbreak in the United
even greater outbreak in the United States. When you look at the fact
States. when you look at the fact that we
States. When you look at the fact that we never got things down to
that we never got things down to baseline, where so many countries in
baseline, where so many countries in Europe and the UK and the other
Europe and the UK and the other countries did, they close down to
countries did, they close down to the tune of about 97% lockdown. In
the tune of about 9796 lockdown. In the
the tune of about 97% lockdown. In the United States, even in the most
the United States, even in the most strict lockdown, only about 50% of
strict lockdown, only about 5096 of the country
strict lockdown, only about 50% of the country locked down. That
the country locked down. That allowed the perpetuation of the
allowed the perpetuation of the outbreak that we never did get under
outbreak that we never did get under very good control.
Doctor Anthony Fauci.
Northern Ireland Deputy First Minister said criticism of her
Minister said criticism of her attendance at a former IRA member
attendance at a former IRA member were unfair. The BBC understands
were unfair. The BBC understands about 120 mourners attended the
about 120 mourners attended the funeral. Earlier, the First Minister
funeral. Eartier, the First Minister Arlene
funeral. Earlier, the First Minister Arlene Foster called for her to
Ariana Foster rallad for her to apologise.
Arlene Foster called for her to apologise. But she said her actions
apologise. But she said her actions were in line with social distancing.
were in line with social distancing. An update coming into us from German
An update coming into us from German police investigating the
police investigating the disappearance of Madeleine McCann in
disappearance of Madeleine Md’ann in Portugal. They
disappearance of Madeleine McCann in Portugal. They said last night that
Portugal. They said last night that they had received more than 800 tips
they had received more than 800 tips from the public in the month
from the public in the month following a televised appeal for
following a televised appeal for information. Prosecutors believe,
information. Prosecutors believe, you will be aware from a few weeks
you will be aware from a few weeks ago when they announced these new
ago when they announced these new details about the case, believe the
details about the use, believe the toddler
details about the case, believe the toddler was killed by a convicted
toddler was killed by a convicted German paedophile. Our Berlin
German paedophile. Our Berlin correspondent reports detectives
correspondent reports detectives appealed again last night to the
appealed again last night to the pub“:
appealed again last night to the public to help them identify a
public to help them identify a Portuguese number, which they say he
Portuguese number, which they say he called from his mobile phone in the
railed from his mobile phone in the evening that
called from his mobile phone in the evening that Madeleine disappeared.
evening that Madeleine disappeared. More than 800 tips from the public
More than 800 tips from the public in the month following that
in the month following that televised appeal for information by
telavised appeal for information by German
televised appeal for information by German police.
New Zealand’s Health Minister, David Clark, has resigned
after criticism over recent slip ups in the government’s largely
successful response to the coronavirus.
Mr Clark had already been demoted after breaking rules
to take his family to the beach.
New Zealand’s Prime Minister, Jacinda Ardern, said it was right
for Mr Clerk to resign.
Anything that acts as a distraction or anything that takes away from our
or anything that takes away from our time, effort and energy from our
time, effort and energy from our response to Covid—19, we just as a
response to Covid-19, we just as a country can’t
response to Covid—19, we just as a country can’t afford. That was a
country can’t afford. That was a very frank conversation the minister
very frank conversation the minister and I openly had last week. He then
and I openly had last week. He then fame
and I openly had last week. He then came to the very firm view that his
fame to the very firm view that his ongoing role in
came to the very firm view that his ongoing role in this portfolio is
ongoing rola in this portfolio is going to
ongoing role in this portfolio is going to get in the way of that
going to get in the way of that response.
Now hundreds of elephants have died mysteriously in Botswana.
The cluster of deaths was first reported in early May this year,
in the north of Botswana, around the Okavango Delta.
By mid—June, the number had more than doubled.
Let’s get more on this from Dr Niall McCann,
Director of Conservation at the charity National Park Rescue
which advances animal welfare by preventing poaching in national
parks in Africa.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. . First of
Thank you for joining us. . First of all, how many
Thank you forjoining us. . First of all, how many elephants have died so
all, how many elephants have died so far? At the moment we know it is a
far? At the moment we know it is a minimum of 360, there or
minimum of 360, there or thereabouts, and we expect it to be
thereabouts, and we expect it to be upwards of 400 because spotting
upwards of 400 because spotting elaphant
upwards of 400 because spotting elephant carcasses from the air is
elephant carcasses from the air is incredibly difficult. When the
incredibly difficult. when the survey
incredibly difficult. When the survey was conducted, multiple live
survey was conducted, multiple live but unwell elephants were also seen.
but unwell elephants were also seen. It’s absolutely tragic to hear of
It’s absolutely tragic to hear of the deaths of so many of these
the deaths of so many of these wonderful animals.
the deaths of so many of these wonderfulanimals. Do
the deaths of so many of these wonderful animals. Do you have any
wonderful animals. Do you have any idea what is causing this? At the
idea what is causing this? At the moment we really don’t and that’s
moment we really don’t and that’s the problem. We don’t know whether
the problem. We don’t know whether this is a pathogen or a toxin, 3
this is a pathogen or a toxin, a poison. We don’t know if it could
poison. We don’t know if it could spill over into the human population
spill over into the human population also only confined to elephants and
also only confined to elephants and we need to find this out. What are
we need to find this out. what are you doing to try
we need to find this out. What are you doing to try and establish the
you doing to try and establish the fuse
you doing to try and establish the cause and hopefully stop more
cause and hopefully stop more elephants in the population being
elephants in the population being affected by it? Really, we are
affected by it? Really, we are imploring the Botswana government to
imploring the Botswana government to allow a team of independent experts
allow a team of independent experts to come into the country, and then
to come into the country, and then thoroughly sample the area. They
thoroughly sample the area. They need to sample multiple carcasses,
need to sample multiple carcasses, blood, liver, spleen, they need soil
blood, liver, spleen, they need soil samples and water samples. They need
samples and water samples. They need to go to a reputable laboratory so
to go to a reputabla laboratory so they ran be
to go to a reputable laboratory so they can be tested and we can find
they ran be tested and we ran find out what
they can be tested and we can find out what this is. What is the
out what this is. What is the Government response in Botswana so
Government response in Botswana so far to those appeals? Up until now,
far to those appeals? Up until now, they have not responded to most
they have not responded to most offers of help when you know they
offers of help when you know they have now just
offers of help when you know they have nowjust sent
offers of help when you know they have now just sent a sample
offers of help when you know they have nowjust sent a sample to a lab
have nowjust sent a sampla to a lab but we
have nowjust sent a sample to a lab but we don’t know the provenance of
but we don’t know the provenance of that sample in the storage and there
that sample in the storage and there is also issues with chain of
is also issues with chain of custody. What we need is a team to
custody. what we need is a team to come in, to
custody. What we need is a team to come in, to sample thoroughly and go
come in, to sampla thoroughly and go and do the
come in, to sample thoroughly and go and do the tests themselves. Why the
and do the tests themselves. Why the reluctance to allow experts to
reluctance to allow experts to gather the data? My suspicion is
gather the data? My suspicion is that it is two fold. There is an
that it is two fold. There is an under standard reticence of anyone
under standard reticence of anyone to help their neighbours if they
to help their neighbours if they don’t have the capacity, especially
don’t have the capacity, especially at a time when they are stretched
at a time when they are stretched with Covid—19. Secondly, the current
with Covid-19. Secondly, the current Botswana
with Covid—19. Secondly, the current Botswana administration has gone to
Botswana administration has gone to great lengths to try and emphasise
great lengths to try and emphasise to mral
great lengths to try and emphasise to rural populations in the country
to mral populations in the country that they
to rural populations in the country that they don’t put the lives of
that they don’t put the lives of elephants before the lives of
elephants before the lives of people, which was a common
people, which was a common accusation for the previous
accusation for the previous administration foster my guess is
administration foster my guess is they don’t want to be seen to be
they don’t want to be seen to be trying to respond to what they think
trying to respond to what they think is a conservation problem when they
is a conservation problem when they are already dealing with Covid—19.
are already dealing with Covid-19. What I
are already dealing with Covid—19. What I want to try and emphasise to
what I want to try and emphasise to the
What I want to try and emphasise to the Government is this isn’t
What I want to try and emphasise to the Government is this isn’tjust a
the Government is this isn’tjust a conservation issue, it has the
conservation issue, it has the potential to be a public health
potential to be a public health crisis and because ecotourism is so
crisis and because ecotourism is so big in Botswana, it has the
big in Botswana, it has the potential to be an economic crisis
potential to be an economic crisis as well. Weitz migrates very
as well. Weitz migrates very interesting, as we look at
interesting, as we look at transmission of diseases from
transmission of diseases from animals to humans to hear you bring
animals to humans to hear you bring in that thought. In terms of the
in that thought. In terms of the well-being of
in that thought. In terms of the well—being of these elephants and
well-being of these elephants and the
well—being of these elephants and the wider population, how
the wider population, how significant is the loss of the sort
significant is the loss of the sort of numbers you are talking about,
of numbers you are talking about, around 400 so far? Incredibly
around 400 so far? Incredibly significant. 400 elephants is 1000th
significant. 400 elephants is 1000th of the remainder of savanna
of the remainder of savanna elephants. Botswana has one third of
elephants. Botswana has one third of all elephants left in Africa, about
all elephants left in Africa, about 150,000. This area of Botswana has
150,000. This area of Botswana has about 15,000. 50 if this does not
about 15,000. So if this does not contain,
about 15,000. 50 if this does not contain, there is the prospect of
contain, there is the prospect of losing potentially one tenth of the
losing potentially one tenth of the largest population of elephants left
largest population of elephants left on earth. And have you seen anything
on earth. And have you seen anything approaching this before, in terms of
approaching this before, in terms of the loss of such a huge number of
the loss of such a huge number of animals? Can you still hear me? You
animals? (“an you still hear me? You are back
animals? Can you still hear me? You are back now. Never seen anything
are back now. Never seen anything this before? No, this is totally
this before? No, this is totally unprecedented. In times of drought
unprecedented. In times of drought you expect a significant number of
you expect a significant number of elephants dying. But outside of the
elephants dying. But outside of the drought season, like this, it is
drought season, like this, it is totally unprecedented. I wish you
totally unprecedented. I wish you good luck with your efforts to try
good luck with your efforts to try and get to the bottom of this and
and get to the bottom of this and hope that you can save more of these
hope that you ran save more of these animals
hope that you can save more of these animals from the same fate as the
animals from the same fate as the several hundred that have already
several hundred that have already died. Dr Niall McCann, director of
died. Dr Niall McCann, director of conservation at national Park
conservation at national Park rescue, thank you very much. Thanks
rescue, thank you very much. Thanks for having me. The number of fires
for having me. The number offires in the
for having me. The number of fires in the Amazon rainforest has hit a
in the Amazon rainforest has hit a 13 year high for the month of
in the Amazon rainforest has hit a 13 year high for the month ofJune
13 year high for the month of june according to
13 year high for the month ofJune according to new government data.
according to new government data. Deforestation levels are also higher
Deforestation levels are also higher this year compared to last.
this year compared to last. Conservationists are gravely
Conservationists are gravely concerned about the future of the
concerned about the future of the ecosystem there. As our
ecosystem there. As our correspondent reports.
correspondent reports. The slow and destructive burn. The
The slow and destmctive burn. The Amazon
The slow and destructive burn. The Amazon rainforest is riddled with
Amazon rainforest is riddlad with fires. An
Amazon rainforest is riddled with fires. An ecological disaster
fires. An ecological disaster eclipsed by the coronavirus
eclipsed by the coronavirus pandemic. Brazil has now recorded
pandemic. Brazil has now recorded more than 60,000 deaths linked to
more than 60,000 deaths linked to Covid-19
more than 60,000 deaths linked to Covid—19 and, at the same time, is
Covid-19 and, at the same time, is witnessing
Covid—19 and, at the same time, is witnessing widespread loss of one of
witnessing widespread loss of one of the world’s most important
the world’s most important ecosystems. TRANSLATION:
ecosystems. TRANSLATION: Deforestation in 2020 is going to be
Deforestation in 2020 is going to be larger than it was in 2019.
larger than it was in 2019. According to data from Brazil’s
According to data from Brazil’s government funded space agency,
government funded space agency, there were 22A8 fires in the Amazon
there were 2248 fires in the Amazon this june. That
there were 22A8 fires in the Amazon thisJune. That is a 20% rise
this june. That is a 2096 rise compared to
thisJune. That is a 20% rise compared to the same time last year.
compared to the same time last year. And for the first five months of
And for the first five months of 2020, deforestation is up 34%.
2020, deforestation is up 34%. TRANSLATION: The clearing of land
TRANSLATION: The clearing of land already it
TRANSLATION: The clearing of [and already it represents a serious
already it represents a serious health problem. If we had land
health problem. If we had land clearing and
health problem. If we had [and clearing and Covid—19 together, this
clearing and Covid-19 together, this could bring
clearing and Covid—19 together, this could bring catastrophic
could bring catastrophic consequences for the residents of
consequences for the residents of the region. The dry season will soon
the region. The dry season will soon be upon the Amazon. Fires will
be upon the Amazon. Fires will increase, the smoke will get worse.
increase, the smoke will get worse. It heightens the threat to some of
It heightens the threat to some of Brazil’s poorest communities, whose
Brazil’s poorest communities, whose livelihoods rely on the health of
livelihoods rely on the health of the rainforest.
Thousands of Indian and Bengali restaurants in the UK could be lost
due to the Covid pandemic, industry groups warn,
as the lockdown put owners under intense financial strain.
Many family owned restaurants say they will struggle to reopen.
The BBC 5 Asia editor Rebecca Henschke reports.
This is the first time Abdul has been back to his family run
restaurant since the lockdown began three months ago.
My stomach churned, you know?
When I see it shuttered down.
This supported so many people.
This was part of the community.
But it’s mind blowing, when you come and sit
down and think about it, how quickly the world has changed.
You would have struggled to get a table here on the weekend,
despite there being over 30 curry restaurants in just
this one street.
But when the lockdown was put in place, they were not ready
to move to take away, so their doors have
been shut and many say they will struggle to reopen.
I mean, for the last three months, Brick Lane has
been like a ghost town.
You will see the majority of the restaurants will not even
bother opening at all, maybe, and have to give
up, which is very sad.
I mean, as we know, Brick Lane is famous for its curry and to see
some of the curry houses go, it’s going to be like a kick
in the stomach, to be honest.
The British Bengali community opened restaurants here in the 19805
restaurants here in the 19805 because rent was low but the area
because rent was low but the area has been rapidly gentrified. Over
has been rapidly gentrified. Over the years, their rent rate has
the years, their rent rate has quadmpled
the years, their rent rate has quadrupled around here. People are
quadmpled around here. People are struggling.
quadrupled around here. People are struggling. Some of the businesses
struggling. Some of the businesses were in huge debts and this was the
were in huge debts and this was the nail on the coffin, I think.
nail on the coffin, I think. Outside of London, others are trying
Outside of London, others are trying to stay aﬂoat
Outside of London, others are trying to stay afloat by switching to
to stay afloat by switching to takeaway.
takeaway. When you have no
takeaway. when you have no choice to keep the
when you have no choice to keep the restaurant open,
When you have no choice to keep the restaurant open, keep all the guys
restaurant open, keep all the guys come you have to sell the takeaway.
come you have to sell the takeaway. So we ran
come you have to sell the takeaway. So we can survive but 30% of our
So we ran survive but 3096 of our industry will
So we can survive but 30% of our industry will disappear from the
industry will disappear from the high street. He is calling on the
high street. He is calling on the Government to reduce the consumption
Government to reduce the consumption tax. He is far now relying on loyal
tax. He is far now relying on loyal customers coming to pick up their
customers coming to pick up their curry. Prawn curry, chicken tikka
curry. Prawn curry, chicken tikka masala ?
curry. Prawn curry, chicken tikka masala 7 I’m very keen to make sure
masala ? I’m very keen to make sure at the end of
masala 7 I’m very keen to make sure at the end of this crisis we are
at the end of this crisis we are going through that the places I love
going through that the places I love visiting are still here. It’s very
visiting are still here. It’s very important for me to support it. The
important for me to support it. The only thing I have to say every time
only thing I have to say every time is make sure they put the mango
is make sure they put the mango chutney with my papa dons! The South
chutney with my papa dons! The South Asian community in the UK has been
Asian community in the UK has been impacted severely by the
impacted severely by the coronavirus. Now there are fears it
coronavirus. Now there are fears it will also suffer disproportionate
will also suffer disproportionate economic damage.
Finally, the benefits of a traditional mud bath are known to
traditional mud bath are known to many and the ancient spa treatment
many and the ancient spa treatment seems to have worked a treat on this
seems to have worked a treat on this rare rhino. This young male was
rare rhino. This young male was spotted having a splash in one of
spotted having a splash in one of Indonesia’s National parks. Having a
Indonesia’s National parks. Having a wonderful time by the looks of it!
wonderful time by the looks of it! You are watching BBC News.
Martine Croxall will be with you
Martina Cronll will be with you next
Martine Croxall will be with you next but first, the weather with
next but first, the weather with Matt Taylor.
next but first, the weather with Matt Taylor. Hello, like for some of
Matt Taylor. Hello, like for some of you today, some sunshine over the
you today, some sunshine over the next few days but he will all have
next few days but he will all have to prepare for some wetter weather.
to prepare for some wetter weather. Some of the rain across parts of
Some of the rain across parts of north—west England, West and Wales
north-west England, West and Walas will be
north—west England, West and Wales will be particularly heavy and
will be particularly heavy and relentless through Friday and
relenﬂass through Friday and Saturday.
relentless through Friday and Saturday. All of us are set to see
Saturday. All of us are set to see the wind picking up again. Today,
the wind picking up again. Today, it’s not too strong but we have seen
it’s not too strong but we have seen some heavy rain in northern England.
some heavy rain in northern England. That is pushing its way southwards.
That is pushing its way southwards. That will allow things to brighten
That will allow things to brighten “P
That will allow things to brighten up a bit, many places in the north
up a bit, many places in the north dry this afternoon but Midlands,
dry this afternoon but Midlands, East Anglia, south—east England,
East Anglia, south-east England, heavy and
East Anglia, south—east England, heavy and thundery dampers could
heavy and thundery dampers could develop. Quite a bit of rain in a
develop. Quite a bit of rain in a short space of time that either side
short space of time that either side of it, more sunshine through the
of it, more sunshine through the afternoon. County Down, the
afternoon. County Down, the Grampians and Shetland also seeing
Grampians and Shetland also seeing some wet weather with the Shetlands
some wet weather with the Shetlands turning windier later. Across parts
turning windier later. Across parts of Scotland and eastern England it
of Scotland and eastern England it will remain cool today, especially
will remain cool today, especially on the Pennines are near the coast.
on the Pennines are near the coast. The sunnier moments between the
The sunnier moments between the downpours, bringing highs of 21.
downpours, bringing highs of 21. Showers and thunderstorms decaying
Showers and thunderstorms decaying as we go through the night. Most
as we go through the night. Most places becoming dry for a time and
places becoming dry for a time and then persistent rain arrives of the
then persistent rain arrives of the Atlantic into Northern Ireland in
Atlantic into Northern Ireland in western Scotland to take us into
western Scotland to take us into tomorrow morning. With the wind
tomorrow morning. with the wind going south
tomorrow morning. With the wind going south westerly, all of us
going south westerty, all of us having a
going south westerly, all of us having a mild night, 10—14 by and
having a mild night, 10-14 by and large. It will be
having a mild night, 10—14 by and large. It will be a wet start and a
large. It will be a wet start and a wet day for many in western
wet day for many in western Scotland. Rain across Scotland
Scotland. Rain across Scotland except Shetland and Orkney. Some
except Shetland and Orkney. Some occasional rain in Northern Ireland
occasional rain in Northern Ireland but the rain in Cumbria, North
but the rain in Cumbria, North Lincolnshire, parts of Wales will
Lincolnshire, parts of Walas will become
Lincolnshire, parts of Wales will become more persistent through the
become more persistent through the day as the winds pick up. Staying
day as the winds pick up. Staying largely dry with some breaks in the
largely dry with some breaks in the cloud and that some sunshine towards
cloud and that some sunshine towards East Anglia and the south—east.
East Anglia and the south-east. Temperature
East Anglia and the south—east. Temperature is 21, but feeling cool
Temperature is 21, but feeling cool with wind and rain further north.
with wind and rain further north. The rain remains coming and going
The rain remains coming and going throughout is going into the
throughout is going into the weekend. Weather
throughout is going into the weekend. Weatherfronts
throughout is going into the weekend. Weather fronts trailing
throughout is going into the weekend. Weatherfronts trailing one
weekend. Weather fronts trailing one after the
weekend. Weatherfronts trailing one after the other and we will see some
after the other and we will see some strong winds as well. Saturday, the
strong winds as well. Saturday, the strongest of the winds across
strongest of the winds across England and Wales. Lots of cloud
England and Walas. Lots of cloud around.
England and Wales. Lots of cloud around. Rain to begin with the
around. Rain to begin with the Northern Ireland and parts of
Northern Ireland and parts of Scotland and Cumbria and West Wales.
Scotland and Cumbria and West Walas. That will
Scotland and Cumbria and West Wales. That will develop further, pushing
That will develop further, pushing northwards through Saturday,
northwards through Saturday, allowing something brighter to
allowing something brighter to develop in the south and east of the
develop in the south and east of the country where temperatures could
country where temperatures could lift quite widely into the low 205.
lift quite widely into the low 205. Warm enough in the sunshine,
Warm enough in the sunshine, tempered a bit by the breeze but the
tempered a bit by the breeze but the wind picks up further on Sunday,
wind picks up further on Sunday, galas and
wind picks up further on Sunday, gales and places. Also some rain in
galas and places. Also some rain in the morning and
gales and places. Also some rain in the morning and some sunny
the morning and some sunny conditions into the afternoon.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
and around the world.
Full class sizes and year group bubbles. The UK Government has
Full class sizes and year group bubbles. The UK Government hasjust
bubbles. The UK Government has just released
bubbles. The UK Government hasjust released guidance on how all pupils
released guidance on how all pupils in England will return in September.
in England will return in September. China demands that Britain
China demands that Britain immediately stop interfering in the
immediately stop interfering in the affairs of Hong Kong, after the UK
affairs of Hong Kong, after the UK denounced Beijing’s new security law
denounced Beijing’s new security law in the territory, which led
to mass protests. In an Hong Kong affairs are China’s internal affairs
affairs are China’s internal affairs and there is no place for
affairs are China’s internal affairs and there is no place forforeign
and there is no place forforeign interference.
Reports that Russia paid the Taliban to... And it says the secret
to... And it says the secret services didn’t even tell him
about the intelligence. Could we see an extension of the countries Brits
an extension of the countries Brits could travel to? Dozens more could
could travel to? Dozens more could be exempt from the UK’s quarantine
be exempt from the UK’s quarantine mles to
be exempt from the UK’s quarantine rules to allow people to go on a
mlos to allow peoplo to go on a foreign
rules to allow people to go on a foreign holiday. Mystery of the
foreign holiday. Mystery of the deaths of 300 elephants in Botswana.
deaths of 300 elephants in Botswana. Scientists described the incident
Scientists described the incident has completely unprecedented.
has completely unprecedented. Star—studded list featuring the
Star-studded list featuring the likes
Star—studded list featuring the likes of Paul McCartney and Annie
likes of Paul Mtﬂrtney and Annie Lennox
likes of Paul McCartney and Annie Lennox called on the UK Government
Lennox called on the UK Government to do more to protect live music
to do more to protect live music venues.
Stay there with us for the latest news and analysis here and across
news and analysis here and across the globe.
The UK Government has announced that schools in England
will return full—time, and at full capacity, in September.
The plans are based on keeping whole year groups separate,
rather than limiting the number of pupils within classes.
The so—called ‘bubbles’ will keep full year groups apart as much
as possible during the school day, with different break
and lunchtimes.
The government will encourage social distancing where possible.
And to further reduce contact, staggered start and end
times will be maintained.
Plans will be put in place to prevent the spread of virus,
including deploying a mobile testing unit to a school if an
outbreak is confirmed.
Schools and colleges will deliver their full curriculum
ahead of exams next summer, And parents could be
and parents could be
fined if their children do not attend school.
Our correspondent, Dan Johnson, is
Our correspondent, Dan johnson, is at a secondary
Our correspondent, DanJohnson, is at a secondary school in Callie. He
at a secondary school in Callie. He spoke to the head
at a secondary school in Callie. He spoke to the headteacher
at a secondary school in Callie. He spoke to the head teacher as well of
spoke to the head teacher as well of a nearby primary school to get their
a nearby primary school to get their reaction to the announcement. He had
reaction to the announcement. He had teacher at Saint Wilfrid said he had
teacher at Saint Wilfrid said he had a number of concerns. It sounds
a number of concerns. It sounds quite practical. We are talking
quite practical. We are talking about a coronavirus curriculum to
about a coronavirus curriculum to have everybody end. That means
have everybody end. That means students will be in every day. Does
students will be in every day. Does that mean they will be able to move
that mean they will be able to move across the year groups or around the
across the year groups or around the building? Are we going to segregate
building? Are we going to segregate them? It is very difficult to do
them? It is very difficult to do science experiment if you are stuck
science experiment if you are stuck in a matter and all those practical
in a matter and all those practical limitations. We haven’t got stares
limitations. We haven’t got stares that provide for a one—way system.
that provide for a one-way system. Even if you are
that provide for a one—way system. Even if you are down to one metre
Even if you are down to one metre social distancing? No. We haven’t
social distancing? No. We haven’t got toilets, so how can we regiment
got toilets, so how ran we regiment that, we can’t
got toilets, so how can we regiment that, we can’t identify a particular
that, we can’t identify a particular tap toilet block for a class. And
tap toilet block for a class. And then there is lunch time. We have
then there is lunch time. We have got seven year groups, if every gay
got seven year groups, if every gay QWUP
got seven year groups, if every gay group has half an hour, that is
group has half an hour, that is three and a half hours of lunchtime
three and a half hours of lunchtime that we will have to... Some
that we will have to... Some students won’t get sad until they go
students won’t get sad until they go home. What you need them? What will
home. what you need them? what will it take to
home. What you need them? What will it take to solve this and get every
it take to solve this and get every child back? Is that even realistic?
child back? Is that even realistic? I don’t think it is realistic. What
I don’t think it is realistic. what we are talking
I don’t think it is realistic. What we are talking about is if you have
we are talking about is if you have got social distancing, we are being
got social distancing, we are being told from what you have said and
told from what you have said and what I have heard so far, it is try
what I have heard so far, it is try what you ran.
what I have heard so far, it is try what you can. The rest of society is
what you ran. The rest of society is being told one
what you can. The rest of society is being told one metre plus, and if at
being told one metre plus, and if at that distance you have to have
that distance you have to have plastic screens and devises, but we
plastic screens and devises, but we are just been told oh,
plastic screens and devises, but we arejust been told oh, give it a
arejust been told oh, give it a try, see if you can do it, but
try, see if you ran do it, but actually if you
try, see if you can do it, but actually if you can’t, don’t worry
actually if you can’t, don’t worry about it. As long as they are in one
about it. As long as they are in one class, it will be all right. Exactly
class, it will be all right. Exactly what kind of science has given that
what kind of science has given that decision, I am completely unsure,
decision, I am completely unsure, but it is impractical to think that
but it is impractical to think that yes, we will do our best in terms of
yes, we will do our best in terms of making sure the curriculum is
making sure the curriculum is maintained and is broadly balanced
maintained and is broadly balanced as possibla
maintained and is broadly balanced as possible and that will include
as possibla and that will include some
as possible and that will include some kind of home learning in all
some kind of home learning in all likelihood because it looks like it
likelihood because it looks like it should be —— it is going to be
should be -- it is going to be practically
should be —— it is going to be practically impossible to do it to
practically impossible to do it to the degree that the Government has
the degree that the Government has suggested and parents are going to
suggested and parents are going to expect from today’s announcement.
expect from todars announcement. Let’s bring in
expect from today’s announcement. Let’s bring in ten, who runs a
Let’s bring in ten, who runs a primary school down the road.
primary school down the road. Younger children, there seems to be
Younger children, there seems to be an acceptance on the Government here
an acceptance on the Government here that social distancing is not as
that social distancing is not as realistic with those younger kids.
realistic with those younger kids. We welcome that? Yes, absolutely I
We welcome that? Yes, absolutely I welcome the removal of social
welcome the removal of social distancing in primary schools if
distancing in primary schools if primary schools are to function
primary schools are to function normally. I am also pleased to hear
normally. I am also pleased to hear that we are not
normally. I am also pleased to hear that we are notjust
normally. I am also pleased to hear that we are not just focusing
normally. I am also pleased to hear that we are notjust focusing on the
that we are not just focusing on the Mass, on the
that we are notjust focusing on the Mass, on the English and science,
Mass, on the English and science, but are looking at this all—round,
but are looking at this all-round, holistic
but are looking at this all—round, holistic curriculum because if
holistic curriculum because if children are going to return, they
children are going to return, they will want to experience normally and
will want to experience normally and that whole curriculum, the music,
that whola curriculum, the music, art and PE
that whole curriculum, the music, art and PE is what they really
art and PE is what they really enjoy. But to take that point, one
enjoy. But to take that point, one thing I am not really hearing at the
thing I am not really hearing at the moment... There is this real
thing I am not really hearing at the moment... There is this realfocus
moment... There is this real focus on children
moment... There is this realfocus on children coming back and filling
on children coming back and filling 9’P5
on children coming back and filling gaps in the curriculum. For the
gaps in the curriculum. For the children in my school, I want them
children in my school, I want them to come back and feel happy and that
to come back and feel happy and that happiness may take a period of time.
happiness may take a period of time. Only about 20% of my school are in
Only about 2096 of my school are in at the
Only about 20% of my school are in at the moment and so we are going to
at the moment and so we are going to have to work with them and make sure
have to work with them and make sure there are nature programmes, but
there are nature programmes, but gradually if children are happy, if
gradually if children are happy, if they are engaging with their friends
they are engaging with their friends again and they feel that sense of
again and they feel that sense of normality, they are far more likely
normality, they are far more likely to start then learning and for
to start then learning and for children to fill those gaps is
children to fill those gaps is really going to be quite important
really going to be quite important in the next year. Do you think it is
in the next year. Do you think it is realistic to get your school full
realistic to get your school full again and have every child back?
again and have every child back? Government is saying it will enforce
Government is saying it will enforce that with a policy of fining parents
that with a policy of fining parents if kids are not at school. What we
if kids are not at school. what we have to accept
if kids are not at school. What we have to accept is that coronavirus
have to accept is that coronavirus is still out there, but the
is still out there, but the scientists have demonstrated that
scientists have demonstrated that children in primary age are
children in primary age are statistically lower and therefore it
statistically lower and therefore it is for that reason that they are
is for that reason that they are encouraging all children in primary
encouraging all children in primary schools to come back in September
schools to come back in September and I think that is right. But there
and I think that is right. But there is still a risk and we have to
is still a risk and we have to accept that risk and I really do and
accept that risk and I really do and empathise with those families who
empathise with those families who are concerned about this, which
are concerned about this, which draws me to the point about the
draws me to the point about the fines for parents, which I really
fines for parents, which I really struggle with. Can you foresee what
struggle with. (“an you foresee what will happen if
struggle with. Can you foresee what will happen if there is an outbreak?
will happen if there is an outbreak? The Government is saying if you get
The Government is saying if you get two cases within a fortnight, you
two cases within a fortnight, you will have to clear whatever you
will have to clear whatever you define as a bubble and send those
define as a bubble and send those people home. Can you accept that
people home. (“an you accept that level of
people home. Can you accept that level of disruption again if that is
level of dismption again if that is what is
level of disruption again if that is what is needed? I think so, and
what is needed? I think so, and these different scenarios, this
these different scenarios, this ﬂexibility,
these different scenarios, this flexibility, will need to be looked
ﬂexibility, will need to be looked at with
flexibility, will need to be looked at with local risk assessments. How
at with [oral risk assessments. How does that
at with local risk assessments. How does that work for you, if a whole
does that work for you, if a whola year EWUP
does that work for you, if a whola year group has
does that work for you, if a whole year group has to be sent home if
year group has to be sent home if there is a case? That part of the
there is a use? That part of the school
there is a case? That part of the school will have to be closed down,
school will have to be closed down, would have to be cleaned and the
would have to be cleaned and the other impact is if during the course
other impact is if during the course of having to do this broad and
of having to do this broad and balanced curriculum we need to use
balanced curriculum we need to use those rooms, it might well be for
those rooms, it might well be for part of the day that school is being
part of the day that school is being used by a new group, and by another
used bya new group, and byanother year EWUP
used bya new group, and byanother year group in
used by a new group, and by another year group in another part of the
year group in another part of the day, so that builds on issues of
day, so that builds on issues of cross contamination and what happens
cross contamination and what happens then? Is it
cross contamination and what happens then? Is itjust about a year group
then? Is it just about a year group or do we say
then? Is itjust about a year group or do we say there has been a case,
or do we say there has been a use, we are going to
or do we say there has been a case, we are going to close the whole
we are going to close the whola school
we are going to close the whole school for two days and completely
school for two days and completely clean it and that made everybody
clean it and that made everybody back and test it until we had a
back and test it until we had a positive result. Some initial
positive result. Some initial reactions to those guidelines for
schools in England. With us now as
schools in England. with us now as our
schools in England. With us now as our assistant political editor,
our assistant political editor, Norman Smith. Quite a few teachers
Norman Smith. Quite a few teachers seem to be straight scratching their
seem to be straight scratching their heads as to how they will make this
heads as to how they will make this work. An awful lot of this has been
work. An awful lot of this has been made left to head teachers to make
made left to head teachers to make sure it will work, so they will have
sure it will work, so they will have to enforce the social distancing
to enforce the social distancing mles
to enforce the social distancing rules that they regard as
rules that they regard as appropriate and will have to try to
appropriate and will have to try to construct bubbles within their U
construct bubblas within their U EWUPS-
construct bubblas within their U groups, so
construct bubbles within their U groups, so they will have to think
groups, so they will have to think about staggeringly start to the
about staggeringly start to the school day or staggering break
school day or staggering break times, lunchtimes and that sort of
times, lunchtimes and that sort of thing and they will have to think
thing and they will have to think about what sort of face—to—face
about what sort of face-to-face contact
about what sort of face—to—face contact teachers and pupils can
contact teachers and pupils can have. They will have to think about
have. They will have to think about cleanliness in school, hand washing.
cleanliness in school, hand washing. An awful lot that has been frankly
An awful lot that has been frankly left to teachers to sort out. The
left to teachers to sort out. The two big thoughts that come through
two big thoughts that come through from this are the Government had
from this are the Government had dearty
from this are the Government had clearly concluded that they cannot
dearty concluded that they cannot reopen
clearly concluded that they cannot reopen schools with the existing
reopen schools with the existing social distancing regime. That is
social distancing regime. That is not going to be possible, so they
not going to be possible, so they have gone for these mega bubbles of
have gone for these mega bubbles of year groups. The other thing I think
year groups. The other thing I think is interesting, and I think this
is interesting, and I think this will be from the Government’s point
will be from the Government’s point of view, designed to reassure
of view, designed to reassure schools and parents, is they do seem
schools and parents, is they do seem to be offering or hoping to offer a
to be offering or hoping to offer a very, very quick testing and if
very, very quick testing and if necessary closing of classes all
necessary dosing of classes all year EWUPS
necessary closing of classes all year groups or even whole schools.
year groups or even whole schools. So they are
year groups or even whole schools. 50 they are saying that if
year groups or even whole schools. 50 they are saying that ifjust to
So they are saying that ifjust to pupils in an entire school in a
pupils in an entire school in a fortnight test positive, then Public
fortnight test positive, then Public Health England will be able to send
Health England will be able to send their mobile testing laboratory and
their mobile testing laboratory and will test all the other children and
will test all the other children and teachers, those individuals who came
teachers, those individuals who came into contact with and then tested
into contact with and then tested the class and the year group and if
the class and the year group and if necessary the whole school, and they
necessary the whole school, and they will close down accordingly. That
will close down accordingly. That strikes me as quite a low threshold,
strikes me as quite a low threshold, but dearty I
strikes me as quite a low threshold, but clearly I think what they want
but dearty I think what they want to say is, look,
but clearly I think what they want to say is, look, if there is the
to say is, look, if there is the slightest hint of an outbreak we
slightest hint of an outbreak we will be on it. That, of course,
will be on it. That, of course, depends on having a really, quote,
depends on having a really, quote, world beating test entry system up
world beating test entry system up and mnning
world beating test entry system up and running and that is, as we have
and mnning and that is, as we have seen throughout
and running and that is, as we have seen throughout this whole Covid—19
seen throughout this whola Covid-19 crisis,
seen throughout this whole Covid—19 crisis, absolutely critical. You
crisis, absolutely critical. You have to be able to test very, very
have to be able to test very, very quickly and get the results back
quickly and get the results back within 48 hours and that is a
within 48 hours and that is a broader problem than just schools.
broader problem than just schools. Clearty, if you
broader problem than just schools. Clearly, if you can’t do that or
Clearty, if you can’t do that or there are
Clearly, if you can’t do that or there are doubts about that, then it
there are doubts about that, then it seems to me that even with all the
seems to me that even with all the additional resources and helping
additional resources and helping offered to schools, parents are
offered to schools, parents are probably going to be uneasy about
probably going to be uneasy about sending their children back unless
sending their children hack unless they are sure
sending their children back unless they are sure that really is a
they are sure that really is a world—class test scheme available.
world-class test scheme available. Norman,
world—class test scheme available. Norman, thank you very much from
Norman, thank you very much from Westminster there.
An 18—year—old man has been charged with murdering two sisters
in a park in London.
Danyal Hussein will appear at Westminster Magistrates’ Court
later today The bodies of Nicole Smallman and Bibaa Henry
were found in Fryent Gardens in Wembley after a birthday
party last month.
China has said it will retaliate, if the UK goes ahead with its offer
to give three million Hong Kong residents the right to settle here.
BorisJohnson has accused Beijing of a "clear and serious breach"
of its treaty with Britain by imposing a draconian national
security law on the territory.
Speaking at a news conference in Beijing, 3 Chinese
government spokesman, Zhao Lijian, warned
against what he called ‘foreign interference’.
TRANSLATION: All the Hong Kong compatriots, including those BNO
holders, are all Chinese citizens.
Before Hong Kong’s return to China the British signed to clearly
promise that they would not grant residence permits
to the BNO holders.
Now the UK, in total disregard over China’s position,
obstinately changed this policy and introduced a new route
for residence permits and citizenship in great violation
of its own promise, the international law and basic
norms governing international relations.
China strongly condemns that and reserves the right
to make further reactions.
All the consequences shall be borne by the UK side.
China reiterates that Hong Kong affairs are China’s internal affairs
and there is no place forforeign interference.
The Chinese government is firmly determined in upholding
national sovereignty, security and development interests.
Our correspondent is following developments in Beijing. The
developments in Beijing. The language was tough, but still no
language was tough, but still no indication of what Beijing actually
indication of what Beijing actually plans to do in response to Britain’s
plans to do in response to Britain’s new piano policy. With that official
new piano policy. with that official saying there
new piano policy. With that official saying there that these people are
saying there that these people are all Chinese citizens. They are
all Chinese citizens. They are accusing Britain of breaking its
accusing Britain of breaking its promises not to offer them
promises not to offer them residency, saying that China has
residency, saying that China has earned the right to these
earned the right to these unspecified countermeasures and that
unspecified countermeasures and that rather ominously the UK side will be
rather ominously the UK side will be the one bearing the consequences.
the one bearing the consequences. Naturally, I asked
the one bearing the consequences. Naturally, Iasked him, when
the one bearing the consequences. Naturally, I asked him, when are we
Naturally, Iasked him, when are we going to know
Naturally, I asked him, when are we going to know what these
going to know what these consequences are? What would it take
consequences are? what would it take for you to
consequences are? What would it take for you to announce china’s
for you to announce china’s response? And he said, now is not a
response? And he said, now is not a time for us to reveal this, you have
time for us to reveal this, you have to be patient. So
time for us to reveal this, you have to be patient. 50 who knows? We will
to be patient. So who knows? We will just have to wait
to be patient. 50 who knows? We will just have to wait and see what they
just have to wait and see what they intend to do, but interestingly the
intend to do, but interestingly the threat was today, I mean, if you did
threat was today, I mean, if you did right down into this, the potential
right down into this, the potential for a response,
right down into this, the potential fora response, not even
right down into this, the potential for a response, not even that we are
for a response, not even that we are going to respond, we reserve the
going to respond, we reserve the right to. I mean really, who knows?
right to. I mean really, who knows? We also asked about the Australian
We also asked about the Australian Government’s announcement that it
Government’s announcement that it would be offering some sort of
would be offering some sort of option for Hong Kong people to be
option for Hong Kong peopla to be able to
option for Hong Kong people to be able to leave there and migrate to
able to leave there and migrate to Australia. Those details are yet to
Australia. Those details are yet to be revealed, but again he toured
be revealed, but again he toured Australia also to but out of Hong
Australia also to but out of Hong Kong’s assets. He had some very
Kong’s assets. He had some very strong language for the US Secretary
strong language for the US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, also accusing
of State, Mike Pompeo, also accusing the US of meddling there. He said
the US of meddling there. He said that now this new law was in place
that now this new law was in place it would actually restrict this US
it would actually restrict this US meddling in Hong Kong because the
meddling in Hong Kong because the Chinese Government has long accused
Chinese Government has long accused foreign forces, as it calls them,
foreign forces, as it calls them, sort of masterminding the whole
sort of masterminding the whola protest
sort of masterminding the whole protest movement. So there we are, a
protest movement. So there we are, a lot of tension, but no concrete
lot of tension, but no concrete announcement in terms of what
announcement in terms of what Beijing’s response for Britain is
Beijing’s response for Britain is going to be yet. Stephen McDonell in
going to be yet. Stephen McDonell in Beijing.
Government sources in Britain have indicated that as many as 75
countries will be exempted from UK quarantine rules from next week,
so people returning to the country don’t have to self—isolate.
The Government plans to establish a traffic light system to rate
which countries are the safest, with some places, such
as the United States, likely to be categorised as red
and subject to the quarantine rules.
The Scottish Government has expressed concern about plans
to relax the quarantine.
The headlines on BBC News...
Full class sizes and year group bubbles —
the Government’s just released guidance on how all pupils
in England will return in September.
China demands that Britain "immediately stop interfering"
in the affairs of Hong Kong, after the UK denounced Beijing’s
new security law in the territory which led to mass protests.
Just a political hoax — President Trump dismisses reports
that Russia paid the Taliban to kill American troops — and says secret
services didn’t even tell him about the intelligence.
The number of new coronavirus infections in the United States has
infections in the United States has caused a record high, causing some
raused a record high, causing some states to
caused a record high, causing some states to roll back their
states to roll back their restrictions. More than 50,000
restrictions. More than 50,000 peopla
restrictions. More than 50,000 people tested positive in the US on
people tested positive in the US on Wednesday. That brings the total
Wednesday. That brings the total number of confirmed infections to
number of confirmed infections to over 2.6 million and over 128,000
over 2.6 million and over 128,000 deaths, the highest number of
deaths, the highest number of fatalities globally. A research team
fatalities globally. A research team at john
fatalities globally. A research team atJohn Hopkins University has said
at john Hopkins University has said the two
atJohn Hopkins University has said the two death toll could be 28%
the two death toll could be 2896 higher. The
the two death toll could be 28% higher. The is an indoor restaurant
higher. The is an indoor restaurant have been closed again there. North
have been closed again there. North Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia and
Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia and Texas have all reached new highs and
Texas have all reached new highs and Louisiana’s infection rates are
Louisiana’s infection rates are still continuing to go up. Now the’s
still continuing to go up. Now the’s top infectious disease expert has
top infectious disease expert has warned that the US whisks an even
warned that the US Whisks an even greater
warned that the US whisks an even greater coronavirus outbreak, unless
greater coronavirus outbreak, unless it ran bring the
greater coronavirus outbreak, unless it can bring the latest surge in
it ran bring the latest surge in rases
it can bring the latest surge in cases under control. Doctor Anthony
cases under control. Doctor Anthony Fauci said that the current rise was
Fauci said that the current rise was caused by some states failing to
caused by some states failing to follow basic rules, as the economy
follow basic mles, as the economy reopened.
When you look at what happened in some of the states,
all you have to do is take a look at the news at night
and you see people congregating at bars without masks,
congregating in different types of groups that are well
beyond the recommended number of people.
What happens when you do that and you don’t wear a mask?
You get the kind of outbreaks we are seeing.
Doctor Anthony Fauci there. President Trump has insisted
that he was never told by the US security services about reports that
security services about reports that Russia paid at Dennistoun’s Taliban
Russia paid at Dennistoun’s Taliban militants to kill
Russia paid at Dennistoun’s Taliban militants to kill American soldiers.
militants to kill American soldiers. In an interview with Fox business
In an interview with Fox business network, Mr
In an interview with Fox business network, MrTrump
In an interview with Fox business network, Mr Trump said some
network, Mr Tmmp said some intelligence
network, Mr Trump said some intelligence officials didn’t
intelligence officials didn’t believe the claim and said the story
believe the claim and said the story was a hoax put forward by his
was a hoax put forward by his Democratic rivals. Our North
Democratic rivals. Our North American correspondence or sports.
American correspondence or sports. The White House continues to insist
The white House continues to insist that that
The White House continues to insist that that piece of intelligent
that that piece of intelligent information was unverified than and
information was unverified than and is unverified now. This is about a
is unverified now. This is about a bounty being placed on US soldiers
bounty being placed on US soldiers by Russia. Indeed, the President
by Russia. Indeed, the President himself has made the point that this
is all a hoax, but why didn’t he know if it was contained in the
know if it was contained in the written briefing?
Not the oral briefing that is given to him by a member of the CIA.
But the sort of written briefing, intelligence briefing,
that has been presented to the President of
the United States ever since the days of Harry Truman.
It doesn’t look particularly good either way.
Did he not know about this, or did he know about it and ignore it?
And as you can imagine, the presumptive Democratic
presidential rivalJoe Biden has been having afield
day with all this.
He accused President Trump of dereliction of duty
and made the point that when he was Vice President both
he and Barack Obama read the written classified briefing
from cover to cover.
Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press spokeswoman, was asked
if options were being prepared for the president regarding
retaliation, if indeed this piece of intelligence information proved
true, and she said she didn’t want to get ahead of
information that she insisted was still unverified.
Nonetheless, the house Speaker Nancy Pelosi,
who is of course a Democrat, is already calling for US sanctions
on Russia because of all this.
Final results in Russia’s week—long referendum showed that nearly 78% of
referendum showed that nearty 7896 of voters
referendum showed that nearly 78% of voters backed constitutional changes
voters backed constitutional changes that could keep Vladimir Putin in
that could keep Vladimir Putin in power longer than any Soviet—era
power longer than any Soviet-era leader.
power longer than any Soviet—era leader. Despite having once pledged
leader. Despite having once pledged never to change the constitution to
never to change the constitution to stay in office, President Putin
stay in office, President Putin could now serve until 2036. Leading
could now serve until 2036. Leading dissident called the result is a
dissident railed the result is a huge lie.
dissident called the result is a huge lie. Sarah Raynsford reports
huge lie. Sarah Raynsford reports from Moscow. In Russia, everything
from Moscow. In Russia, everything and nothing has
from Moscow. In Russia, everything and nothing hasjust changed.
and nothing hasjust changed. Vladimir Putin has just done what he
Vladimir Putin has just done what he has often promised he would never do
has often promised he would never do and rewritten the constitution to
and rewritten the constitution to extend his stay in power. He could
extend his stay in power. He could now mn
extend his stay in power. He could now run for President twice more
now nm for President twice more points to a
now run for President twice more points to a resounding win at this
points to a resounding win at this ballot is proof he has support for
ballot is proof he has support for that. His critics have slammed the
that. His critis have slammed the whola
that. His critis have slammed the whole process
that. His critics have slammed the whole process is project Putin for
whole process is project Putin for ever and has slammed the vote.
ever and has slammed the vote. TRANSLATION: Boating is a fake, but
TRANSLATION: Boating is a fake, but it has become an open state in a
it has become an open state in a statement of what is happening in
statement of what is happening in the country. --
statement of what is happening in the country. —— voting. Illegally
the country. -- voting. Illagally seizing
the country. -- voting. Illegally seizing power,
the country. —— voting. Illegally seizing power, he wants to be the
seizing power, he wants to be the ruler of Russia for life. On his
rular of Russia for life. On his presidential
ruler of Russia for life. On his presidential terms it was very
presidential terms it was very against a
presidential terms it was very againsta giant
presidential terms it was very against a giant package of
against a giant package of constitutional amendments. Social
constitutional amendments. Social welfare promises, even animal
welfare promises, even animal rights. Campaigning against the
rights. Campaigning against the changes was banned. So whilst
changes was banned. So whilst younger voters at polling stations
younger voters at polling stations told us they were set up of the same
told us they were set up of the same face in the Kremlin, this result was
face in the Kremlin, this result was never really in doubt. Sarah
never really in doubt. Sarah Raynsford, BBC News, Moscow. A
Raynsford, BBC News, Moscow. A number of fires in Brazil’s Amazon
number of fires in Brazil’s Amazon rainforest has hit a 13 year
rainforest has hit a 13 year high for the month of
rainforest has hit a 13 year high for the month ofJune, according to
for the month of june, according to new
for the month ofJune, according to new Government data. Deforestation
new Government data. Deforestation levels... Were lost. They are
levels... Were lost. They are greatly concerned about the future
greatly concerned about the future of the ecosystem. Be slow and
of the ecosystem. Be slow and destructive ban. The Amazon
destructive ban. The Amazon rainforest is riddled with fires.
rainforest is riddlad with fires. Ecological
rainforest is riddled with fires. Ecological disaster eclipsed by the
Ecological disaster eclipsed by the coronavirus pandemic. Brazil has now
coronavirus pandemic. Brazil has now recorded more than 60,000 deaths
recorded more than 60,000 deaths linked to Covid—19 and at the same
linked to Covid-19 and at the same time it is
linked to Covid—19 and at the same time it is witnessing widespread
time it is witnessing widespread loss of one of the world’s most
loss of one of the world’s most important ecosystems. TRANSLATION:
important ecosystems. TRANSLATION: Deforestation in 2020 is going to be
Deforestation in 2020 is going to be large and that was in 2019.
large and that was in 2019. According to data from Brazil’s
According to data from Brazil’s Government funded space agency, EIN
Government funded space agency, EIN PE, there were 22A8 fires in the
PE, there were 2248 fires in the Amazon
PE, there were 22A8 fires in the Amazon this
PE, there were 22A8 fires in the Amazon thisJune. That is a 20%
Amazon this june. That is a 2096 rise, compared
Amazon thisJune. That is a 20% rise, compared to the same time last
rise, compared to the same time last year. And for the first five months
year. And for the first five months of 2020, deforestation is up 34%.
of 2020, deforestation is up 34%. TRANSLATION: The clearing of land
TRANSLATION: The clearing of land already
TRANSLATION: The clearing of [and already represents a serious
TRANSLATION: The clearing of land already represents a serious health
already represents a serious health problem. If we have land clearing
problem. If we have land clearing and
problem. If we have [and clearing and Covid—19 together, this could
and Covid-19 together, this could bring
and Covid—19 together, this could bring catastrophic consequences for
bring catastrophic consequences for the residents of the region. The dry
the residents of the region. The dry season will soon be upon the Amazon.
season will soon be upon the Amazon. Fires will increase, the smoke will
Fires will increase, the smoke will get worse. It heightens the threat
get worse. It heightens the threat to some of Brazil’s poorest
to some of Brazil’s poorest communities, whose livelihoods rely
communities, whose livelihoods rely on the health of the rainforest.
on the health of the rainforest. Three Cole, BBC News. Hundreds of
Three Cole, BBC News. Hundreds of elephants have died mysteriously in
elephants have died mysteriously in Botswana. The cluster of gas was
Botswana. The cluster of gas was first reported in early May this
first reported in earty May this year in the
first reported in early May this year in the north of Botswana around
year in the north of Botswana around this area. By
year in the north of Botswana around this area. ByJune, the number had
this area. Byjune, the number had more than
this area. ByJune, the number had more than doubled. The director of
more than doubled. The director of conservation at the charity National
conservation at the charity National Park Rescue has told the BBC he
Park Rescue has told the BBC he believes more than 400 elephants
believes more than 400 elephants might have died and the cause of
might have died and the cause of death needs to be ascertained as
death needs to be ascertained as soon as possible. We are imploring
soon as possible. We are imploring the Botswana Government to allow a
the Botswana Government to allow a team of independent experts to come
team of independent experts to come into the country into the region and
into the country into the region and then thoroughly sample the area.
then thoroughly sample the area. They need to sample multiple
They need to sample multiple carcasses, blood, liver
They need to sample multiple carcasses, blood, livertissue,
carcasses, blood, liver tissue, stomach
carcasses, blood, livertissue, stomach contents, soil samples and
stomach contents, soil samplas and water
stomach contents, soil samples and water samples and then there is need
water samples and then there is need to be taken to a reputable
to be taken to a reputable laboratory where they can be tested
laboratory where they ran be tested and we
laboratory where they can be tested and we can find out what that is.
and we ran find out what that is. There is a
and we can find out what that is. There is a reticence from many
There is a reticence from many nations to help its neighbour,
nations to help its neighbour, especially at a time when they are
especially at a time when they are stressed with Covid—19 as it is.
stressed with Covid-19 as it is. Secondly,
stressed with Covid—19 as it is. Secondly, the current Botswana
Secondly, the current Botswana administration has gone to great
administration has gone to great lengths to try to emphasise to rural
lengths to try to emphasise to mral populations in
lengths to try to emphasise to rural populations in the country that they
populations in the country that they don’t put the lives of elephants
don’t put the lives of elephants before the lives of people, which
before the lives of people, which was a common accusation of the
was a common accusation of the previous administration and my guess
previous administration and my guess is they don’t want to be seen to
is they don’t want to be seen to trying to respond to what they think
trying to respond to what they think is a consolation problem, when they
is a consolation problam, when they are only
is a consolation problem, when they are only already dealing with
are only already dealing with Covid—19. What I chat want to try to
Covid-19. What I chat want to try to emphasise to
Covid—19. What I chat want to try to emphasise to the Government is this
emphasise to the Government is this has the potential to be a public
has the potential to be a public health crisis, it is not
has the potential to be a public health crisis, it is notjust a
health crisis, it is notjust a conservation issue and because it is
conservation issue and because it is the second largest GDP and therefore
the second largest GDP and therefore Botswana it has the potential to be
Botswana it has the potential to be an economic crisis as well. The
an economic crisis as well. The Turkish court is due to rule in the
Turkish court is due to ml; in the next
Turkish court is due to mle in the next few
Turkish court is due to rule in the next few weeks on a controversial
next few weeks on a controversial mling to
next few weeks on a controversial ruling to convert the Hajj are
mling to convert the Hajj are severe
ruling to convert the Hajj are severe into a mosque. It would
severe into a mosque. It would reform Muslim worship at a place
reform Muslim worship at a place that once stood at the heart of the
that once stood at the heart of the buys and Thailand or at Ottoman
buys and Thailand or at Ottoman empires. An architectural wonder
empires. An architectural wonder that has enjoyed through the ages.
that has enjoyed through the ages. The Hagia Sophia outlasted the
The Hagia Sophia ouﬂasted the Byzantine
The Hagia Sophia outlasted the Byzantine Empire and the Ottoman
Byzantine Empire and the Ottoman Iran. Since 1935, it has been a
Iran. Since 1935, it has been a museum. A symbol of secular Turkey.
museum. A symbol of secular Turkey. But for how much longer? Step inside
But for how much longer? Step inside as so many tourists have. Beneath
as so many tourists have. Beneath the soaring golden dome and see
the soaring golden dome and see mosaics of the Virgin Mary alongside
mosaic of the Virgin Mary alongside Islamic
mosaics of the Virgin Mary alongside Islamic calligraphy. After 900 years
Islamic calligraphy. After 900 years as a cathedral, it was conquered by
as a cathedral, it was conquered by the Ottomans and converted to a
the Ottomans and converted to a mosque. The Turkish President has
mosque. The Turkish President has been vowing to conquer it anew.
been vowing to conquer it anew. TRANSLATION: They changed Hagia
TRANSLATION: They changed Hagia Sophia from a new VM to a mosque
Sophia from a new VM to a mosque along time ago, says the President
along time ago, says the President add one, and God willing we will
add one, and God willing we will change it back. —— President and a
change it back. -- President and a gun. Some ran
change it back. —— President and a gun. Some can hardly bear to wait.
gun. Some ran hardly bear to wait. This
gun. Some can hardly bear to wait. This Islamic grassroots organisation
This Islamic grassroots organisation has been praying outside once a
has been praying outside once a year. Its leader told us Hagia
year. Its leader told us Hagia Sophia should be back in the same
Sophia should be back in the same hands. TRANSLATION: I
Sophia should be back in the same hands. TRANSLATION: Iwant
Sophia should be back in the same hands. TRANSLATION: I want this
hands. TRANSLATION: Iwant this place to be a
hands. TRANSLATION: I want this place to be a mosque. All Muslims
place to be a mosque. All Muslims want it. Look at the structure. Ask
want it. Look at the stmcture. Ask anyone in the
want it. Look at the structure. Ask anyone in the world. What does it
anyone in the world. what does it look like
anyone in the world. What does it look like to you? There is only one
look like to you? There is only one answer. This is a mosque. That is
answer. This is a mosque. That is not how Christian leaders see it. At
not how Christian leaders see it. At the church of the 12 Apostles in
the church of the 12 Apostles in Istanbul this week, a gathering of
Istanbul this week, a gathering of Greek Orthodox. The faithful came to
Greek Orthodox. The faithful fame to mark a
Greek Orthodox. The faithful came to mark a feast day and here, a warning
mark a feast day and here, a warning from a patriarch, who leads the
from a patriarch, who leads the Orthodox Church worldwide. He said
Orthodox Church worldwide. He said Hagia Sophia belonged not
Orthodox Church worldwide. He said Hagia Sophia belonged notjust to
Hagia Sophia belonged not just to Turkey, but
Hagia Sophia belonged notjust to Turkey, but to humanity. The
Turkey, but to humanity. The conversion of Hagia Sophia will
conversion of Hagia Sophia will disappoint millions of Christians
disappoint millions of Christians around the world. Also, at a time
around the world. Also, at a time when they are afflicted and have
when they are afflicted and have suffered due to the deadly pandemic
suffered due to the deadly pandemic of the new coronavirus, we are in
of the new coronavims, we are in need of unity
of the new coronavirus, we are in need of unity and common
need of unity and common orientation. This is a towering
orientation. This is a towering monument to faith, but critics say
monument to faith, but critis say what is
monument to faith, but critics say what is happening here is about far
what is happening here is about far more than religion. They say
more than religion. They say President everyone is using the
President everyone is using the issue to bolster support and they
issue to bolster support and they say it makes a great distraction
say it makes a great distraction from the damaged Turkish economy by
from the damaged Turkish economy by Covid-19.
from the damaged Turkish economy by Covid—19. And distractions don’t
Covid-19. And distractions don’t come
Covid—19. And distractions don’t come much bigger than this. The US
come much bigger than this. The US opposes any move to convert Hagia
opposes any move to convert Hagia Sophia from a museum to a mosque. It
Sophia from a museum to a mosque. It 5575
Sophia from a museum to a mosque. It says this remarkable building should
says this remarkabla building should remain
says this remarkable building should remain as a much—needed bridge
remain as a much-needed bridge between
remain as a much—needed bridge between different faiths. BBC News,
between different faiths. BBC News, Istanbul. It is feared that
Istanbul. It is feared that thousands of Indian and Bengali
thousands of Indian and Bengali restaurants in the UK could be lost
restaurants in the UK could be lost due to the pandemic, as the lockdown
due to the pandemic, as the lockdown pits and is under intense financial
pits and is under intense financial strain. Many family owned restaurant
strain. Many family owned restaurant 55V
strain. Many family owned restaurant say they will struggle to be open,
say they will struggle to be open, in spite of easing measures. The
in spite of easing measures. The BBCs
in spite of easing measures. The BBC’s Asian editor reports. This is
5505 Asian editor reports. This is the
BBC’s Asian editor reports. This is the first
BBC’s Asian editor reports. This is the first time this man has been
the first time this man has been back to his family run restaurant
back to his family mn restaurant since the
back to his family run restaurant since the lockdown began three
since the lockdown began three months ago. My stomach turns, you
months ago. My stomach turns, you know? When I see a
months ago. My stomach turns, you know? When I see 3 Shut
months ago. My stomach turns, you know? When I see a shutdown,
know? when I see a shut down, disappointed
know? When I see a shutdown, disappointed so many people. This
know? When I see a shut down, disappointed so many people. This is
disappointed so many peopla. This is part of the
disappointed so many people. This is part of the community. It is mind
part of the community. It is mind blowing, when you sit down and think
blowing, when you sit down and think about it, how quickly the world has
about it, how quickly the world has changed. He would have struggled to
changed. He would have struggled to get a table here on the weekend Tom,
get a table here on the weekend Tom, despite there being over 30 curry
despite there being over 30 curry restaurants just this once Street.
restaurants just this once Street. But when the lockdown was put in
But when the lockdown was put in place, they were not ready to move
place, they were not ready to move to take away, so their doors have
to take away, so their doors have been shut and many say they will
been shut and many say they will struggle to reopen. For the last
struggle to reopen. For the last three months, this Lane has
struggle to reopen. For the last three months, this Lane hasjust
three months, this lane has just been... You
three months, this Lane hasjust been... You will see the majority of
been... You will see the majority of the restaurants will not even bother
the restaurants will not even bother opening at old Navy and will have to
opening at old Navy and will have to probably get up, which is very sad.
probably get up, which is very sad. As we know, brick Lane is famous for
As we know, brick lane is famous for its curry and to see
As we know, brick Lane is famous for its curry and to see some of the
its curry and to see some of the curry houses go, it is going to be a
curry houses go, it is going to be a kick in the stomach, to be honest.
kick in the stomach, to be honest. The British Bengali community opened
The British Bengali community opened restaurants here in the 19805
restaurants here in the 19805 because rents were low. The area has
because rents were low. The area has been rapidly gentrified. Over the
been rapidly gentrified. Over the 79575-
been rapidly gentrified. Over the years, the rental rate has
years, the rental rate has quadrupled around here. People were
quadmpled around here. People were struggling,
quadrupled around here. People were struggling, some of the businesses
struggling, some of the businesses is making huge debts. And this was
is making huge debts. And this was the nail in the coffin, I think.
the nail in the coffin, I think. Outside of London, others are trying
Outside of London, others are trying to stay aﬂoat
Outside of London, others are trying to stay afloat by switching to
to stay afloat by switching to takeaway. When you have no choice,
takeaway. when you have no choice, to keep the
takeaway. When you have no choice, to keep the restaurant open, keep on
to keep the restaurant open, keep on the... We have to sell takeaway, so
the... We have to sell takeaway, so we ran survive,
the... We have to sell takeaway, so we can survive, but 30% of our
we ran survive, but 3096 of our industry will
we can survive, but 30% of our industry will disappear from the
industry will disappear from the high street. He is calling on the
high street. He is calling on the Government to reduce the consumption
Government to reduce the consumption tax. At least for now, relying on
tax. At least for now, relying on loyal customers coming to pick up
loyal customers coming to pick up their curries. A prawn curry,
their curries. A prawn curry, chicken tikka masala... But I am
chicken tikka masala... But I am very keen to make sure that at the
very keen to make sure that at the end of this crisis we the places I
end of this crisis we the places I love to visit are still here, so it
love to visit are still here, so it is important for me to support it.
is important for me to support it. The only thing I have to say is to
The only thing I have to say is to make sure they put the mango chutney
make sure they put the mango chutney with my poppadoms. The south Asian
with my poppadoms. The south Asian community in the UK has been
community in the UK has been impacted severely by the
impacted severely by the coronavirus. Now there are fears
coronavirus. Now there are fears they will also suffer
they will also suffer disproportionate economic damage.
disproportionate economic damage. BBC News, London.
Hello, this is BBC News, the headlines...
Full class sizes and year group bubbles the UK government’s just
released guidance on how all pupils in England will return in September.
A local lockdown to deal with a surge in coronavirus
in Leicester cases will see schools close today to all but
China demands that Britain "immediately stop interfering"
in the affairs of Hong Kong, after the UK denounced Beijing’s
new security law in the territory which led to mass protests.
Just a political hoax President Trump dismisses reports
that Russia paid the Taliban to kill American troops and says secret
services didn’t even tell him about the intelligence.
Could we see an extension of the countries Brits can travel to?
Dozens more could be exempt from the UK’s quarantine rules
to allow people to go on a foreign holiday.
The mystery of the deaths of at
The mystery of the deaths of at least 350 elephants in Botswana,
least 350 elephants in Botswana, scientists describing the incident
scientists describing the incident as completely unprecedented.
A star studded list, featuring the likes of Ed Sheeran,
Sir Paul McCartney and Annie Lennox call on the UK Government to do more
to protect live music venues.
The Education Secretary, Gavin Williamson, is about to make
a statement on plans for schools in England in September —
m:
We will go over to the House of Commons as soon as we see him begin.
Guidelines on how more than eight million pupils in England
will be able to return to full—time education in September have been
released this morning.
They include plans to group children into bubbles
and to stagger start times.
John Maguire visited one school in Weston—super—Mare to see how
teachers and parents there are preparing
for the new term.
When these children return, the number will
swell from A0 to 900.
Clearly the social distancing rules in place now will need to change.
But change has been a constant of late, and staff are confident
they can cope with more.
Our strategy is that we are hoping for and anticipating
and looking forward to having all of our children back with us
in front of us in September.
We are ready and geared up for the children to come back in.
We know that we can manage and we know that we can navigate
a way through because we have just done it.
And where parents can decide whether or not to send
children to school now, in autumn, attendance will once
again become compulsory.
So anxious families will need to be persuaded.
We have been making well over 600 phone calls each
week to our families, to touch base and check
that they are OK.
And those relationships have now become strong and that is a positive
from this experience.
We will be leaning on those relationships to support
them and their children.
So what do parents think?
On the health side of things, as long as there is guidance
for the classes to be safe, I would be happy to send them back.
My daughter is already back two hours a week at secondary school
and is finding that fine.
Obviously they are all spaced apart.
For children of different abilities and some are getting
on with their work and some are not in my concern is doing back
in September that everyone will be at a different level
and if they are considering putting people into a bubble,
as I have heard, I don’t know how that will affect how everyone works.
I would like to know whether or not if we can
still have a PE curriculum, creative curriculum and it notjust
be Monday to Friday of core, which I know is valuable
but the students’ opinion matters and I would like...
The day, is it going to be full—time, Monday to Friday,
will they be staggering start and finish?
Just getting a benchmark of where the kids are at,
knowing that they have sufficient time to put
the content in for the GCSEs
between now and May would be good, providing exams are not
going to be pushed back.
That would be the biggest things, just to see the kids
are still on track.
The usual September concerns about school uniform,
PE kit or new subjects will take a back—seat.
The priorities will be safety, reassurance
and hopefully a guarantee that
pupils will be able to catch up.
The back to school check list will be like never before.
There have now been almost 2.7 million confirmed cases
of coronavirus in the United States.
Why has it been so badly affected?
why has it been so badly affected? Speaking
Why has it been so badly affected? Speaking exclusively today, Doctor
Speaking exclusively today, Doctor Anthony, the top infectious disease
Anthony, the top infectious disease expert and the director of Institute
expert and the director of Institute of allergy and infectious diseases
of allergy and infectious diseases explained the number of cases in the
explained the number of cases in the US
explained the number of rases in the US was
explained the number of cases in the US was down to the way lockdown was
US was down to the way lockdown was approached.
m:
We got hit very badly, or worse than anywhere else when you look at the
anywhere else when you look at the rases
anywhere else when you look at the cases and numbers of deaths. The
rases and numbers of deaths. The problem we are
cases and numbers of deaths. The problem we are facing now is the
problem we are facing now is the intent to open the Government and
intent to open the Government and get it back to some form of
get it back to some form of normality. We are seeing various
normality. We are seeing various disturbing spikes in different
disturbing spikes in different individual states in the United
individual states in the United States, particularly most recently
States, particularty most recently Florida,
States, particularly most recently Florida, Arizona, Texas and
Florida, Arizona, Texas and California. Some of which are really
California. Some of which are really big states with high population, so
big states with high population, so what we have seen over the last
what we have seen over the last several days is a spike in places
several days is a spike in places that are well beyond the worst
that are well beyond the worst spikes that we have seen. That is
spikes that we have seen. That is not good news. We have to get that
not good news. We have to get that under control or we risk an even
under control or we risk an even greater outbreak in the United
greater outbreak in the United States. When you look at the fact
States. when you look at the fact that we
States. When you look at the fact that we never got things down to
that we never got things down to baseline where so many countries in
baseline where so many countries in Europe and the UK and other
Europe and the UK and other countries did, they closed down to
countries did, they closed down to the tune of about 97% lockdown. In
the tune of about 9796 lockdown. In the
the tune of about 97% lockdown. In the United States, even in the most
the United States, even in the most strict lockdown, only about 50% of
strict lockdown, only about 5096 of the country
strict lockdown, only about 50% of the country lockdown. That allowed
the country lockdown. That allowed the perpetuation of the outbreak
the perpetuation of the outbreak that we never did get under a very
that we never did get under a very good control.
New Zealand’s Health Minister, David Clark, has resigned
after criticism over recent slip ups in the government’s largely
successful response to the coronavirus.
Mr Clark had already been demoted after breaking rules
to take his family to the beach.
New Zealand’s Prime Minister, Jacinda Ardern, said it was right
for Mr Clerk to resign.
Anything that acts as a distraction or anything that takes away
from our time, effort and energy from our response to Covid—19,
we just as a country can’t afford.
That was a very frank conversation the minister
and I openly had last week.
He then came to the very firm view that his ongoing role in this
portfolio is going to get in the way of that response.
The UK’s first sculpture to celebrate emergency workers has been
celebrate emergency workers has been adapted to reflect the current
adapted to reﬂect the current crisis.
adapted to reflect the current crisis. Then 999 cenotaph Monument
crisis. Then 999 cenotaph Monument will feature a medic wearing full
will feature a medic wearing full PPE. It is due to be revealed in
PPE. It is due to be revealed in 2023, provided that £3 million cost
2023, provided that £3 million cost ran be
2023, provided that £3 million cost can be raised.
can be raised. There are statues that are admired.
There are statues that are admired. World leaders that changed so much.
World leaders that changed so much. War heroes whose bravery was marked.
War heroes whose bravery was marked. Campaigners who brought significant
Campaigners who brought significant shifts politically, and footballers
shifts politically, and footballers held at the face of the game. Add to
held at the face of the game. Add to that list a Jamaican nurse, who
held at the face of the game. Add to that list aJamaican nurse, who in
that list a jamairan nurse, who in 2016
that list aJamaican nurse, who in 2016 became the first named black
2016 became the first named black woman to be remembered this way
woman to be remembered this way outside St Thomas’s Hospital in
outside St Thomas’s Hospital in London. She cared for British
London. She cared for British soldiers during the Crimean War.
soldiers during the Crimean War. Many now
soldiers during the Crimean War. Many new view her as an example of
Many now view her as an example of how to get a
Many new view her as an example of how to get a statue right. Any
how to get a statue right. Any future plans or development or any
future plans or development or any memorials in London or any major
memorials in London or any major city needs to have considerations,
city needs to have considerations, how it engages with the public. How
how it engages with the public. How it tells the whole story of that
it tells the whole story of that monument and it has to be inclusive.
monument and it has to be inclusive. To me, if we do not have those three
To me, if we do not have those three key criteria, then the danger we
key criteria, then the danger we will have with memorials and statues
will have with memorials and statics is they
will have with memorials and statues is they represent the past and not
is they represent the past and not reﬂect
is they represent the past and not reflect the future of Britain. And
reﬂect the future of Britain. And this
reflect the future of Britain. And this model of a planned statue could
this model of a planned stame could not be
this model of a planned statue could not be more timely. The memorial to
not be more timely. The memorial to emergency service workers called a
emergency service workers called a 999 Cenotaph. There will be a police
999 Cenotaph. There will be a police officer, a firefighter, a
999 Cenotaph. There will be a police officer, a firefighter, 3 Coast
officer, a firefighter, a Coast Guard, a
officer, a firefighter, 3 Coast Guard, 3 search and rescue worker
Guard, a search and rescue worker with their dog, a
Guard, 3 search and rescue worker with their dog, a paramedic, and
with their dog, a paramedic, and adding in recent weeks, a doctor or
adding in recent weeks, a doctor or nurse wearing personal protective
nurse wearing personal protective equipment. Two of the figures are
equipment. Two of the figures are women, won an Asian paramedic and
women, won an Asian paramedic and the other a black doctor or nurse.
the other a black doctor or nurse. All we are aiming for is accuracy,
All we are aiming for is accuracy, because it is a historical marker
because it is a historical marker and milestone that once put down,
and milestone that once put down, people will look at in 200 years’
peopla will look at in 200 years’ time
people will look at in 200 years’ time and
peopla will look at in 200 years’ time and say,
people will look at in 200 years’ time and say, yes, that was accurate
time and say, yes, that was accurate for that period. Usually statues are
for that period. Usually statues are largely paid for by private
largely paid for by private donations. For
largely paid for by private donations. Forthe
largely paid for by private donations. For the emergency
donations. For the emergency services memorial, lockdown meant
services memorial, lockdown meant that all the fundraising plans had
that all the fundraising plans had to be put on hold. There is now a
to be put on hold. There is now a renewed push to raise a thriller
renewed push to raise a thriller million pound needed to get the
million pound needed to get the statue belt. That monument will be a
statue belt. That monument will be a national symbol of the sacrifice,
national symbol of the sacrifice, heroism and remembrance of the
heroism and remembrance of the millions of men and women who have
millions of men and women who have served and the more than 7000
served and the more than 7000 emergency services personnel who
emergency services personnel who have tragically lost their lives in
have tragically lost their lives in the line of duty to keep us all
the line of duty to keep us all safe. The aim is for the new statue
safe. The aim is for the new statue to find its place amongst some of
to find its place amongst some of the countrrs
to find its place amongst some of the country’s most loved monuments.
the countrrs most loved monuments. where people
the country’s most loved monuments. Where people come to laugh, to
where peopla come to laugh, to reﬂect
Where people come to laugh, to reflect or to remember. If all the
reﬂect or to remember. If all the money is
reflect or to remember. If all the money is raised, there will be a
money is raised, there will be a national emergency services memorial
national emergency services memorial “P
national emergency services memorial Up by
national emergency services memorial up by 2023.
Some of the biggest names in pop, including Sir Paul McCartney, Ed
including Sir Paul McCartney, Ed Sheeran and Annie Lennox have
Sheeran and Annie Lennox have assigned an open letter urging the
assigned an open letter urging the UK Government to help protect live
UK Government to help protect live music venues from the effect of
music venues from the effect of coronavirus. They want an extension
coronavirus. They want an extension to the furlough scheme for those
to the furlough scheme for those working in the industry and the
working in the industry and the removal of a VAT from tickets when
removal of a VAT from tickets when it shows restart. So to
removal of a VAT from tickets when it shows restart. Soto discuss that
it shows restart. So to discuss that later, we are
it shows restart. Soto discuss that later, we are joined
it shows restart. Soto discuss that later, we arejoined by
it shows restart. Soto discuss that later, we are joined by Simone
later, we arejoined by Simone Butler
later, we are joined by Simone Butlerfrom
primal scream. Thank you for
primal scream. Thank you forjoining
primal scream. Thank you for joining us. what is
primal scream. Thank you forjoining us. What is the impact been on
us. What is the impact been on musicians like you and those people
musicians like you and those peopla who
musicians like you and those people who work directly and indirectly in
who work directly and indirectly in the music industry? First of all,
the music industry? First of all, thanks for having me. As part of
thanks for having me. As part of this campaign, we wanted to bring
this campaign, we wanted to bring awareness to this, not only sending
awareness to this, not only sending a letter to the Secretary of State
a letter to the Secretary of State for arts and digital media and
for arts and digital media and culture, it has been devastating for
culture, it has been devastating for everybody in the live music
everybody in the live music industry. We have to remember this
industry. We have to remember this is not just about
industry. We have to remember this is notjust about bands losing
is not just about bands losing shows.
is notjust about bands losing shows. This is the entire
shows. This is the entire infrastructure of live music
infrastmclure of live music industry
infrastructure of live music industry under threat. If festivals,
industry under threat. If festivals, independent of festivals and music
independent of festivals and music venues cannot get through the end of
venues cannot get through the end of the year, we are looking at around
the year, we are looking at around 901: of
the year, we are looking at around 90% of those going under next year,
9096 of those going under next year, and we just
90% of those going under next year, and wejust cannot
90% of those going under next year, and we just cannot let that happen.
and we just cannot let that happen. We are
and we just rannot let that happen. We are facing
and we just cannot let that happen. We are facing mass unemployment, and
We are facing mass unemployment, and this is a sector, an industry sector
this is a sector, an industry sector which contributed 4.9 million pounds
which contributed 4.9 million pounds to the UK economy in 2019 and was
to the UK economy in 2019 and was responsible for around 210,000 jobs,
responsible for around 210,000 jobs, so we are facing mass unemployment,
so we are facing mass unemployment, and culturally it is incredibly
and culturally it is incredibly significant. That is not to say all
significant. That is not to say all industries are affected, but if we
industries are affected, but if we do not implement some kind of
do not implement some kind of subsidy now or go on to make
subsidy now or go on to make financial changes in terms of the
financial changes in terms of the lack of VAT on ticket sales or
lack of VAT on ticket sales or increasing the furlough scheme, then
increasing the furlough scheme, then it is going to be a very serious
it is going to be a very serious situation for hundreds of thousands
situation for hundreds of thousands of peopla. --
situation for hundreds of thousands of people. —— billion. Why should
of peopla. -- billion. why should this particular
of people. —— billion. Why should this particular industry get special
this particular industry get special treatment? Why should it be treated
treatment? why should it be treated as an
treatment? Why should it be treated as an exception when there are
as an exception when there are thousands and thousands of people
thousands and thousands of peopla losing their
thousands and thousands of people losing theirjobs in other sectors
losing theirjobs in other sectors as well and there is no prospect for
as well and there is no prospect for extra help for them? I am not saying
extra help for them? I am not saying that it should take any special
that it should take any special hierarchy over other industries, but
hierarchy over other industries, but I think really we have to look at
I think really we have to look at how much it contributes to the UK
how much it contributes to the UK economy, even for that reason alone.
economy, even for that reason alone. Live music helps people in such
Live music helps people in such incredible ways, it helps their
incredible ways, it helps their life. We need it for our mental
life. We need it for our mental health. Even today online I saw an
health. Even today online I saw an NHS nurse who was on the front line
NHS nurse who was on the front line fighting this virus saying how
fighting this virus saying how important it is for her when she is
important it is for her when she is finished her days work, just the
finished her days work, just the thought of being able to have live
thought of being able to have live music in her life. We are fortunate
music in her life. We are fortunate enough to be able to have bands like
enough to be able to have bands like the Rolling Stones or Radiohead to
the Rolling Stones or Radiohead to gather and support, and I think we
gather and support, and I think we are in a good situation in that
are in a good situation in that sense where bands can generate a lot
sense where bands ran generate a lot more support,
sense where bands can generate a lot more support, but the money is
more support, but the money is there, the Government have made it
there, the Government have made it viable to open up football and pubs.
viabla to open up football and pubs. What
viabla to open up football and pubs. what we
viable to open up football and pubs. What we don’t want is getting to
what we don’t want is getting to peace with
What we don’t want is getting to peace with those things when this is
peace with those things when this is very culturally significant, and on
very culturally significant, and on the basis of facing mass
the basis of facing mass unemployment as well, because there
unemployment as well, because there isn’t so much of the music industry
isn’t so much of the music industry who depends on freelance workers,
who depends on freelance workers, who may not be able to transfer the
who may not be able to transfer the skill set onto something else. What
skill set onto something else. what are very
skill set onto something else. What are very successful musicians who
are very successful musicians who have made a lot of money themselves
have made a lot of money themselves from the music industry and
from the music industry and performing live, what are they
performing live, what are they doing? Are they putting their hands
doing? Are they putting their hands in their pockets to support these
in their pockets to support these venues at risk of going under? I
venues at risk of going under? I think it is really down to the
think it is really down to the Government to support the entire
Government to support the entire infrastructure of the live music
infrastmclure of the live music industry and
infrastructure of the live music industry and all of the surrounding
industry and all of the surrounding industries. We are not
industry and all of the surrounding industries. We are notjust talking
industries. We are not just talking about
industries. We are notjust talking about music venues and festivals. We
about music venues and festivals. We are talking about bloggers, burgers,
are talking about bloggers, burgers, caterers, lighting technicians,
caterers, lighting technicians, sound engineers, agents. This is a
sound engineers, agents. This is a massive industry and a massive
massive industry and a massive sector. Who knows what will happen
sector. who knows what will happen in terms
sector. Who knows what will happen in terms of monetary or financial
in terms of monetary or financial support? who
in terms of monetary or financial support? Who knows where that is
support? who knows where that is going to come
support? Who knows where that is going to come from outside of the
going to come from outside of the Government help? But in terms of a
Government help? But in terms of a societal and cultural pressure, I
societal and cultural pressure, I think we need to put it on the
think we need to put it on the Government to do that. How can you
Government to do that. How ran you envisage live
Government to do that. How can you envisage live music venues reopening
envisage live music venues reopening safely at some point? It is very
safely at some point? It is very hard to picture now. I did see the
hard to picture now. I did see the five step plan that was released and
five step plan that was released and found it very unrealistic. The music
found it very unrealistic. The music venues cannot open at 30% capacity
venues cannot open at 3096 capacity in the way that
venues cannot open at 30% capacity in the way that the retail sector
in the way that the retail sector ran. They
in the way that the retail sector can. They stand to lose much more
ran. They stand to lose much more money than if
can. They stand to lose much more money than if they stay close. For
money than if they stay close. For example, they are going to make a
example, they are going to make a loss of £5 million this year due to
loss of £5 million this year due to the pandemic and coronavirus. If
the pandemic and coronavirus. If they were to open at 30% capacity,
they were to open at 3096 capacity, they would
they were to open at 30% capacity, they would stand to make a lot of 11
they would stand to make a lot of 11 million. Right now, we cannot
million. Right now, we cannot socially distance at a festival, we
socially distance at a festival, we rannot
socially distance at a festival, we cannot socially distance at a gig,
cannot socially distance at a gig, which obviously would happen with
which obviously would happen with the 30% capacity. There does not
the 3096 capacity. There does not seem to
the 30% capacity. There does not seem to be a plan in action. Clearly
seem to be a plan in action. Cleariy we need to
seem to be a plan in action. Clearly we need to tackle the virus first
we need to tackle the virus first and foremost and then put an
and foremost and then put an infrastructure into businesses that
infrastmclure into businesses that are being
infrastructure into businesses that are being encouraged to open it to
are being encouraged to open it to be able to do it safely, so the plan
be able to do it safely, so the plan remains to be seen, it really does.
remains to be seen, it really does. But right now I feel like we need to
But right now I feel like we need to create the support, we need to
create the support, we need to create the funding so that we have a
create the funding so that we have a live music industry next year.
live music industry next year. Simone Butler
live music industry next year. Simone Butlerfrom primal scream,
Simone Butler from primal scream, thank you very
Simone Butlerfrom primal scream, thank you very much. We will wait
thank you very much. We will wait and see what response the Government
and see what response the Government gives to your letter. Thank you very
gives to your letter. Thank you very much for joining
gives to your letter. Thank you very much forjoining us. Let us join the
much for joining us. Let us join the Education
much forjoining us. Let us join the Education Secretary who is making a
Education Secretary who is making a statement on schools opening in
statement on schools opening in September. He is in the House of
September. He is in the House of Commons. I know these past three
Commons. I know these past three months have been some of the most
months have been some of the most challenging that schools, parents
challanging that schools, parents and
challenging that schools, parents and most of all children have a
and most of all children have a face. What schools have achieved it
face. what schools have achieved it to make
face. What schools have achieved it to make sure that children and young
to make sure that children and young peopla are
to make sure that children and young people are kept safe and can
people are kept safe and can continue to learn during this period
continue to learn during this period is remarkable, and I think in this
is remarkable, and I think in this house we are deeply grateful for
house we are deeply grateful for those efforts. But we all know the
those efforts. But we all know the impact that last time in education
impact that last time in education ran have
impact that last time in education can have on our children’s outcomes.
ran have on our children’s outcomes. Every child and
can have on our children’s outcomes. Every child and young person in the
Every child and young person in the country has experienced
country has experienced unprecedented disruption to their
unprecedented dismption to their learning as a
unprecedented disruption to their learning as a result of coronavirus.
learning as a result of coronavirus. whether
learning as a result of coronavirus. Whether those from the most
Whether those from the most vulnerable and disadvantaged
vulnerable and disadvantaged backgrounds amongst the hardest hit.
backgrounds amongst the hardest hit. -- with
backgrounds amongst the hardest hit. —— with those. Education recovery is
-- with those. Education recovery is critical for
—— with those. Education recovery is critical for this generation of
critical for this generation of schoolchildren. Returning to normal
schoolchildren. Returning to normal educational routines as quickly as
educational routines as quickly as possibla is
educational routines as quickly as possible is critical to our national
possibla is critical to our national recovery as
possible is critical to our national recovery as well. That is why we
recovery as well. That is why we have been working to ensure that all
have been working to ensure that all pupils will be able to go back to
pupils will be able to go back to schools and colleges full—time in
schools and colleges full-time in September,
schools and colleges full—time in September, with Covid—19 secure
September, with Covid—19 secure measures in place so they have the
measures in place so they have the opportunity to thrive and fulfil
opportunity to thrive and fulfil their full potential. Today,
opportunity to thrive and fulfil theirfull potential. Today, the
theirfull potential. Today, the Government has published detailed
Government has published detailed plans for nursery schools and
plans for nursery schools and colleges that are set out what is
colleges that are set out what is needed to plan for a full return. As
needed to plan for a full return. As well as reassuring parents and
well as reassuring parents and carers about what to expect for the
carers about what to expect for the children. The guidance has been
children. The guidance has been developed with medical experts from
developed with medical experts from Pub“:
developed with medical experts from Public Health England and follows
Public Health England and follows regular engagement throughout the
regular engagement throughout the outbreak between the Government and
outbreak between the Government and the education sector. We continue to
the education sector. We continue to work closely with the country’s best
work closely with the country’s best scientific and medical experts to
scientific and medical experts to ensure that both children and staff
ensure that both children and staff are always as safe as possible.
are always as safe as possible. Schools will continue minimising
Schools will continue minimising contact between children, including
contact between children, including three gripping children together in
three gripping children together in bubbles and encouraging children to
bubbles and encouraging children to distance. At a
bubbles and encouraging children to distance. Ata minimum, this
bubbles and encouraging children to distance. At a minimum, this will
distance. Ata minimum, this will include
distance. At a minimum, this will include keeping your groups
include keeping your groups separate. This is in addition to
separate. This is in addition to other protective measures that we
other protective measures that we know are so important for infection
know are so important for infection control such as regular cleaning and
control such as regular cleaning and hand washing. We are also ensuring
hand washing. We are also ensuring testing is readily available so that
testing is readily available so that parents, teachers and students can
parents, teachers and students ran return
parents, teachers and students can return with confidence. All staff,
return with confidence. All staff, pupils and their families will
pupils and their families will continue to have access to testing
continue to have access to testing if they develop Covid—19 symptoms.
if they develop Covid-19 symptoms. BY
if they develop Covid-19 symptoms. By the start
if they develop Covid—19 symptoms. By the start of the autumn term, we
By the start of the autumn term, we will provide all schools and
will provide all schools and colleges with a small number of home
colleges with a small number of home testing kits. These will be taken
testing kits. These will be taken home by children or staff who
home by children or staff who develop symptoms while on site but
develop symptoms while on site but who would struggle to access a
who would struggle to access a testing centre. This is so that they
testing centre. This is so that they ran have a
testing centre. This is so that they can have a test quickly and they can
ran have a test quickly and they ran get the results
can have a test quickly and they can get the results back quickly. All
get the results back quickly. All schools will have access to direct
schools will have access to direct support and advice from their local
support and advice from their [oral Pub“:
support and advice from their local Public Health England health
Public Health England health protection team to deal with any
protection team to deal with any rases
protection team to deal with any cases that may occur. They will be
rases that may occur. They will be advised
cases that may occur. They will be advised on what steps need to be
advised on what steps need to be taken. Mr Speaker, in these
taken. Mr Speaker, in these challenging times, we are committed
challenging times, we are committed to ensuring the nation’s children
to ensuring the nation’s children have not just a
to ensuring the nation’s children have notjust a safe education but
have not just a safe education but also an
have notjust a safe education but also an excellent one. From
also an excellent one. From September, we are asking schools and
September, we are asking schools and colleges to return to a broad and
colleges to return to a broad and balanced curriculum so that all
balanced curriculum so that all pupils continue to be taught in a
pupils continue to be taught in a wide range of subjects, maintaining
wide range of subjects, maintaining their choices for further study and
their choices for further study and employment. We expect exams to go
employment. We expect exams to go ahead in the summer of 2021. We
ahead in the summer of 2021. We understand the additional pressures
understand the additional pressures on teaching staff to deliver such
on teaching staff to deliver such high standards of education in this
high standards of education in this difficult period. As such, as Ofsted
difficult period. As such, as Ofsted inspectors are preparing to visit
inspectors are preparing to visit schools in the autumn, to discuss
schools in the autumn, to discuss how they are managing to return to
how they are managing to return to full education of all of their
full education of all of their pupils. The insight that inspectors
pupils. The insight that inspectors gather will also be aggregated
gather will also be aggregated nationally to share learning with
nationally to share learning with the whole sector. The Government and
the whole sector. The Government and the wider public as well. It is our
the wider public as well. It is our intention for
the wider public as well. It is our intention forfull
the wider public as well. It is our intention for full inspections to
intention for full inspections to return from January. We are also
return from january. We are also providing
return from January. We are also providing significant financial
providing significant financial support to help pupils catch up on
support to help pupils catch up on last learning. As I announced in
last learning. As I announced in june, we will
last learning. As I announced in June, we will be providing a £1
june, we will be providing a £1 billion
June, we will be providing a £1 billion Covid—19 catch up package,
billion Covid-19 catch up package, including a
billion Covid—19 catch up package, including a 650 million catch up
including a 650 million catch up premium for state funded primary,
premium for state funded primary, secondary and special schools, and a
secondary and special schools, and a £350 million national tutoring
£350 million national tutoring programme for the most disadvantaged
programme for the most disadvantaged pupils. Evidence shows that 6—12
pupils. Evidence shows that 6-12 weeks
pupils. Evidence shows that 6—12 weeks of
pupils. Evidence shows that 6—12 weeks ofjittering for disadvantaged
weeks ofjitbering for disadvantaged people ran
weeks ofjittering for disadvantaged people can result in five of catch
peopla ran result in five of catch up. Schools
people can result in five of catch up. Schools are held accountable for
up. Schools are held accountabla for the
up. Schools are held accountable for the outcomes they achieve through
the outcomes they achieve through their funding,
the outcomes they achieve through theirfunding, including through
their funding, including through Ofsted
theirfunding, including through Ofsted inspections, and the Covid—19
Ofsted inspections, and the Covid-19 catch up
Ofsted inspections, and the Covid—19 catch up funding will be no
catch up funding will be no exception to this. —— tutoring. We
exception to this. -- tutoring. We need to
exception to this. —— tutoring. We need to ensure no child loses more
need to ensure no child loses more time in education, and that from
time in education, and that from September, all children that can be
September, all children that ran be at school
September, all children that can be at school are at school. Schools and
at school are at school. Schools and colleges will need to work with
colleges will need to work with families to secure regular
families to secure regular attendance from the start of a new
attendance from the start of a new academic year with the
academic year with the reintroduction of mandatory
reintroduction of mandatory attendance. Our intention is that
attendance. Our intention is that those with education, health and
those with education, health and rare plans or
those with education, health and care plans or a special educational
rare plans or a special educational needs
care plans or a special educational needs will also be back in school or
needs will also be back in school or college in September. Since May, as
college in September. Since May, as a result of the pandemic, it has
a result of the pandemic, it has been necessary to modify the duty on
been necessary to modify the duty on [oral
been necessary to modify the duty on local authorities and health
local authorities and health commissioners so that they could use
commissioners so that they could use their reasonable endeavours to
their reasonable endeavours to secure arrange for provision of EHEC
secure arrange for provision of EHEC plans. We are committed to removing
plans. We are committed to removing these ﬂex
plans. We are committed to removing these flex abilities as soon as
these ﬂex abilities as soon as possible so
these flex abilities as soon as possible so children and young
possibla so children and young peopla ran
possible so children and young people can receive the support they
people ran receive the support they need to
people can receive the support they need to return to school. As such,
need to return to school. As such, unless the evidence changes, I will
unless the evidence changes, I will not be issuing further national
not be issuing further national notices to modify the EHEC duties.
notices to modify the EHEC duties. We will however consider whether any
We will however consider whether any such ﬂex
We will however consider whether any such flex abilities may be required
such ﬂex abilities may be required [orally to
such flex abilities may be required locally to respond to outbreaks in
locally to respond to outbreaks in different parts of the country. In
different parts of the country. In addition, I am
different parts of the country. In addition, lam pleased
different parts of the country. In addition, I am pleased to announce
addition, I am pleased to announce that as we continue on the road to
that as we continue on the road to recovery, and infection rates
recovery, and infection rates continue to fall, from the 20th of
continue to fall, from the 20th of july, nurseries,
continue to fall, from the 20th of July, nurseries, Childminders and
july, nurseries, Childminders and other
July, nurseries, childminders and other childcare providers will no
other childcare providers will no longer be required to place limits
longer be required to place limits on the group size of children who
on the group size of children who ran play and
on the group size of children who can play and learn together. Mr
ran play and learn together. Mr Speaker, I
can play and learn together. Mr Speaker, I would like to take this
Speaker, I would like to take this opportunity to thank those parts of
opportunity to thank those parts of the sector who have already opened
the sector who have already opened their doors to more children and who
their doors to more children and who are doing a phenomenal
their doors to more children and who are doing a phenomenaljob to help
are doing a phenomenal job to help our
are doing a phenomenaljob to help our children and our young people
our children and our young peopla settle
our children and our young people settle back into their usual
settle back into their usual routines. Since schools and
routines. Since schools and nurseries began to open more widely
nurseries began to open more widely on the 1st of
nurseries began to open more widely on the 1st ofJune, we have seen the
on the 1st of june, we have seen the number of
on the 1st ofJune, we have seen the number of children attending school
number of children attending school steadily rise, with over 1.6 million
steadily rise, with over 1.6 million pupils already back in schools. I am
pupils already back in schools. I am sure, Mr Speaker, I
pupils already back in schools. I am sure, Mr Speaker, Iwill
pupils already back in schools. I am sure, Mr Speaker, I will be
pupils already back in schools. I am sure, Mr Speaker, I will bejoined
sure, Mr Speaker, I will be joined by the House
sure, Mr Speaker, I will bejoined by the House as I express my thanks
by the House as I express my thanks to all of the childcare, school and
to all of the childcare, school and further education staff who have
further education staff who have gone above and beyond since March
gone above and beyond since March and he will continue to do so as we
and he will continue to do so as we prepare to welcome all of our
prepare to welcome all of our children and young people back to
children and young peopla back to school
children and young people back to school and college in September. I
school and college in September. I commend this statement to the house.
commend this statement to the house. (“an I
commend this statement to the house. Can I welcome the new shadow
(“an I welcome the new shadow Secretary of
Can I welcome the new shadow Secretary of State for Education,
Secretary of State for Education, Kate Green. Thank you very much, Mr
Kate Green. Thank you very much, Mr Speaker, and I think the Secretary
Speaker, and I think the Secretary of State for his statement and an
of State for his statement and an advanced copy of it, and may I also
advanced copy of it, and may I also thank him for his call last night. I
thank him for his all last night. I look
thank him for his call last night. I look forward to working with him. Mr
look forward to working with him. Mr Speaker, every child must be safely
Speaker, every child must be safely back in school in September. By
back in school in September. By then, many children will have
then, many children will have experienced nearly six months gap in
experienced nearty six months gap in their
experienced nearly six months gap in their education. Some have been able
their education. Some have been able to maintain their learning during
to maintain their learning during that period, but there has been a
that period, but there has been a huge gap in learning for others,
huge gap in learning for others, especially the most disadvantaged. A
especially the most disadvantaged. A senior official in the Secretary of
senior official in the Secretary of State’s own department has warned
State’s own department has warned the attainment gap could widen by as
the attainment gap could widen by as much as 75% as a result of the
much as 7596 as a result of the crisis. Todars
much as 75% as a result of the crisis. Today’s announcement finally
crisis. Todars announcement finally recognises the
crisis. Today’s announcement finally recognises the desperate pleas of
recognises the desperate pleas of heads, staff and governors for
heads, staff and governors for information and certainty about
information and certainty about plans for the next academic year.
plans for the next academic year. For too long the Government has been
For too long the Government has been asleep at the wheel. The
asleep at the wheel. The announcement today comes just three
announcement today comes just three weeks before the end of term, and an
weeks before the end of term, and an immense amount needs to be done to
immense amount needs to be done to prepare. Mr Speaker, staff have been
prepare. Mr Speaker, staff have been working ﬂat out since
prepare. Mr Speaker, staff have been working flat out since February half
working ﬂat out since February half term, and I want to thank teachers,
term, and I want to thank teachers, school leaders and everyone who
school leaders and everyone who works in our education settings for
works in our education settings for their exceptional efforts during
their exceptional efforts during these unprecedented times. Over the
these unprecedented times. Over the summer, they will need a break. As
summer, they will need a break. As they prepare plans for a return,
they prepare plans for a return, they will also need the active
they will also need the active support of the Department. This
support of the Department. This cannot be left to heads to struggle
cannot be left to heads to struggle through on their own. 50
cannot be left to heads to struggle through on their own. Sol have a
through on their own. So I have a number of
through on their own. Sol have a number of question for the Right
number of question for the Right Honourable gentleman. What
Honourable gentleman. What consultation has been undertaken in
consultation has been undertaken in preparing this guidance with heads,
preparing this guidance with heads, teachers and school staff, governors
teachers and school staff, governors and unions who have made a very
and unions who have made a very sensible and practical suggestions
sensible and practical suggestions for students’s return? The
for students’s return? The Government needs to learn from its
Government needs to learn from its previous mistakes. That is why
previous mistakes. That is why labour
previous mistakes. That is why Labour suggested a task Force of
labour suggested a task Force of school
Labour suggested a task Force of school leavers which could have
school leavers which could have meant we could have brought children
meant we could have brought children back to school sooner. Can a
back to school sooner. (“an a Secretary of
back to school sooner. Can a Secretary of State guarantee every
Secretary of State guarantee every school will have full access to
school will have full access to testing and tracing, all the PPE and
testing and tracing, all the PPE and other resources they need to open
other resources they need to open safely? The Government’s track
safely? The Government’s track record has not been impressive so
record has not been impressive so far, and we cannot allow any further
far, and we rannot allow any further failure to
far, and we cannot allow any further failure to supply these safety
failure to supply these safety essentials to prevent children?
essentials to prevent children? Return. I support the Secretary of
Return. I support the Secretary of State in reintroducing compulsory
State in reintroducing compulsory attendance. But fining or parents
attendance. But fining or parents will not serve the best interests of
will not serve the best interests of their children. Chip parents need
their children. Chip parents need reassurance their children will be
reassurance their children will be safe, especially in communities
safe, especially in communities including ethnic minority
including ethnic minority communities, where the prevalence of
communities, where the prevalance of Covid-19 is
communities, where the prevalence of Covid—19 is higher. Many will have
Covid-19 is higher. Many will have found
Covid—19 is higher. Many will have found this unsettling and dramatic.
found this unsettling and dramatic. What
found this unsettling and dramatic. what is
found this unsettling and dramatic. What is needed is a trauma informed
what is needed is a trauma informed approach to
What is needed is a trauma informed approach to schools and families.
approach to schools and families. Staggered starts may present
Staggered starts may present difficult challenges for parents.
difficult challanges for parents. (“an a
difficult challenges for parents. Can a Secretary of State say more
(“an a Secretary of State say more about wrap
Can a Secretary of State say more about wrap around care for families
about wrap around rare for families and transport
about wrap around care for families and transport arrangements for
and transport arrangements for children to travel to school? Can
children to travel to school? (“an you confirm
children to travel to school? Can you confirm all children are
you confirm all children are expected to be in school in
expected to be in school in September? Will there be a delay in
September? will there be a delay in incoming
September? Will there be a delay in incoming reception children starting
incoming reception children starting school? In relation to early years,
school? In relation to earty years, what
school? In relation to early years, what financial support will be
what financial support will be available for parents or for child
available for parents or for child rare
available for parents or for child care providers to protect their
rare providers to protect their viability if
care providers to protect their viability if children cannot attend
viability if children cannot attend if they are forced to closed?
if they are forced to closed? Recognise the needs of those with
Recognise the needs of those with special needs and disabilities and
special needs and disabilities and the assurances on health and care
the assurances on health and rare plans. (“an the
the assurances on health and care plans. Can the Secretary of State
plans. (“an the Secretary of State guarantee to
plans. Can the Secretary of State guarantee to the house the needs of
guarantee to the house the needs of those children will be met in full.
those children will be met in full. On the curriculum, does he agree
On the curriculum, does he agree with me that a broad curriculum,
with me that a broad curriculum, including arts and humanities,
including arts and humanities, supports children’s attainment in
supports children’s attainment in the core subjects as well. What
the core subjects as well. What discussions with Effie providers
discussions with Effie providers have taken place about how they will
have taken place about how they will provide the quote fill in the
provide the quote fill in the education envisaged?
This is the new Shadow Secretary of State for Education, Kate Green, her
State for Education, Kate Green, her first appearance at the house
first appearance at the house opposite the Education Secretary
opposite the Education Secretary Gavin Williamson, who has
opposite the Education Secretary Gavin Williamson, who hasjust
opposite the Education Secretary Gavin Williamson, who has just been
Gavin Williamson, who has just been setting out some of the guidance for
setting out some of the guidance for getting all pupils back to school in
getting all pupils back to school in England in September, when
England in September, when attendance will be mandatory. Kate
attendance will be mandatory. Kate Green has been saying that she
Green has been saying that she supports compulsory attendance, but
supports compulsory attendance, but not to find parents if they are too
not to find parents if they are too concerned about the safety aspects
concerned about the safety aspects to send children back. Let’s carry
to send children back. Let’s carry on listening. Does he share my
on listening. Does he share my concern that requiring schools to
concern that requiring schools to contribute 25% of the cost of the
contribute 25% of the cost of the National tutoring programme
National tutoring programme advantages the better off schools?
advantages the better off schools? Why
advantages the better off schools? why have
advantages the better off schools? Why have 16 students been excluded
why have 16 students been excluded from
Why have 16 students been excluded from catch
why have 16 students been excluded from catch up
Why have 16 students been excluded from catch up funding support? On
from catch up funding support? On Tuesday, it was reported that the
Tuesday, it was reported that the 230,000 laptops that had been
230,000 laptops that had been promised for children lacking full
promised for children lacking full digital access have not been
digital access have not been delivered in full, as promised by
delivered in full, as promised by the end of
delivered in full, as promised by the end ofJune. When will they
the end of june. when will they arrive?
the end ofJune. When will they arrive? And finally, a six week long
arrive? And finally, a six week long summer holiday always widens the
summer holiday always widens the attainment gap and this year that
attainment gap and this year that will be exacerbated by the time
will be exacerbated by the time already spent out of school. What
already spent out of school. What activities and support are being put
activities and support are being put in place for the summer break? The
in place for the summer break? The funding for pupils on free school
funding for pupils on free school meals is welcome, but what if
meals is welcome, but what if children become eligible for free
children become eligibla for free school
children become eligible for free school meals during the summer
school meals during the summer holiday? (“an
school meals during the summer holiday? Can the Secretary of State
holiday? (“an the Secretary of State guarantee
holiday? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that no eligible child
guarantee that no eligibla child will
guarantee that no eligible child will miss out. Secretary of State. I
will miss out. Secretary of State. I would very much like to congratulate
would very much like to congratulate the Honourable Lady on her new role
the Honourable Lady on her new role and I very much looking forward to
and I very much looking forward to working with her in terms of some of
working with her in terms of some of the great challenges that our nation
the great challenges that our nation faces over the coming months. As we
faces over the coming months. As we focus on the recovery for our
focus on the recovery for our education sector after this
education sector after this pandemic. I want to assure her in
pandemic. I want to assure her in terms of the curriculum about the
terms of the curriculum about the importance it has to be a full,
importance it has to be a full, broad and balanced curriculum and
broad and balanced curriculum and that includes the arts and
that includes the arts and humanities. It include sports, it
humanities. It include sports, it includes so much because we
includes so much because we recognise that to give children the
recognise that to give children the best opportunities to succeed in
best opportunities to succeed in life, they have to have that breadth
life, they have to have that breadth of curriculum and we should not be
of curriculum and we should not be seen to be dumbing down or reducing
seen to be dumbing down or reducing it. We have to give children
it. We have to give children choices. That is good for their
choices. That is good for their future attainment, their future life
future attainment, their future life chances, but also for their mental
chances, but also for their mental health as well. Of having that
health as well. Of having that breadth it is so vital for them to
breadth it is so vital for them to succeed. She is right, absolutely
succeed. She is right, absolutely right to highlight the importance of
right to highlight the importance of those children with special
those children with special educational needs and how we need to
educational needs and how we need to be supporting them and helping them.
be supporting them and helping them. We have seen some brilliant
We have seen some brilliant examples, especially in some other
examples, especially in some other special schools, who have gone far
special schools, who have gone far and above in terms of helping, not
and above in terms of helping, not just for children, but also for
just for children, but also for parents at this most difficult and
parents at this most difficult and challanging
parents at this most difficult and challenging time. But as all schools
challanging time. But as all schools return, and
challenging time. But as all schools return, and this is why it is
return, and this is why it is absolutely vital, it has got to be
absolutely vital, it has got to be clear that educational and health
clear that educational and health rare plans
clear that educational and health care plans are properly adhered to
rare plans are property adhered to by [oral
care plans are properly adhered to by local authorities. This is why we
by [oral authorities. This is why we have got to
by local authorities. This is why we have got to have this proper and
have got to have this proper and full return of those obligations
full return of those obligations that local authorities have to be
that [oral authorities have to be held to.
that local authorities have to be held to. I can assure her that it is
held to. I ran assure her that it is new money for
held to. I can assure her that it is new money for the Covid—19 catch up
new money for the Covid-19 catch up fund, we are
new money for the Covid—19 catch up fund, we are looking forward to
fund, we are looking forward to sharing more details with schools on
sharing more details with schools on this and will be looking forward to
this and will be looking forward to working with schools, as we have
working with schools, as we have been also with the education
been also with the education endowment foundation, to make sure
endowment foundation, to make sure that that money is properly
that that money is properly channelled into the areas that are
channellad into the areas that are going to
channelled into the areas that are going to make a real difference to
going to make a real difference to children. It is right and everyone
children. It is right and everyone in this house recognises the
in this house recognises the challenges and the significant loss
challanges and the significant loss that
challenges and the significant loss that children have suffered as a
that children have suffered as a result of not being in school. That
result of not being in school. That is why we have got to bring all
is why we have got to bring all children back into school at the
children hack into school at the eartiest
children back into school at the earliest possible opportunity.
eartiest possibla opportunity. Equally,
earliest possible opportunity. Equally, it is making sure that
Equally, it is making sure that there is £1 billion is properly
there is £1 billion is property spent. That
there is £1 billion is properly spent. That is why £350 million of
spent. That is why £350 million of that is being specially ring fenced
that is being specially ring fenced to make sure it is going to the
to make sure it is going to the children from the most disadvantaged
children from the most disadvantaged backgrounds and it is going to be
backgrounds and it is going to be focused on the evidence based
focused on the evidence based actions that we know will make a
actions that we know will make a difference to those children.
will make a difference to those children. In terms of consultation,
children. In terms of consultation, we have and will continue to consult
we have and will continue to consult within the we have established a
within the we have established a school stakeholder group with trade
school stakeholder group with trade unions Congress and other unions.
unions Congress and other unions. More importantly, we have had much
More importantly, we have had much wider dialogue with people, not
More importantly, we have had much wider dialogue with people, notjust
wider dialogue with peopla, not just trade
wider dialogue with people, notjust trade unions, but also many of the
trade unions, but also many of the stakeholders and most importantly,
stakeholders and most importantly, those who are delivering education
those who are delivering education on the ground. This is something
on the ground. This is something that we have continuously been doing
that we have continuously been doing ever since the moment that we had to
ever since the moment that we had to dose to
ever since the moment that we had to close to the first place. We will
close to the first place. We will continue to do as we move forward.
continue to do as we move forward. Gavin Williamson, the Education
Gavin Williamson, the Education Secretary, there, just speaking
Secretary, there, just speaking about plans to get all children back
about plans to get all children back into schools in September and saying
into schools in September and saying there needs to be a full curriculum
there needs to be a full curriculum to include sports and creative
to include sports and creative subjects as well. Viewers in the UK
subjects as well. Viewers in the UK ran
subjects as well. Viewers in the UK can continue watching on the BBC
can continue watching on the BBC Parliament Channel. We can speak now
Partiament Channel. We ran speak now to this doctor,
Parliament Channel. We can speak now to this doctor, the general
to this doctor, the general secretary of the teaching union.
secretary of the teaching union. Doctor, thank you for
secretary of the teaching union. Doctor, thank you forjoining us.
Doctor, thank you for joining us. You were
Doctor, thank you forjoining us. You were listening to the Education
You were listening to the Education Secretary there. How adequate are
Secretary there. How adequate are these guidelines? The guidelines
these guidelines? The guidelines have been published this morning.
have been published this morning. They will have to be studied
They will have to be studied carefully. It is quite clear that
carefully. It is quite clear that the Government has listened to some
the Government has listened to some of the concerns that we have been
of the concerns that we have been raising around health and safety and
raising around health and safety and the importance of schools properly
the importance of schools property risk
the importance of schools properly risk assessing their arrangements
risk assessing their arrangements for bringing more children and young
for bringing more children and young peopla back
for bringing more children and young people back into schools. But
people back into schools. But whether the guidance goes far
whether the guidance goes far enough, we have got some concerns
enough, we have got some concerns about that, but we have also got
about that, but we have also got concerns
about the absence, really, of a
clear national plan from Government
dear national plan from Government to secure
clear national plan from Government to secure public confidence and to
to secure public confidence and to ensure the safe return of all
ensure the safe return of all children to all schools from
children to all schools from September and that is something we
September and that is something we still need to be talking to the
still need to be talking to the Government further about. What is
Government further about. what is the concern,
Government further about. What is the concern, then? Where is the
the concern, then? where is the pub“:
the concern, then? Where is the public confidence missing and why?
public confidence missing and why? Well, I think the reasons why public
Well, I think the reasons why public confidence is missing is perhaps
confidence is missing is perhaps because of mixed messaging from
because of mixed messaging from Government in relation to coded
Government in relation to coded safety --
Government in relation to coded safety —— Covid—19 safety in the
safety -- Covid-19 safety in the wider
safety —— Covid—19 safety in the wider population and in workplaces.
wider population and in workplaces. The Government is predicated on its
The Government is predicated on its plans for reopening schools fully in
plans for reopening schools fully in September on the assumption that of
September on the assumption that of course virus transmission rates will
course virus transmission rates will continue to fall and let’s hope that
continue to fall and let’s hope that is the use,
continue to fall and let’s hope that is the case, but of course, you
is the use, but of course, you know, in
is the case, but of course, you know, in recent days we have seen
know, in recent days we have seen evidence of a spike, a second wave,
evidence of a spike, a second wave, which has led to the lockdown of the
which has lad to the lockdown of the city of
which has led to the lockdown of the city of Leicester and we have seen
city of Leicester and we have seen within that, of course, evidence of
within that, of course, evidence of virus transmission amongst and
virus transmission amongst and 18-year-olds
virus transmission amongst and 18—year—olds and of course that is
18-year-olds and of course that is going to cause
18—year—olds and of course that is going to cause some very serious
going to cause some very serious concerns for many parents, but also
concerns for many parents, but also for teachers and the workforce in
for teachers and the workforce in schools more generally. About
schools more generally. About whether the Government’s measures on
whether the Government’s measures on full reopening are adequate in the
full reopening are adequate in the circumstances. The Shadow Education
circumstances. The Shadow Education Secretary, Kate Green, making her
Secretary, Kate Green, making her first appearance in the Commons
first appearance in the Commons today. She pointed to a 75% increase
today. She pointed to a 7596 increase in the
today. She pointed to a 75% increase in the attainment gap in this
in the attainment gap in this relatively short period of time that
relatively short period of time that children have been away from school.
children have been away from school. How do you close that gap, then,
How do you close that gap, then, without getting everybody back to
without getting everybody back to school in September, even if there
school in September, even if there is a concern about the rest? Yes,
is a concern about the rest? Yes, well, it is absolutely clear that
well, it is absolutely clear that children’s education is best
children’s education is best supported, best delivered with
supported, best delivered with children being in schools. We have
children being in schools. We have got no argument with that and I
got no argument with that and I don’t think anyone would have any
don’t think anyone would have any argument with that. But it is
argument with that. But it is vitally important that children, and
vitally important that children, and indeed their teachers, can return to
indeed their teachers, ran return to school safely,
indeed their teachers, can return to school safely, so it is important
school safely, so it is important that important lessons are learned
that important lassons are learned as a
that important lessons are learned as a result of this current virus
as a result of this current virus crisis, and indeed the spikes that
crisis, and indeed the spikes that we are seeing around the country,
we are seeing around the country, which could further disrupt
which could further disrupt education provision, it is vitally
education provision, it is vitally important that we have an offer of
important that we have an offer of education in school, but also that
education in school, but also that schools are supported to deliver
schools are supported to deliver that remote learning offer that
that remote learning offer that children and young people, who might
children and young peopla, who might find that
children and young people, who might find that their schooling is
find that their schooling is disrupted. So we do need certainly
dismpted. So we do need certainly much
disrupted. So we do need certainly much more investment and support for
much more investment and support for teachers, more investment and
teachers, more investment and support for schools to ensure that
support for schools to ensure that they ran cope
support for schools to ensure that they can cope in the event that
they can cope in the event that education continues to be disrupted,
education continues to be disrupted, but only -- not
education continues to be disrupted, but only —— not only for the rest of
but only -- not only for the rest of this term, but as
but only —— not only for the rest of this term, but as we move forward
this term, but as we move forward into the new academic year. Doctor,
into the new academic year. Doctor, from the teachers union, thank you
from the teachers union, thank you for joining us. A
from the teachers union, thank you forjoining us. A top secret
forjoining us. A top secret communications agency... And iconic,
communications agency... And iconic, untouchable crime figures have been
untouchable crime figures have been arrested for the system and entire
arrested for the system and entire networks dismantled after officers
networks dismantled after officers decoded encrypted messages on the
decoded encrypted messages on the chat service. The NCA says 77
chat service. The NCA says 77 firearms, more than two tonnes of
firearms, more than two tonnes of dmgs and £54
firearms, more than two tonnes of drugs and £54 million and suspect
drugs and £54 million and suspect rash
drugs and £54 million and suspect cash have been seized, following the
rash have been seized, following the bigoted by
cash have been seized, following the bigoted by significant law
bigoted by significant law enforcement operation carried out in
enforcement operation carried out in the UK. Our respondent reports. It
the UK. Our respondent reports. It is earty in the
the UK. Our respondent reports. It is early in the morning. The
is early in the morning. The Metropolitan Police are making the
Metropolitan Police are making the move against a suspected gang
move against a suspected gang involved in drugs and guns. The
involved in drugs and guns. The bangs are what a cool distraction
bangs are what a cool distraction devices, designed to prevent a
devices, designed to prevent a hostile response. Another early
hostile response. Another earty morning raid,
hostile response. Another early morning raid, this time in
morning raid, this time in Birmingham. Police! Police! There
Birmingham. Police! Police! There has never been a national policing
has never been a national policing operation like this. Every force in
operation like this. Every force in the country has been involved.
the country has been involved. Dozens of raids over months.
Dozens of raids over months. Hundreds of the rest. This is an
Hundreds of the rest. This is an amazing moment, I
Hundreds of the rest. This is an amazing moment, Ithink,
Hundreds of the rest. This is an amazing moment, I think, for UK
amazing moment, I think, for UK policing and enforcement. Thanks to
policing and enforcement. Thanks to our partners in the National Crime
our partners in the National Crime Agency and internationally, we have
Agency and internationally, we have been able to hit the most senior
been able to hit the most senior levels of organised crime. All this
levels of organised crime. All this is possible because a secret
is possible because a secret criminal slow network has been
criminal slow network has been broken into by a French intelligence
broken into by a French intelligence agency, the BBC has been told. So
agency, the BBC has been told. So this is what operation are frenetic,
this is what operation are frenetic, the biggest operation against
the biggest operation against organised crime in Britain is about.
organised crime in Britain is about. It looks like a normal android
It looks like a normal android phone, but these phones sell for
phone, but these phones sell for between £800 and £3000 because they
between £800 and 5000 because they have
between £800 and £3000 because they have some added functionality that
have some added functionality that allow criminals to do what they do.
allow criminals to do what they do. john is going to
allow criminals to do what they do. John is going to show us. I will put
john is going to show us. I will put it that you ran
John is going to show us. I will put it that you can take it away. If you
it that you ran take it away. If you found this
it that you can take it away. If you found this on the street he would
found this on the street he would have no idea there was anything else
have no idea there was anything else on the phone. But there is? . There
on the phone. But there is? . There is, and if you
on the phone. But there is? . There is, and ifyou put
on the phone. But there is? . There is, and if you put the power button
is, and if you put the power button in another fashion,
is, and if you put the power button in anotherfashion, it
is, and if you put the power button in another fashion, it looks like
in another fashion, it looks like the phone is
in another fashion, it looks like the phone isjust
in another fashion, it looks like the phone is just restarting and
the phone is just restarting and then the process starts again, so it
then the process starts again, so it boots up, but this time it will go
boots up, but this time it will go into a secure operating system that
into a secure operating system that hides the encrypted applications.
hides the encrypted applications. And what are those applications
And what are those applications allow criminals to do? So these
allow criminals to do? So these applications allow someone who had
applications allow someone who had an encrypted device like to talk to
an encrypted device like to talk to someone else who has a similar
someone else who has a similar encrypted device. This messaging
encrypted device. This messaging service app has become a trusted and
service app has become a tmsted and required tools
service app has become a trusted and required tools for 10,000 top UK
required tools for 10,000 top UK criminals, but now their messages
criminals, but now their messages have been read. Word got out, so
have been read. Word got out, so police sped up their investigations
police sped up their investigations and raids before going public today.
and raids before going public today. of
and raids before going public today. Of course, organised crime is about
Of course, organised crime is about making vast amounts of money and
making vast amounts of money and what is astonishing is the amount of
what is astonishing is the amount of that which has been seized by the
that which has been seized by the police investing investigation. This
police investing investigation. This is £50,000. That is £2 million. He
is 50,000. That is £2 million. He met has
is £50,000. That is £2 million. He met has seized £40 million over
met has seized £40 million over recent months. Nationally, £54
recent months. Nationally, £54 million has been seized, along with
million has been seized, along with guns and drugs. Those arrested were
guns and drugs. Those arrested were described as being suspected Mr and
described as being suspected Mr and Mrs Biggs of the underworld. Many of
Mrs Biggs of the underworld. Many of them are older, many of them are
them are older, many of them are peopla
them are older, many of them are people we have known something about
peopla we have known something about or
people we have known something about or arrested or put in prison before.
or arrested or put in prison before. This is their total way of life and
This is their total way of life and some of them will appear very
some of them will appear very respectable. This will be a surprise
respectabla. This will be a surprise to their
respectable. This will be a surprise to their neighbours, that they are
to their neighbours, that they are top end organised criminals, whose
top and organised criminals, whose work, if you
top end organised criminals, whose work, if you like, whose impact
work, ifyou like, whose impact plays out on
work, if you like, whose impact plays out on the streets of London.
plays out on the streets of London. The man arrested after this raid has
The man arrested after this raid has been released while more inquiries
been released while more inquiries are made. This suspect in Birmingham
are made. This suspect in Birmingham has been charged with firearms and
has been charged with firearms and drugs offences. More investigations
dmgs offences. More investigations and
drugs offences. More investigations and trials will follow.
An 18—year—old man has been charged with murdering two sisters
in a park in London.
Danyal Hussein will appear at Westminster Magistrates’ Court
later today The bodies of Nicole Smallman and Bibaa Henry
were found in Fryent Gardens in Wembley after a birthday
party last month.
Speaking at a news conference in Beijing,
a Chinese government spokesman, Lijian Zhao, warned
against what he called "foreign interference".
TRANSLATION: All the Hong Kong compatriots, including those BNO
holders, are all Chinese citizens.
Before Hong Kong’s return to China the British signed to clearly
promise that they would not grant residence permits
to the BNO holders.
The British side neglects China’s a
The British side neglacts China’s a solamn
The British side neglects China’s a solemn stance and insists on
solamn stance and insists on changing
solemn stance and insists on changing the policy to provide a
changing the policy to provide a path for most people to stay and get
path for most peopla to stay and get citizenship in
path for most people to stay and get citizenship in the UK, which
citizenship in the UK, which seriously violates their promise and
seriously violates their promise and violate international law and basic
violate international law and basic norms of international relations.
norms of international relations. The Chinese side strongly condemns
The Chinese side strongly condemns this and reserves the right to make
this and reserves the right to make further responses. All consequences
further responses. All consequences will be borne by the British side.
Our correspondent, Stephen McDonell, is following
developments in Beijing.
The language was tough, but still no indication
of what Beijing actually plans to do in response to Britain’s
new BNO policy.
We just heard Zhao Lijian saying there that these people are
all Chinese citizens.
They are accusing Britain of breaking its
promise not to offer them residency, saying that China
reserves the right for these unspecified
countermeasures and that,
rather ominously, the UK side will be the one
bearing the consequences.
Naturally, Iasked him, when are we going to know what these
consequences are?
What would it take for you to announce China’s response?
And he said, "Oh, now is not the time for us to reveal this,
"you have to be patient."
So who knows?
We willjust have to wait and see what they
intend to do, but interestingly the threat was, today, I mean,
if you dig right down into this, the potential
fora response, not even, "We are going to respond."
"We reserve the right to."
I mean really, who knows?
We also asked about the Australian government’s announcement that it
will be offering some sort of option for Hong Kong people to be
able to leave there and migrate to Australia.
Those details are yet to be revealed, but again he told
Australia also to butt out of Hong Kong’s affairs.
He had some very strong language for the US Secretary
of State, Mike Pompeo, also accusing the US of meddling there.
He said that now this new law was in place
it would actually restrict this US meddling in Hong Kong because the
Chinese government has long accused foreign forces, as it calls them,
of sort of masterminding the whole protest movement.
So there we are, a lot of tension, but no concrete
announcement in terms of what Beijing’s response
for Britain is going to be yet.
Stephen McDonell in Beijing. Government sources in Britain have
Government sources in Britain have indicated that as many as 75
indicated that as many as 75 countries will be exempt from UK
countries will be exempt from UK quarantine
rules for next week, so people
mles for next week, so people returning to
rules for next week, so people returning to the country don’t have
returning to the country don’t have to self—isolate. The Government
to self-isolate. The Government plans to
to self—isolate. The Government plans to establish a traffic light
plans to establish a traffic light system to rate which countries are
system to rate which countries are the safest, with some places such as
the safest, with some places such as the united states likely to be
the united states likely to be categorised as red and subject to
categorised as red and subject to quarantine rules. They have
quarantine mles. They have expressed
quarantine rules. They have expressed concerns about plans to
expressed concerns about plans to relax the quarantine.
The number of new coronavirus infections in the United States has
reached a record high — causing some states to roll
back their plans to reopen.
This
More than 50,000 people tested positive
for the coronavirus on Wednesday — according Johns Hopkins University,
which tracks global virus data.
That brings the total
number of confirmed infections to over 2.6 million
and more than 128 thousand deaths, the highest number of
fatalities globally.
A research team at Yale University has said the US
could be underestimating the true death toll by as much as 28%.
California alone recorded nearly ten thousand
new cases on Tuesday.
Bars, theatres and indoor restaurants have been closed
there again.
North Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia and Texas have
all reached new highs, and Louisiana 5 infection rates
are still contining to rise.
America’s top infectious disease expert has warned
that the US risks an even greater coronavirus outbreak unless it can
bring the latest surge in cases under control.
Doctor Anthony Fauci said the current spike was caused
by people in some states failing to follow basic rules
as the economy re—opened.
When you look at what happened in some of the states,
all you have to do is take a look at the news at night
and you see people congregating at bars without masks,
congregating in different types of groups that are well
beyond the recommended number of people.
What happens when you do that and you don’t wear a mask?
You get the kind of outbreaks we are seeing.
doctor Anthony Fauci.
To the arts and a prize has been announced. The prize was abandoned
announced. The prize was abandoned because they a coronavirus pandemic.
because they a coronavirus pandemic. Let’s find out more about that from
Let’s find out more about that from the director of Tate Britain and
the director of Tate Britain and chair of the Turner Prize. Thank you
chair of the Turner Prize. Thank you so much for
chair of the Turner Prize. Thank you so much forjoining us. Tell us
so much for joining us. Tell us about a range
so much forjoining us. Tell us about a range of artists who are
about a range of artists who are going to be receiving this money.
going to be receiving this money. Range is the right word. It is a
Range is the right word. It is a really wide ranging list of artists.
really wide ranging list of artists. They work in all kinds of mediums,
They work in all kinds of mediums, from ceramics to performance to
from ceramic to performance to film, to
from ceramics to performance to film, to sculpture. They range from
film, to sculpture. They range from different parts of the country,
different parts of the country, Scotland, Wales, London of course.
Scotland, Walas, London of course. The other
Scotland, Wales, London of course. The other a wide ranging in terms of
The other a wide ranging in terms of their identities and backgrounds. As
their identities and backgrounds. As is their work, but maybe there is a
is their work, but maybe there is a bit of a common thread, I feel,
bit of a common thread, I feel, mnning
bit of a common thread, I feel, running through it and there was a
mnning through it and there was a word
running through it and there was a word used
mnning through it and there was a word used by
running through it and there was a word used by the
running through it and there was a word used by thejury
running through it and there was a word used by the jury a fair bit,
word used by the jury a fair bit, which is a commitment to the idea of
which is a commitment to the idea of rare, rare of
which is a commitment to the idea of care, care of oneself, care of one
rare, rare of oneself, rare of one community and
care, care of oneself, care of one community and need for a care at
community and need for a rare at this time.
community and need for a care at this time. How long ago, though,
this time. How long ago, though, where some of these works of art
where some of these works of art began? I am
where some of these works of art began? lam imagining
where some of these works of art began? I am imagining they will have
began? I am imagining they will have predated the lockdown and the
predated the lockdown and the pandemic hitting Britain? Well,
pandemic hitting Britain? Well, that’s right because the Turner
that’s right because the Turner Prize jury,
that’s right because the Turner Prizejury, who
that’s right because the Turner Prize jury, who expected
that’s right because the Turner Prizejury, who expected of
that’s right because the Turner Prize jury, who expected of course
Prize jury, who expected of course to be selecting an exhibition, you
to be selecting an exhibition, you know, a normal Turner Prize, if you
know, a normal Turner Prize, if you like. They actually had pretty much
like. They actually had pretty much the full year to consider and so
the full year to consider and so when they were putting together this
when they were putting together this shortlist, it reflected the usual
shortlist, it reﬂacted the usual Turner
shortlist, it reflected the usual Turner Prize criteria of artists
Turner Prize criteria of artists being nominated for a certain
being nominated for a certain exhibition. We, in a way, didn’t
exhibition. We, in a way, didn’t stipulate that, that because they
stipulate that, that because they have been thinking along those lines
have been thinking along those lines through the year, it because
through the year, it because essentially the art world in general
essentially the art world in general was open for most of the year they
was open for most of the year they were considering, it is in many ways
were considering, it is in many ways a pre-shutdown
were considering, it is in many ways a pre—shutdown list. Reflecting all
a pre-shutdown list. Reﬂacting all kinds of
a pre—shutdown list. Reflecting all kinds of fantastic exhibitions that
kinds of fantastic exhibitions that have occurred in that time. So is it
have occurred in that time. So is it perhaps, then, the
have occurred in that time. So is it perhaps, then, thejudges who have
perhaps, then, the judges who have brought that
perhaps, then, thejudges who have brought that fiend, that
brought that fiend, that interpretation, that prism of care
interpretation, that prism of rare to their
interpretation, that prism of care to their selections, rather than the
to their selections, rather than the artists in the first instance? Well,
artists in the first instance? Well, that wasn’t evident to me from the
that wasn’t evident to me from the discussion, but it came up as a town
discussion, but it came up as a town I think as they were talking about
I think as they were talking about different artists and may be seeing
different artists and may be seeing some kind of continuity running
some kind of continuity mnning through
some kind of continuity running through what otherwise I think are
through what otherwise I think are very, very different practices and
very, very different practices and it seems like a leitmotif for our
it seems like a leitmotif for our times, I must say. I
it seems like a leitmotif for our times, I must say. Ithink
it seems like a leitmotif for our times, I must say. I think we can
times, I must say. I think we ran all agree to that
times, I must say. I think we can all agree to that in terms of the
all agree to that in terms of the universal experience in the last few
universal experience in the last few months. It has to be said, though,
months. It has to be said, though, in handing out these one—off
in handing out these one-off bursaries,
in handing out these one—off bursaries, ten of them at £10,000,
bursaries, ten of them at £10,000, that is a lot more prize—money than
that is a lot more prize-money than the Turner
that is a lot more prize—money than the Turner Prize would normally
the Turner Prize would normally offer. How would you manage to do
offer. How would you manage to do that? Has somebody somewhere been
that? Has somebody somewhere been generous? Absolutely, it is made
generous? Absolutely, it is made entirely by three really generous
entirely by three really generous benefactors, who are fantastic
benefactors, who are fantastic philanthropists of the arts, friends
philanthropists of the arts, friends of the Tate. So it is thanks to them
of the Tate. So it is thanks to them and you know, in a way your question
and you know, in a way your question reﬂects
and you know, in a way your question reflects the twofold purpose of
reﬂects the twofold purpose of these
reflects the twofold purpose of these bursaries, which is both to
these bursaries, which is both to recognise what each airy feel, what
recognise what each airy feel, what appears feel are outstanding
appears feel are outstanding practices, contributions to new
practices, contributions to new directions in art, but it is also a
directions in art, but it is also a recognition that artists, as of
recognition that artists, as of institutions and organisations and
institutions and organisations and all sectors of the economy at the
all sectors of the economy at the moment, require financial
all sectors of the economy at the moment, require financialsupport
moment, require financial support themselves,
moment, require financialsupport themselves, so the amount of money
themselves, so the amount of money is, I
themselves, so the amount of money is, Ithink, we
themselves, so the amount of money is, I think, we think,
themselves, so the amount of money is, Ithink, we think, a
themselves, so the amount of money is, I think, we think, a significant
is, I think, we think, a significant contribution to the hardships that
contribution to the hardships that artists face at this time. We look
artists face at this time. We look forward to hearing much more about
forward to hearing much more about those recipients. Director of the
those recipients. Director of the Tate Britain thank you very much for
Tate Britain thank you very much for joining us. Back to the dispute
joining us. Back to the dispute between the UK and China over
between the UK and China over democracy in Hong Kong. We are
democracy in Hong Kong. We are joined by the Conservative MP, chair
joined by the Conservative MP, chair of the House of Commons Foreign
of the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee and welcome. How
Affairs Committee and welcome. How many, realistically, at the 3
many, realistically, at the 3 million Hong Kong residents who have
million Hong Kong residents who have been offered the chance to settle
been offered the chance to settle here are really going to take that
here are really going to take that offer up? Well, I
here are really going to take that offer up? Well, Iwouldn’t
here are really going to take that offer up? Well, I wouldn’t have
offer up? Well, I wouldn’t have thought a huge number. As you may
thought a huge number. As you may know, the large Hong Kong populated
know, the large Hong Kong populated cities around the world are really
cities around the world are really Vancouver, Melbourne, Sydney,
Vancouver, Melbourne, Sydney, Singapore and other places. In the
Singapore and other places. In the region, completely and surprisingly,
region, completely and surprisingly, more people want to go to Taiwan, 3
more peopla want to go to Taiwan, a Chinese
more people want to go to Taiwan, 3 Chinese speaking jurisdiction, then
Chinese speaking jurisdiction, then want to come to London, but that
want to come to London, but that doesn’t mean we’re not right to
doesn’t mean we’re not right to recognise we owe a duty to British
recognise we owe a duty to British nationals, whether they are at home
nationals, whether they are at home or overseas. How likely is it that
or overseas. How likely is it that that author will be extended to some
that author will be extended to some of the younger people who have been
of the younger people who have been taught
of the younger people who have been caught up in these protests, been
caught up in these protests, been out on the streets and perhaps feel
out on the streets and perhaps feel they are at risk? That doesn’t
they are at risk? That doesn’t exclude exclude the possibility of
exclude exclude the possibility of political asylum as a separate
political asylum as a separate daim, so
political asylum as a separate claim, so even if an individual
claim, so even if an individual isn’t a British national overseas,
isn’t a British national overseas, I’m sure many nations will be offer
I’m sure many nations will be offer offering asylum to those who feel
offering asylum to those who feel threatened. Indeed, I know that the
threatened. Indeed, I know that the United States, Australia and Japan
United States, Australia and japan and
United States, Australia and Japan and other countries are already
and other countries are already looking at different forms of the
looking at different forms of the lifeboat scheme, effectively, that
lifeboat scheme, effectively, that the UK has offered. Why do you feel,
the UK has offered. why do you feel, though, that
the UK has offered. Why do you feel, though, that this is an appropriate
though, that this is an appropriate course of action for the Government?
course of action for the Government? Given that the Conservative General
Given that the Conservative General Election manifesto immigration
Election manifesto immigration policy said that overall numbers
policy said that overall numbers should come down? These are British
should come down? These are British nationals. But you have also dated
nationals. But you have also dated in the past against what was known
in the past against what was known as the Dubs Amendment, where they
as the Dubs Amendment, where they should have been guaranteed rights
should have been guaranteed rights for unaccompanied child refugees and
for unaccompanied child refugees and you voted against it with a heavy
you voted against it with a heavy heart, I admit.
you voted against it with a heavy heart, Iadmit. The
you voted against it with a heavy heart, I admit. The Debs amendment,
heart, I admit. The Debs amendment, sought to put into law something
sought to put into law something that the UK Government is already
that the UK Government is already doing, which is why there was no
doing, which is why there was no point in supporting it because
point in supporting it because actually the UK Government is
actually the UK Government is already prioritising young people
already prioritising young peopla who
already prioritising young people who are unaccompanied or vulnerable.
who are unaccompanied or vulnerable. That is literally the UK
That is literally the UK Government’s policy and has been for
Government’s policy and has been for many, many years, so the Debs
many, many years, so the Debs amendment didn’t change anything,
amendment didn’t change anything, which is why it was symbolic, rather
which is why it was symbolic, rather than a simpla,
which is why it was symbolic, rather than a simple, which by the way I
than a simple, which by the way I welcome, that symbolic, rather than
welcome, that symbolic, rather than practical, so this again doesn’t
practical, so this again doesn’t have any application in the
have any application in the circumstance. Staying with this, if
circumstance. Staying with this, if you were, I
circumstance. Staying with this, if you were, Ijust have to say goodbye
you were, Ijust have to say goodbye to our viewers on BBC One. Thank you
to our viewers on BBC One. Thank you for watching. So let’s continue. The
for watching. So let’s continue. The Government in Beijing is accusing
Government in Beijing is accusing Great Britain of interference
Great Britain of interference threatening retaliation. How
threatening retaliation. How concerned are you and what form
concerned are you and what form might those countermeasures take?
might those countermeasures take? I’m afraid you will have to ask
I’m afraid you will have to ask somebody from the Chinese Government
somebody from the Chinese Government to answer those questions. I
to answer those questions. I wouldn’t know. But I hope very much
wouldn’t know. But I hope very much that there isn’t a retaliation on
that there isn’t a retaliation on the grounds that there is nothing to
the grounds that there is nothing to retaliate for. All the UK has done
retaliate for. All the UK has done is moderately change the immigration
is moderately change the immigration status for people who are already
status for peopla who are already British
status for people who are already British nationals. I think it would
British nationals. I think it would be very strange if the UK were to
be very strange if the UK were to fatten retaliation that was
fatten retaliation that was something to do with Chinese
something to do with Chinese immigration for Chinese citizens and
immigration for Chinese citizens and if China already controls the
if China already controls the internal immigration of its
internal immigration of its population, people are not allowed
population, peopla are not allowed to move
population, people are not allowed to move to cities or move between
to move to cities or move between cities unless they have internal
cities unless they have internal migration documents and the UK
migration documents and the UK doesn’t raise any issues about them,
doesn’t raise any issues about them, those are a matter for the Chinese
those are a matter for the Chinese Government. In a post Brexit world,
Government. In a post Brexit world, but it is looking for trade deals
but it is looking for trade deals outside the European Union. How
outside the European Union. How perilous will talks with China be
perilous will talks with China be with Britain taking this approach to
with Britain taking this approach to Hong Kong? Well, I
with Britain taking this approach to Hong Kong? Well, Ithink it
with Britain taking this approach to Hong Kong? Well, I think it is
Hong Kong? Well, Ithink it is important
Hong Kong? Well, I think it is important that the UK does build up
important that the UK does build up trade with countries around the
trade with countries around the world. japan,
trade with countries around the world. Japan, Taiwan are important
world. japan, Taiwan are important countries.
world. Japan, Taiwan are important countries. We not really deep in our
countries. We not really deep in our trading relationship with them and
trading relationship with them and South Korea is another one that we
South Korea is another one that we have really seen grow from and I
have really seen grow from and I hope that this will demonstrate
hope that this will demonstrate there are options in the SG
hope that this will demonstrate there are options in the 56 market,
there are options in the 56 market, as there should be from and Japan.
as there should be from and japan. If you look at
as there should be from and Japan. If you look at countries like
If you look at countries like Indonesia, which is a hugely
Indonesia, which is a hugely populous nation that is growing
populous nation that is growing enormously due to economic
enormously due to economic inﬂuence,
enormously due to economic influence, and of course most
inﬂuence, and of course most importantly
influence, and of course most importantly perhaps, India, who have
importantly perhaps, India, who have been extremely important in standing
been extremely important in standing “P
been extremely important in standing up to... Recently, but also have a
up to... Recently, but also have a living bridge with the UK due to the
living bridge with the UK due to the human populations that link us, so
living bridge with the UK due to the human populations that link us, sol
human populations that link us, so I hope very much
human populations that link us, sol hope very much what we’ll see is a
hope very much what we’ll see is a deepening with trade with countries
deepening with trade with countries around the world and yes, with
around the world and yes, with China, but without actually making
China, but without actually making ourselves dependent on one single
ourselves dependent on one single nation. Even if it means standing up
nation. Even if it means standing up for human rights at the expense of
for human rights at the expense of trade? I don’t think it needs to be
trade? I don’t think it needs to be at the expense of trade. That is a
at the expense of trade. That is a decision of the Chinese Government.
decision of the Chinese Government. Britain is standing up for human
Britain is standing up for human rights and that is a moral
rights and that is a moral obligation that we should do,
obligation that we should do, standing up
obligation that we should do, standing upfor
obligation that we should do, standing up for the fact that there
standing up for the fact that there is 1.5 million we News Muslims being
is 1.5 million we News Muslims being arrested and detained for Ouija
arrested and detained for Ouija Muslims other and when there is no
Muslims other and when there is no reason to persecute them. Something
reason to persecute them. Something that has been widely reported and
that has been widely reported and that is something that all countries
that is something that all countries should stand up for, and I see no
should stand up for, and I see no reason why a country should wish to
reason why a country should wish to retaliate against that, unless what
retaliate against that, unless what they are actually doing is intending
they are actually doing is intending to achieve world domination and
to achieve world domination and ethnic cleansing of all countries,
ethnic cleansing of all countries, but I’m sure China would not argue
but I’m sure China would not argue that and would not say that they
that and would not say that they need to retaliate standing up for
need to retaliate standing up for Chinese citizens. I’m sure the
Chinese citizens. I’m sure the Chinese Government would say that
Chinese Government would say that they would like to stand up for
they would like to stand up for Chinese citizens as well, whether
Chinese citizens as well, whether they are Ouija Muslims or
they are Ouija Muslims or Christians. I’m sure they were
Christians. I’m sure they were condemning these people have been
condemning these people have been conducting torture in the name of
conducting torture in the name of the Chinese Communist Party. Thank
the Chinese Communist Party. Thank you very much for
the Chinese Communist Party. Thank you very much forjoining us. Let’s
you very much for joining us. Let’s go straight to
you very much forjoining us. Let’s go straight to Scotland, where the
go straight to Scotland, where the First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, is
First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, is getting her daily, coronavirus
getting her daily, coronavirus breathing.
IE
No thank you for
No thank you forjoining us. I have
No thank you for joining us. I have an awful
No thank you forjoining us. I have an awful lot of information to get
an awful lot of information to get you today, so please bear with me
you today, so please bear with me because I’m going to take a little
because I’m going to take a little bit longer in my opening remarks,
bit longer in my opening remarks, but I will start with the usual
but I will start with the usual update on statistics. An additional
update on statistic. An additional five positive
update on statistics. An additional five positive cases work in
five positive cases work in yesterday, which takes the total to
yesterday, which takes the total to 18,264, a total of 785 patients are
18,264, a total of 785 patients are currently in hospital with the
currently in hospital with the virus, either confirmed or
virus, either confirmed or suspected. That is no change at the
suspected. That is no change at the role from yesterday, but it does
rola from yesterday, but it does include a
role from yesterday, but it does include a reduction of seven in the
include a reduction of seven in the number of confirmed cases. A total
number of confirmed cases. A total of nine peopla
number of confirmed cases. A total of nine people last night were in
of nine people last night were in intensive care with confirmed or
intensive rare with confirmed or suspected
intensive care with confirmed or suspected Covid—19 and that is eight
suspected Covid-19 and that is eight fewer
suspected Covid—19 and that is eight fewer than yesterday. Since the 5th
fewer than yesterday. Since the 5th of March, a total of A080 patients
of March, a total of 4080 patients who had
of March, a total of A080 patients who had tested positive and required
who had tested positive and required hospital treatment have now been
hospital treatment have now been able to leave hospital and in the
able to leave hospital and in the past 24
able to leave hospital and in the past 2A hours when death was
past 24 hours when death was registered
past 2A hours when death was registered at a patient confirmed
registered at a patient confirmed for a test is having the virus, and
for a test is having the virus, and that takes the total number and that
that takes the total number and that measurement to 2487. I want once
measurement to 2487. I want once again today to send my deepest
again today to send my deepest condolences to everyone who has lost
condolences to everyone who has lost a loved one through illness and my
a loved one through illness and my thanks go as always to everyone
thanks go as always to everyone working hard to help us through this
working hard to help us through this process. -- crisis.
Several of the phase two changes announced last week have now
announced last week have now happened. On Monday, most shops were
happened. On Monday, most shops were able to open along with many
able to open along with many workplaces. From the evidence I have
workplaces. From the evidence I have seen, people have responded to that
seen, people have responded to that responsibly, so thank you to all of
responsibly, so thank you to all of you for that. Today I am able to
you for that. Today I am able to confirm the further changes that
confirm the further changes that will take place tomorrow and next
will take place tomorrow and next Monday. That decision is informed by
Monday. That decision is informed by our current estimate of the hour
our current estimate of the hour number which remains below a one in
number which remains below a one in a range of not .6 to 0.6 —— 0.8. Our
a range of not .6 to 0.6 -- 0.8. Our estimate of the
a range of not .6 to 0.6 —— 0.8. Our estimate of the currently infectious
estimate of the currently infectious people and capable of transmitting
peopla and capable of transmitting to
people and capable of transmitting to others. As of Friday, we estimate
to others. As of Friday, we estimate that number had fallen to 1500. The
that number had fallen to 1500. The continued low prevalence of the
continued low prevalance of the virus
continued low prevalence of the virus means we can proceed with
virus means we ran proceed with changes
virus means we can proceed with changes planned for tomorrow. That
changes planned for tomorrow. That means outdoor hospitality such as
means outdoor hospitality such as pavement cafe is and beer gardens
pavement cafe is and beer gardens ran reopen
pavement cafe is and beer gardens can reopen from Monday sixth July.
ran reopen from Monday sixth july. Although
can reopen from Monday sixth July. Although terrorism will not open
Although terrorism will not open fully until the 15th of
Although terrorism will not open fully until the 15th ofJuly,
fully until the 15th of July, self—contained
fully until the 15th ofJuly, self—contained holiday
self—contained holiday accommodation, for example holiday
accommodation, for example holiday cottages, lodges or caravans with no
cottages, lodges or caravans with no shared facilities can reopen from
shared facilities can reopen from tomorrow. We will also from
tomorrow. We will also from tomorrow, with one important
tomorrow, with one important exception that I will come unto
exception that I will come unto shortly, left the guidance advising
shortly, left the guidance advising people not to travel more than five
peopla not to travel more than five milas for
people not to travel more than five miles for leisure purposes was up I
milas for laisure purposes was up I know
miles for leisure purposes was up I know that many of you will beacon
know that many of you will beacon Dome are keen to travel further and
Dome are keen to travel further and are looking other parts of our
are looking other parts of our beautiful country, but when doing
beautiful country, but when doing that please behave responsibly and
that please behave responsibly and follow all of the public health
follow all of the public health rigorously. Be sensitive to those
rigorously. Be sensitive to those living in mral
rigorously. Be sensitive to those living in rural and island
living in rural and island communities and remember this, if
communities and remember this, if you do not take appropriate care,
you do not take appropriate rare, you risk taking
you do not take appropriate care, you risk taking the virus to other
you risk taking the virus to other places. Please do not do that. Let
places. Please do not do that. Let me turn out to the exception that I
me turn out to the exception that I referred to a moment ago. You will
referred to a moment ago. You will recall that yesterday we reported on
recall that yesterday we reported on an outbreak of the virus in Annan
an outbreak of the virus in Annan and Gretna. Professor Leach will say
and Gretna. Professor Leach will say a bit more about that shortly. So
a bit more about that shortly. So far, ten possible cases have been
far, ten possible cases have been identified and a significant number
identified and a significant number of contacts are being traced and
of contacts are being traced and tested. As a precaution, staff at
tested. As a precaution, staff at three workplaces with connections,
three workplaces with connections, to positive connections are also
to positive connections are also being tested and mobile testing
being tested and mobile testing units have been deployed. —— two. We
units have been deployed. -- two. We are hopeful this
units have been deployed. —— two. We are hopeful this outbreak will be
are hopeful this outbreak will be contained and I should stress there
contained and I should stress there is no evidence at this stage to
is no evidence at this stage to suggest otherwise. Until contact
suggest otherwise. Until contact tracing and testing has been
tracing and testing has been completed, we cannot be absolutely
complated, we cannot be absolutely sure
completed, we cannot be absolutely sure about that, and that means we
sure about that, and that means we must act on a precautionary basis.
must act on a precautionary basis. As a result, the advice and guidance
As a result, the advice and guidance to people in the areas of Annan,
to people in the areas of Arman, Gretna,
to people in the areas of Annan, Gretna, Dumfries, Lockerbie and
Gretna, Dumfries, Lockerbie and (“non B
Gretna, Dumfries, Lockerbie and Canon B is to continue to follow the
(“anon B is to continue to follow the five mile
Canon B is to continue to follow the five mile travel restriction over
five mile travel restriction over the weekend until the testing and
the weekend until the testing and contact tracing process has been
contact tracing process has been completed and we are able to assess
completed and we are able to assess if the outbreak has indeed been
if the outbreak has indeed been contained. We have published a
contained. We have published a particular post codes this guidance
particular post codes this guidance appﬁes
particular post codes this guidance applies to on social media later and
applies to on social media later and we will provide a further update on
we will provide a further update on Monday for stop if you have plans to
Monday for stop if you have plans to travel into these areas over the
travel into these areas over the weekend to visit or stay, you should
weekend to visit or stay, you should follow the travel advice while you
follow the travel advice while you are there. If you run a business in
are there. If you nm a business in these area,
are there. If you run a business in these area, including at the Gretna
these area, including at the Gretna Gateway Outlet Village, be extra
Gateway Outlet Village, be extra vigilant about hygiene and physical
vigilant about hygiene and physical distancing. In addition, care homes
distancing. In addition, rare homes in these
distancing. In addition, care homes in these areas will unfortunately
in these areas will unfortunately not be able to welcome visitors over
not be able to welcome visitors over this weekend. Generally, to people
this weekend. Generally, to people in these areas, until we conclude
in these areas, until we conclude the management of this outbreak,
the management of this outbreak, please assume there is a higher risk
please assume there is a higher risk of infection right now. Take
of infection right now. Take particular care to follow all public
particular rare to follow all public health
particular care to follow all public health advice and remember, and I am
health advice and remember, and I am sorry about this, but the five mile
sorry about this, but the five mile limit means you should not travel to
limit means you should not travel to pubs south of the border over this
pubs south of the border over this weekend. I know that this will not
weekend. I know that this will not be welcome news for people in these
be welcome news for people in these areas and I am genuinely sorry about
areas and I am genuinely sorry about that, but this outbreak is sharply
that, but this outbreak is sharply reminding us
that, but this outbreak is sharply reminding usjust
that, but this outbreak is sharply reminding us just how
that, but this outbreak is sharply reminding usjust how highly
reminding usjust how highly infectious Covid—19 is and how vital
infectious Covid-19 is and how vital it is that
infectious Covid—19 is and how vital it is that we proceed with real care
it is that we proceed with real rare and
it is that we proceed with real care and caution. Let me turn to the next
and caution. Let me turn to the next issue of a physical distancing and
issue of a physical distancing and whether we can in some circumstances
whether we ran in some circumstances relax the
whether we can in some circumstances relax the two metre rule. We are
relax the two metre rule. We are publishing today at the advice on a
publishing today at the advice on a physical distancing that the
physical distancing that the Government has received from our
Government has received from our scientific advisory group. This
scientific advisory group. This advice makes clear that the science
advice makes clear that the science on physical distancing has not
on physical distancing has not changed. As the distance between
changed. As the distance between people decreases, the risk of
people decreases, the risk of transmitting Covid—19 increases. To
transmitting Covid-19 increases. To quote the
transmitting Covid—19 increases. To quote the advice directly, there is
quote the advice directly, there is increased risk somewhere between two
increased risk somewhere between two and a ten fold in reducing from two
and a ten fold in reducing from two metres to one metre. However, the
metres to one metre. However, the advice notes that as the number of
advice notes that as the number of infected individuals false, there is
infected individuals false, there is less chance of any of us coming into
lass chance of any of us coming into contact
less chance of any of us coming into contact with someone who has the
contact with someone who has the virus and so absolute risk is lower.
virus and so absolute risk is lower. It also notes that risk can be
It also notes that risk ran be mitigated
It also notes that risk can be mitigated through other measures.
mitigated through other measures. Overall, the advisory group
Overall, the advisory group concludes that, and I am quoting, it
concludes that, and I am quoting, it is ultimately a matter of policy as
is ultimately a matter of policy as to what physical distance is
to what physical distance is tolerated in different environments.
tolerated in different environments. Taking all of this into account, the
Taking all of this into account, the Scottish Government has reached the
Scottish Government has reached the following conclusions. Firstly, our
following conclusions. Firstly, our general
following conclusions. Firstly, our generaladvice
following conclusions. Firstly, our general advice will remain
general advice will remain unchanged. We will continue to
unchanged. We will continue to advise that as far as possible, you
advise that as far as possible, you should remain two metres away from
should remain two metres away from people in other households. Second,
people in other households. Second, two metres will remain the benchmark
two metres will remain the benchmark for the Test and Protect system.
for the Test and Protect system. That means by saying at least two
That means by saying at least two metres away from other people, you
metres away from other people, you do not just
metres away from other people, you do notjust reduce your chance of
do not just reduce your chance of getting
do notjust reduce your chance of getting Covid—19 and transmitting
getting Covid-19 and transmitting it, you also
getting Covid—19 and transmitting it, you also reduce your chance of
it, you also reduce your chance of being traced as someone’s close
being traced as someone’s close contact
being traced as someone’s close contact and
being traced as someone’s close contact and being asked to
contact and being asked to self—isolate. In addition, this
self-isolate. In addition, this distancing is
self—isolate. In addition, this distancing is particularly important
distancing is particularty important as a
distancing is particularly important as a guideline in anyone in a
as a guideline in anyone in a high-risk
as a guideline in anyone in a high—risk group, for example over 70
high-risk group, for example over 70 or with an
high—risk group, for example over 70 or with an underlying health
or with an underlying health condition. All of that will not
condition. All of that will not change. However, we do recognise
change. However, we do recognise that there are different harms here
that there are different harms here that we must try to balance as best
that we must try to balance as best we ran. Sticking
that we must try to balance as best we can. Sticking to two metres has
we ran. Sticking to two metres has clear
we can. Sticking to two metres has clear benefits, it also has a
dear benefits, it also has a serious
clear benefits, it also has a serious economic implications, and
serious economic implications, and an adverse economic impact we know
an adverse economic impact we know it ran in turn
an adverse economic impact we know it can in turn have an effect on
it ran in turn have an effect on people’s
it can in turn have an effect on people’s health and well—being. For
people’s health and well-being. For those
people’s health and well—being. For those reasons when we enter a phase
those reasons when we enter a phase three of the route map which I hope
three of the route map which I hope will be the end of next week, we
will be the end of next week, we will allow exemptions for specific
will allow exemptions for specific sectors where agreed mitigations
sectors where agreed mitigations must be put in place. The exemptions
must be put in place. The exemptions will allow premises and relevant
will allow premises and relevant sectors if they so choose to operate
sectors if they so choose to operate within a one metre distance on the
within a one metre distance on the condition that agreed mitigations
condition that agreed mitigations are implement it. To be clear, this
are implement it. To be clear, this will be --
are implement it. To be clear, this will be —— these will be exceptions.
will be -- these will be exceptions. The general mle
will be —— these will be exceptions. The general rule in law will be that
The general rule in law will be that businesses and services must take
businesses and services must take all reasonable measures to ensure
all reasonable measures to ensure that two metres is maintained. Ahead
that two metres is maintained. Ahead of phase three, we will work with
of phase three, we will work with key sectors. Initially, hospitality,
key sectors. Initially, hospitality, retail
key sectors. Initially, hospitality, retailand
key sectors. Initially, hospitality, retail and public transport to agree
retail and public transport to agree the mitigations required and
the mitigations required and finalise detailed guidance, and we
finalise detailed guidance, and we will also work very closely with
will also work very closely with trade unions. The guidance will be
trade unions. The guidance will be different for different sectors,
different for different sectors, dearty the
different for different sectors, clearly the mitigations for a
clearly the mitigations for a restaurant or bar will be different
restaurant or bar will be different to those for a hairdresser. For
to those for a hairdresser. For illustrative purposes and to allow
illustrative purposes and to allow businesses to start to plan, we are
businesses to start to plan, we are publishing today the kinds of
publishing today the kinds of mitigations that might be required
mitigations that might be required in each sector. However, in general
in each sector. However, in general terms, these might include improved
terms, these might include improved ventilation is, perfect screens,
ventilation is, perfect screens, regulation of customer flow and
regulation of customer ﬂow and seating
regulation of customer flow and seating plans that reduce
seating plans that reduce transmission risk. —— Perspex.
transmission risk. -- Perspex. Mitigation will
transmission risk. —— Perspex. Mitigation will also include the
Mitigation will also include the collection of names and addresses of
collection of names and addresses of customers to help with contact
customers to help with contact tracing when also necessary. We will
tracing when also necessary. We will also insist on clear customer
also insist on clear customer information to help inform the
information to help inform the judgments that we all make as
judgments that we all make as individuals about the risks we are
individuals about the risks we are prepared to take, so if a business
prepared to take, so if a business decides to operate at a less than
decides to operate at a less than two metres, they should provide
two metres, they should provide clear assignments,
two metres, they should provide clearassignments, ——
two metres, they should provide clear assignments, —— signage
dear assignments, -- signage informing
clear assignments, —— signage informing they are entering a one
informing they are entering a one metre zone. We hope to have most of
metre zone. We hope to have most of the guidance agreed ahead of phase
the guidance agreed ahead of phase three and ahead of the opening of
three and ahead of the opening of hospitality on the 15th of
three and ahead of the opening of hospitality on the 15th ofJuly. In
hospitality on the 15th of july. In the
hospitality on the 15th ofJuly. In the meantime, the current rules
the meantime, the current mles apply.
the meantime, the current mles apply, and
the meantime, the current rules apply, and that means for example
apply, and that means for example that beer gardens opening on Monday
that beer gardens opening on Monday must initially comply with the two
must initially comply with the two metre rule. In my view, this
metre rule. In my view, this represents a balanced and
represents a balanced and proportionate approach to what is a
proportionate approach to what is a genuine Lee --
proportionate approach to what is a genuine Lee —— genuinely difficult
genuine Lee -- genuinely difficult issue. We
genuine Lee —— genuinely difficult issue. We allow businesses to cater
issue. We allow businesses to rater from our
issue. We allow businesses to cater from our customers, and that is the
from our customers, and that is the difference between staying in
difference between staying in business or closing. However, it
business or closing. However, it minimises risk, which for some
minimises risk, which for some individuals and with no exaggeration
individuals and with no exaggeration could be the difference between life
could be the difference between life and death. Obviously if infection
and death. Obviously if infection levels were to rise again, we
levels were to rise again, we reserve the right to re—impose a
reserve the right to re-impose a strict to
reserve the right to re—impose a strict to metre rule either
strict to metre mle either nationally
strict to metre rule either nationally or locally and to take
nationally or [orally and to take other
nationally or locally and to take other public health measures
other public health measures necessary to keep as safe. If we
necessary to keep as safe. If we continue to make progress, we may be
continue to make progress, we may be able to consider a more general
able to consider a more general relaxation in later phases. The
relaxation in later phases. The issue of a physical distancing is
issue of a physical distancing is relevant to the next issue I want to
relevant to the next issue I want to talk about, which is face coverings.
talk about, which is face coverings. We have been recommending the use of
We have been recommending the use of a face coverings for some time now
a face coverings for some time now and it is already mandatory on
and it is already mandatory on pub“:
and it is already mandatory on public transport. I can confirm
public transport. I ran confirm today that
public transport. I can confirm today that from the expected start
today that from the expected start of phase three which is the 10th of
of phase three which is the 10th of July
of phase three which is the 10th of july next
of phase three which is the 10th of July next week, wearing face
july next week, wearing face coverings
July next week, wearing face coverings will also be mandatory in
coverings will also be mandatory in shops. As with public transport,
shops. As with public transport, there will be some exemptions for
there will be some exemptions for children under
there will be some exemptions for children underfive and
there will be some exemptions for children under five and people with
children under five and people with certain medical conditions, but
certain medical conditions, but everyone else, face coverings will
everyone else, face coverings will be mandatory. Let me be very clear.
be mandatory. Let me be very dear. This is not a
be mandatory. Let me be very clear. This is not a decision we have taken
This is not a decision we have taken lightly. It has taken us some time
lightly. It has taken us some time to reach this decision, but as we
to reach this decision, but as we all start to interact more, it is
all start to interact more, it is vital that we take all reasonable
vital that we take all reasonabla steps to
vital that we take all reasonable steps to reduce risk, and we know
steps to reduce risk, and we know that face coverings can help reduce
that face coverings ran help reduce the risks
that face coverings can help reduce the risks of transmission indoors.
the risks of transmission indoors. Also, in shops as on public
Also, in shops as on public transport, contact tracing is more
transport, contact tracing is more difficult, because we usually do not
difficult, because we usually do not know the people that we have been in
know the people that we have been in contact with. Face covering provides
contact with. Face covering provides an additional layer of protection.
an additional layer of protection. It is therefore for all of these
It is therefore for all of these reasons that face coverings in shops
reasons that face coverings in shops will be compulsory from the end of
will be compulsory from the end of next week. Please do not wait until
next week. Please do not wait until then. Get into the habit of wearing
then. Get into the habit of wearing them now. It is an important way for
them now. It is an important way for all of us to help protect each other
all of us to help protect each other and to display that a sense of
and to display that a sense of solidarity that has served the
solidarity that has served the country so well over these past few
country so well over these past few months. The final issue I want to
months. The final issue I want to talk about today relates to children
talk about today relates to children and to young people. In a few
and to young peopla. In a few moments,
and to young people. In a few moments, the Chief Medical Officer
moments, the Chief Medical Officer will provide some important
will provide some important information for some of the children
information for some of the children who are currently shielding, and I
who are currently shielding, and I want to say directly to any of you
want to say directly to any of you who are watching, I know how
who are watching, I know how difficult, even more difficult for
difficult, even more difficult for others this last period has been for
others this last period has been for 7°“-
others this last period has been for you, and I want to thank you for
you, and I want to thank you for your patience and for complying with
your patience and for complying with all of these rules. The advice I am
all of these mles. The advice I am about to give up
all of these rules. The advice I am about to give up does not apply to
about to give up does not apply to children who are shielding, but the
children who are shielding, but the chief medical officers will say more
chief medical officers will say more in a moment. It does apply to other
in a moment. It does apply to other children and young people. We want
children and young peopla. We want to help
children and young people. We want to help children enjoy these a
to help children enjoy these a summer holiday is a bit more. We
summer holiday is a bit more. We also know that the clinical risks of
also know that the clinical risks of Covid-19,
also know that the clinical risks of Covid—19, particularly for younger
Covid-19, particularty for younger children,
Covid—19, particularly for younger children, appeared to be relatively
children, appeared to be relatively low, although we will never be
low, although we will never be complacent about that. As long as
complacent about that. As long as there are restrictions on the number
there are restrictions on the number of households we can meet, families
of households we ran meet, families will find
of households we can meet, families will find it difficult to balance
will find it difficult to balance the social needs of children and
the social needs of children and adults. Understandably you do not
adults. Understandably you do not want to see the same people every
want to see the same people every day. Bearing that in mind, I am
day. Bearing that in mind, lam announcing
day. Bearing that in mind, I am announcing today to further changes
announcing today to further changes to our rules to allow for more
to our rules to allow for more interaction between young people,
interaction between young people, and these changes will both a flight
and these changes will both a ﬂight from
and these changes will both a flight from tomorrow. For children who are
from tomorrow. For children who are 11 years old, we -- or
from tomorrow. For children who are 11 years old, we —— or younger, we
11 years old, we -- or younger, we are removing the
11 years old, we —— or younger, we are removing the need to physically
are removing the need to physically distance when outdoors that you can
distance when outdoors that you ran play more
distance when outdoors that you can play more normally with your friends
play more normally with your friends which I hope you will enjoy. I am
which I hope you will enjoy. I am sure this move will be appreciated
sure this move will be appreciated by Your
sure this move will be appreciated by your parents and carers. Other
by your parents and carers. other reels will
by your parents and carers. Other reels will remain the same for the
reels will remain the same for the next wee while. You should continue
next wee while. You should continue to meet in groups of eight or less
to meet in groups of eight or less and meet no more than two hassles at
and meet no more than two hassles at a time. Adults who are with you
a time. Adults who are with you should continue to observe the
should continue to observe the physical distancing from each other,
physical distancing from each other, and physical distancing even for US
and physical distancing even for US children is advised indoors. Our
children is advised indoors. Our guidance is different for those aged
guidance is different for those aged 12-17. We
guidance is different for those aged 12—17. We are not relaxing this role
12-17. We are not relaxing this rola for you, but
12-17. We are not relaxing this role for you, but we
12—17. We are not relaxing this role for you, but we know that you do not
for you, but we know that you do not want to be limited by your parents
want to be limited by your parents ran meet.
want to be limited by your parents can meet. You want to have your own
ran meet. You want to have your own lives and
can meet. You want to have your own lives and meet your own friends. 50
lives and meet your own friends. So when you meet
lives and meet your own friends. 50 when you meet other people, we are
when you meet other people, we are still asking you to do that outdoors
still asking you to do that outdoors and you should still stick to a
and you should still stick to a limit of eight people from no more
limit of eight peopla from no more than
limit of eight people from no more than three households at any one
than three households at any one time. However
than three households at any one time. Howeverwe
than three households at any one time. However we will lift the
time. However we will lift the number —— the limit on the number of
number -- the limit on the number of meetings you ran
number —— the limit on the number of meetings you can have in any one
meetings you ran have in any one day. That
meetings you can have in any one day. That means you can meet
day. That means you ran meet different
day. That means you can meet different groups of friends at
different groups of friends at different times of the day and also
different times of the day and also importantly means you will not be
importantly means you will not be prevented from reading your friends
prevented from reading your friends just because your parents or carers
just because your parents or carers or brother or sister happens to be
or brother or sister happens to be meeting their
or brother or sister happens to be meeting theirfriends.
or brother or sister happens to be meeting their friends. As
or brother or sister happens to be meeting theirfriends. As I said, we
meeting their friends. As I said, we are asking all
meeting theirfriends. As I said, we are asking all their children to
are asking all their children to keep two metres distant from other
keep two metres distant from other households, even outdoors. The
households, even outdoors. The advice published today suggests this
advice published today suggests this is less important for young people,
is lass important for young peopla, so we do hope
is less important for young people, so we do hope this will change in
so we do hope this will change in the weeks to come, but initially and
the weeks to come, but initially and for your safety, we want
the weeks to come, but initially and for your safety, we we nt to
the weeks to come, but initially and for your safety, we want to act
for your safety, we want to act cautiously. These changes are
cautiously. These changes are careful but important step that I
careful but important step that I hope will make life a little bit
hope will make life a little bit more easy and more fun for children
more easy and more fun for children and young people. I hope next week
and young people. I hope next week to set out more changes, not
and young people. I hope next week to set out more changes, notjust
to set out more changes, not just for
to set out more changes, notjust for children but for adults as well,
for children but for adults as well, to how households can meet, interact
to how households ran meet, interact and play, and I
to how households can meet, interact and play, and I also hope to confirm
and play, and I also hope to confirm at that stage the organised outdoor
at that stage the organised outdoor contact sports for children can
contact sports for children can resume from the 13th of
contact sports for children can resume from the 13th ofJuly. I hope
resume from the 13th of july. I hope these changes
resume from the 13th ofJuly. I hope these changes do allow you as
these changes do allow you as children and young people a bit more
children and young people a bit more freedom in meeting up with your
freedom in meeting up with your friends and I hope they allow you to
friends and I hope they allow you to make a bit more of your summer
make a bit more of your summer holiday, even if it is raining for
holiday, even if it is raining for much of the time, as it is the case
much of the time, as it is the rase in Scotland
much of the time, as it is the case in Scotland will stop lastly I hope
in Scotland will stop lastly I hope to give more clarity next week about
to give more clarity next week about when places of worship might be able
when places of worship might be able to reopen for communal prayer and
to reopen for communal prayer and Congregational services. I had a
Congregational services. I had a very constructive discussion
very constructive discussion yesterday with Scotland’s main faith
yesterday with Scotland’s main faith EWUPS
yesterday with Scotland’s main faith groups and we will be engaging with
groups and we will be engaging with them more in the days ahead. I know
them more in the days ahead. I know how committed they all are to the
how committed they all are to the safety of the congregations and I
safety of the congregations and I hope to give an assurance of the
hope to give an assurance of the Scottish Government desire to see
Scottish Government desire to see people of faith able to gather
people of faith able to gather together for prayer and worship
together for prayer and worship again as soon as possible. As is
again as soon as possible. As is obvious, particularly from that
obvious, particularty from that final
obvious, particularly from that final section of my update, some
final section of my update, some mles
final section of my update, some rules from now on are going to
mles from now on are going to become
rules from now on are going to become a more targeted as we move
become a more targeted as we move out of lockdown. That therefore
out of lockdown. That therefore means unfortunately that they will
means unfortunately that they will become more, get it. If you’re in
become more, get it. If you’re in any doubt of the changes I have
any doubt of the changes I have confirmed, and I have given a lot of
confirmed, and I have given a lot of information there in a short space
information there in a short space of time, please go to the Scottish
of time, please go to the Scottish Government website. Our route map
Government website. Our route map sets out dearty
Government website. Our route map sets out clearly what changes apply
sets out dearty what changes apply and
sets out clearly what changes apply and when and we are publishing an
and when and we are publishing an update today relative to the
update today relative to the announcement I have made. Although
announcement I have made. Although specific mles
announcement I have made. Although specific rules and guidance are
specific mics and guidance are changing, I
specific rules and guidance are changing, Iwant
specific rules and guidance are changing, I want to end by stressing
changing, I want to end by stressing this, a very basic principle still
this, a very basic principla still appﬁes
this, a very basic principla still applies and
this, a very basic principle still applies and becomes more important
applies and becomes more important as these are the rules change. It is
as these are the mles change. It is only because so
as these are the rules change. It is only because so many of us have
only because so many of us have stuck to the rules so far that we
stuck to the mles so far that we are able
stuck to the rules so far that we are able to take these steps out of
are able to take these steps out of lockdown and only if we continue to
lockdown and only if we continue to stick to the rules will be be able
stick to the mles will be be able to drive
stick to the rules will be be able to drive the virus down further and
to drive the virus down further and live less restrictive lives in the
live less restrictive lives in the weeks and months ahead. Four more
weeks and months ahead. Four more businesses to reopen, for public
businesses to reopen, for public services to be back to normal, for
services to be back to normal, for more of us to be able to meet
more of us to be able to meet indoors, for children to go back to
indoors, for children to go back to school full—time, August, all of
school full-time, August, all of these
school full—time, August, all of these collective benefits depend on
these collective benefits depend on the decisions we make as individuals
the decisions we make as individuals now and in the days and weeks to
now and in the days and weeks to come. So please take advantage of
come. So please take advantage of the fact that some of these rules
the fact that some of these mles are changing.
the fact that some of these rules are changing. Get out and about a
are changing. Get out and about a bit more if you can and please
bit more if you ran and please support [oral
bit more if you can and please support local businesses if you can
support [oral businesses if you ran as well. They
support local businesses if you can as well. They need your support at
as well. They need your support at this time. But always be aware, as
this time. But always be aware, as we are seeing in Dumfries and
we are seeing in Dumfries and Galloway right now, that this virus
Galloway right now, that this virus has not gone away. It is highly
has not gone away. It is highly infectious, it is highly dangerous,
infectious, it is highly dangerous, and new cases are still being
and new rases are still being reported
and new cases are still being reported every day. So please at all
reported every day. So please at all times remember our key guidance, the
times remember our key guidance, the facts. Face coverings should be worn
facts. Face coverings should be worn in enclosed spaces, they are already
in enclosed spaces, they are already mandatory in public transport and
mandatory in public transport and they will be mandatory in shops from
they will be mandatory in shops from next week. Avoid crowded areas, even
next week. Avoid crowded areas, even if they are outdoors. Clean your
if they are outdoors. Clean your hands regularly and thoroughly and
hands regularty and thoroughly and clean any
hands regularly and thoroughly and clean any ha rd
hands regularly and thoroughly and clean any hard services that you
dean any hard services that you touch.
clean any hard services that you touch. Two metres distancing remains
touch. Two metres distancing remains the clear overall advice. The sale
the clear overall advice. The sale of isolate and book a test
of isolate and book a test immediately if you have symptoms of
immediately if you have symptoms of Covid-19,
immediately if you have symptoms of Covid—19, and there symptoms are a
Covid-19, and there symptoms are a cough, fever or
Covid—19, and there symptoms are a cough, fever or loss or change in
cough, fever or loss or change in the sense of taste or smell. You can
the sense of taste or smell. You ran book test
the sense of taste or smell. You can book test on the NHS inform website
book test on the NHS inform website or all.
book test on the NHS inform website or call. Please do not wait to do
or all. Please do not wait to do that. As
or call. Please do not wait to do that. As soon as you experience any
that. As soon as you experience any of these symptoms, air on the side
of these symptoms, air on the side of caution and book a test. If we
of caution and book a test. If we all follow this advice rigorously
all follow this advice rigorously and stick to it to the letter, we
and stick to it to the letter, we will stay safe, we will help to
will stay safe, we will help to protect others and we will save
protect others and we will save lives, so my thanks for your
lives, so my thanks for your cooperation so far and for the
cooperation so far and for the cooperation I know you will continue
cooperation I know you will continue to display in the days, weeks and
to display in the days, weeks and months to come. I am going to
months to come. I am going to firstly ask Professor Leach to just
firstly ask Professor Leach to just say a few more words about the
say a few more words about the situation around an end and Gretna
situation around an end and Gretna and then the Chief Medical Officer
and then the Chief Medical Officer is going to say a word or two about
is going to say a word or two about children who are shielding, and then
children who are shielding, and then we will take the questions we have
we will take the questions we have from journalists.
we will take the questions we have fromjournalists. ——
we will take the questions we have from journalists. —— and N. Just to
from journalists. -- and N. just to add to some
from journalists. —— and N. Just to add to some of the things she said,
add to some of the things she said, let me deal very quickly first of
let me deal very quickly first of all with the outbreak and cluster we
all with the outbreak and cluster we discussed yesterday. You will
discussed yesterday. You will remember there were two contractors
remember there were two contractors who had tested positive for antibody
who had tested positive for antibody tests using a private company. We
tests using a private company. We have retested them using NHS antigen
have retested them using NHS antigen tests and they are both negative.
tests and they are both negative. That cluster is closed down and
That cluster is closed down and complate.
That cluster is closed down and complete. There is no risk beyond
complete. There is no risk beyond the national risk around that area.
the national risk around that area. However, the same cannot be said of
However, the same cannot be said of the Dumfries and Galloway cluster.
the Dumfries and Galloway cluster. The incident management team met
The incident management team met last night at four o’clock whether
last night at four o’clock whether the directors of public health from
the directors of public health from Dumfries and Galloway and the
Dumfries and Galloway and the director of public health from
director of public health from Cumbria in their local authority
Cumbria in their local authority whether the contact tracing team, a
whether the contact tracing team, a microbiologist and everybody would
microbiologist and everybody would expect to be on there, including the
expect to be on there, including the chief executive of Dumfries and
chief executive of Dumfries and Galloway health Board. We had
Galloway health Board. We had Scottish Government representation,
Scottish Government representation, including me unusually because this
including me unusually because this is a complex outbreak and the first
is a complex outbreak and the first we have had in this removal of some
we have had in this removal of some steps in the rich map. As the First
steps in the rich map. As the First Minister said, we have presently,
Minister said, we have presently, and this could change, we have
and this could change, we have presently had ten positive cases and
presently had ten positive rases and we have
presently had ten positive cases and we have three high—risk workplaces
we have three high-risk workplaces involved
we have three high—risk workplaces involved in this cluster, and we
involved in this cluster, and we want to be as upfront but as
want to be as upfront but as balanced as we can about that. The
balanced as we ran about that. The initial
balanced as we can about that. The initial first case, and
balanced as we can about that. The initialfirst case, and it
balanced as we can about that. The initial first case, and it may not
initial first use, and it may not be the
initial first case, and it may not be the index case, it is too early
be the index case, it is too earty to say, but the
be the index case, it is too early to say, but the first case we were
to say, but the first use we were aware of
to say, but the first rase we were aware of is
to say, but the first case we were aware of is a health care worker
aware of is a health rare worker from the
aware of is a health care worker from the Carlisle hospital, and that
from the (“artisla hospital, and that may be
from the Carlisle hospital, and that may be connected to an outbreak at
may be connected to an outbreak at that Carlisle hospital, but we
that (“artisla hospital, but we cannot
that Carlisle hospital, but we cannot be sure until we do genomic
cannot be sure until we do genomic serology at a much slower rate. The
serology at a much slower rate. The other two high—risk workplaces that
other two high-risk workplaces that were
other two high—risk workplaces that were touched on our two factories in
were touched on our two factories in Dumfries and Galloway, and we have
Dumfries and Galloway, and we have sent mobile testing units to them
sent mobile testing units to them today to test all of the workers in
today to test all of the workers in them. There will be another incident
them. There will be another incident management team today at four
management team today at four o’clock who will continue to meet
o’clock who will continue to meet over the weekend. The Deputy First
over the weekend. The Deputy First Minister chaired a Scottish
Minister chaired a Scottish resilience meeting this morning with
resilience meeting this morning with [oral partners
resilience meeting this morning with local partners of which I was also
[oral partners of which I was also present to
local partners of which I was also present to give an update. Again,
present to give an update. Again, cross border with the public health
cross border with the public health leads from Cumbria. That discussed
leads from Cumbria. That discussed the wider implications and the
the wider implications and the partners were very supportive of the
partners were very supportive of the proportionate response to the First
proportionate response to the First Minister has outlined following our
Minister has outlined following our advice. It underlines the rules.
advice. It undertines the mles. This is really
advice. It underlines the rules. This is really difficult,
This is really difficult, particularly on a day when we are
particularty on a day when we are discussing
particularly on a day when we are discussing releasing some of the
discussing releasing some of the mles
discussing releasing some of the rules for children and it is a
mles for children and it is a hopeful
rules for children and it is a hopeful day for many families who
hopeful day for many families who will be able to do more tomorrow
will be able to do more tomorrow over the weekend and into next week.
over the weekend and into next week. Most clusters of this size, when
Most clusters of this size, when this history is written, suggests
this history is written, suggests the guidelines may not have been
the guidelines may not have been strictly adhered to. I do not know
strictly adhered to. I do not know that for sure in this cluster, but
that for sure in this cluster, but that is usually what happens. So I
that is usually what happens. So I really implore you to obey the
really implore you to obey the guidelines as best you can. If you
guidelines as best you ran. If you follow
guidelines as best you can. If you follow them, your risk is lower. If
follow them, your risk is lower. If you do not, your risk is higher. It
you do not, your risk is higher. It is as simple as that. You can see
is as simple as that. You ran see how quickly
is as simple as that. You can see how quickly within a matter of days
how quickly within a matter of days we ran
how quickly within a matter of days we can have ten positive cases, and
we ran have ten positive rases, and ever increasing
we can have ten positive cases, and ever increasing number of contacts
ever increasing number of contacts get harder to trace, and we need to
get harder to trace, and we need to take steps already to make Dumfries
take steps already to make Dumfries and Galloway look a little different
and Galloway look a little different from the rest of the country and we
from the rest of the country and we do not want to do do that. The other
do not want to do do that. The other thing, and finally I want to
thing, and finally I want to suggest, is if you do not follow the
suggest, is if you do not follow the guidance, you tie up resources. In
guidance, you tie up resources. In the last three days we have used
the last three days we have used health protection teams, lots of
health protection teams, lots of contact tracers, 48 contact tracers
contact tracers, 48 contact tracers in Dumfries and Galloway. Chief
in Dumfries and Galloway. Chief executive of a health board who
executive of a health board who should be re—immobilising his health
should be re-immobilising his health service along
should be re—immobilising his health service along with everybody else.
service along with everybody else. Scottish Government resources and
Scottish Government resources and our mobile testing units. I
our mobile testing units. I understand it is no 1—person’s fault
understand it is no 1-person’s fault and we do
understand it is no 1—person’s fault and we do not want blame and I do
and we do not want blame and I do not want you to look for people to
not want you to look for peopla to blame, but
not want you to look for people to blame, but if you disobey the
blame, but if you disobey the guidelines, that what happens. We
guidelines, that what happens. We have to redirect resources in order
have to redirect resources in order to manage that outbreak. My final
to manage that outbreak. My final thought is if you have symptoms,
thought is if you have symptoms, particularty
thought is if you have symptoms, particularly but not exclusively if
particularty but not exclusively if you are in
particularly but not exclusively if you are in this area of Dumfries and
you are in this area of Dumfries and Galloway, please, please come
Galloway, please, please come forward for testing. We have
forward for testing. We have multiple areas where you can now be
multiple areas where you ran now be tested in
multiple areas where you can now be tested in that area. We really want
tested in that area. We really want to get to the end of the virus
to get to the end of the virus transmission of this outbreak and
transmission of this outbreak and then we can advise the First
then we can advise the First Minister that Dumfries and Galloway
Minister that Dumfries and Galloway ran
Minister that Dumfries and Galloway can have the same restrictions as
ran have the same restrictions as the rest
can have the same restrictions as the rest of the country. Thank you.
the rest of the country. Thank you. lastly I hand
the rest of the country. Thank you. Lastly I hand over to their Chief
lastly I hand over to their Chief Medical
Lastly I hand over to their Chief Medical Officer. Thank you. I want
Medical Officer. Thank you. Iwant to provide you
Medical Officer. Thank you. I want to provide you today with an update
to provide you today with an update about shielding, at the beginning of
about shielding, at the beginning of the pandemic, the four UK chief
the pandemic, the four UK chief medical officers published a list of
medical officers published a list of six groups where people could be
six groups where people could be considered to be extremely high risk
considered to be extremely high risk of extreme illness should they
of extreme illness should they contract Covid—19. These groups were
contract Covid-19. These groups were based in
contract Covid—19. These groups were based in specific conditions. This
based in specific conditions. This was irrespective of age and
was irrespective of age and therefore included children and
therefore included children and young people, all of whom were
young people, all of whom were advised to shield in order to
advised to shield in order to minimise their chance of catching
minimise their chance of catching the vims.
minimise their chance of catching the virus. For people who are
the vims. For peopla who are shielding,
the vims. For people who are shielding, we
the virus. For people who are shielding, we are especially aware
shielding, we are especially aware that the restrictions on everyday
that the restrictions on everyday life we have asked them to follow
life we have asked them to follow are extremely difficult. They impact
are extremely difficult. They impact significantly on their quality of
significantly on their quality of life and the increased social
life and the increased social isolation. For children and young
isolation. For children and young peopla,
isolation. For children and young people, these restrictions are
people, these restrictions are particularly tough. This has been a
particularty tough. This has been a very worrying
particularly tough. This has been a very worrying and difficult time for
very worrying and difficult time for those who are shielding, and I want
those who are shielding, and I want to pay tribute to everyone for
to pay tribute to everyone for following the shielding guidance. We
following the shielding guidance. We are now in the fourth month of the
are now in the fourth month of the shielding period and there is new
shielding period and there is new evidence and guidance that becomes
evidence and guidance that becomes available, so it is important to the
availabla, so it is important to the approach is
available, so it is important to the approach is reviewed, and only those
approach is reviewed, and only those required to shield are advised to do
required to shield are advised to do so. We recently announced changes to
so. We recently announced changes to the advice for people who are
the advice for people who are shielding, to say that we believe it
shielding, to say that we believe it is now appropriate for them to
is now appropriate for them to exercise outside, to meet with other
exercise outside, to meet with other households or a group of up to eight
households or a group of up to eight peopla, to
households or a group of up to eight people, to take part in noncontact
peopla, to take part in noncontact activities
people, to take part in noncontact activities for that we will continue
activities for that we will continue to keep every aspect of our advice
to keep every aspect of our advice to people who are shielding under
to people who are shielding under review. Findings from the evidence
review. Findings from the evidence and research now allows us to
and research now allows us to reconsider an updated advice on
reconsider an updated advice on which children are at the highest
which children are at the highest risk. The Royal College of
risk. The Royal College of paediatrics and Child health works
paediatric and Child health works in
paediatrics and Child health works in partnership with a wide range of
in partnership with a wide range of paediatric clinical expert groups to
paediatric clinical expert groups to review new evidence and have
review new evidence and have produced updated guidance. This
produced updated guidance. This suggests that many children and
suggests that many children and young people currently advised to
young peopla currently advised to shield
young people currently advised to shield should no longer do so, as
shield should no longer do so, as the risk is significantly less than
the risk is significantly lass than originally
the risk is significantly less than originally assumed. This new
originally assumed. This new guidance which is supported across
guidance which is supported across the four nations indicates that many
the four nations indicates that many children and young people with
children and young people with conditions such as asthma or
conditions such as asthma or diabetes, epilepsy and kidney
diabetes, epilepsy and kidney disease, they may no longer need to
disease, they may no longer need to continue to shield. This means there
continue to shield. This means there are a lot of children who will be
are a lot of children who will be able to enjoy what we all hope is a
able to enjoy what we all hope is a sunny and warm summer period. It
sunny and warm summer period. It also means that for some children,
also means that for some children, they will be able to return to
they will be able to return to school once they start to reopen in
school once they start to reopen in August. It is important to stress
August. It is important to stress however that the guidance is just
however that the guidance is just that, it is guidance. What we will
that, it is guidance. what we will allow is
that, it is guidance. What we will allow is for clinicians to review
allow is for clinicians to review individual cases, and... Let us
individual cases, and... Let us leave the
individual rases, and... Let us leave the daily
individual cases, and... Let us leave the daily briefing there from
leave the daily briefing there from Edinburgh, just tell you that later
Edinburgh, just tell you that later today we will be answering your
today we will be answering your questions on the back to school plan
questions on the hack to school plan published by
questions on the back to school plan published by the Government this
published by the Government this morning. That is obviously for
morning. That is obviously for children at schools and colleges in
children at schools and colleges in England. That is at 2:30pm. Get in
England. That is at 2:30pm. Get in touch using the hashtag BBC your
touch using the hashtag BBC your questions or text us or you can
questions or text us or you ran e-mail our
questions or text us or you can e—mail our questions. The weather
e-mail our questions. The weather now with
e-mail our questions. The weather now with
e—mail our questions. The weather now with Nick.
now with Nick. Hello, apart from one or two
Hello, apart from one or two showers, much of Scotland and
showers, much of Scotland and Northern Ireland have a fine
Northern Ireland have a fine afternoon is sunny spells by the end
afternoon is sunny spells by the end of the afternoon for Wales and
of the afternoon for Wales and south—east England. A good deal of
south-east England. A good deal of cloud
south—east England. A good deal of cloud around, but heavy and possibly
cloud around, but heavy and possibly thundery showers in the Midlands,
thundery showers in the Midlands, East Anglia and south—east England.
East Anglia and south—east England. Potential for getting caught in a
Potential for getting caught in a heavy downpour, just gradually
heavy downpour, just gradually easing as we go on through the
easing as we go on through the evening. Try for a time overnight,
evening. Try for a time overnight, but head down like rain heading into
but head down like rain heading into Northern Ireland and Scotland by the
Northern Ireland and Scotland by the morning, north—west England as well
morning, north-west England as well stop
morning, north—west England as well stop temperatures up overnight, so
stop temperatures up overnight, so many of us into double figures by
many of us into double figures by the time we start the day tomorrow.
the time we start the day tomorrow. That will make for a milder start to
That will make for a milder start to be had this morning, and into
be had this morning, and into tomorrow, looking wet across western
tomorrow, looking wet across western Scotland. 20—30 millimetres of
Scotland. 20—30 millimetres of Scotland rain. Some possibility is
Scotland rain. Some possibility is of destruction. Outbreaks of rain
of destruction. Outbreaks of rain for Northern Ireland, Wales and
for Northern Ireland, Walas and parts of
for Northern Ireland, Wales and parts of England. An increasingly
parts of England. An increasingly windy day as well. That is your
windy day as well. That is your weather.
A major police operation dismantles
A major police operation dismanﬂas criminal
A major police operation dismantles criminal networks smuggling drugs
criminal networks smuggling dmgs and guns.
criminal networks smuggling drugs and guns. Police! In one of the
and guns. Police! In one of the biggest police operations of its
biggest police operations of its kind, a
biggest police operations of its kind, 3 secret communications system
kind, a secret communications system relied on by
kind, 3 secret communications system relied on by organised
kind, a secret communications system relied on by organised criminals has
relied on by organised criminals has been hacked. This is an amazing
been hacked. This is an amazing moment, I think, for UK policing and
moment, I think, for UK policing and UK law enforcement. We’ll have all
UK law enforcement. We’ll have all the latest details. Also this
the latest details. Also this lunchtime. After months of empty
lunchtime. After months of empty classrooms, the government produces
classrooms, the government produces its safety plans for schools in
its safety plans for schools in England from September, saying year
England from September, saying year EWUPS
England from September, saying year groups should keep separate. Some
groups should keep separate. Some teachers say that will be
teachers say that will be complicated. In these challenging
complicated. In these challenging times, we are committed to ensuring
times, we are committed to ensuring the nation’s children have not
times, we are committed to ensuring the nation’s children have notjust
the nation’s children have not just a safe
the nation’s children have notjust a safe education but also an
a safe education but also an excellent one. Practical
excellent one. Practical considerations as lunchtime, we have
considerations as lunchtime, we have seven year groups. If every year
seven year groups. If every year EWUP
seven year groups. If every year group has half an hour, that’s three
group has half an hour, that’s three and a half hours of lunchtime.
and a half hours of lunchtime. Dozens of countries may be on a new
Dozens of countries may be on a new government list of places we can
government list of places we ran travel to
government list of places we can travel to without quarantine. People
travel to without quarantine. People across Wales will soon be able to
across Walas will soon be able to visit pubs and
across Wales will soon be able to visit pubs and Cafe is with outdoor
visit pubs and Cafe is with outdoor space, but indoor areas stay closed
space, but indoor areas stay closed for now. --
space, but indoor areas stay closed for now. —— cafes. And honouring
for now. -- cafes. And honouring front line
for now. —— cafes. And honouring front line workers like medics and
front line workers like media and firefighters.
front line workers like medics and firefighters. We hear about plans
firefighters. We hear about plans for a national monument in the wake
for a national monument in the wake of coronavirus. And coming up on BBC
of coronavirus. And coming up on BBC News, 12 different buyers interested
News, 12 different buyers interested in wigan now
News, 12 different buyers interested in Wigan now according to
in Wigan now according to administrators. The Championship
administrators. The Championship side are struggling due to the
side are struggling due to the coronavirus pandemic.
Hello, good afternoon and welcome to the BBC News at one. In one of the
the BBC News at one. In one of the biggest police operations of its
biggest police operations of its kind a
biggest police operations of its kind 3 secret communication system
kind a secret communication system relied on by
kind 3 secret communication system relied on by organised
kind a secret communication system relied on by organised criminals to
relied on by organised criminals to trade drugs and firearms has been
trade drugs and firearms has been hacked by the UK’s National Crime
hacked by the UK’s National Crime Agency. More than 700 people have
Agency. More than 700 people have been arrested and entire networks
been arrested and entire networks dismantled. Our Home affairs,
dismantled. Our Home affairs, respondent Tom Symonds has the
respondent Tom Symonds has the details. Strike.
It’s early in the morning.
The Metropolitan Police are making a move against a suspected gang
involved in guns and drugs.
The bangs are what they call distraction
devices, designed to prevent a hostile response.
Another early morning raid, this time in Birmingham.
Police!
There has never been a national police operation
like this.
Every force in the country has been involved.
Dozens of raids over months, hundreds of arrests.
This is an amazing moment, I think, for UK policing and UK
law enforcement.
Thanks to our partners in the National Crime Agency and
internationally, we have been able to hit the most senior levels of
organised crime.
All because French intelligence has broken into a
secret criminal phone network.
It looks like a normal Android phone but these phones sell for between
£800—£3,000 because they have some added functionality which allow
criminals to do what they do.
John is going to show us.
I’ll put it there, John, and you can take it away.
So, if you found this on the street you would have no idea there
was anything else within the phone.
But there is?
There is and then if you put the power button in another
fashion it looks like the phone is just restarting.
And then the process starts again.
So it boots up but this time it’s going to go into
a secured operating system which hides the encrypted applications.
And what do those applications allow criminals to do?
These applications allow someone who has an encrypted
device like this to talk to someone
else who has a similar encrypted device.
Encrochat has become a trusted and required tool for 10,000
top UK criminals.
top—level UK criminals.
But now their messages have been read.
Word got out, so police sped up their
investigations and raids, before going public today.
Of course, organised crime is about making vast
amounts of money.
And what’s astonishing is the amount of it
which has been seized by the police in this investigation.
This is £50,000.
That is £2 million.
The Met has seized £14 million over recent months.
Nationally, 5A million has been
Nationally, 54 million has been seized
Nationally, 5A million has been seized along with guns and drugs.
seized along with guns and drugs. Those arrested are described

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 02/07/2020, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/1658CA72?bcast=132267931 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)