Tam
This is BBC News.
The headlines...
The biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway —
primary schools in England re—open and it’s back to business too
for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and horse—racing.
the overall view from Vail is that you must do this cautiously which is
you must do this cautiously which is precisely what we are doing —— the
precisely what we are doing -- the overall
precisely what we are doing —— the overall view from SAGE is that you
overall view from SAGE is that you must do this cautiously.
In England, hundreds of thousands of children returned
to primary schools this morning — but not all parents agree
that it’s safe enough.
How is it safe enough? The pressure is being put back onto us and the
is being put back onto us and the children. I woke up this morning and
children. I woke up this morning and I felt anxious,
children. I woke up this morning and Ifelt anxious, I know
children. I woke up this morning and I felt anxious, I know the science,
I felt anxious, I know the science, but it is still scary. Confusions
but it is still scary. Confusions for some.
but it is still scary. Confusions forsome. Curfews
but it is still scary. Confusions for some. Curfews ignored as
for some. Curfews ignored as American protests continue after the
American protests continue after the death of George Floyd. They are off,
death of George Floyd. They are off, sort of, the world of sport prepares
sort of, the world of sport prepares to return, but in front of empty
to return, but in front of empty stands.
Good afternoon. The Chancellor Rishi Sunak says people will soon get
Sunak says peopla will soon get their
Sunak says people will soon get their lives back to normal in the
their lives back to normal in the UK.
The biggest easing of lockdown measures
since the restrictions were introduced
in March is underway.
Ministers insist they’re following the science and taking
the steps in a ‘very cautious’ way.
All four nations of the UK now have guidelines in place
allowing more than two people to meet outside.
Vulnerable people in England and Wales —
who have been advised to stay home since March — have been told
they can go outdoors again.
But shielding advice in Northern Ireland
and Scotland hasn’t changed.
The first phase in the reopening of schools
has begun in England, with children in nurseries
and Years One and Six returning this morning.
And, provided they meet safety guidelines to protect
shoppers and workers, open air markets and car
showrooms in England are also able to trade again.
But the measures come as another group of public health
officials warn the pace of change in England could lead to a rise
In a moment, we’ll be looking in more depth at the
messages to parents — and to the most vulnerable —
but with our first report this lunchtime, here’s Duncan Kennedy.
Some schools, open—air markets, car showrooms and some sports.
It may not be a Manic Monday of openings but the lid on lockdown
is starting to creek open.
At the Sandbanks Beach in Dorset, a new week and a new month brought
more glorious sunshine.
From today, six people can now gather outside in England
if they keep two metres apart.
So, what do people here think of that?
I think we just need to be cautious about it.
Even though we can come out, we have to be cautious.
Everyone seems to respect other people’s space.
You see now there is a good amount of space between
everybody on the beach.
You feel OK? I feel fine.
But local officials say with the numbers they have
seen outside in recent days, the message about the rules
still is not clear.
I think people are completely confused now by the rules.
They’re so inconsistent.
They do not make any sense to people.
You ask people on the beach what the rules are, they don’t know
and frankly they don’t care any more.
What now are the rules for gathering?
In England from today, groups of up to six can
meet anywhere outdoors, including in private gardens.
In Wales, any number of people from a maximum of two households,
are able to gather outside, but ideally travelling no more
than five miles from home to meet.
In Scotland, up to eight people, from a maximum of two households
are able to meet outside.
Whilst in Northern Ireland, groups of up to six can now
also gather outside.
But everywhere, social—distancing rules apply.
All these changes in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland
are dividing opinion.
It’s making some people nervous, but others say they welcome
the opportunity to move out of lockdown.
The one guiding principle you’ll hear across the nation,
and it’s the one we have heard throughout this crisis,
is that science must lead the way.
And the following of that science was again
the Government message today.
We must do this cautiously which is precisely what we are doing.
We have also said if people comply with the rules and the test
and trace system is up and running, which it has been since Thursday,
then there is a good likelihood we will not breach the R value
factor above one.
But some health professionals remain nervous about the speed
of society’s reengagement.
I think it’s just a bit difficult to understand the message
when you’re urging caution, at the same time as saying
that there are all these additional liberties to be taken.
Don’t get me wrong.
The vast majority of the public will follow those guidelines
extremely well but there is a danger there is a confusing message.
That whole national blended mood of the cautious and carefree
was also shared by some people we spoke to in Exeter today.
I’m delighted we can do it but it is tinged with nervousness.
Just a little bit concerned that it might be too early
and we might have a second wave.
Loosening lockdown measures are a challenge for everyone.
In our changing world of inside outside living.
Duncan Kennedy, BBC News, in Dorset.
Parents across England faced a dilemma this morning —
is it safe for children to go back to school?
After six weeks — closed because of the coronavirus —
primary schools re—opened this morning — but parents don’t have
to send their children back, and many teachers unions are warning
it’s too soon for them to do so.
Dan Johnson reports.
After so many weeks, school’s back for summer.
Morning.
Welcome back.
At thisjunior school, it isjust Year 6, the 10
and 11—year—olds returning.
There isn’t a head that doesn’t want as many pupils back as soon
as they can but as safely as we possibly can and that is
what we have been working to do over the last few weeks,
to make sure our school is safe but welcoming to pupils.
Harry was keen to get back and see some of his friends and stuff,
he knows it’s going to be different but given the space they have got
and it is only Year 6, hopefully, it should be OK.
I have to say I woke up and I did feel quite anxious this morning.
I know the logic, I know the science, but even
so, it’s quite scary.
And that’s why these are some of the few socially
distanced actually reaching their new lower capacity today.
It’s be good to see my friends, albeit it’s only half the class
but it’s good to catch up with my mates.
I have wanted to come back for ages.
It’s been a bit hard at home.
My mum told me it would be a bit different than it used to be
so I was a bit nervous what would’ve happened.
But there is huge variation across England.
In Walsall, two thirds of the schools are not
accepting more children yet.
I am very worried about the children being at home but, weighing it up,
I think their health is really important and the health
of their families and the wider community, as well.
I want to get them back as soon as possible,
but I will keep reviewing it and as soon as we are convinced that
everybody is saying the same thing, instead of having conflicting
messages, we will reopen.
And there are estimates that up to half of parents will have decided
to delay returning their kids to the classroom.
The risk of transmissibility, if he catches it, can he bring it
back, pass it on to other people?
It’s not clear.
For us, we wanted more evidence, how is it safe to send back?
The pressure is being put all on us as parents and teachers
and on the children.
Here, the children are being kept in smaller classroom pods or bubbles
so they’re not mixing.
But it’s the busier times like lunch that
are the real pinch points.
Now, it’s manageable with limited numbers of children.
But what about getting back to a full school?
That will be much harder.
Government guidance, as you know, has changed quite often.
They are starting to understand it’s the heads who need to make
those decisions and every head’s school community, circumstances
are different and therefore there will need to be flexibility.
More of England’s schools will get to this in the next week or two.
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland are expected to follow
in the months ahead.
Dan
DanJohnson,
Dan Johnson, BBC News, Hertfordshire.
In England and Wales, people who have been shielding —
those who are clinically very vulnerable to coronavirus —
can now exercise and meet people from another household outdoors.
But some medical professionals are concerned that the
changes come too soon.
They want to see the scientific evidence to show that it is safe.
Hywell Griffith reports.
After 11 weeks of shielding for Derek this is a day to savour.
Emphysema means his lungs are vulnerable.
He knows Covid—19 could kill him,
but being confined to his home in Treorchy for so long has been hard.
He says this is the end of his house arrest.
It’s relief.
You have got to be sensible.
You won’t see me on any beaches or with any crowds.
You have to use your sense.
If you’re not sensible you’re asking for trouble.
You’ve got to keep your distance.
From today, shielded patients in England
and Wales can go outdoors...
..and meet other people.
The world they’re going back into has changed considerably
but they are being assured it is safe.
Now that we have passed the peak and the prevalence of Covid—19
in the community has reduced significantly, we believe
that the risk to those shielding is lower.
For around 2.3 million patients in England and Wales
this is a huge step.
But it’s one some are reluctant to take.
The change in guidance came unexpectedly, with no clear
reduction in the R number, or the rate at which
the virus is reproducing.
Health charities say they’re being inundated
with questions which they’re finding difficult to answer.
Does this mean it’s the end of shielding?
Does this mean that my employer is going to now ask me
to go back to work?
"I am not ready for that, I’m not confident with that."
Also people are saying, is it safe?
The beaches are crowded, the parks are crowded,
the beauty spots, too.
And in this new world that’s developing is it now safe
for me to go forward?
The guidance on shielding in Scotland and Northern
Ireland hasn’t changed.
Across the UK there are calls for more tailored patient—specific
advice for what lies ahead for those most at risk.
Let’s talk to our political correspondent Helen Catt.
The government pushing ahead with this and a lot people saying, where
this and a lot peopla saying, where is the
this and a lot people saying, where is the evidence that this is the
is the evidence that this is the safe route forward? There have been
safe route forward? There have been questions raised about that and if
questions raised about that and if there is one thing we have heard
there is one thing we have heard over and over again in recent days,
over and over again in recent days, it is cautious, a phased and
it is cautious, a phased and cautious approach, and there is a
cautious approach, and there is a recognition this is a sensitive and
recognition this is a sensitive and delicate point. Scientific experts
delicate point. Scientific experts have said they would be no entirely
have said they would be no entirely risk-free way
have said they would be no entirely risk—free way of easing lockdown
risk—free way of easing lockdown restrictions —— their word. The
restrictions -- their word. The government is
restrictions —— their word. The government is confident it is
government is confident it is meeting those five tests, some of
meeting those five tests, some of them were scientific and some of
them were scientific and some of those were logistical, like having a
those were logistical, like having a grip on testing and PPE, and a
grip on testing and PPE, and a spokesman for Downing Street said
spokesman for Downing Street said the government is confident that
the government is confident that with the test and trace programme
with the test and trace programme now launched and if people comply
now hunched and if peopla comply with the
now launched and if people comply with the social distancing
with the social distancing guidelines and the new rules, they
guidelines and the new mles, they don’t
guidelines and the new rules, they don’t think it will push the rate of
don’t think it will push the rate of transmission of the virus above one
transmission of the virus above one which is one of the things they
which is one of the things they really want
which is one of the things they really wa nt to
which is one of the things they really want to avoid. The government
really want to avoid. The government has to weigh up looking at the
has to weigh up looking at the evidence on the science, rounded
evidence on the science, rounded transmission of coronavirus with
transmission of coronavirus with other factors like the impact on
other factors like the impact on health and well—being of people who
health and well-being of peopla who are
health and well—being of people who are stuck in lockdown and because
are stuck in lockdown and because the damage to the economy. 50 we are
the damage to the economy. So we are seeing the opening of outdoor
seeing the opening of outdoor markets and car showrooms. The
markets and car showrooms. The Chancellor has defended the
Chancellor has defended the government taking these steps. It is
government taking these steps. It is absolutely safe and we have a clear
absolutely safe and we have a clear plan we have been sticking to
plan we have been sticking to throughout the process in terms of
throughout the process in terms of dealing with coronavirus and we are
dealing with coronavirus and we are now at the stage of the plan where
now at the stage of the plan where we ran get our
now at the stage of the plan where we can get our lives a bit
now at the stage of the plan where we can get our lives a hit back to
we ran get our lives a hit back to normal, but it
we can get our lives a hit back to normal, but it isn’t an overnight
normal, but it isn’t an overnight big band thing. It is measured and
big band thing. It is measured and progressive and we do this in a safe
progressive and we do this in a safe and responsible way —— big bang.
and responsible way -- big bang. That is why we
and responsible way —— big bang. That is why we have start with
That is why we have start with outdoor markets and car showrooms
outdoor markets and far showrooms and in a couple
outdoor markets and car showrooms and in a couple of weeks we can get
and in a couple of weeks we ran get shops open and
and in a couple of weeks we can get shops open and then hopefully a
shops open and then hopefully a short time after that we can have
short time after that we can have restaurants and pubs open again.
restaurants and pubs open again. People ran
restaurants and pubs open again. People can get their lives back to
People ran get their lives back to normal.
People can get their lives back to normal. The genie is out of the
normal. The genie is out of the bottle, is that the sense? We saw
bottle, is that the sense? We saw beaches packed at the weekend. If
beaches packed at the weekend. If the government had to re—introduce
the government had to re-introduce measures,
the government had to re—introduce measures, but they have the control
measures, but they have the control to do so? The government has said it
to do so? The government has said it would not hesitate to do so, at the
would not hesitate to do so, at the strategy seems to be that they would
strategy seems to be that they would be looking to do that in a localised
be looking to do that in a localised way, so in Westminster it has been
way, so in Westminster it has been referred to as a strategy where
referred to as a strategy where there are localised outbreaks they
there are localised outbreaks they would impose more stringent measures
would impose more stringent measures and they are hoping through the test
and they are hoping through the test and trace programme where people
and trace programme where peopla would
and trace programme where people would isolate themselves if they
would isolate themselves if they have come into contact with somebody
have come into contact with somebody who has tested positive for
who has tested positive for coronavirus, that that will keep any
coronavims, that that will keep any future
coronavirus, that that will keep any future outbreaks restricted,
future outbreaks restricted, although Boris
future outbreaks restricted, although BorisJohnson has said
although Boris johnson has said there
although BorisJohnson has said there will be some more localised
there will be some more localised outbreaks. This isn’t going to go
outbreaks. This isn’t going to go away. The government messaging seems
away. The government messaging seems to be relying heavily on saying to
to be relying heavily on saying to peopla you
to be relying heavily on saying to people you really do need to comply
people you really do need to comply with those guidelines but as you
with those guidelines but as you outlined earlier, with different
outlined eartier, with different guidelines
outlined earlier, with different guidelines in different parts of the
guidelines in different parts of the country there is the risk that it
country there is the risk that it could become confusing and people
could become confusing and peopla will
could become confusing and people will have to pay attention to what
will have to pay attention to what they are being asked to do. The
they are being asked to do. The guiding principle that the
guiding principle that the government is repeating is the
government is repeating is the social distancing measure, you must
social distancing measure, you must be keeping two metres away from
be keeping two metres away from other people at all times. Helen,
other peopla at all times. Helan, thanks
other people at all times. Helen, thanks for
other people at all times. Helen, thanks forjoining us.
The headlines on BBC News...
The lockdown is beginning to ease in England. In England, hundreds of
England. In England, hundreds of pupils returned to school despite
pupils returned to school despite worries about safety. Restrictions
worries about safety. Restrictions are loosened on those classed as
are loosened on those classed as extremely vulnerable but scientists
extremely vulnerable but scientists have said it is safe for them.
There’s been a sixth night of unrest across the United States.
Cu rfews are in force in nearly A0 cities —
but many are being ignored as demonstrations continue over
the death of an unarmed black man in police custody.
In a moment, we’ll have a report on the violent protests
in the capital, but first, James Robbins looks
at the situation across the US.
The anger, protests, fires and looting have spread widely
across the United States.
But this is where it began.
Almost a week after a police officer in Minneapolis killed
an unarmed black man, thousands gathered outside the state
capital, confronted by police and troops from the National Guard.
The focus of anger is clear from the chants, placards and masks.
The death of George Floyd has provoked a sense of outrage that
racism is still widespread, too often ignored and unpunished.
All these voices are here because the same thing keeps
happening over and over again, it is the new lynching.
I am just really hoping justice is served, that the people
responsible are held accountable and I don’t have to do this again,
I don’t want to be here.
CHANTING: Hands up, don’t shoot!
The anger is spreading across the United States.
In Kansas City, these demonstrators want their police under
tighter local control, with the citizens review board
to help investigate misconduct.
No violence!
One officer pleaded with the crowd not to resort to violence and even
made an extraordinary gesture of solidarity, which is steeped
with meaning in today’s America.
Take a knee.
Take a knee!
Take a knee.
The killing of George Floyd last week has terribly undermined
whatever progress may have been made in recent years.
And the fact that only one policeman, Derek Chauvin,
has been charged with murder, and that others who stood by do not
face prosecution, has fuelled the protests and violence.
Night—time curfews have been imposed in nearly A0 American cities,
but many people have ignored them.
Thank you.
In Minneapolis, 3 German TV correspondent reported
police targeting him and threatening his
team with arrest.
Get inside now!
Where would you like us to go?
0K!
Thank you, officer.
In San Diego, largely peaceful protests turned violent,
as police used tear gas and pepper balls in the city.
They were enforcing, they said, an unlawful assembly order.
Hands up!
In New York City, violence including looting was widespread,
despite appeals for this to stop from those who want to
honour George Floyd.
Fires were started with no sign of angerfading,
almost a week after his killing.
In Brooklyn, a woman made her own peaceful gesture,
but the wider reality is that the United States has not
seen racial tensions explode on this scale since the 1960s.
James Robbins, BBC News.
Washington DC has seen some of the worst violence,
with buildings not far from the White House
vandalised, cars set on fire, and a historic church attacked.
President Trump was briefly taken to an emergency underground bunker
in the White House on Friday, because of concerns about the threat
from protesters outside.
Aleem Maqbool reports.
Nojustice.
No peace.
No racism.
Police.
These were protests against the killing of George Floyd.
But given the location, they were also a message to one
person in particular.
He needs to grow up, he needs to be a man,
stop with the childish acts, the childish tweets,
he needs to be a man.
As night fell, the mood got angrier.
I’m here outside the White House, for the most part a peaceful protest
but fires have been [it now.
And the police keep firing gas into the crowds.
And they fired other projectiles, too, in defence
of the home of the President.
They were clearly on edge — but also did little to dispel
the impression that police use unnecessary levels of force.
At one point, charging our own cameraman.
In the streets surrounding the White House, with no sense
of any attempt at de—escalation, there was anarchy, with shops
and vehicles vandalised at will.
Hard to imagine these were scenes playing out in the American capital.
That’s probably the white person that owned it.
They can cover it with insurance...
All right, here we go.
We got every right to burn it down.
This is pain right here, this is pain, this is the only way
we can get it to them.
They’re not hearing us.
When you just talk, it’s just words to them.
They don’t feel anything.
And there’s no doubt this has now become about much more
than the brutal death of one unarmed black man.
Aleem Maqbool, BBC News in Washington.
m:
We are returning to the UK and the easing of the lockdown. Some schools
easing of the lockdown. Some schools have returned to David Somers
have returned to David Somers definitely haven’t. —— have returned
definitely haven’t. -- have returned today but some
definitely haven’t. —— have returned today but some definitely haven’t.
Well, we can speak now to Christopher King —
Chief Executive of the Independent Association of Prep Schools.
What percentage of schools that you
what percentage of schools that you know
What percentage of schools that you know will be open this week at some
know will be open this week at some stage? We have 600 members
stage? We have 600 members throughout the UK, the majority in
throughout the UK, the majority in England and we expect a large
England and we expect a large majority of those schools to open,
majority of those schools to open, to have in fact opened today, and if
to have in fact opened today, and if not today tomorrow. What about
not today tomorrow. what about boarding
not today tomorrow. What about boarding schools? It does apply to
boarding schools? It does apply to them, but fewer of them it will have
them, but fewer of them it will have opened. One thing that has happened
opened. One thing that has happened duﬂng
opened. One thing that has happened during the lockdown period is that
during the lockdown period is that the experience of online learning
the experience of online learning and teaching children remotely has
and teaching children remotely has gone extremely
The process of beginning the day, but beyond that, it is very
but beyond that, it is very difficult, especially with the
difficult, especially with the younger children, to really sustain
younger children, to really sustain social distancing all the way, so a
social distancing all the way, so a big focus on hygiene, hand washing
big focus on hygiene, hand washing and the schools cleaning more
and the schools cleaning more regularty
and the schools cleaning more regularly than they have in the
regularty than they have in the past, as
regularly than they have in the past, as well as having dedicated
past, as well as having dedicated equipment for the children to use.
equipment for the children to use. Schools that charge fees, do they
Schools that charge fees, do they feel under greater pressure at the
feel under greater pressure at the moment to get back to work? Well, I
moment to get back to work? Well, I think as I have already mentioned
think as I have already mentioned the experience of online learning
the experience of online learning had gone far better than anybody
had gone far better than anybody could have imagined. We have also in
could have imagined. We have also in a school
setting there is no I’m just wondering if there are some schools
wondering if there are some schools that may have already before the
that may have already before the coronavirus pandemic may have been
coronavirus pandemic may have been stmggling
coronavirus pandemic may have been struggling somewhat, whether they
stmggling somewhat, whether they are
struggling somewhat, whether they are now seriously in trouble? Well,
are now seriously in troubla? Well, it is tme
are now seriously in trouble? Well, it is true that the sector is under
it is tme that the sector is under pressure
it is true that the sector is under pressure financially and the
pressure financially and the coronavirus would not have helped
coronavirus would not have helped that situation. But the Independent
that situation. But the Independent school sector generally, the prep
school sector generally, the prep school particularly, is a pretty
school particularty, is a pretty robust body
school particularly, is a pretty robust body of schools, and they’ve
robust body of schools, and therve been through
robust body of schools, and they’ve been through difficult periods in
been through difficult periods in the 126 years since this association
the 126 years since this association has existed and I am confident they
has existed and I am confident they will come through again.
substitute what are the final barriers before some sort of
barriers before some sort of normality comes into force? A lot of
normality comes into force? A lot of it is to do with confidence, I
it is to do with confidence, I think. Within the membership I have
think. within the membership I have a lot of
think. Within the membership I have a lot of schools that have been open
a lot of schools that have been open throughout the lockdown period with
throughout the lockdown period with 100, 150, 170
throughout the lockdown period with 100,150,170 children
throughout the lockdown period with 100, 150, 170 children attending
throughout the lockdown period with 100,150,170 children attending on
100, 150, 170 children attending on a daily basis,
100,150,170 children attending on a daily basis, looking after
a daily basis, looking after children of key workers and in those
children of key workers and in those situations it has built up
situations it has built up confidence in staff and built up
confidence in staff and built up confidence in the parents but you
confidence in the parents but you ran operate --
confidence in the parents but you can operate —— that you can operate
ran operate -- that you ran operate safely and
can operate —— that you can operate safely and effectively, and I think
safely and effectively, and I think we have got to build on that
we have got to build on that experience and as the knowledge
experience and as the knowledge becomes more widespread, I’m sure
becomes more widespread, I’m sure schools will be able with
schools will be able with adjustments to feel that they can
adjustments to feel that they ran open their
adjustments to feel that they can open their doors more widely.
open their doors more widely. Christopher Kane, thanks for
open their doors more widely. Christopher Kane, thanks forjoining
Christopher Kane, thanks for joining us. -- King. We
Christopher Kane, thanks forjoining us. —— King. We are getting the
us. -- King. We are getting the latest figures,
us. —— King. We are getting the latest figures, 108 new deaths of
latest figures, 108 new deaths of people who tested positive for
people who tested positive for Covid-19,
people who tested positive for Covid—19, that brings the total to
Covid-19, that brings the total to 26,722 in
Covid—19, that brings the total to 26,722 in terms of people who have
26,722 in terms of peopla who have died in
26,722 in terms of people who have died in hospital, but Monday there
died in hospital, but Monday there is a lag because of reporting issues
is a lag because of reporting issues over the weekend. We are also
over the weekend. We are also getting figures from Northern
getting figures from Northern Ireland. One more death linked to
Ireland. One more death linked to Covid-19
Ireland. One more death linked to Covid—19 in Northern Ireland over
Covid-19 in Northern Ireland over the last
Covid—19 in Northern Ireland over the last 2A hours, bringing the
the last 24 hours, bringing the total
the last 2A hours, bringing the total number recorded to 524 during
total number recorded to 524 during this pandemic in Northern Ireland.
this pandemic in Northern Ireland. We will have more analysis of the
We will have more analysis of the figures later.
Open—air markets and car showrooms are re—opening in England today —
but with strict distancing measures in place.
For example — if you’re taking a carfor a test—drive —
normally you’d have a sales rep in the car with you.
Not any more.
From today — you’ll be alone.
Ministers say the risk of infection is lower outdoors,
and in more open spaces.
In a fortnight, other non—essential shops will open again —
but businesses are having to overhaul how they operate,
to keep customers and staff safe.
Simon Gompertz reports.
This is the Monday with a difference they’ve been waiting
for at Barnsley’s open—air market.
At lest, they can get back to selling what are called
non—essentials, like clothes and things for the home,
as well as fruit and veg.
Customers a bit cautious, but the buying began
before eight o’clock.
I’m quite impressed, actually, because these days,
you just don’t know, do you?
And how did it work? Was it different for you?
She was stood over there looking at duvets, asking
about size and prices.
She stood over there, I got them out and then she put
the money over there and then took it from there.
Social distancing is vital, keeping everyone two metres apart.
Hygiene, as well, hand sanitisers using foot pumps.
The feeling here is of relief.
To have a permanent lockdown for ten weeks is a nightmare
in a small business.
You can’t measure it.
One trader said to me it was like falling off a cliff.
One big issue today as things start going again is the threat
of congestion, which is why a lot of markets are reopening stalls
gradually, in order to guard against the risk that people
will start bumping into each other on narrow pavements and walkways.
And bearing in mind as well, it is only a couple of weeks
until nonessential shops on the high street will also be opening up.
Today also sees car dealers back in business, after sales
of new vehicles fell close to zero during the lockdown.
Again, a big emphasis on measures to reduce the risk of transmission,
helped by the fact that, in most showrooms, there is more
indoor and outdoor space.
During lockdown, the whole industry effectively shutdown.
April was very low numbers.
May was slightly better.
But I think until we see the impact of retail opening,
it’s going to be very difficult to understand what the true
level of demand is.
England is moving fastest on this.
In Scotland, smaller shops and outdoor markets can open
in the second phase of its easing plan, no date yet.
The timing hasn’t been fixed yet in Wales, either,
where non—essential shops and services could open in the amber
phase of the exit strategy, nor in Northern Ireland,
where non—food outlets will reopen in step two of its plan.
Here is possibly a sign of what is to come...
The queue outside Ikea in Gateshead, which let customers back in today,
with a general reopening of nonessential shops in England
expected from the 15th, our eerily quiet high streets
expect to become much busier.
The Queen has been photographed riding in the grounds
of Windsor Castle — the first time she’s
been seen outside since the coronavirus lockdown began.
The Queen was pictured on one of her ponies —
a M—year—old, called Balmoral Fern.
She’s been isolating at Windsor with her husband,
the Duke of Edinburgh, and a small number of staff.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Tomasz.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Tomasz.
The 1st of June marks
The 1st ofJune marks the first day
The 1st of june marks the first day of
The 1st ofJune marks the first day of summer at least that is what
of summer at least that is what meteorologists say, although Madama
meteorologists say, although Madame —— Midsummer states a while
meteorologists say, although Madama —— Midsummer states a while away.
-- Midsummer states a whila away. Look across
—— Midsummer states a while away. Look across the UK today, late
Look across the UK today, late afternoon temperatures will range
afternoon temperatures will range from the high 205 for a few areas in
from the high 205 for a few areas in the south to around about 20 in
the south to around about 20 in northern Scotland. Very little
northern Scotland. Very little happening on the weather front
happening on the weather front tonight, a
happening on the weather front tonight, 3 case of clear skies and
tonight, a rase of clear skies and the first signs
tonight, 3 case of clear skies and the first signs of a weather front
the first signs of a weather front in the very far north—west of the UK
in the very far north-west of the UK and that is
in the very far north—west of the UK and that is a
in the very far north-west of the UK and that is a sign
in the very far north—west of the UK and that is a sign of things to come
and that is a sign of things to come in the coming days. Through the
in the coming days. Through the course of Tuesday we will have
course of Tuesday we will have increasing amounts of cloud through
increasing amounts of cloud through Scotland and late in the day showers
Scotland and late in the day showers developing over the Highlands, but
developing over the Highlands, but elsewhere tomorrow it will be
elsewhere tomorrow it will be another very warm and very sunny day
another very warm and very sunny day but big temperature contrast between
but big temperature contrast between the very far north and the far
the very far north and the far South.
Hello, this is BBC News, with Simon McCoy.
The headlines...
The biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway —
primary schools in England re—open and it’s back to business too
for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
m:
We are now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little
where we ran get our lives a little bit more
where we can get our lives a little bit more back to normal, but look,
bit more back to normal, but look, that isn’t an overnight, big bang
that isn’t an overnight, big bang thing. It is measured, progressive,
thing. It is measured, progressive, we do it in a self and responsible
we do it in a self and responsible way.
In England, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary
schools this morning — but not all parents agree
that it’s safe enough.
Confusion for some, as restrictions are eased on those classed
as extremely vulnerable.
Curfews ignored — a sixth night of protests erupts
in cities across the US — sparked by the death in police
custody of George Floyd.
Sport now, and for a full round up,
And there is some, Ollie.
Full —ish. June could be a good
Full -ish. june could be a good month for
Full —ish. June could be a good month for sport. Two and a
Two and half months since the last meeting before lockdown,
Horseracing has returned, a 10 race card at Newcastle’s
Gosforth Park is underway behind closed doors.
Our correspondent Katie Gornall is there.
L’I-i
so much about it does feel very different. Numbers have been very
different. Numbers have been very strictly limited. This fence behind
strictly limited. This fence behind me is keeping out all but essential
me is keeping out all but essential staff. I
me is keeping out all but essential staff. Ispoke
me is keeping out all but essential staff. I spoke to the chief
staff. I spoke to the chief executive of the BHA earlier. He is
executive of the BHA eartier. He is not
executive of the BHA earlier. He is not allowed in, it is only people
not allowed in, it is only peopla who are
not allowed in, it is only people who are essential to race day.
who are essential to race day. Everyone gets temperature tested on
Everyone gets temperature tested on the way in. All of the jockeys have
the way in. All of the jockeys have to wear masks around the site. There
to wear masks around the site. There is a one-way
to wear masks around the site. There is a one—way system as well try to
is a one-way system as well try to keep people
is a one—way system as well try to keep people socially distanced. They
keep people socially distanced. They have even built a separate changing
have even built a separate changing room for the male jockeys.
have even built a separate changing room for the malejockeys. They
have even built a separate changing room for the male jockeys. They have
room for the male jockeys. They have changed from the original one to
changed from the original one to allow these to me to pods inside so
allow these to me to pods inside so everyone ran
allow these to me to pods inside so everyone can socially distance, so
everyone ran socially distance, so they are
everyone can socially distance, so they are really trying to think of
they are really trying to think of everything here to make racing as
everything here to make racing as safe as possible. But you are right,
safe as possible. But you are right, a lot of peopla
safe as possible. But you are right, a lot of people will be watching
a lot of peopla will be watching what is
a lot of people will be watching what is going on here in Newcastle,
what is going on here in Newcastle, seeing how they cope with
seeing how they cope with everything, they are aware that
everything, they are aware that there is a lot of attention on them
there is a lot of attention on them here, and they feel that
here, and they feel that responsibility as well, so far from
responsibility as well, so far from what we have heard things seem to be
what we have heard things seem to be mnning
what we have heard things seem to be running relatively smoothly. A bit
mnning relatively smoothly. A bit of a glitch
running relatively smoothly. A bit of a glitch with the system for
of a glitch with the system for peopla to
of a glitch with the system for people to get to protect this
peopla to get to protect this morning,
people to get to protect this morning, but they have sorted that
morning, but they have sorted that out and they have racing away and
out and they have racing away and that is the main thing. —— to get
that is the main thing. -- to get temperature
that is the main thing. —— to get temperature checked this morning. As
temperature checked this morning. As it tries to recover from a financial
it tries to recover from a financial hit, a £50 million hole in their
hit, a £50 million hola in their finances
hit, a £50 million hole in their finances at the moment, so it is a
finances at the moment, so it is a big relief to get back under track
big relief to get back under track today.
Snooker also returns today, the Championship League
is a round robin format for 64 players, it’s taking place
in Milton Keynes at a venue that also has a hotel attached, so
players and staff can be fully isolated and monitored over the next
11 days of competition.
Everyone is tested for Covid—19 when entering the venue,
world number oneJudd Trump plays today, he’s described
how unpleasant it is to have a swab taken on arrival.
Another former World Champion Mark Selby says some players
could be a bit rusty.
m:
We have had no tournament now for a few months. The last tournament we
few months. The last tournament we played was in Gibraltar, in March
played was in Gibraltar, in March before the lockdown. I have been
before the lockdown. I have been fortunate enough to have a table at
fortunate enough to have a table at home so I have been practising a
home so I have been practising a little bit but it is not the same as
little bit but it is not the same as playing other players on the tour or
playing other players on the tour or just getting that competitive match
just getting that competitive match practice. So
just getting that competitive match practice. 50 it will be good to
practice. So it will be good to play.
practice. So it will be good to play, mate.
practice. 50 it will be good to play, mate. Obviously will be behind
play, mate. Obviously will be behind closed doors and I think it will be
closed doors and I think it will be like that for a long period of time,
like that for a long period of time, so we sort of need to get used to
so we sort of need to get used to it, so it is a good way to start.
it, so it is a good way to start. Play starts in the next half hour or
Play starts in the next half hour or so.
The QPR chief executive Lee Hoos says the club is ‘stunned’,
"appalled" and "vehemently opposed" to the Football League’s plan
for the Championship to resume onJune 20th.
He says there was no consultation with clubs before last
night’s announcement by the League.
The QPR Manager Mark Warburton says they are going too
quickly, with players yet to start contact training.
The EFL say the date is provisional and "subject to the strict proviso
"that all safety requirements and government guidance is met".
Staying with football, Manchester United have extended
Odion Ighalo’s loan from Chinese club Shanghai Shenhua tilJanuary.
The original deal expired yesterday.
The Premier League is set to resume on the 17thJune.
England’s three—match rugby league Test series
with Australia has been cancelled because of the pandemic.
New England coach Shaun Wane was due to take charge against the World Cup
holders in October and November, but the series has been called off
due to what’s been cited as the "the continued complications
"surrounding global travel"
The British Basketball League have cancelled the the current
season saying it wouldn’t be financially viable to play behind
closed doors.
The season was suspended in March with Glasgow
top of the table with five games left to play.
It’s now been voided, meaning no title will be awarded.
That’s all the sport for now.
Now on BBC News — it’s time for Your Questions Answered.
You’ve been sending in your health related questions
With me to answer them is Professor Allyson Pollock,
Director of the Institute of Health and Society
at Newcastle University.
Also, I’mjoined by Dr Alan Maryon—Davis,
Honorary Professor of Public Health at King’s College London.
Let’s crack on with the questions, and Alan, if I can start with you,
and Alan, if I ran start with you, this one
and Alan, if I can start with you, this one from Paul. If a child in a
this one from Paul. If a child in a classroom starts coughing and
classroom starts coughing and sneezing, does that child get sent
sneezing, does that child get sent home and told to isolate, and do all
home and told to isolate, and do all the other children get sent home and
the other children get sent home and told to isolate too? That particular
told to isolate too? That particular child will get sent home and told to
child will get sent home and told to isolate for seven days, as anybody
isolate for seven days, as anybody does who develops symptoms, and of
does who develops symptoms, and of course the other people in their
course the other people in their household should isolate for M
household should isolate for 14 days, but as
household should isolate for M days, but as far as the other
days, but as far as the other children in the class are concerned,
children in the class are concerned, no, not yet. Not unless that child
no, not yet. Not unless that child who was sent home with the symptoms
who was sent home with the symptoms has a test and that test is
has a test and that test is positive. And then what should
positive. And then what should happen then is the tracing system,
happen then is the tracing system, if it is up and running, and it is a
if it is up and running, and it is a while
if it is up and running, and it is a whila yet
if it is up and running, and it is a while yet before it fully is, will
while yet before it fully is, will make contact with the school, and
make contact with the school, and then things will follow from that.
then things will follow from that. It strikes me —— it is likely that
It strikes me -- it is likely that the group of
It strikes me —— it is likely that the group of children who are
the group of children who are closest to that child and possibly
closest to that child and possibly the teacher as well will have two
the teacher as well will have two self—isolate asked about. It does
self-isolate asked about. It does depend on
self—isolate asked about. It does depend on various things happening
depend on various things happening —— self—isolate after that. It does
-- self-isolate after that. It does depend on
—— self—isolate after that. It does depend on various things happening
depend on various things happening in order. If we have a track and
in order. If we have a track and trace system, as a child is found to
trace system, as a child is found to be positive, whatever classroom that
be positive, whatever classroom that child has been in presumably will be
child has been in presumably will be told you will have to go home? Well,
told you will have to go home? Well, the guidance from the government is
the guidance from the government is exactly as Alan has described it,
exactly as Alan has described it, and I recommend people read the
and I recommend people read the guidance for schools and four
guidance for schools and four children and staff with infections.
children and staff with infections. But we’ve just finished a report
But we’ve just finished a report through the independent SAGE
through the independent SAGE committee, on when school should
committee, on when school should return, and we came to the
return, and we came to the conclusion that most schools weren’t
conclusion that most schools weren’t yet ready to return because the
yet ready to return because the systems haven’t been put in place to
systems haven’t been put in place to protect the children and staff and
protect the children and staff and the community. Of course a key
the community. Of course a key systems that Alan has pointed out
systems that Alan has pointed out that the system called contact
that the system rallcd contact tracing,
that the system called contact tracing, where if a child or staff
tracing, where if a child or staff and I have symptoms, not only do
and I have symptoms, not only do they isolate but they should contact
they isolate but they should contact their GP and then have a test, and
their GP and then have a test, and in turn the public health department
in turn the public health department should in theory be notified, and
should in theory be notified, and they would send out contact traces.
they would send out contact traces. But this system isn’t yet up and
But this system isn’t yet up and running, and it is not due to be up
running, and it is not due to be up and mnning until
running, and it is not due to be up and running until the end of
running, and it is not due to be up and running until the end ofJune.
and mnning until the end of june. We have
and running until the end ofJune. We have also got a second problem,
We have also got a second problam, which is
We have also got a second problem, which is we don’t really have very
which is we don’t really have very good data at the local level on
good data at the [oral level on exactly
good data at the local level on exactly how many cases there are
exactly how many cases there are going on in the community, and
going on in the community, and that’s because these have not been
that’s because these have not been reported to GPs or to NHS 111. The
reported to GPs or to NHS111. The third issue,
reported to GPs or to NHS 111. The third issue, though, is that schools
third issue, though, is that schools ran do a
third issue, though, is that schools can do a lot to prepare themselves,
ran do a lot to prepare themselves, so there
can do a lot to prepare themselves, so there shouldn’t be a lot of
so there shouldn’t be a lot of movement across classes. Our report
movement across classes. Our report recommends having very small class
recommends having very small class sizes. In Denmark, they went as low
sizes. In Denmark, they went as low as six to ten, so you really should
as six to ten, so you really should have very small class sizes, so they
have very small class sizes, so they should be operating in a bubble, and
should be operating in a bubbla, and you would have
should be operating in a bubble, and you would have staggered meals,
you would have staggered meals, staggered playtimes, and you would
staggered playtimes, and you would not have a lot of contact across
not have a lot of contact across classes and across the school. So if
classes and across the school. So if you ran
classes and across the school. So if you can create small bubbles, then
you ran create small bubbles, then actually that
you can create small bubbles, then actually that means increasing the
actually that means increasing the staffing levels of course, but that
staffing levels of course, but that means then you are decreasing the
means then you are decreasing the risk to the schools. So the school
risk to the schools. So the school needs to be prepared. In the
needs to be prepared. In the independent Sage report, we do
independent Sage report, we do publish risk assessment framework
publish risk assessment framework for the schools, the community, for
for the schools, the community, for individuals and for staff members
individuals and for staff members and parents. 0K, Dr
individuals and for staff members and parents. 0K, DrAlan, if you
and parents. 0K, Dr Alan, ifyou could take
and parents. 0K, DrAlan, if you could take this one, can we share
could take this one, ran we share food at a
could take this one, can we share food at a barbecue if we stay two
food at a barbecue if we stay two metres apart from other guests? That
metres apart from other guests? That is from Hope, I think that is the
is from Hope, I think that is the name rather than any expectation!
name rather than any expectation! Well, Hope, the food won’t pass on
Well, Hope, the food won’t pass on any infection but what you have to
any infection but what you have to be very careful of is the utensils,
be very careful of is the utensils, knives and forks, cups and saucers,
knives and forks, cups and saucers, glasses, you should take your own
glasses, you should take your own and only use your own stuff, don’t
and only use your own stuff, don’t share it around with other
share it around with other households. It is all about this
households. It is all about this business of mixing households,
business of mixing households, that’s the problem. So keep to your
that’s the problem. So keep to your own gear, but you could dip into the
own gear, but you could dip into the food. Obviously no double dipping,
food. Obviously no double dipping, that’s not allowed, but you can fill
that’s not allowed, but you ran fill “P
that’s not allowed, but you ran fill up your plate
that’s not allowed, but you can fill up your plate with stuff and that
up your plate with stuff and that should be fine. The problem is
should be fine. The problem is sharing all the gear. And of course
sharing all the gear. And of course when you go to the loo, if you go to
when you go to the loo, if you go to the loo in
when you go to the loo, if you go to the [00 in the
when you go to the loo, if you go to the loo in the house, which is
the loo in the house, which is allowed,
the [00 in the house, which is allowed, then
the loo in the house, which is allowed, then you should make sure
allowed, then you should make sure that you wipe the handles, the loo
that you wipe the handles, the loo handle and the door handle, and is
handla and the door handle, and is much
handle and the door handle, and is much else as you can as you come out
much else as you ran as you come out and make
much else as you can as you come out and make sure
much else as you ran as you come out and make sure you
much else as you can as you come out and make sure you have washed your
and make sure you have washed your hands as you come away, thoroughly,
hands as you come away, thoroughly, thoroughly wash your hands, as you
thoroughly wash your hands, as you come away from the loo afterwards.
come away from the loo afterwards. That’s absolutely crucial. And a
That’s absolutely cmcial. And a thorough
That’s absolutely crucial. And a thorough answer too. Professor
thorough answer too. Professor Pollock, this one from Paul on
Pollock, this one from Paul on Stockton—on—Tees. He asked the rate
Stockton-on-Tees. He asked the rate of
Stockton—on—Tees. He asked the rate of infection has been different in
of infection has been different in each part of the country, so how can
each part of the country, so how ran we know
each part of the country, so how can we know what the real risks are for
we know what the real risks are for us locally, and what will the
us locally, and what will the government he doing to keep on top
government he doing to keep on top of this? It very much goes to what
of this? It very much goes to what you are saying earlier. It does,
you are saying earlier. It does, unfortunately. So at the moment what
unfortunately. So at the moment what we have in the way of data at a
we have in the way of data at a [oral
we have in the way of data at a local level are cases in hospital
local level are rases in hospital that
local level are cases in hospital that have been confirmed, the blood
that have been confirmed, the blood test have gone missing, so we only
test have gone missing, so we only have the hospital confirmed cases,
have the hospital confirmed rases, and we
have the hospital confirmed cases, and we also only have the deaths, so
and we also only have the deaths, so we are very reliant on those but
we are very reliant on those but they are the tip of the iceberg.
they are the tip of the iceberg. They may be good proxy measures but
They may be good proxy measures but they don’t really tell you what is
they don’t really tell you what is going on in the community, and
going on in the community, and that’s because people were told to
that’s because people were told to stay at and not report their
stay at and not report their symptoms to GPs, and also they were
symptoms to GPs, and also they were told to phone NHS 111, who did not
told to phone NHS111, who did not return
told to phone NHS 111, who did not return the data to GPs either. Now,
return the data to GPs either. Now, there is a formal, established
there is a formal, established system for notifying suspected
system for notifying suspected rases,
system for notifying suspected cases, but the government has choose
rases, but the government has choose not to use
cases, but the government has choose not to use that, and this is the
not to use that, and this is the real problem for the epidemic,
real problem for the epidemic, because it won’t be dealt with at
because it won’t be dealt with at [oral
because it won’t be dealt with at local level. The fire needs to be
[oral lavel. The fire needs to be put out
local level. The fire needs to be put out locally, which is why you
put out locally, which is why you need teams of local contact traces
need teams of [oral contact traces and you need
need teams of local contact traces and you need really good data from
and you need really good data from the tests that is on time. So we
the tests that is on time. So we have not got a functioning and
have not got a functioning and operational systems yet, which is
operational systems yet, which is why there is such concern about
why there is such concern about people returning to work, and people
peopla returning to work, and peopla returning to
people returning to work, and people returning to schools as well.
returning to schools as well. Instead of putting in place a really
Instead of putting in place a really good system, the government have not
good system, the government have not taken its responsibilities seriously
taken its responsibilities seriously and have not yet put in the systems
and have not yet put in the systems that will give the public the
that will give the public the reassurance they need. We are having
reassurance they need. We are having slight problems with your line,
slight problems with your line, Professor, bear
slight problems with your line, Professor, bearwith
slight problems with your line, Professor, bear with us, we will
Professor, bear with us, we will come back to you. Allen, this
come back to you. Allen, this question from Kelly. When the
question from Kelly. when the government
question from Kelly. When the government says six people can meet
government says six people ran meet today outside,
government says six people can meet today outside, is this six adults or
today outside, is this six adults or does the number include children? It
does the number include children? It includes children. It basically
includes children. It basically means up to six people can meet, and
means up to six people ran meet, and it ran be up to six
means up to six people can meet, and it can be up to six people from six
it ran be up to six peopla from six different
it can be up to six people from six different households. Although the
different households. Although the general advice is to limit the
general advice is to limit the number of households as you can,
number of households as you ran, because
number of households as you can, because obviously the more
because obviously the more households you mix up with, the
households you mix up with, the greater the risk that one of those
greater the risk that one of those households might have the virus. So
households might have the vims. So try to keep it
households might have the virus. 50 try to keep it minimal if you can,
try to keep it minimal if you ran, but you are
try to keep it minimal if you can, but you are allowed up to six. Yes,
but you are allowed up to six. Yes, it ran be
but you are allowed up to six. Yes, it can be children as well. There is
it ran be children as well. There is a mixed
it can be children as well. There is a mixed evidence on this, but it is
a mixed evidence on this, but it is thought that children are actually,
thought that children are actually, not only are they less likely to
not only are they lass likely to suffer
not only are they less likely to suffer from symptoms or any illness
suffer from symptoms or any illness from the virus, they seem to be
from the virus, they seem to be protected in some way very largely,
protected in some way very largely, but also the evidence seems to be
but also the evidence seems to be that they are less likely to pass
that they are lass likely to pass the
that they are less likely to pass the virus on, which if that is true,
the virus on, which if that is true, and it is not actually certain yet
and it is not actually certain yet but it is looking that way from the
but it is looking that way from the evidence, that is a blessing,
evidence, that is a blessing, because of course children do love
because of course children do love to rush and hug people and mix—up
to rush and hug peopla and mix-up with peopla,
to rush and hug people and mix—up with people, and the worry is that
with peopla, and the worry is that they will then
with people, and the worry is that they will then bring that virus into
they will then bring that virus into a household where there is an older
a household where there is an older person or a vulnerable person. I
person or a vulnerable person. I know some adults like that as well,
know some adults like that as well, actually, Alan! That’s true! Ms is
actually, Alan! That’s tme! Ms is the
actually, Alan! That’s true! Ms is the advice for parents with young
the advice for parents with young children about meeting up because
children about meeting up because they dearty
children about meeting up because they clearly don’t understand the
they dearty don’t understand the social
they clearly don’t understand the social distance? There are games you
social distance? There are games you ran play
social distance? There are games you can play obviously which don’t
ran play obviously which don’t involve
can play obviously which don’t involve hugging and getting really
involve hugging and getting really close to each other with the kids.
dose to each other with the kids. So if you ran
close to each other with the kids. 50 if you can think of games that
So if you ran think of games that involve
So if you can think of games that involve about, then that’s a good
involve about, then that’s a good idea but it is difficult. —— games
idea but it is difficult. -- games that
idea but it is difficult. —— games that involve that. The main thing is
that involve that. The main thing is there is some comfort that they are
there is some comfort that they are just that little bit less likely to
just that little bit less likely to pass it on, but tried to think of
pass it on, but tried to think of “75
pass it on, but tried to think of ways of keeping them separate.
ways of keeping them separate. Children on the whole, even quite
Children on the whole, even quite young children, understand about two
young children, understand about two metres, not sure they know how far
metres, not sure they know how far it is, but it is the length of a
it is, but it is the langth of a grain person,
it is, but it is the length of a grain person, perhaps as one way of
grain person, perhaps as one way of doing it. -- of a
grain person, perhaps as one way of doing it. —— of a grown person. And
doing it. -- of a grown person. And they have
doing it. —— of a grown person. And they have certainly got the message
they have certainly got the message about watching hand so keep it
about watching hand so keep it going. Yes, you can take hide and
going. Yes, you ran take hide and seek so far,
going. Yes, you can take hide and seek so far, can’t you? But anyway,
seek so far, can’t you? But anyway, this one from Cathy. Why is the rate
this one from Cathy. why is the rate of new
this one from Cathy. Why is the rate of new infection in the UK so high,
of new infection in the UK so high, even though we have been in
even though we have been in lockdown? I think the answer to that
lockdown? I think the answer to that is we were a bit slow off the mark
is we were a bit slow off the mark to start with, won’t we, in this
to start with, won’t we, in this country, despite the warnings we
country, despite the warnings we were getting from Italy, and there
were getting from Italy, and there were some dire stories coming out
were some dire stories coming out from northern Italy in particular of
from northern Italy in particular of the health care services and
the health rare services and hospitals
the health care services and hospitals being overwhelmed. We were
hospitals being overwhelmed. We were a little bit slow getting up to
a little bit slow getting up to speed with that. We were a bit slow
speed with that. We were a bit slow with the whole testing procedure,
with the whole testing procedure, and we were a bit slow with lockdown
and we were a bit slow with lockdown too. So consequently our figures
too. So consequently our figures shot up, and you see those graphs on
shot up, and you see those graphs on the television, almost a vertical
the television, almost a vertical rise in the rates in February, early
rise in the rates in Febmary, earty March in
rise in the rates in February, early March in particular. So we are
March in particular. So we are coming down from a higher position.
coming down from a higher position. It is taking us longer to come down.
It is taking us longer to come down. We are coming down steadily. There
We are coming down steadily. There is a bit of levelling off
We are coming down steadily. There is a bit of levelling offjust in
is a bit of levelling offjust in the last few days, which are
the last few days, which are slightly worrying, but we are coming
slightly worrying, but we are coming down reasonably steadily, it is just
down reasonably steadily, it is just going to take much longer. Professor
going to take much longer. Professor Allyson Pollock, I think we have
Allyson Pollock, I think we have tried to fiddle with the line, let’s
tried to fiddle with the line, let’s see if we are any better for stock
see if we are any better for stock rat is as
see if we are any better for stock cat is as white as the rate of new
rat is as white as the rate of new infection
cat is as white as the rate of new infection still so high here, even
infection still so high here, even though we have been in lockdown?
though we have been in lockdown? Well, we don’t really know. We only
Well, we don’t really know. We only know about the rate of infections
know about the rate of infections from the number of deaths, the
from the number of deaths, the number of hospital cases, but we
number of hospital rases, but we don’t
number of hospital cases, but we don’t know what is actually
don’t know what is actually happening in the community and of
happening in the community and of course what is happening is this is
course what is happening is this is not just one
course what is happening is this is notjust one big, huge outbreak,
not just one big, huge outbreak, this is
notjust one big, huge outbreak, this is consisting of thousands of
this is consisting of thousands of little outbreaks going on in
little outbreaks going on in different parts of the country at
different parts of the country at different times. So the south—west
different times. So the south-west for example
different times. So the south—west for example doesn’t have much
for example doesn’t have much infection or hospital admissions
infection or hospital admissions compared with the north—east and
compared with the north-east and north-west,
compared with the north—east and north—west, so what you are having
north-west, so what you are having is the
north—west, so what you are having is the outbreaks going on in
is the outbreaks going on in different parts of the country, and
different parts of the country, and when you put them together, then you
when you put them together, then you still have one epidemic, so it is
still have one epidemic, so it is decreasing. Of course, London
decreasing. Of course, London doesn’t have nearly the same amount
doesn’t have hearty the same amount of
doesn’t have nearly the same amount of infection that it had three or
of infection that it had three or four weeks ago, whereas other parts
four weeks ago, whereas other parts have much more than they had a few
have much more than they had a few weeks ago. 0K.
have much more than they had a few weeks ago. OK. We are still having
weeks ago. OK. We are still having slight problem is with the line but
slight problem is with the line but I will persevere, everyone tells me
I will persevere, everyone tells me this new technology is wonderful.
this new technology is wonderful. I’ve got to believe it. Let’s have
I’ve got to believe it. Let’s have this one from Julie. She writes my
this one from julie. She writes my husband
this one from Julie. She writes my husband has been shielding since
husband has been shielding since March, I am due to go back to work
March, I am due to go back to work once all the shops open on the 15th
once all the shops open on the 15th of june.
once all the shops open on the 15th ofJune. Should I go? Again, that is
of june. Should I go? Again, that is a tricky one, it
ofJune. Should I go? Again, that is a tricky one, it depends what kind
a tricky one, it depends what kind of work julie
a tricky one, it depends what kind of workJulie does. It sounds to me
of work julie does. It sounds to me as though she
of workJulie does. It sounds to me as though she probably works in
as though she probably works in retail, am I right, Julie? I don’t
retail, am I right, julie? I don’t know. If you
retail, am I right, Julie? I don’t know. If you work in retail, and the
know. If you work in retail, and the shops when they open on the 15th of
shops when they open on the 15th of june will have
shops when they open on the 15th of June will have worked out very
june will have worked out very carefully
June will have worked out very carefully how to maintain the social
carefully how to maintain the social distancing of the customers. They
distancing of the customers. They will probably have a one—way system
will probably have a one-way system around
will probably have a one—way system around the shop, they will be very
around the shop, they will be very careful about goods that are
careful about goods that are handled, they might try to wipe them
handled, they might try to wipe them down in some way, or steam cleaned
down in some way, or steam cleaned them, or do various ways to clean
them, or do various ways to clean the goods. So it
them, or do various ways to clean the goods. 50 it depends in a way
the goods. So it depends in a way how dangerous or risky your
how dangerous or risky your workplace is. And it also depends to
workplace is. And it also depends to some extent how vulnerable your
some extent how vulnerable your shouldered person is. Whether they
shouldered person is. whether they have a working
shouldered person is. Whether they have a working immune system. Let me
have a working immune system. Let me stick with that because the next
stick with that because the next question from Glen in Darlington
question from Glen in Dartington 5575
question from Glen in Dartington says I am
question from Glen in Darlington says I am shielding, and now we can
says I am shielding, and now we ran go out in a limited
says I am shielding, and now we can go out in a limited way, at what
go out in a limited way, at what point do I return to work? A lot of
point do I return to work? A lot of peopla on that
point do I return to work? A lot of people on that list of the most
people on that list of the most vulnerable, one minute we’re being
vulnerabla, one minute we’re being told, no, you
vulnerable, one minute we’re being told, no, you mustn’t move anywhere,
told, no, you mustn’t move anywhere, and then over the weekend, suddenly
and then over the weekend, suddenly it was all change. There is a lot of
it was all change. There is a lot of confusion out there. There is a lot
confusion out there. There is a lot of confusion out there, it is not at
of confusion out there, it is not at all clear. Certainly the government
all clear. Certainly the government is not talking about letting
is not talking about letting shielded people go to yet. They are
shielded people go to yet. They are talking about them being able to go
talking about them being able to go outside in the open air, whereas
outside in the open air, whereas they have been cooped up indoors,
they have been cooped up indoors, should have been anyway, for the
should have been anyway, for the last ten weeks. But they can go
last ten weeks. But they ran go outside
last ten weeks. But they can go outside and they can also meet one
outside and they ran also meet one other person
outside and they can also meet one other person from another household.
other person from another household. So it is a very small step, but
So it is a very small step, but nevertheless people are a bit
nevertheless people are a bit confused about it. That will be a
confused about it. That will be a while
confused about it. That will be a whila yet
confused about it. That will be a while yet before people can go out
while yet before people ran go out to work.
while yet before people can go out to work. Of course they can work
to work. Of course they ran work from home
to work. Of course they can work from home if that is possible, and
from home if that is possible, and that is certainly advisable, but it
that is certainly advisable, but it does depend very much on the nature
does depend very much on the nature of the workplace they will be going
of the workplace they will be going to. This from Steve, with the new
to. This from Steve, with the new shielding regulation allowing us to
shielding regulation allowing us to go out, should we be wearing face
go out, should we be wearing face masks? Again and again, people still
masks? Again and again, peopla still not clear
masks? Again and again, people still not clear about whether they are
not clear about whether they are worth having or not. Well, there is
worth having or not. Well, there is no strong evidence. Face masks have
no strong evidence. Face masks have been used with other measures in
been used with other measures in Korea, South Korea and Taiwan, but
Korea, South Korea and Taiwan, but the evidence isn’t strong and they
the evidence isn’t strong and they have been no trials, and the very
have been no trials, and the very big worry about face is that people
big worry about face is that peopla put them on,
big worry about face is that people put them on, put them off, touch
put them on, put them off, touch their face
put them on, put them off, touch theirface and then
put them on, put them off, touch their face and then they touch other
their face and then they touch other objects without washing their hands.
objects without washing their hands. So at the moment the advice is in
So at the moment the advice is in closed settings, on the Underground
dosed settings, on the Underground or the tube,
closed settings, on the Underground or the tube, but you have the same
or the tube, but you have the same problam,
or the tube, but you have the same problem, people will take them off,
problam, peopla will take them off, put them in
problem, people will take them off, put them in their pockets and then
put them in their pockets and then touch other surfaces. 50 really the
touch other surfaces. So really the hand washing
touch other surfaces. 50 really the hand washing and hygiene is the
hand washing and hygiene is the really important bit, and not
really important bit, and not putting facemasks on and touching
putting facemasks on and touching your face and your nose with your
your face and your nose with your hands. So really important.
hands. 50 really important. Facemasks, there is no strong
Facemasks, there is no strong evidence for, and the only time that
evidence for, and the only time that you might want to use them is if
you might want to use them is if you’ve got symptoms, though you
you’ve got symptoms, though you should really be self—isolating at
should really be self-isolating at that point.
should really be self—isolating at that point. But really the jury is
that point. But really the jury is completely out and there have been
completely out and there have been no studies, and I think it is
no studies, and I think it is interesting, if you watch people
interesting, if you watch peopla with
interesting, if you watch people with facemasks, and how often they
with facemasks, and how often they left them on and off their face and
left them on and off their face and touch their
left them on and off their face and touch theirface
left them on and off their face and touch their face with them. So you
touch their face with them. So you would really need to make sure that
would really need to make sure that this intervention wasn’t doing more
this intervention wasn’t doing more harm than good. A final one to you,
harm than good. A final one to you, Alan, from Peter in Hampshire. What
Alan, from Peter in Hampshire. what are the
Alan, from Peter in Hampshire. What are the chances with someone with no
are the chances with someone with no symptoms passing on the virus? Well,
symptoms passing on the vims? Well, we do
symptoms passing on the virus? Well, we do know from studies around the
we do know from studies around the world that it is perfectly possible
world that it is perfectly possibla to pass on
world that it is perfectly possible to pass on the virus, even if you
to pass on the virus, even if you have no symptoms of covert. There is
have no symptoms of covert. There is the so—called asymptomatic
the so—called asymptomatic transmission, which can occur
the so—called asymptomatic transmission, which can occurjust
transmission, which ran occurjust two or
transmission, which can occurjust two or three days before symptoms
two or three days before symptoms appear, or maybe symptoms may never
appear, or maybe symptoms may never appear in some people, but it is
appear in some peopla, but it is possibla to
appear in some people, but it is possible to pass on the virus, yes
possibla to pass on the virus, yes it is, so
possible to pass on the virus, yes it is, so yes, that is a worry and
it is, so yes, that is a worry and one of the most difficult things to
one of the most difficult things to come to terms with, in terms of
come to terms with, in terms of controlling the epidemic and
controlling the epidemic and understanding the epidemiology of it
understanding the epidemiology of it all and of course that is why we are
all and of course that is why we are all waiting really poor some of the
all waiting really poor some of the antibody studies which we hope will
antibody studies which we hope will be put in place soon, antibody
be put in place soon, antibody testing, so we get a much better
testing, so we get a much better idea of how much disease there is
idea of how much disease there is around and a much better idea of how
around and a much better idea of how that disease is transmitted even
that disease is transmitted even among people who don’t have
among peopla who don’t have symptoms.
among people who don’t have symptoms. I am
among people who don’t have symptoms. lam most
among people who don’t have symptoms. I am most grateful to both
symptoms. I am most grateful to both of you. Thank you for persevering,
of you. Thank you for persevering, we got pretty much most of what you
we got pretty much most of what you had to say, director of the
had to say, director of the Institute of health and Society at
Institute of health and Society at Newcastle University, thank you both
Nemsﬂa University, thank you both very much.
1m
Now on what is another sunny day for us, new figures say we have had the
us, new figures say we have had the sunniest spring since records began
sunniest spring since records began in 1929.
The Met Office says the amount of sunshine across the UK has been
"absolutely extrordinary".
Roger Harrabin has been looking at the reasons behind it —
and asking whether the glorious weather is also a cause
for concern.
The sun has made locked in so much easier to beer for those lucky
enough to get outside.
We’ve seen record sunshine in all the home nations,
barely a drop of rain.
But the statistics have dumbfounded scientists.
Look at the numbers.
On average, the UK gets A36 hours of spring sun.
The previous record is 555 of sun between March and the end of May.
This year, we’ve bathed in 613 hours and that’s still rising until final
figures later today.
A Met Office spokesperson said they were staggered by the statistics.
They are very un—British.
Especially following the drenching winter,
which saw widespread flooding and the wettest February on record.
One extreme to another.
Both phenomena are driven by the jet stream, the high—level wind that
locks weather patterns in place for long periods.
The contrast is unprecedented.
It’s the shift from the amount of rainfall that we saw
during the winter, December, January and February,
into the spring months, March, April, May.
That is the largest difference in rainfall that we have seen
from a notably wet season, the winter season, into spring.
We’ve never seen that before.
And we do shift from wetter seasons to dry seasons and vice versa,
we have seen prolonged droughts in the past,
and we have seen wetter seasons in the past.
But it’s the largest difference that we have ever recorded
and that is why I use the word unprecedented.
You can blame the jet stream.
That is the high—level wind that can lock in place
weather patterns in the UK.
Whether they are wet or dry.
Is man—made climate change playing a part?
Well, we know it is warming the Arctic.
Melting ice and causing wildfires in places like Siberia, which hit
record temperatures recently.
Is this affecting the jet stream?
Scientists are not yet sure.
They do know this fine spell is set to end,
so enjoy it while you can.
F.
Is the lockdown restrictions are eased, grandparents have been hit
eased, grandparents have been hit hardest perhaps of all. So if you
hardest perhaps of all. So if you are reuniting your family with
are reuniting your family with grandparents today or even perhaps
grandparents today or even perhaps introducing them to a new edition of
introducing them to a new edition of the family, we would like to see
the family, we would like to see your pictures and videos.
m:
We will be showing those later on. Now it is time for the weather with
Now it is time for the weather with Tomasz Schafernaker.
ii
It has been so warm for the last few weeks, and very sunny too, a bit of
weeks, and very sunny too, a bit of a temperature blip in the next
a temperature blip in the next couple of days, from mid week
couple of days, from mid week onwards some of us will have a 10
onwards some of us will have a 10 degrees drop compared to what we
degrees drop compared to what we have had recently. The skies are
have had recently. The skies are clear across the UK, but to the
dear across the UK, but to the north of
clear across the UK, but to the north of us we are starting to see
north of us we are starting to see changes, closer to Iceland and
changes, closer to Iceland and across the Norwegian Sea.
changes, closer to Iceland and across the Norwegian See. In fact,
across the Norwegian Sea. In fact, over the
across the Norwegian See. In fact, over the next few days we will see
over the next few days we will see wind currents shifting, rather than
wind currents shifting, rather than air coming in
wind currents shifting, rather than air coming infrom
wind currents shifting, rather than air coming in from the south, it
air coming in from the south, it will start coming from the north
will start coming from the north again, and the winds will strengthen
again, and the winds will strengthen again, so you can imagine it will
again, so you ran imagine it will feel a
again, so you can imagine it will feel a little bit colder. Now one
feel a little bit colder. Now one thing that many gardeners and
thing that many gardeners and growers are hoping for is a bit of
growers are hoping for is a bit of rainfall, and at the moment it looks
rainfall, and at the moment it looks as though the rain is going to be
as though the rain is going to be very hit and miss across the UK in
very hit and miss across the UK in the next few days. Now, the late
the next few days. Now, the late afternoon temperatures today,
afternoon temperatures today, obviously not a drop of rain and
obviously not a drop of rain and very warm, 26 or 27 degrees, mid 205
very warm, 26 or 27 degrees, mid 205 in the north of the country as well,
in the north of the country as well, and to the very far north—west you
and to the very far north-west you ran start
and to the very far north—west you can start to see the changes in that
ran start to see the changes in that weather.
can start to see the changes in that weather. 50 with the first weather
weather. So with the first weather front
weather. 50 with the first weather front approaching the very far
front approaching the very far north—west of Scotland by the end of
north-west of Scotland by the end of the night but
north—west of Scotland by the end of the night but for most of us it is
the night but for most of us it is clear again and copycat conditions
dear again and copycat conditions on Tuesday.
clear again and copycat conditions on Tuesday. High pressure is
on Tuesday. High pressure is essentially still in charge but
essentially still in charge but there is this weak weather front
there is this weak weather front that has sort of snuck into its edge
that has sort of snuck into its edge here, so that does mean more cloud
here, so that does mean more cloud and the possibility of some rain
and the possibility of some rain across the Highlands through the
across the Highlands through the course of the day. There could be
course of the day. There could be some heavy showers in one or two
some heavy showers in one or two spots across Scotland and the very
spots across Scotland and the very far north of England, but the vast
far north of England, but the vast majority of us on Tuesday, tomorrow,
majority of us on Tuesday, tomorrow, again, another sunny day and a very
again, another sunny day and a very warm one too. Then from roundabout
warm one too. Then from roundabout Wednesday it starts to change. You
Wednesday it starts to change. You ran see a
Wednesday it starts to change. You can see a weather front pretty much
ran see a weather front pretty much slicing the UK
can see a weather front pretty much slicing the UK there in half. 50
slicing the UK there in half. So that
slicing the UK there in half. 50 that means increasing amounts of
that means increasing amounts of rain. In one or two spots it could
rain. In one or two spots it could be a little on the heavy side. Many
be a little on the heavy side. Many of us will probably
be a little on the heavy side. Many of us will probablyjust have
of us will probablyjust have overcast skies and little bits and
overcast skies and little bits and pieces of rain. Some of us will have
pieces of rain. Some of us will have mostly bright weather but the main
mostly bright weather but the main feature is just how much cooler it
feature is just how much cooler it will be. 12 in Newcastle and in the
will be. 12 in Newcastle and in the teens for everybody, and that cooler
teens for everybody, and that cooler trend with more cloud and a chance
trend with more cloud and a chance of some rain, which is good news,
of some rain, which is good news, will continue through the week.
This is BBC News.
The headlines...
The biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway —
primary schools in England re—open and it’s back to business too
for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
We’re now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little
bit more back to normal, but look, that isn’t
an overnight, big bang thing.
It’s measured, progressive, we do it in a safe and responsible way.
In England, hundreds of thousands of children returned
to primary schools this morning — but not all parents agree
that it’s safe enough
How is it safe to send back?
The pressure is being put back onto us and the children.
I woke up this morning and Ifelt anxious, I know
the logic and the science, but it’s still scary.
Confusion for some — as restrictions are eased on those
classed as extremely vulnerable.
Curfews ignored — a sixth night of protests erupts
in cities across the US — sparked by the death in police
custody of George Floyd.
And, they’re off...
Sort of.
Horse racing is back — as the world of sport
prepares to return, but in front of empty stands.
The Chancellor Rishi Sunak has said that people in the UK
are slowly going to get their lives back to normal — as the biggest
easing of lockdown measures since they were introduced
in March gets underway.
Ministers insist they’re following the science and taking
the steps in a ‘very cautious’ way.
All four nations of the UK now have guidelines in place
allowing more than two people to meet outside.
Vulnerable people in England and Wales —
who have been advised to stay home since March — have been told
they can go outdoors again.
But shielding advice in Northern Ireland
and Scotland hasn’t changed.
The first phase in the reopening of schools
has begun in England, with children in nurseries
and Years One and Six returning this morning.
And, provided they meet safety guidelines to protect
shoppers and workers, open air markets and car
showrooms in England are also able to trade again.
But the measures come as another group of public health
officials warn the pace of change in England could lead to a rise
in the infection rate.
In a moment we’ll be looking in more depth at the advice for parents —
and the most vulnerable — but first, here’s Duncan Kennedy.
Some schools, open—air markets, car showrooms and some sports.
It may not be a Manic Monday of openings but the lid on lockdown
is starting to creek open.
At the Sandbanks Beach in Dorset, the new week and new month brought
more glorious sunshine.
From today, six people can now gather outside in England
if they keep two metres apart.
So, what do people here think of that?
I think we just need to be cautious about it.
Even though we can come out, we have to be cautious.
Everyone seems to respect other people’s space.
You see now there is a good amount of space between
everybody on the beach.
You feel OK? I feel fine.
But local officials say with the numbers they have seen
outside in recent days, the message about the rules
still isn’t clear.
I think people are completely confused now by the rules.
They’re so inconsistent.
They don’t make any sense to people.
You ask people on the beach what the rules are, they don’t know
and frankly they don’t care any more.
What now are the rules for gathering?
In England from today, groups of up to six can
meet anywhere outdoors, including in private gardens.
In Wales, any number of people from a maximum of two households
are able to gather outside, but ideally travelling no more
than five miles from home to meet.
In Scotland, up to eight people from a maximum of two households
are able to meet outside.
Whilst in Northern Ireland, groups of up to six can now
also gather outside.
But everywhere, social—distancing rules apply.
All these changes in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland
are dividing opinion.
It’s making some people nervous, but others say they welcome
the opportunity to move out of lockdown.
The one guiding principle you’ll hear across the nation,
and it’s the one we have heard throughout this crisis,
is that science must lead the way.
And the following of that science was again
the Government message today.
We must do this cautiously which is precisely what we are doing.
We’ve also said if people comply with the rules and the test
and trace system is up and running, which it has been since Thursday,
then there is a good likelihood we will not breach the R value
factor above one.
But some health professionals remain nervous about the speed
of society’s reengagement.
I think it’s just a bit difficult to understand the message
when you’re urging caution at the same time as saying
that there are all these additional liberties to be taken.
Don’t get me wrong.
The vast majority of the public will follow those guidelines
extremely well but there is a danger there is a confusing message.
That whole national blended mood of the cautious and carefree
was also shared by some people we spoke to in Exeter today.
I’m delighted we can do it but it is tinged with nervousness.
Just a little bit concerned that it might be too early
and we might have a second wave.
Loosening lockdown measures are a challenge for everyone.
In our changing world of inside outside living.
Duncan Kennedy, BBC News, in Dorset.
Parents across England faced a dilemma this morning —
is it safe for children to go back to school?
After six weeks closed because of the Coronavirus —
primary schools re—opened this morning but parents don’t have
to send their children back.
Many teachers unions are warning it’s too soon for them to do so.
Dan Johnson reports.
After so many weeks, school’s back for summer.
Morning.
Welcome back.
At thisjunior school, it’sjust Year 6, the 10
and 11—year—olds returning.
There isn’t a head that doesn’t want as many pupils back as soon
as they can but as safely as we possibly can and that is
what we have been working to do over the last few weeks,
make sure our school is safe but welcoming to pupils.
Harry was keen to get back and see some of his friends and stuff,
he knows it’s going to be different but given the space they have got
and it’s only Year 6, hopefully, it should be OK.
I have to say I woke up and I did feel quite anxious this morning.
I know the logic, I know the science, but even
so, it’s quite scary.
And that’s why these are some of the few socially
distanced classrooms actually reaching their new
lower capacity today.
It’s be good to see my friends, albeit it’s only half the class
but it’s good to catch up with my mates.
I’ve wanted to come back for ages.
It’s been a bit hard at home.
My mum told me it would be a bit different than it used to be
so I was a bit nervous what would’ve happened.
But there’s huge variation across England.
In Walsall, two thirds of the schools are not
accepting more children yet.
I am very worried about the children being at home but, weighing it up,
I think their health is really important and the health
of their families and the wider community, as well.
I want to get them back as soon as possible,
but I will keep reviewing it and as soon as we are convinced that
everybody is saying the same thing, instead of having conflicting
messages, we will reopen.
And there are estimates that up to half of parents will have decided
to delay returning their kids to the classroom.
The risk of transmissibility, if he catches it, can he bring it
back, pass it on to other people?
It’s not clear.
For us, we wanted more evidence, how is it safe to send back?
The pressure is being put all on us as parents and teachers
and on the children.
Here, the children are being kept in smaller classroom pods or bubbles
so they’re not mixing.
But it’s the busier times like lunch that
are the real pinch points.
Now, it’s manageable with limited numbers of children.
But what about getting back to a full school?
That will be much harder.
Government guidance, as you know, has changed quite often.
They are starting to understand it’s the heads who need to make
those decisions and every head’s school community, circumstances
are different and therefore there will need to be flexibility.
More of England’s schools will get to this in the next week or two.
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland are expected to follow
in the months ahead.
Dan Johnson, BBC News, Hertfordshire.
In England and Wales, people who have been shielding —
those who are clinically very vulnerable to coronavirus —
can now exercise and meet people from another household outdoors.
But some medical professionals are concerned that the
changes come too soon,
they want to see the scientific evidence to show that it is safe.
Hywell Griffith reports.
After 11 weeks of shielding for Derek this is a day to savour.
Emphysema means his lungs are vulnerable.
He knows Covid—19 could kill him,
but being confined to his home in Treorchy for so long has been hard.
He says this is the end of his house arrest.
It’s relief.
You have got to be sensible.
You won’t see me on any beaches or with any crowds.
You have to use your sense.
If you’re not sensible you’re asking for trouble.
You’ve got to keep your distance.
From today, shielded patients in England
and Wales can go outdoors...
..and meet other people.
The world they’re going back into has changed considerably
but they are being assured it is safe.
Now that we have passed the peak and the prevalence of Covid—19
in the community has reduced significantly, we believe
that the risk to those shielding is lower.
For around 2.3 million patients in England and Wales
this is a huge step.
But it’s one some are reluctant to take.
The change in guidance came unexpectedly, with no clear
reduction in the R number, or the rate at which
the virus is reproducing.
Health charities say they’re being inundated
with questions which they’re finding difficult to answer.
Does this mean it’s the end of shielding?
Does this mean that my employer is going to now ask me
to go back to work?
"I am not ready for that, I’m not confident with that."
Also people are saying, is it safe?
The beaches are crowded, the parks are crowded,
the beauty spots, too.
And in this new world that’s developing is it now safe
for me to go forward?
The guidance on shielding in Scotland and Northern
Ireland hasn’t changed.
Across the UK there are calls for more tailored patient—specific
advice for what lies ahead for those most at risk.
Hywell Griffith, BBC News.
Let’s talk to our chief political correspondent Vicki Young.
The government seems determined to press ahead despite some concern.
press ahead despite some concern. Yes, the committee of scientists is
Yes, the committee of scientists is made up of dozens and dozens of
made up of dozens and dozens of peopla from
made up of dozens and dozens of people from all aspects of the
people from all aspects of the science community and they don’t all
science community and they don’t all agree about everything. It is like
agree about everything. It is like economic forecasting, they are
economic forecasting, they are trying to make forecasts and
trying to make forecasts and predictions and nothing is certain
predictions and nothing is certain in this, partly because they are
in this, partly because they are learning about this illness as they
learning about this illness as they go along as everyone else is as
go along as everyone else is as well. In the end this is about risk
well. In the end this is about risk and lowering that risk and no one is
and lowering that risk and no one is really talking about eradicating it
really talking about eradicating it completely. That is the decision
complately. That is the decision that peopla
completely. That is the decision that people have to take on the
that peopla have to take on the amount
that people have to take on the amount of risk you are willing to
amount of risk you are willing to live with will be different for
live with will be different for different people. —— and the amount.
different people. -- and the amount. That’s what
different people. —— and the amount. That’s what the government is
That’s what the government is balancing, schools, for example,
balancing, schools, for example, urging schools to open, but not all
urging schools to open, but not all of them are following the guidelines
of them are following the guidelines and taking back the different years
and taking back the different years at one point, so everyone is
at one point, so everyone is approaching this differently. The
approaching this differently. The Chancellor Rishi Sunak has his eyes
Chancellor Rishi Sunak has his eyes on the economy, and he has warned of
on the economy, and he has warned of a severe recession coming for the
a severe recession coming for the UK. He was out and about reassuring
UK. He was out and about reassuring peopla.
ii
It is absolutely safe and we have a very dear
It is absolutely safe and we have a very clear plan that we have been
very dear plan that we have been sticking to
very clear plan that we have been sticking to throughout the process
sticking to throughout the process of dealing with the coronavirus and
of dealing with the coronavirus and we are now at the stage of that plan
we are now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little
where we ran get our lives a little bit
where we ran get our lives a little hit back
where we can get our lives a little hit back to normal, but that isn’t
hit back to normal, but that isn’t an overnight big bang then, it is
an overnight big bang then, it is measured and progressive and we do
measured and progressive and we do it in a safe and responsible way and
it in a safe and responsible way and that is why today we are starting
that is why today we are starting with covered markets and dietary
with covered markets and dietary rooms and a couple of weeks will get
rooms and a couple of weeks will get the shops open and then hopefully in
the shops open and then hopefully in the beginning of
the shops open and then hopefully in the beginning ofJuly we will be
the beginning of july we will be able
the beginning ofJuly we will be able to
the beginning of july we will be able to get
the beginning ofJuly we will be able to get restaurants and pubs
able to get restaurants and pubs open. That is the plan, we are
open. That is the plan, we are sticking to it. People have got the
sticking to it. People have got the reassurance they can get their lives
reassurance they ran get their lives a little
reassurance they can get their lives a little bit more back to normal.
m:
We see pictures from over the weekend that people are not
weekend that people are not necessarily sticking to the letter
necessarily sticking to the letter of the law, is this going to be
of the law, is this going to be enforced? That is the issue, as the
enforced? That is the issue, as the guidelines are relaxed, it then
guidelines are relaxed, it then becomes a point where people have to
becomes a point where people have to use their common sense. Some
use their common sense. Some scientists looking at that will be
scientists looking at that will be concerned and they would point out
concerned and they would point out that being outdoors does help an
that being outdoors does help an awful lot, the transmission is
awful lot, the transmission is nowhere near the same as being
nowhere near the same as being inside, and although things might be
inside, and although things might be looking like they are normal, most
looking like they are normal, most shops are not open and pubs and
shops are not open and pubs and restaurants are not open and at most
restaurants are not open and at most schools there is a great range of
schools there is a great range of things happening, some not opening
things happening, some not opening until September, but the government
until September, but the government will be hoping the transmission rate
will be hoping the transmission rate stays down. Government is looking at
stays down. Government is looking at other countries, like and Italy, and
other countries, like and Italy, and to some extent in Spain, —— like
to some extent in Spain, -- like France and Italy.
to some extent in Spain, —— like France and Italy. Those areas have
France and Italy. Those areas have opened up and there doesn’t seem to
opened up and there doesn’t seem to have been a big spike in
have been a big spike in transmission or new cases and that
transmission or new cases and that is what
transmission or new rases and that is what they
transmission or new cases and that is what they will be hoping it’s
is what they will be hoping it’s happening here. Thanks for
is what they will be hoping it’s happening here. Thanks forjoining
happening here. Thanks for joining us.
In the last hour First Minister for Scotland Nicola
Sturgeon gave an update on the situation in Scotland.
She said the vast majority of people followed the new measures over
the weekend however some people did break the rules.
On Saturday there were 797 dispersals by Police Scotland,
five times higher than the figure from the previous Saturday.
And on Sunday road use was up up by 70%
on the previous Sunday.
ii
It is hard to see how that can have
It is hard to see how that ran have been
It is hard to see how that can have been caused
It is hard to see how that ran have been caused by
It is hard to see how that can have been caused by local residents and
been caused by [oral residents and people
been caused by local residents and people travelling a reasonable
people travelling a reasonable distance to meet loved ones, so we
distance to meet loved ones, so we will be considering this as we
will be considering this as we continue as we must do to assess the
continue as we must do to assess the impact of the phase one changes.
impact of the phase one changes. Last week we deliberately allowed
last week we deliberately allowed some
Last week we deliberately allowed some flexibility when we changed the
some flexibility when we changed the lockdown restrictions and we
lockdown restrictions and we recommended that people do not
recommended that people do not travel more than five miles for
travel more than five miles for recreation but we left room for some
recreation but we left room for some discretion so that you can go
discretion so that you ran go further
discretion so that you can go further to visit family. We also
further to visit family. We also strongly recommended that when two
strongly recommended that when two households meet there should be no
households meet there should be no more than eight people in the grip,
more than eight peopla in the grip, but
more than eight people in the grip, but we put that into guidance rather
but we put that into guidance rather than law because we trust and
than law because we trust and continue to trusty majority to keep
continue to trusty majority to keep those groups more and to stay within
those groups more and to stay within the mles --
those groups more and to stay within the rules —— trust the majority. It
the mles -- trust the majority. It is worth being
the rules —— trust the majority. It is worth being clear and I have a
is worth being clear and I have a duty to be clear, if there is
duty to be clear, if there is continued evidence of even a
continued evidence of even a minority not abiding by these
minority not abiding by these guidelines and travelling
guidelines and travelling unnecessarily and if people meet up
unnecessarily and if people meet up in larger groups and if they are
in larger groups and if they are making journeys which risk of
making journeys which risk of spreading the virus, we would have
spreading the virus, we would have to put these restrictions on group
to put these restrictions on group size and travel distance into law.
size and travel distance into law. We won’t hesitate to do that if we
We won’t hesitate to do that if we think that is necessary for the
think that is necessary for the collective safety and well—being of
collactive safety and well-being of the
collective safety and well—being of the population. Nicola Sturgeon
the population. Nicola Sturgeon there.
The headlines on BBC News...
The biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway —
primary schools in England re—open and it’s back to business too
for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
In England, hundreds of thousands of children returned
to primary schools this morning — despite some parents
worrying about safety.
Confusion for some — as restrictions are eased on those
classed as extremely vulnerable — calls for the scientific evidence
showing it’ll be safe for them.
There’s been a sixth night of unrest across the United States.
Cu rfews are in force in nearly A0 cities —
but many are being ignored as demonstrations continue over
the death of an unarmed black man in police custody.
In a moment we’ll have a report on the violent protests
in the capital, but first, James Robbins looks
at the situation across the US.
The anger, protests, fires and looting have spread widely
across the United States.
But this is where it all began.
Almost a week after a police officer in Minneapolis killed
an unarmed black man, thousands gathered outside the state
capital, confronted by police and troops from the National Guard.
The focus of anger is clear from the chants, placards and masks.
The death of George Floyd has provoked a sense of outrage that
racism is still widespread, too often ignored and unpunished.
All these voices are here because the same thing keeps
happening over and over again, it’s the new lynching.
I’m just really hoping justice is served, that the people
responsible are held accountable and I don’t have to do this again,
I don’t want to be here.
CHANTING: Hands up, don’t shoot!
The anger is spreading across the United States.
In Kansas City, these demonstrators want their police under
tighter local control, with the citizens review board
to help investigate misconduct.
No violence!
One officer pleaded with the crowd not to resort to violence and even
made an extraordinary gesture of solidarity, which is steeped
with meaning in today’s America.
Take a knee.
Take a knee!
Take a knee.
The killing of George Floyd last week has terribly undermined
whatever progress may have been made in recent years.
And the fact that only one policeman, Derek Chauvin,
has been charged with murder, and that others who stood by do not
face prosecution, has fuelled the protests and violence.
Night—time curfews have been imposed in nearly A0 American cities,
but many people have ignored them.
Thank you.
In Minneapolis, 3 German TV correspondent reported
police targeting him and threatening his
team with arrest.
Get inside now!
Where would you like us to go?
0K!
Thank you, officer.
In San Diego, largely peaceful protests turned violent,
as police used tear gas and pepper balls in the city.
They were enforcing, they said, an unlawful assembly order.
Hands up!
In New York City, violence including looting was widespread,
despite appeals for this to stop from those who want to
honour George Floyd.
Fires were started with no sign of angerfading,
almost a week after his killing.
In Brooklyn, a woman made her own peaceful gesture,
but the wider reality is that the United States has not
seen racial tensions explode on this scale since the 1960s.
James Robbins, BBC News.
Washington DC has seen some of the worst violence,
with buildings not far from the White House
vandalised, cars set on fire, and a historic church attacked.
President Trump was briefly taken to an emergency underground bunker
in the White House on Friday because of concerns about the threat
from protesters outside.
Aleem Maqbool reports.
Nojustice!
No peace!
No racism! Police!
These were protests against the killing of George Floyd.
But given the location, they were also a message to one
person in particular.
He needs to grow up, he needs to be a man,
stop with the childish acts, the childish tweets,
he needs to be a man.
As night fell, the mood got angrier.
I’m here outside the White House, for the most part a peaceful protest
but fires have been [it now.
And the police keep firing gas into the crowds.
And they fired other projectiles, too, in defence
of the home of the President.
They were clearly on edge — but also did little to dispel
the impression that police use unnecessary levels of force.
At one point, charging our own cameraman.
In the streets surrounding the White House, with no sense
of any attempt at de—escalation, there was anarchy, with shops
and vehicles vandalised at will.
Hard to imagine these were scenes playing out in the American capital.
That’s probably the white person that owned it.
They can cover it with insurance...
All right, here we go.
We’ve got every right to burn it down.
This is pain right here, this is pain, this is the only way
we can get it to them.
They’re not hearing us.
When you just talk, it’s just words to them.
They don’t feel anything.
And there’s no doubt this has now become about much more
than the brutal death of one unarmed black man.
Aleem Maqbool, BBC News in Washington.
The first court appearance for Derek Chauvin —
the fired Minneapolis police officer charged with the murder
and manslaughter of George Floyd — has been postponed.
Chauvin will instead appear in court next Monday 8th June.
No reason has been given for the delay, but prosecutors said
a scheduled change was not unusual, and they were moving
as quickly as possible.
The Netherlands is easing its lockdown
with primary schools returning to normal, and restaurants, bars,
cinemas, and theatres allowed to re—open.
Museums, too, are opening their galleries once more —
as Anna Holligan reports from Amsterdam.
The first thing is the numbers.
They’re allowing a fifth of the number of visitors in every
day, which of course means it will be a lot quieter
if you can get a space.
They aren’t allowing people to just walk in off the street any more —
you have to book your 15—minute time slot in advance.
And when you do go inside, the rules are the same as outside —
you must keep your distance from other people.
Here in the Netherlands, that’s 1.5 metres.
The good news is that there is no limit placed on the amount of time
you can stand in front of the masters,
so Rembrandt, Vermeer...
Of course, Amsterdam is home to so many cultural attractions —
the Anne Frank House, the Van Gogh Museum —
but there isn’t one policy that fits all.
They’re essentially trying to allow people to come in in a safe way
without restricting their enjoyment, that there’s no rush.
So, if you’re worried about being able to travel —
these masterpieces were here before the pandemic and they will be around
long after it’s gone.
The Colosseum and the number of people allowed at the site.
—— the Coliseum in Rome is opening
-- the Coliseum in Rome is opening for the first
—— the Coliseum in Rome is opening for the first time to tourist in
for the first time to tourist in months, but there are restrictions
months, but there are restrictions on the numbers allowed in.
Returning to the UK and our easing of the lockdown —
as we’ve been reporting some schools in England are opening to more
pupils today while some — are definitely not.
And some parents remain concerned about safety.
Harriet Shearsmith, is a mum to three — all under 10 and is also
the founder of parenting website @TobyandRoo — we can speak
to Harriet via Webcam from York.
IFS:
Not back at school at the moment? Not at the moment. We feel it is too
Not at the moment. We feel it is too soon for us as a family and we have
soon for us as a family and we have a shielding relative that lives in
a shielding relative that lives in our annex and we only had one child
our annex and we only had one child who would be eligible to go back to
who would be eligibla to go back to school
who would be eligible to go back to school at the moment. It would be
school at the moment. It would be challanging to
school at the moment. It would be challenging to explain to her
challenging to explain to her brother why they can’t go back to
brother why they can’t go back to school and see their friends but she
school and see their friends but she ran. We
school and see their friends but she can. We think it is a bit too soon
ran. We think it is a bit too soon for us. How long
can. We think it is a bit too soon for us. How long do you think you
for us. How long do you think you will have the ability to make that
will have the ability to make that decision for yourself?
will have the ability to make that decision foryourself? I’m
will have the ability to make that decision for yourself? I’m not sure,
decision for yourself? I’m not sure, to be honest. We are happy to
to be honest. We are happy to continue home—schooling, we are
continue home-schooling, we are managing at
continue home—schooling, we are managing at the moment, in a very
managing at the moment, in a very fortunate position to home—school
fortunate position to home-school their
fortunate position to home—school their children and continue to work
their children and continue to work and I appreciate that is not the
and I appreciate that is not the same for everybody. Whilst we are
same for everybody. whilst we are managing it
same for everybody. Whilst we are managing it we are happy to do so,
managing it we are happy to do so, but how long we will be able to do
but how long we will be able to do so and allowed to do so, I’m not
so and allowed to do so, I’m not sure. The government says it is
sure. The government says it is meeting at scheduled for dealing
meeting at scheduled for dealing with this and at the heart of this
with this and at the heart of this is the R rate, so why does that mean
is the R rate, so why does that mean Edith ran’t
is the R rate, so why does that mean Edith can’t go to school? It is not
Edith can’t go to school? It is not for me to say whether the government
for me to say whether the government is right or not, and I can only
is right or not, and I ran only speak to my
is right or not, and I can only speak to my own circumstances and
speak to my own circumstances and within my own comfort zone and at
within my own comfort zone and at the moment we are managing well and
the moment we are managing well and we feel may be the places could be
we feel may be the places could be better used. There are limited
better used. There are limited places they could be used for people
places they could be used for people who have to return to work —— there
who have to return to work -- there are limited places
who have to return to work —— there are limited places and maybe they
are limited places and maybe they could be better used for other
could be better used for other people like those who have to return
peopla like those who have to return to work.
people like those who have to return to work. You do run a parenting
to work. You do nm a parenting website,
to work. You do run a parenting website, what kind of feedback are
website, what kind offeedback are you getting
website, what kind of feedback are you getting from other parents? It
you getting from other parents? It has been a mixed bag and some
has been a mixed bag and some parents are comfortable to send
parents are comfortable to send their children back and some don’t
their children back and some don’t have a choice and somehow children
have a choice and somehow children who have been going throughout the
who have been going throughout the entirety of the virus. Because they
entirety of the vims. Because they are key
entirety of the virus. Because they are key workers. And for that we
are key workers. And for that we have got to be grateful to them.
have got to be grateful to them. Some people share concerns and have
Some peoplc share concerns and have chosen to
Some people share concerns and have chosen to keep their children at
chosen to keep their children at home so it is a mixed bag as far as
home so it is a mixed bag as far as parenting goes with everybody valid
parenting goes with everybody valid decisions. Some confusion as to why
decisions. Some confusion as to why the younger and the oldest children
the younger and the oldest children are being asked to go back and those
are being asked to go back and those in the middle not yet? There is a
in the middle not yet? There is a bit of confusion around that, but
bit of confusion around that, but parents ran
bit of confusion around that, but parents can make the best decision
parents ran make the best decision that they ran
parents can make the best decision that they can based on what
that they can based on what information they have been given,
information they have been given, really. what
information they have been given, really. What about teachers unions?
really. what about teachers unions? Many have
really. What about teachers unions? Many have expressed unease about
Many have expressed unease about what is going on. Who are parents
what is going on. who are parents really
what is going on. Who are parents really listening to given that many
really listening to given that many parents are under huge pressure
parents are under huge pressure themselves that they need to get
themselves that they need to get back to work? Parents have got to
back to work? Parents have got to listen to their own gut instinct.
listen to their own gut instinct. Teachers unions have largely come
Teachers unions have largely come forward and said they are not
forward and said they are not comfortable with the return and I
comfortable with the return and I know many teachers are not
know many teachers are not comfortable with the return who I
comfortable with the return who I know, but then you have the
know, but then you have the government saying that we can
government saying that we ran return.
government saying that we can return. It has fallen to parents to
return. It has fallen to parents to make the best decision they can with
make the best decision they ran with the cards
make the best decision they can with the cards they’ve been dealt. They
the cards therve been dealt. They have to
the cards they’ve been dealt. They have to choose individually who they
have to choose individually who they listen to and I want to make that
listen to and I want to make that decision for them at the moment,
decision for them at the moment, unfortunately. —— and they have to
unfortunately. -- and they have to make that
unfortunately. —— and they have to make that decision —— and no one can
make that decision -- and no one ran make that
make that decision —— and no one can make that decision. You are happy
make that decision. You are happy with home—schooling? We are happy to
with home-schooling? We are happy to do this for
with home—schooling? We are happy to do this for the moment, things are
do this for the moment, things are changing with coronavirus, and it is
changing with coronavims, and it is hard to put a
changing with coronavirus, and it is hard to put a date on when Edith
hard to put a date on when Edith will return, but we won’t put a date
will return, but we won’t put a date on it. She misses her
will return, but we won’t put a date on it. She misses herfriends? Yes,
on it. She misses her friends? Yes, but she is
on it. She misses herfriends? Yes, but she is incredibly lucky to have
but she is incredibly lucky to have two brothers she can play with and
two brothers she ran play with and we are very
two brothers she can play with and we are very lucky to be really
we are very lucky to be really flexible around her, so she is
ﬂexible around her, so she is getting lots
flexible around her, so she is getting lots of attention and we are
getting lots of attention and we are in contact with her school, as well.
in contact with her school, as well. We have been able to speak to her
We have been able to speak to her teacher and sent photos of the
teacher and sent photos of the things we have been doing at home to
things we have been doing at home to her teacher so there has been a lot
her teacher so there has been a lot of support for her in terms of her
of support for her in terms of her missing her
of support for her in terms of her missing herfriends and missing her
missing her friends and missing her routine
missing herfriends and missing her routine which we have tried our best
routine which we have tried our best to maintain. Harriet thanks for
to maintain. Harriet thanks for joining us.
The Queen has been photographed riding in the grounds
of Windsor Castle — the first time she’s been seen
outside since the coronavirus lockdown began.
The Queen was pictured on one of her ponies —
a M year old called Balmoral Fern.
She’s been isolating at Windsor with her husband,
the Duke of Edinburgh, and a small number of staff.
As lockdown restrictions are eased, many families are able
to see each other for the first time in months.
Grandparents have been some of the hardest hit
by the restrictions.
So if you’re reuniting yourfamily with grandparents today,
or even introducing them to additions to the family,
we would love to share your pictures and videos.
You can send them to...
Send them to yourpics@bbc.co.uk.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Tomas.
The 1st ofJune marks the first day of summer, at least
that is what meteorologists’ say, although Midsummer’s
Day is still a while away.
Look across the UK today, hardly a cloud in the sky,
late afternoon temperatures will range from the high 205
for a few areas in the south to around about 20
in northern Scotland.
Very little happening on the weather front tonight,
a case of clear skies.
The first signs of a weather front in the very far north—west of the UK
and that’s a sign of things to come in the coming days.
Through the course of Tuesday we will have increasing amounts
of cloud through Scotland and late in the day showers developing over
the Highlands, but elsewhere tomorrow it will be another very
warm and very sunny day but a big temperature contrast
between the very far north and the far south.
Hello this is BBC News with Simon McCoy.
The headlines.
The biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway —
primary schools in England re—open and it’s back to business too
for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
m:
We are now at this stage of that plan where we can get our lives a
plan where we ran get our lives a little bit
plan where we can get our lives a little bit more back to normal, but
little bit more back to normal, but no, that isn’t overnight, big bang
no, that isn’t overnight, big bang then, it is measured, progressive,
then, it is measured, progressive, we do it in a safe and responsible
we do it in a safe and responsible way.
In England, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary
schools this morning — but not all parents agree
that it’s safe enough.
Confusion for some, as restrictions are eased on those classed
as extremely vulnerable.
Curfews ignored — a sixth night of protests erupts
in cities across the US — sparked by the death in police
custody of George Floyd.
Time for some sport.
Two and half months since the last meeting before lockdown,
Horseracing has returned, a ten—race card at Newcastle’s
Gosforth Park is underway behind closed doors.
Our sports correspondent Katie Gornall is there.
So much about it does feel very different.
So much about it does feel very different.
Numbers have been very strictly limited. This fence is keeping out
limited. This fence is keeping out all but essential staff. When I
all but essential staff. when I spoke to
all but essential staff. When I spoke to the chief executive of the
spoke to the chief executive of the BHA earlier, he is not allowed in,
BHA eartier, he is not allowed in, it is
BHA earlier, he is not allowed in, it is only people who are essential
it is only peopla who are essential to
it is only people who are essential to race day. Everyone gets
to race day. Everyone gets temperature tested on the way in.
temperature tested on the way in. All of the jockeys have to wear
All of the jockeys have to wear masks around the site. There is a
masks around the site. There is a one-way
masks around the site. There is a one—way system as well try and keep
one-way system as well try and keep people
one—way system as well try and keep people socially distanced, they have
people socially distanced, they have even built a separate dressing room
even built a separate dressing room for the male jockeys,
even built a separate dressing room for the malejockeys, to allow
even built a separate dressing room for the male jockeys, to allow these
for the male jockeys, to allow these to me to pods inside so everyone can
to me to pods inside so everyone ran socially
to me to pods inside so everyone can socially distance, so they are
socially distance, so they are really trying to think of everything
really trying to think of everything here to try and make racing as safe
here to try and make racing as safe as possible, but you are right, a
as possible, but you are right, a lot of peopla
as possible, but you are right, a lot of people will be watching what
lot of peopla will be watching what is going on
lot of people will be watching what is going on here in Newcastle,
is going on here in Newcastle, seeing how they cope with
seeing how they cope with everything. They are aware that
everything. They are aware that there is a lot of attention on them
there is a lot of attention on them here and we feel that response
here and we feel that response military as well from them, so far
military as well from them, so far things seem to be running relatively
things seem to be mnning relatively smoothly
things seem to be running relatively smoothly from up there’s a bit of a
smoothly from up there’s a bit of a glitch to the system of people
glitch to the system of people getting on this morning and getting
getting on this morning and getting temperature checked. They have sort
temperature checked. They have sort about all out here and got racing
about all out here and got racing away and that is the main thing, as
away and that is the main thing, as this industry tries to recover from
this industry tries to recover from a real
this industry tries to recover from a realfinancial hit
this industry tries to recover from a real financial hit it has taken
a real financial hit it has taken due to this lockdown. A £50 million
due to this lockdown. A 50 million hola in
due to this lockdown. A £50 million hole in their
due to this lockdown. A £50 million hole in theirfinances
due to this lockdown. A £50 million hole in their finances at the moment
hole in their finances at the moment so there is a big relief they have
so there is a big relief they have been able to get on track in
been able to get on track in Newcastle today.
Snooker has also returned today, the Championship League
is underway in Milton Keynes.
It’s a round robin format for 64 players.
They are playing at a venue that also has a hotel,
so all the players and officials can completely self—isolate
during the 11 days of competition with everyone having to be tested
for Covid—19 on arrival, World Number One and reigning
World Championjudd Trump is one of the first to play.
Matches are four frames each, with three points for a win
and one for a draw.
Trump leads David Grace one frame to nil, the first of three
matches he’ll play today.
The QPR chief executive Lee Hoos says the club is "vehemently
opposed" to the Football League’s plan for the Championship
to resume onJune 20th.
He says the clubs weren’t consulted before last night’s announcement
and with player’s yet to return to contact training he’s concerned
about their welfare.
1. II
If you’ve got players who are picking up unnecessary injuries
picking up unnecessary injuries because you haven’t really looked at
because you haven’t really looked at the load, paid attention to the
the load, paid attention to the sport science, there is a very
sport science, there is a very expensive assets you have in the
expensive assets you have in the stands. The likelihood of picking up
stands. The likelihood of picking up injuries, and if you look at the
injuries, and if you look at the Bundesliga now, it is a very small
Bundesliga now, it is a very small sampla size,
Bundesliga now, it is a very small sample size, so very difficult to
sample size, so very difficult to get the statistical significance of
get the statistical significance of the injury rate, but it is three
the injury rate, but it is three times what it normally is, and I
times what it normally is, and I think that is something we really
think that is something we really need to take a hard look at, because
need to take a hard look at, because I’m not just
need to take a hard look at, because I’m notjust looking at this season.
I’m not just looking at this season. I don’t
I’m notjust looking at this season. I don’t want a treatment room
I don’t want a treatment room full of players going into next season.
of players going into next season. That would be a big issue with me
That would be a big issue with me when trying to operate with a
when trying to operate with a smaller squad.
Staying with football, Manchester United have extended
Odion Ighalo’s loan from Chinese club Shanghai Shenhua tilJanuary.
The original deal expired yesterday.
The Prmier League is set to resume on the 17thJune.
The Premier League is set to resume on the 17thJune.
England’s three—match rugby league Test series with Australia has been
cancelled because of the pandemic.
New England coach Shaun Wane was due to take charge against the World Cup
holders in October and November, but the series has been called off
due to what’s been cited as the "the continued complications
surrounding global travel".
The British Basketball League have cancelled the the current season
saying it wouldn’t be financially viable to play behind closed doors.
The League was suspended in March with Glasgow top of the table
with five games left to play.
It’s now been voided, meaning no title will be awarded.
Glasgow saying they are very disappointed.
That’s all the sport for now.
Outdoor markets in England are now able to trade again,
as the government starts to lift some lockdown measures.
The Chancellor Rishi Sunak visited Tachbrook Market in Pimlico,
London to mark the first day many sellers have been able
to open for business.
He said the timing is right for easing lockdown restirctions.
We’ve made great progress over the last few weeks and months in dealing
last few weeks and months in dealing with the crisis, and today we are
with the crisis, and today we are able to take a really important
able to take a really important first space. A couple of markets
first space. A couple of markets open, I’m here grabbing my lunch,
open, I’m here grabbing my lunch, people are here doing the same,
people are here doing the same, traders are all back. I hope in the
traders are all back. I hope in the coming days and weeks many people do
coming days and weeks many people do the same. Slowly we will get our
the same. Slowly we will get our lives back to normal. This is a slow
lives back to normal. This is a slow but very important step. It is
but very important step. It is absolutely safe and we have a very
absolutely safe and we have a very dear
absolutely safe and we have a very clear plan we have been sticking to
dear plan we have been sticking to throughout
clear plan we have been sticking to throughout this whole process,
throughout this whola process, dealing
throughout this whole process, dealing with coronavirus, and we are
dealing with coronavims, and we are now at the
dealing with coronavirus, and we are now at the stage of that plan where
now at the stage of that plan where we ran get our
now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little bit
we ran get our lives a little bit more
we can get our lives a little bit more back to normal but that isn’t
more back to normal but that isn’t overnight big bang thing. It is
overnight big bang thing. It is measured, progressive, we do it in a
measured, progressive, we do it in a safe and responsible way and that is
safe and responsible way and that is why today we are starting with
why today we are starting with covered markets and car showrooms,
covered markets and far showrooms, and a couple of
covered markets and car showrooms, and a couple of weeks we will get
and a couple of weeks we will get the shops open, and hopefully by the
the shops open, and hopefully by the beginning of
the shops open, and hopefully by the beginning ofJuly we will be able to
beginning of july we will be able to get many
beginning ofJuly we will be able to get many more restaurants and pubs
get many more restaurants and pubs open as well. So that is the plan,
open as well. So that is the plan, we are sticking to it, it is safe
we are sticking to it, it is safe and peopla
we are sticking to it, it is safe and people should have the
and people should have the confidence to go out there and get
confidence to go out there and get their life a little bit more back to
their life a little bit more back to normal.
The Chancellor was then asked what support there’ll be
for businesses, if an increase in coronavirus infections leads
to a second lockdown.
m:
We have put in place unprecedented measures to support not
We have put in place unprecedented measures to support notjust
measures to support notjust businesses but also individuals
businesses but also individuals through this difficult period, and a
through this difficult period, and a lot of those measures last for a
lot of those measures last for a very long time actually. For one
very long time actually. For one example of things we have done is
example of things we have done is cut business rates for restaurants
cut business rates for restaurants and retailers who are really
and retailers who are really affected by what is happening. They
affected by what is happening. They last for the entire year all the way
last for the entire year all the way through to March. We have obviously
through to March. We have obviously given them cash grants. Our
through to March. We have obviously given them cash grants. Ourjob
given them cash grants. Ourjob retention scheme, the furlough
retention scheme, the furlough scheme plus all the way to October,
scheme plus all the way to October, and recently we did a second and
and recently we did a second and final payment for the self—employed
final payment for the self-employed which
final payment for the self—employed which will come in the summer, so
which will come in the summer, so taken together there is a huge
taken together there is a huge amount of support and a clear plan
amount of support and a dear plan to reopen
amount of support and a clear plan to reopen those bits of our economy
to reopen those bits of our economy that are closed and get country back
that are closed and get country back to normal, open again. Many of these
to normal, open again. Many of these schemes last for the entire year,
schemes last for the entire year, the business rates holiday, it lasts
the business rates holiday, it lasts all the way to March, the job
all the way to March, the job retention programme lasts all way to
retention programme lasts all my to October,
retention programme lasts all way to October, and so many of these things
October, and so many of these things will support businesses and people
will support businesses and peopla for
will support businesses and people for quite a while to come.
Open—air markets and car showrooms are re—opening in England today —
but with strict distancing measures in place.
For example, if you’re taking a carfor a test—drive,
normally you’d have a sales rep in the car with you.
Not any more.
From today, you’ll be alone.
Ministers say the risk of infection is lower outdoors,
and in more open spaces.
In a fortnight, other non—essential shops will open again —
but businesses are having to overhaul how they operate,
to keep customers and staff safe.
Simon Gompertz reports.
This is the Monday with a difference they’ve been waiting
for at Barnsley’s open—air market.
At lest, they can get back to selling what are called
non—essentials, like clothes and things for the home,
as well as fruit and veg.
Customers, a bit cautious, but the buying began
before eight o’clock.
I’m quite impressed, actually, because these days,
you just don’t know, do you?
And how did it work? Was it different for you?
She was stood over there looking at my duvets, asking
about size and prices.
She stood over there, I got them out and then she put
the money over there and then I took it from there.
Social distancing is vital, keeping everyone two metres apart.
Hygiene, as well, hand sanitisers, using foot pumps.
The feeling here is of relief.
To have a permanent lockdown for ten weeks is a nightmare
in a small business.
You can’t measure it.
One trader said to me it was like falling off a cliff.
One big issue today as things start going again is the threat
of congestion, which is why a lot of markets are reopening stalls
gradually, in order to guard against the risk that people
will start bumping into each other on narrow pavements and walkways.
And bearing in mind as well, it is only a couple of weeks
until nonessential shops on the high street will also be opening up.
Today also sees car dealers back in business, after sales
of new vehicles fell close to zero during the lockdown.
Again, a big emphasis on measures to reduce the risk of transmission,
helped by the fact that, in most showrooms, there is more
indoor and outdoor space.
During lockdown, the whole industry effectively shutdown.
April was very low numbers.
May was slightly better.
But I think until we see the impact of retail opening,
it’s going to be very difficult to understand what the true
level of demand is.
England is moving fastest on this.
In Scotland, smaller shops and outdoor markets can open
in the second phase of its easing plan, no date yet.
The timing hasn’t been fixed yet in Wales, either,
where non—essential shops and services could open in the amber
phase of the exit strategy, nor in Northern Ireland,
where non—food outlets will reopen in step two of its plan.
Here is possibly a sign of what is to come...
The queue outside Ikea in Gateshead, which let customers back in today,
with a general reopening of nonessential shops in England
expected from the 15th, our eerily quiet high streets
expect to become much busier.
Let’s talk more now about how car showrooms will be managing in what’s
being called ‘the new normal’ — Andy Barratt is the managing
director of Ford of Britain — hejoins me now.
Good afternoon to you. Good afternoon. I wonder what sort of
afternoon. I wonder what sort of feedback you have had so far today.
feedback you have had so far today. How are things going on this new
How are things going on this new day, new beginning? Well, it is a
day, new beginning? Well, it is a slow day on the first day back.
slow day on the first day back. Everyone is getting used to the new
Everyone is getting used to the new protocols, making sure that all the
protocols, making sure that all the checks and balances we have put in
checks and balances we have put in place across our network, we have
place across our network, we have probably spent about £3 million in
probably spent about £3 million in dealerships to make sure we got the
dealerships to make sure we got the right level of PPE, the right level
right level of PPE, the right level of protection for both staff and
of protection for both staff and customers. We have to recognise that
customers. We have to recognise that far
customers. We have to recognise that car showrooms are relatively low
rar showrooms are relatively low retail
car showrooms are relatively low retail density versus other
retail density versus other retailers, so we have that space to
retailers, so we have that space to be able to make sure we protect
be able to make sure we protect customers and staff alike. The virus
customers and staff alike. The virus hit property in
customers and staff alike. The virus hit properly in March, which is of
hit property in March, which is of course
hit properly in March, which is of course one of the busiest periods in
course one of the busiest periods in your calendar. How much of the
your alandar. How much of the business you
your calendar. How much of the business you are hoping to pick up
business you are hoping to pick up from today is response to that,
from today is response to that, peopla
from today is response to that, people going back to pick up because
people going back to pick up because they ordered back then? There is no
they ordered back then? There is no doubt absolutely on the nail all
doubt absolutely on the nail all there, a considerable amount of
there, a considerable amount of business that will initially be pent
business that will initially be pent up, peopla
business that will initially be pent up, people due to collect their car
up, peopla due to collact their far in the
up, people due to collect their car in the second half of March, we have
in the second half of March, we have only completed half of our sales. In
only completed half of our sales. In April and May are both literally
April and May are both literally busy months in a normal calendar, so
busy months in a normal calendar, so there is pent-up
busy months in a normal calendar, so there is pent—up demand and then we
there is pent-up demand and then we have to see
there is pent—up demand and then we have to see what happens. We have
have to see what happens. We have packages in place to make sure
packages in place to make sure customers have peace of mind when
customers have peace of mind when they buy their vehicles. I mentioned
they buy their vehicles. I mentioned in the start of this that from now
in the start of this that from now on if you want a test drive, you go
on if you want a test drive, you go off on your own. How comfortable are
off on your own. How comfortable are you with that? We are very
you with that? We are very comfortable. Clearly people will
comfortable. Cleariy peopla will drive
comfortable. Clearly people will drive to the dealership, they have
drive to the dealership, they have already had a degree of discussion,
already had a degree of discussion, we often know who they are to start
we often know who they are to start with, and of course they are leaving
with, and of course they are leaving their own car behind. As long as
their own far behind. As long as they are
their own car behind. As long as they are equipped with the features
they are equipped with the features of the car so they know what they
of the far so they know what they are
of the car so they know what they are experiencing and looking for, we
are experiencing and looking for, we are very happy. As long as the
are very happy. As long as the customers feel safe and secure. They
customers feel safe and secure. They want to know that the car is fully
want to know that the far is fully dean,
want to know that the car is fully clean, sanitised, and they are not
dean, sanitised, and they are not at a risk in
clean, sanitised, and they are not at a risk in that. Clearly not
at a risk in that. Cleariy not having
at a risk in that. Clearly not having someone in the car, you start
having someone in the far, you start to lose that
having someone in the car, you start to lose that sales negotiation and
to lose that sales negotiation and the emotion of buying a car, but we
the emotion of buying a far, but we will do
the emotion of buying a car, but we will do what we can to make sure we
will do what we ran to make sure we optimise that in
will do what we can to make sure we optimise that in other ways. A lot
optimise that in other ways. A lot of peopla who
optimise that in other ways. A lot of people who were perhaps thinking
of people who were perhaps thinking about buying a car will be thinking
about buying a far will be thinking on their
about buying a car will be thinking on their heads these car companies
on their heads these rar companies are in
on their heads these car companies are in trouble, they will have to
are in trouble, they will have to bring their prices down, let’s wait.
bring their prices down, let’s wait. How would you dissuade them? Well,
How would you dissuade them? Well, we have an offer today which is
we have an offer today which is effectively the customer does not
effectively the customer does not pay anything for six months, and
pay anything for six months, and then they have 0% interest. 50 it is
then they have 096 interest. So it is a very
then they have 0% interest. 50 it is a very attractive offer in place
a very attractive offer in place really to create peace of mind. So
really to create peace of mind. So effectively by now, pay in six
effectively by now, pay in six months’ time and then pay no
months’ time and then pay no interest. Clearly we at Ford have a
interest. Cleariy we at Ford have a year of lots of
interest. Clearly we at Ford have a year of lots of new models, hybrid
year of lots of new models, hybrid models coming in, and new models
models coming in, and new models often create extra interest, so we
often create extra interest, so we are quite optimistic. However, it is
are quite optimistic. However, it is a big industry. Nearly a million
a big industry. Neartya million peopla are
a big industry. Nearly a million people are employed in the UK car
people are employed in the UK rar industry from
people are employed in the UK car industry from start to finish. It
industry from start to finish. It contributes around 44 billion a year
contributes around 44 billion a year economy. It is everyone’s interest.
economy. It is everyone’s interest. If I said to you a
economy. It is everyone’s interest. If I said to you a year ago 90% of
Iflsaidtoyouayearago 90%of your business
If I said to you a year ago 90% of your business would have gone in a
your business would have gone in a snap of a finger
your business would have gone in a snap of a fingerjust like that,
snap of a finger just like that, would you
snap of a fingerjust like that, would you have thought Ford could
would you have thought Ford could survive it? Yes. We have great
survive it? Yes. We have great resources, we have a great
resources, we have a great organisation. We have done amazing
organisation. We have done amazing things, from helping to build
things, from helping to build ventilators, through to providing
ventilators, through to providing emergency service vehicles. So a
emergency service vehicles. 50 a testament to the great team around
testament to the great team around us, and we have a great resource,
us, and we have a great resource, being a global business. So as you
being a global business. So as you look at the pandemic, it hasn’t been
look at the pandemic, it hasn’t been one great big hit in one place.
one great big hit in one place. Globally it has kind of progressed
Globally it has kind of progressed along, and as markets have shut
along, and as markets have shut down, others have restarted, that is
down, others have restarted, that is the benefit of being part of a
the benefit of being part of a global business. But we are strong.
global business. But we are strong. We have a great dealers, loyal
We have a great dealers, loyal customers and we can come back. It
customers and we ran come back. It may not be a
customers and we can come back. It may not be a quick comeback, but we
may not be a quick comeback, but we will be back, as well others. Sure,
will be back, as well others. Sure, loyalty is one thing, confidence is
loyalty is one thing, confidence is is another, and buying a car is very
is another, and buying a far is very much how
is another, and buying a car is very much how confident you feel about
much how confident you feel about your own position, let alone the
your own position, let alone the price of a far.
your own position, let alone the price of a car. How do you think
price of a car. How do you think things will move in the next six
things will move in the next six months or so? I think we are going
months or so? I think we are going to see that initial surge of pent—up
to see that initial surge of pent-up orders, and
to see that initial surge of pent—up orders, and then we will see a
orders, and then we will see a declined car market. Probably in the
declined rar market. Probably in the region of around
declined car market. Probably in the region of around 40% below last
region of around 4096 below last year’s
region of around 40% below last yea r’s levels,
region of around 40% below last year’s levels, which is a big, big
year’s levels, which is a big, big decline. But most car manufacturers
decline. But most rar manufacturers are global
decline. But most car manufacturers are global players come because they
are global players come because they will move that production capacity
will move that production capacity around and maybe export more
around and maybe export more vehidas
around and maybe export more vehicles or import less to the UK,
vehidas or import lass to the UK, so we ran
vehicles or import less to the UK, so we can move demand around. I
so we ran move demand around. I think what
so we can move demand around. I think what it leads to, though, is
think what it leads to, though, is the industry would really like to
the industry would really like to see a stimulus package from the
see a stimulus package from the government, in conjunction with the
government, in conjunction with the manufacturers working together to
manufacturers working together to try and restart its engine for the
try and restart its engine for the economy and get as much revenue back
economy and get as much revenue back into the government, to get people
into the government, to get people off furlough as quickly as they can
off furlough as quickly as they ran and really
off furlough as quickly as they can and really restart the UK economy.
and really restart the UK economy. There is a train roaring down the
There is a train roaring down the track, and you have Brexit to come.
track, and you have Brexit to come. Yes, that is the next headwind, and
Yes, that is the next headwind, and this industry is full of headwinds.
this industry is full of headwinds. We are all managing towards C02
We are all managing towards C02 targets this year as well, so, you
targets this year as well, so, you know, no one said it would be a
know, no one said it would be a boring industry to work in and it
boring industry to work in and it certainly isn’t, but Brexit
certainly isn’t, but Brexit certainly will bring its challenges
certainly will bring its challanges too.
certainly will bring its challenges too. You haven’t spent one day
too. You haven’t spent one day thinking, I have had enough, it is
thinking, I have had enough, it is time to go and do something else? I
time to go and do something else? I am a long Ford
time to go and do something else? I am along Ford veteran, so
time to go and do something else? I am a long Ford veteran, so that they
am a long Ford veteran, so that they will never come. Good of you to
am a long Ford veteran, so that they will never come. Good of you tojoin
will never come. Good of you tojoin us, thank you so much.
The headlines on BBC News...
The headlines on BBC News...
The biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway —
primary schools in England re—open and it’s back to business too
for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
In England, hundreds of thousands of children returned to primary
schools this morning, despite some parents
worrying about safety.
Confusion for some, as restrictions are eased on those classed
as extremely vulnerable, calls for the scientific evidence
showing it’ll be safe for them.
As lockdown is eased, and thousands of people head to beaches,
at the weekend people were been seen jumping from the cliffs
on Dorset’sJurassic Coast, despite three men being seriously
hurt at the weekend.
The casualties were airlifted to hospital, afterjumping 21 metres
from Durdle Door on Saturday afternoon — an activity
known as tombstoning.
The coastguard and police have warned against leaping
from the landmark arch into the sea.
However, despite this advice to stay away,
officers said on Sunday some people still attempted the jump.
Mike Wiley was paddle—boarding near the site on Saturday,
and rescued two men from the water.
The final guy that jumped,
The final guy thatjumped, again,
The final guy that jumped, again, just in a
The final guy that jumped, again, just in a pair of
The final guy thatjumped, again, just in a pair of shorts, from a
just in a pair of shorts, from a ridiculous height, hit the water on
ridiculous height, hit the water on the sides and just went straight to
the sides and just went straight to the bottom. Me and my friend Dylan
the bottom. Me and my friend Dylan again had swum out
the bottom. Me and my friend Dylan again had swum outjust for safety,
again had swum out just for safety, and sure
again had swum outjust for safety, and sure enough when he hit the
and sure enough when he hit the water he didn’t come back up. He
water he didn’t come back up. He knocked himself unconscious hitting
knocked himself unconscious hitting the water in that way that he did.
the water in that way that he did. The air was taken completely out of
The air was taken completely out of his lungs and he sank straight to
his lungs and he sank straight to the bottom of the sea bed. We both
the bottom of the sea bed. We both jumped off the board, trying to
jumped off the board, trying to search for him, trying to find him.
search for him, trying to find him. Took us a good few minutes. There
Took us a good few minutes. There were more people swimming out,
were more peopla swimming out, trying to help
were more people swimming out, trying to help out as well. I
trying to help out as well. I managed to finally locate the body
managed to finally locate the body after maybe two, three minutes of
after maybe two, three minutes of searching. I could see a white
searching. I could see a white figure, deep in the water. Again,
figure, deep in the water. Again, there about ten other people trying
there about ten other people trying to dive down, but none of us could
to dive down, but none of us could get to him. I don’t know how
to dive down, but none of us could get to him. I don’t know howl
to dive down, but none of us could get to him. I don’t know how I did
get to him. I don’t know how I did it, it maybe took about five
it, it maybe took about five attempts. On the last attempt, I
attempts. On the last attempt, I just, just compose myself and just
just, just compose myself and just swam as deep as I could go. And I
swam as deep as I could go. And I swim with my eyes open anyway, I
swim with my eyes open anyway, I don’t need goggles or anything, and
don’t need gogglas or anything, and I could just
don’t need goggles or anything, and I could just see him just laid on
I could just see him just laid on the kelp or the seaweed at the
the kelp or the seaweed at the bottom, just completely motionless.
bottom, just completely motionlass. I
bottom, just completely motionless. I grabbed
bottom, just completely motionlass. I grabbed him
bottom, just completely motionless. I grabbed him by his hands, he had
I grabbed him by his hands, he had drowned, he was at the bottom of the
drowned, he was at the bottom of the sea. when I
drowned, he was at the bottom of the sea. When I managed to get to him, I
sea. when I managed to get to him, I tried to push off
sea. When I managed to get to him, I tried to push off the floor but I
tried to push off the ﬂoor but I had no
tried to push off the floor but I had no purchase, you know, I had no
had no purchase, you know, I had no boost, I
had no purchase, you know, I had no boost, Iwas just
had no purchase, you know, I had no boost, I was just holding his
had no purchase, you know, I had no boost, I wasjust holding his hand
boost, I was just holding his hand to swimming
boost, I wasjust holding his hand to swimming for my life for the
to swimming for my life for the surface was not I had let all the
surface was not I had let all the air out of my lungs when I had got
air out of my lungs when I had got to him, just to give myself some
to him, just to give myself some more time, and as I was dragging him
more time, and as I was dragging him I didn’t think
more time, and as I was dragging him Ididn’t thinkl
more time, and as I was dragging him I didn’t think I was going to make
I didn’t think I was going to make it to the surface, I was so close to
it to the surface, I was so close to latting go of his
it to the surface, I was so close to letting go of his hand just so I
latting go of his hand just so I could get
letting go of his hand just so I could get myself back to be able to
could get myself back to be able to breathe, you know? But your mind
breathe, you know? But your mind does crazy things in those sort of
does crazy things in those sort of situations. I managed to get him to
situations. I managed to get him to the surface, and he was completely
the surface, and he was completely purple, there was blood coming out
purple, there was blood coming out of his mouth and foam, and myself
of his mouth and foam, and myself and Dylan, we both grabbed him and
and Dylan, we both grabbed him and swam back to shore with the help of
swam back to shore with the help of a couple of other people on the
a couple of other people on the water and dragged him up onto the
water and dragged him up onto the beach, and he was dead. There was no
beach, and he was dead. There was no heart rate, he wasn’t breathing, and
heart rate, he wasn’t breathing, and luckily for the sheer amazement,
luckily for the sheer amazement, there were four
luckily for the sheer amazement, there were fourfemale,
luckily for the sheer amazement, there were four female, I don’t know
there were four female, I don’t know if they were doctors or nurses, but
if they were doctors or nurses, but they just took over and just
if they were doctors or nurses, but theyjust took over and just bash
they just took over and just bash away at CPR
theyjust took over and just bash away at CPR on him and managed to
away at CPR on him and managed to bring him back to life after about
bring him back to life after about ten, 15 minutes. It is an actual
ten, 15 minutes. It is an actual mirada
ten, 15 minutes. It is an actual miracle that he is still even alive,
miracle that he is still even alive, because I was beating myself up,
because I was beating myself up, thinking we had got to him sooner.
On what is another sunny day for us —
new figures show we’ve just had the sunniest Spring since
records began in 1929.
The Met Office says the amount of sunshine across the UK has been
"absolutely extrordinary".
Roger Harrabin has been looking at the reasons behind it —
and asking whether the glorious weather is also a cause
for concern.
The sunny spell has made lockdown so much easier
to bearfor those lucky enough to get outside.
We’ve seen record sunshine in all the home nations,
barely a drop of rain.
But the statistics have dumbfounded scientists.
Look at the numbers.
On average, the UK gets A36 hours of spring sun.
The previous record is 555 of sun between March and the end of May.
This year, we’ve bathed in 613 hours and that’s still rising until final
figures later today.
A Met Office spokesperson said they were staggered by the statistics.
They are very un—British.
Especially following the drenching winter, which saw widespread
flooding and the wettest February on record.
One extreme to another.
Both phenomena are driven by the jet stream, the high—level wind that can
lock weather patterns in place for long periods.
The contrast is unprecedented.
It’s the shift from the amount of rainfall that we saw
during the winter, so December, January and February,
into the spring months, March, April, May.
That is the largest difference in rainfall that we have seen
from a notably wet season, the winter season, into spring.
We’ve never seen that before.
And we do shift from wetter seasons to dry seasons and vice versa,
we have seen prolonged droughts in the past, and we have seen
wetter seasons in the past.
But it’s the largest difference that we have ever recorded
and that is why I use the word unprecedented.
You can blame the jet stream.
That is the high—level wind that can lock in place
weather patterns in the UK, whether they are wet or dry.
Is man—made climate change playing a part?
Well, we know it is warming the Arctic, melting ice and causing
wildfires in places like Siberia, which hit record
temperatures recently.
Is this affecting the jet stream?
Scientists are not yet sure.
They do know this fine spell is set to end,
so enjoy it while you can.
m:
We will have a forecast and just a moment.
In Istanbul, a symbolic easing of the coronavirus
lockdown has taken place.
The grand bazaar — which dates from the 15th century —
has been reopened after closing for more than two months.
Many other restrictions are being lifted today in Turkey —
allowing travel between cities to resume, and the re—opening
of cafes, restaurants and sporting facilities.
1m
Now the weather with Tomasz Schafernaker.
It has been so warm for the last few weeks, and very sunny too,
another hit of a temperature blip in the next couple of days,
from midweek onwards some of us will have a 10 degrees drop compared
to what we have had recently.
The skies are clear across the UK, but to the north of us
we are starting to see changes, closer to Iceland and
across the Norwegian Sea.
In fact, over the next few days we will see wind currents shifting.
Rather than air coming in from the south, it will start
come in from the north again, and the winds will strengthen again,
so you can imagine it will feel a little bit colder.
Now one thing that many gardeners and growers are hoping
for is a bit of rainfall, and at the moment it looks as though
the rain is going to be very hit and miss across the UK
in the next few days.
Now, the late afternoon temperatures today, obviously not a drop
of rain and very warm, 26 or 27 degrees, mid 205
in the north of the country as well, and to the very far north—west
you can start to see the changes in that weather.
So with the first weather front approaching the very far north—west
of Scotland by the end of the night but for most of us it is clear again
and copycat conditions on Tuesday.
High pressure is essentially still in charge but there is this
weak weather front that has sort of snuck into its edge here,
so that does mean more cloud and the possibility of some rain
across the Highlands through the course of the day.
There could be some heavy showers in one or two spots across Scotland
and the very far north of England, but the vast majority of us
on Tuesday, tomorrow, again, another sunny day and a very
warm one, too.
Then from roundabout Wednesday it starts to change.
You can see a weather front pretty much slicing the UK there in half.
So that means increasing amounts of rain.
In one or two spots it could be a little on the heavy side.
Many of us will probablyjust have overcast skies and little
bits and pieces of rain.
Some of us will have mostly bright weather but the main feature is just
how much cooler it will be.
12 in Newcastle, and in the teens for everybody, and that cooler trend
with more cloud and a chance of some rain, which is good news,
will continue through the week.
This is BBC News.
The headlines...
The biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is underway —
primary schools in England re—open and it’s back to business too
for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
We’re now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little
bit more back to normal, but look, that isn’t
an overnight, big bang thing.
It’s measured, progressive, we do it in a safe and responsible way.
In England, hundreds of thousands of children returned
to primary schools this morning — but not all parents agree
that it’s safe enough.
How is it safe to send back?
The pressure is being put back on to us and the children.
I woke up this morning and Ifelt anxious, I know
the logic and the science, but it’s still scary.
Curfews ignored — a sixth night of protests erupts
in cities across the US — sparked by the death in police
custody of George Floyd.
And, they’re off.
Sort of.
Horse racing is back — as the world of sport
prepares to return, but in front of empty stands.
The Chancellor Rishi Sunak has said that people in the UK
are slowly going to get their lives back to normal — as the biggest
easing of lockdown measures since they were introduced
in March gets underway.
Ministers insist they’re following the science and taking
the steps in a ‘very cautious’ way.
All four nations of the UK now have guidelines in place
allowing more than two people to meet outside.
Vulnerable people in England and Wales —
who have been advised to stay home since March — have been told
they can go outdoors again.
But shielding advice in Northern Ireland
and Scotland hasn’t changed.
The first phase in the reopening of schools
has begun in England, with children in nurseries
and Years One and Six returning this morning.
And, provided they meet safety guidelines to protect
shoppers and workers, open air markets and car
showrooms in England are also able to trade again.
But the measures come as another group of public health
officials warn the pace of change in England could lead to a rise
in the infection rate.
In a moment we’ll be looking in more depth at the advice for parents —
and the most vulnerable — but first, here’s Duncan Kennedy.
Some schools, open—air markets, car showrooms and some sports.
It may not be a Manic Monday of openings but the lid on lockdown
is starting to creek open.
At the Sandbanks Beach in Dorset, the new week and new month brought
more glorious sunshine.
From today, six people can now gather outside in England
if they keep two metres apart.
So, what do people here think of that?
I think we just need to be cautious about it.
Even though we can come out, we have to be cautious.
Everyone seems to respect other people’s space.
You see now there is a good amount of space between
everybody on the beach.
You feel OK? I feel fine.
But local officials say with the numbers they have seen
outside in recent days, the message about the rules
still isn’t clear.
I think people are completely confused now by the rules.
They’re so inconsistent.
They don’t make any sense to people.
You ask people on the beach what the rules are, they don’t know
and frankly they don’t care any more.
What now are the rules for gathering?
In England from today, groups of up to six can
meet anywhere outdoors, including in private gardens.
In Wales, any number of people from a maximum of two households
are able to gather outside, but ideally travelling no more
than five miles from home to meet.
In Scotland, up to eight people from a maximum of two households
are able to meet outside.
Whilst in Northern Ireland, groups of up to six can now
also gather outside.
But everywhere, social—distancing rules apply.
All these changes in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland
are dividing opinion.
It’s making some people nervous, but others say they welcome
the opportunity to move out of lockdown.
The one guiding principle you’ll hear across the nation,
and it’s the one we have heard throughout this crisis,
is that science must lead the way.
And the following of that science was again
the Government message today.
We must do this cautiously which is precisely what we’re doing.
We’ve also said if people comply with the rules and the test
and trace system is up and running, which it has been since Thursday,
then there is a good likelihood we will not breach the R value
factor above one.
But some health professionals remain nervous about the speed
of society’s reengagement.
I think it’s just a bit difficult to understand the message
when you’re urging caution at the same time as saying
that there are all these additional liberties to be taken.
Now, don’t get me wrong.
The vast majority of the public will follow those guidelines
extremely well but there is a danger there is a confusing message.
That whole national blended mood of the cautious and carefree
was also shared by some people we spoke to in Exeter today.
I’m delighted we can do it but it is tinged with nervousness.
Just a little bit concerned that it might be too early
and we might have a second wave.
Loosening lockdown measures are a challenge for everyone
in our changing world of inside outside living.
Duncan Kennedy, BBC News, in Dorset.
Well, the daily coronavirus Downing Street briefing is due
to get underway in around an hour — today led by the Health Secretary,
Matt Hancock and ProfessorJohn Newton, National Testing Coodinator
for England.
Lets’ go to Westminster and our Chief Political Correspondent,
Vicki Young.
The concern for some people is that
The concern for some peopla is that the
The concern for some peopla is that the easing of
The concern for some people is that the easing of the lockdown is too
the easing of the lockdown is too soon and too fast. A lot of it comes
soon and too fast. A lot of it comes down to personal approach and
down to personal approach and personal circumstances and if you
personal circumstances and if you listen to the Chancellor Rishi Sunak
listen to the Chancellor Rishi Sunak is urging people to get back some
is urging peopla to get back some kind of
is urging people to get back some kind of normality and he is of
kind of normality and he is of course focused on the economy and
course focused on the economy and getting people back to work. Others
getting peopla back to work. Others are
getting people back to work. Others are very much focused on the health
are very much focused on the health side which has been the main
side which has been the main priority of course for the last
priority of course for the last three months. The government will
three months. The government will say these are tentative steps and
say these are tentative steps and this is not a free for all, but of
this is not a free for all, but of course if you look at those pictures
course if you look at those pictures of the beaches at the weekend looks
of the beaches at the weekend looks a bit like that but if you think
a bit like that but if you think about the reality of lives compared
about the reality of lives compared to pre—lockdown we are not going
to pre-lockdown we are not going back to
to pre—lockdown we are not going back to normal. Many people are
back to normal. Many peopla are still working
back to normal. Many people are still working from home and if you
still working from home and if you are back in the office people are
are back in the office peopla are doing that in
are back in the office people are doing that in different
doing that in different circumstances with the social
circumstances with the social distance and schools are opening but
distance and schools are opening but only for a few years of pupils,
only for a few years of pupils, senior is not going back at or
senior is not going back at or before September. Restaurants and
before September. Restaurants and bars, no cinemas and theatres, no
bars, no cinemas and theatres, no crowded sporting events, so it is
crowded sporting events, so it is not normal at the moment but there
not normal at the moment but there is anxiety in government about
is anxiety in government about getting this right and the truth is
getting this right and the truth is no one knows for certain what the
no one knows for certain what the outcome will be of all of this. UK
outcome will be of all of this. UK ran look
outcome will be of all of this. UK can look at countries because even
ran look at countries because even those are
can look at countries because even those are the ones who have had bad
those are the ones who have had had outbreaks
those are the ones who have had bad outbreaks like Italy and Spain and
outbreaks like Italy and Spain and France, they have started to open up
France, they have started to open up and did so a few weeks ago, so they
and did so a few weeks ago, so they are able to look at that and say,
are able to look at that and say, cautiously, we think this will be OK
cautiously, we think this will be OK as long as people still remember to
as long as people still remember to socially distance. If you are
socially distance. If you are outside and socially distanced, they
outside and socially distanced, they think that can cut down on the
think that ran cut down on the amount
think that can cut down on the amount of transmissions of this
amount of transmissions of this vims.
amount of transmissions of this virus. There are fears that the
virus. There are fears that the transmission rate, although it is
transmission rate, although it is underneath one, it is still
underneath one, it is still perilously close to one, between 0.7
perilously dose to one, between 0.7 and 0.9, so
perilously close to one, between 0.7 and 0.9, so there are real dangers.
and 0.9, so there are real dangers. Yes, not much room for manoeuvre,
Yes, not much room for manoeuvre, and there is risk here and a lot of
and there is risk here and a lot of it will be about the amount of risk
it will be about the amount of risk that peopla
it will be about the amount of risk that people want to take. They are
that peopla want to take. They are not going to
that people want to take. They are not going to eradicate that
not going to eradicate that completely until there is a vaccine
completely until there is a vaccine and that unfortunately does not seem
and that unfortunately does not seem to be here very soon so in the
to be here very soon so in the meantime ministers have said you
meantime ministers have said you have got to the man to live with the
have got to the man to live with the virus and that is why it is about
virus and that is why it is about changing the way you do things ——
changing the way you do things -- ministers
changing the way you do things —— ministers have said you have got to
ministers have said you have got to learn to live with the virus. They
learn to live with the vims. They want to
learn to live with the virus. They want to emphasise the message that
want to emphasise the message that has grown from a stay at home to the
has grown from a stay at home to the social distancing, but you must not
social distancing, but you must not forget that that still matters an
forget that that still matters an awful lot, whatever you are doing,
awful lot, whatever you are doing, even though some restrictions have
even though some restrictions have been lifted, it is important that
been lifted, it is important that you keep doing that, and that is
you keep doing that, and that is whether you are in a school or an
whether you are in a school or an office or on public transport, they
office or on public transport, they will be hoping they can open up bits
will be hoping they ran open up bits of the
will be hoping they can open up bits of the economy and get people
of the economy and get people slightly back to but without the R
slightly back to but without the R rate going up over one. Thanks for
rate going up over one. Thanks for joining us.
Parents across England faced a dilemma this morning —
is it safe for children to go back to school?
After six weeks closed because of the Coronavirus,
primary schools re—opened this morning but parents don’t have
to send their children back,
and many teachers’ unions are warning it’s too
soon for them to do so.
Kevin Courtney is joint head of the National Education Union,
hejoins me now from North London.
Was this right to send some pupils back to school in England today? We
back to school in England today? We don’t think it is right, we think it
don’t think it is right, we think it is a bit too early. We want children
is a bit too earty. We want children to be back
is a bit too early. We want children to be back at school, every school
to be back at school, every school has been open for key workers
has been open for key workers children and vulnerable children and
children and vulnerable children and we want to get to wide opening as
we want to get to wide opening as quickly as we can but we think some
quickly as we ran but we think some caution is
quickly as we can but we think some caution is needed in the way that
caution is needed in the way that the scientists are talking about,
the scientists are talking about, inevitably going back to school
inevitably going back to school means there is more contact and
means there is more contact and there is a rise in the R rate
there is a rise in the R rate because of that and less the contact
because of that and less the contact tracing is up and running to counter
tracing is up and mnning to counter that there
tracing is up and running to counter that there is a danger of a second
that there is a danger of a second peak which would be bad for the
peak which would be bad for the economy and bad for children’s
economy and bad for children’s education. Holding on a bit now in
education. Holding on a bit now in order to slow down that grow, we
order to slow down that grow, we think that would be important. The
think that would be important. The government did not agree and at some
government did not agree and at some schools have reopened in England. As
schools have reopened in England. As far as you ran
schools have reopened in England. As far as you can tell, what has been
far as you ran tell, what has been the response
far as you can tell, what has been the response and how many parents
the response and how many parents have been sending back their
have been sending back their children? We will wait and see the
children? We will wait and see the absolute figures but we are hearing
absolute figures but we are hearing figures around 50%. It is only a
figures around 5096. It is only a minority of
figures around 50%. It is only a minority of schools that have opened
minority of schools that have opened all four groups that the government
all four groups that the government wanted and there are lots of schools
wanted and there are lots of schools that have delayed and there are no
that have delayed and there are no schools in Durham that have moved to
schools in Durham that have moved to a wide opening today or in
a wide opening today or in Merseyside and Coventry, and so
Merseyside and Coventry, and so there are other places where heads
there are other places where heads are taking a decision to go a bit
are taking a decision to go a bit slow and open next Monday or the
slow and open next Monday or the Monday after or
slow and open next Monday or the Monday after orjust open semi
Monday after or just open semi EWUPS-
Monday after or just open semi groups, and I
Monday after orjust open semi groups, and I wonder if the
groups, and I wonder if the government might secretly be pleased
government might secretly be pleased about that —— open some groups. The
about that -- open some groups. The fact that
about that —— open some groups. The fact that some heads are taking it a
fact that some heads are taking it a bit slower might mean there’s less
bit slower might mean there’s lass risk to
bit slower might mean there’s less risk to the R rate. We want to get
risk to the R rate. We want to get back to wide opening and do it
back to wide opening and do it safely and if it takes a bit longer
safely and if it takes a bit longer we think that is a sensible of time.
we think that is a sensible of time. The ﬂip side of
we think that is a sensible of time. The flip side of that of course is
The ﬂip side of that of course is that
The flip side of that of course is that children are missing a huge
that children are missing a huge chunk of their education, months
chunk of their education, months that they were not get back, and
that they were not get back, and there are vulnerable children who
there are vulnerable children who need to be at school and also
need to be at school and also warnings today about depression and
warnings today about depression and loneliness in children and young
loneliness in children and young people by not going to schools and
people by not going to schools and universities. We absolutely agree
universities. We absolutely agree with that, having the lockdown is
with that, having the lockdown is very negative, not
with that, having the lockdown is very negative, notjust for children
very negative, not just for children but for
very negative, notjust for children but for those people we’re
but for those peopla we’re shielding,
but for those people we’re shielding, we want to get out of
shielding, we want to get out of lockdown, as quickly we can. But it
lockdown, as quickly we ran. But it would be a
lockdown, as quickly we can. But it would be a really big false economy
would be a really big false economy to do it too soon to get a second
to do it too soon to get a second peak and then to have the lockdown
peak and then to have the lockdown again, that would be worse the
again, that would be worse the children’s education. I agree about
children’s education. I agree about the threat to vulnerable children in
the threat to vulnerable children in this situation, and we want them to
this situation, and we want them to be back at school. We are worried
be back at school. We are worried that the children’s will come back
that the children’s will come back -- the
that the children’s will come back —— the children who come back are
-- the children who come back are likely to be the
—— the children who come back are likely to be the one not from the
likely to be the one not from the most vulnerable groups and that
most vulnerable groups and that might be an issue, as well. What is
might be an issue, as well. what is the key test for
might be an issue, as well. What is the key test for when you think it
the key test for when you think it is not exactly 100% safe but
is not exactly 10096 safe but relatively
is not exactly 100% safe but relatively safe enough for schools
relatively safe enough for schools to reopen? In your book, what is the
to reopen? In your book, what is the key test, the R rate? It is
key test, the R rate? It is important to say nothing can be
important to say nothing ran be perfectly
important to say nothing can be perfectly safe, you can get run over
perfectly safe, you ran get mn over them to
perfectly safe, you can get run over them to the shops, so no one is
them to the shops, so no one is talking about completely safe. We
talking about completely safe. We are not scientists but what we are
are not scientists but what we are listening to it’s what scientists
listening to it’s what scientists say about this matter we have had
say about this matter we have had these five tests that we have been
these five tests that we have been talking about, and the first one of
talking about, and the first one of those is that the case count needs
those is that the rase count needs to be low
those is that the case count needs to below enough that contact
to be low enough that contact tracing ran
to below enough that contact tracing can work properly. That
tracing ran work property. That seems
tracing can work properly. That seems to me to be what the
seems to me to be what the scientists from the SAGE group that
scientists from the SAGE group that spoke out over the weekend were
spoke out over the weekend were saying, that it takes more time to
saying, that it takes more time to get the contact tracing working,
get the contact tracing working, contact tracing is people... People
contact tracing is peoplc... People say it has
contact tracing is people... People say it has worked in other countries
say it has worked in other countries but it ran
say it has worked in other countries but it can hold the R rate down when
but it ran hold the R rate down when you let go of
but it can hold the R rate down when you let go of other measures, we
you let go of other measures, we hope that is true, but scientists
hope that is true, but scientists are saying that our contact tracing
are saying that our contact tracing is not working well enough here. We
is not working well enough here. We ran wish
is not working well enough here. We can wish the government had got it
ran wish the government had got it working
can wish the government had got it working during the period of
working during the period of lockdown but it is not yet working.
lockdown but it is not yet working. Scientists that we have spoken to,
Scientists that we have spoken to, the ex chief scientific adviser to
the ex chief scientific adviser to the government, he said we are 2—3
the government, he said we are 2-3 weeks away
the government, he said we are 2—3 weeks away from getting contact
weeks away from getting contact tracing working and that would be
tracing working and that would be good time. Those are the figures
good time. Those are the figures we’re looking at because the
we’re looking at because the scientists are giving us that of
scientists are giving us that of information. Good to talk to you.
information. Good to talk to you. Kevin Courtney, joint head of the
Kevin Courtney, joint head of the National teaching union.
There’s been a sixth night of unrest across the United States.
Cu rfews are in force in nearly A0 cities —
but many are being ignored as demonstrations continue over
the death of an unarmed black man in police custody.
James Robbins looks at the situation across the US.
The anger, protests, fires and looting have spread widely
across the United States.
But this is where it all began.
Almost a week after a police officer in Minneapolis killed
an unarmed black man, thousands gathered outside the state
capital, confronted by police and troops from the National Guard.
The focus of anger is clear from the chants, placards and masks.
The death of George Floyd has provoked a sense of outrage that
racism is still widespread, too often ignored and unpunished.
All these voices are here because the same thing keeps
happening over and over again, it’s the new lynching.
I’m just really hoping justice is served, that the people
responsible are held accountable and I don’t have to do this again,
I don’t want to be here.
CHANTING: Hands up, don’t shoot!
The anger is spreading across the United States.
In Kansas City, these demonstrators want their police under
tighter local control, with the citizens review board
to help investigate misconduct.
No violence!
One officer pleaded with the crowd not to resort to violence and even
made an extraordinary gesture of solidarity, which is steeped
with meaning in today’s America.
Take a knee.
Take a knee!
Take a knee.
The killing of George Floyd last week has terribly undermined
whatever progress may have been made in recent years.
And the fact that only one policeman, Derek Chauvin,
has been charged with murder, and that others who stood by do not
face prosecution, has fuelled the protests and violence.
Night—time curfews have been imposed in nearly A0 American cities,
but many people have ignored them.
Thank you.
In Minneapolis, 3 German TV correspondent reported
police targeting him and threatening his
team with arrest.
Get inside now!
Where would you like us to go?
0K!
Thank you, officer.
In San Diego, largely peaceful protests turned violent,
as police used tear gas and pepper balls in the city.
They were enforcing, they said, an unlawful assembly order.
Hands up!
In New York City, violence including looting was widespread,
despite appeals for this to stop from those who want to
honour George Floyd.
Fires were started with no sign of angerfading,
almost a week after his killing.
In Brooklyn, a woman made her own peaceful gesture,
but the wider reality is that the United States has not
seen racial tensions explode on this scale since the 1960s.
James Robbins, BBC News.
The death of George Floyd in police custody has not only
sparked protests across the US — but in the UK as well.
The BBC’s Shamaan Freeman—Powell has been speaking to black British
people to find out how the shocking death has affected them.
ﬂ
I felt like someone
Ifelt like someone had personally attacked me or done something to
attacked me or done something to help me personally. The image of a
help me personally. The image of a white male police officer kneeling
white male police officer kneeling on a black man’s neck... 7 There is
on a black man’s neck... ? There is an internal fire
on a black man’s neck... 7 There is an internalfire within me
on a black man’s neck... 7 There is an internal fire within me that
an internal fire within me that starts to burn like a furnace and I
starts to burn like a furnace and I get angry and mad and I want to do
get angry and mad and I want to do something about it. I was disgusted
something about it. I was disgusted and I still haven’t been able to
and I still haven’t been able to watch the full nine minutes, it is
watch the full nine minutes, it is traumatic. The first thing I think
traumatic. The first thing I think is, but if that was my brother, my
is, but if that was my brother, my husband, my brother, my dad? It is
husband, my brother, my dad? It is like we are reliving the same movie
like we are reliving the same movie every year, like a new list of black
every year, like a new list of black people that are being killed. We see
people that are being killed. We see things like this all the time, and
things like this all the time, and sometimes even as black people, even
sometimes even as black people, even though we are shocked we are also
though we are shocked we are also desensitised to it. 2015 if there
desensitised to it. 2015 if there was a period where there were people
was a period where there were people dying every week and it was, I can’t
dying every week and it was, I can’t wait, don’t shoot, and that the end
wait, don’t shoot, and that the end of that the person I started to
of that the person I started to become was just angry. That is what
become was just angry. That is what is so corrosive and dangerous about
is so corrosive and dangerous about institutional racism, you can still
institutional racism, you ran still be
institutional racism, you can still be emotionally and physically hurt
be emotionally and physically hurt even though it happens across the
even though it happens across the other side of the world. It is a
other side of the world. It is a system of oppression which is
system of oppression which is happens over time —— which is
happens over time -- which is something
happens over time —— which is something that happens over time.
something that happens over time. Scary, really, it almost feels like
Scary, really, it almost feels like racism and the idea of seeing black
racism and the idea of seeing black people as lesser is brushed under
peopla as laser is brushed under the carpet.
people as lesser is brushed under the carpet. Stop and search in the
the carpet. Stop and search in the UK is targeting black people
UK is targeting black people specifically. Those that live in
specifically. Those that live in glass houses should not throw
glass houses should not throw stones, that is what we should
stones, that is what we should remember. It is important for them
remember. It is important for them to remember they are not alone.
to remember they are not alone. Every single black person, no matter
Every single black person, no matter where you are from, no matter where
where you are from, no matter where in the road, we all deal with
in the road, we all deal with similar struggles.
in the road, we all deal with similarstruggles. If
in the road, we all deal with similar struggles. If black people I
similar stmgglas. If black peopla I never
similar struggles. If black people I never thought of the comfortable to
never thought of the comfortable to say, this is what we are going
say, this is what we are going through, nothing will change. —— I
through, nothing will change. -- I never
through, nothing will change. —— I never afforded to be comfortable
never afforded to be comfortable position to say.
This year’s Summer Reading Challenge lineup
has been announced — with a host of big names
lending their support.
The scheme, which reaches out to over 700,000 children each
summer, will be hosted online this year owing to the pandemic.
The aim of the challenge is to make sure children continue to read
during the longer summer holidays — with this year’s event starting
earlier than usual to support parents and carers with
children already at home.
Well, we can speak to now to one of the ambassadors,
bestselling author and illustrator Rob Biddulph.
And congratulations on getting a Blue Peter badge! What of the
Blue Peter badge! what of the challenge
Blue Peter badge! What of the challenge and why is it so important
challenge and why is it so important to get children reading over the
to get children reading over the summer? They want to encourage
summer? They want to encourage primary school age children so 4—11
primary school age children so 4-11 to keep
primary school age children so 4—11 to keep reading over the summer
to keep reading over the summer holidays because traditionally there
holidays because traditionally there is a huge blip in reading over that
is a huge blip in reading over that time, obviously, I
is a huge blip in reading over that time, obviously, Ithink
is a huge blip in reading over that time, obviously, I think a
is a huge blip in reading over that time, obviously, Ithinka man
is a huge blip in reading over that time, obviously, I think a man to
time, obviously, Ithinka man to fish it is
time, obviously, I think a man to fish it is more important than ever
fish it is more important than ever berause
fish it is more important than ever because of school life has been so
because of school life has been so dismpted -- I
because of school life has been so disrupted —— I think this year it is
dismpted -- I think this year it is more important
disrupted —— I think this year it is more important than ever. It is very
more important than ever. It is very important that we encourage them to
important that we encourage them to keep on reading and have some kind
keep on reading and have some kind of focus to that regard, apart from
of focus to that regard, apart from anything else I think it really
anything else I think it really helps parents and carers find a fun
helps parents and carers find a fun activity to help maintain those
activity to help maintain those literacy levels at this crucial time
literacy levels at this crucial time in their development. We have been
in their development. We have been discussing the return to schools
discussing the return to schools today for some primary schools but
today for some primary schools but of course they have missed out weeks
of course they have missed out weeks and weeks of their education, which
and weeks of their education, which they are not going to get back. That
they are not going to get back. That is true, it is very difficult, and
is true, it is very difficult, and I’ve been doing a series of videos
I’ve been doing a series of videos to help parents have a little bit of
to help parents have a little bit of routine in their lives because
routine in their lives because home—schooling is not something
home-schooling is not something parents have
home—schooling is not something parents have been trained in at all.
parents have been trained in at all. That is right these kind of
That is right these kind of initiatives are really important.
initiatives are really important. The fact we are launching it earlier
The fact we are launching it eartier than
The fact we are launching it earlier than usual can only be a help for
than usual ran only be a help for parents, I
than usual ran only be a help for parents, Ithink.
than usual can only be a help for parents, Ithink. What
than usual can only be a help for parents, I think. What is your
parents, Ithink. what is your experience of
parents, I think. What is your experience of reading amongst young
experience of reading amongst young people and children in particular?
peopla and children in particular? The
people and children in particular? The assumption is that with mobile
The assumption is that with mobile phones and so on, so much digital
phones and so on, so much digital technology, that people are reading
technology, that peopla are reading lass, is
technology, that people are reading less, is that right? How do we get
less, is that right? How do we get them to read more, if so? One in
them to read more, ifso? One in five
them to read more, if so? One in five children in England still can’t
five children in England still can’t read a particularly whereby the age
read a particularty whereby the age of 11, so it is
read a particularly whereby the age of 11, so it is a problem, and I do
of“, so it is a problam, and I do lots of
of 11, so it is a problem, and I do lots of school visits and one of the
lots of school visits and one of the first questions I ask my hands up
first questions I ask my hands up who has a bedtime story and
who has a bedtime story and sometimes it is heartbreaking how
sometimes it is heartbreaking how few hands go up and then you
few hands go up and then you investigate a bit further and it
investigate a bit further and it turns out these people don’t even
turns out these people don’t even have a single book in their home.
have a single book in their home. Maybe it is because of the
Maybe it is because of the prevalence of screens and iPads and
prevalance of screens and iPads and digital things,
prevalence of screens and iPads and digitalthings, but
prevalence of screens and iPads and digital things, but it really is
digital things, but it really is tragic. We will key in this age
tragic. We will key in this age EWUP
tragic. We will key in this age group is reading for pleasure. That
group is reading for pleasure. That is the thing, you can get children
is the thing, you ran get children reading for
is the thing, you can get children reading for pleasure, it has been
reading for pleasure, it has been proven that is more important in
proven that is more important in terms of determining their
terms of determining their educational success than their
educational success than their family socio economic status, for
family socio economic status, for example, and those kids that read
example, and those kids that read for pleasure, they are more likely
for pleasure, they are more likely to go on to a more fulfilled life,
to go on to a more fulfilled life, get managerial or professional
to go on to a more fulfilled life, get managerial or professionaljobs
get managerial or professional jobs later in
get managerial or professionaljobs later in life, and so it is clear
later in life, and so it is clear that we get them early and get them
that we get them earty and get them really kind of
that we get them early and get them really kind of interested in
really kind of interested in reading, not because they have to
reading, not because they have to come about because they want to. It
come about because they want to. It develops a curious mind which will
develops a curious mind which will stand them in great stead for the
stand them in great stead for the rest of their lives. We can see some
rest of their lives. We ran see some of your books
rest of their lives. We can see some of your books behind you, what is
of your books behind you, what is your secret to unlocking a child’s
your secret to unlocking a child’s imagination? That is a good
imagination? That is a good question! I wish I knew,
imagination? That is a good question! Iwish I knew, really. I
question! Iwish I knew, really. I think the key is as a children’s
think the key is as a children’s author you don’t talk down to
author you don’t talk down to children and you try to involve them
children and you try to involve them in the story. The books I write,
in the story. The books I write, they are picture books and they
they are picture books and they offer really young ones, from ages
offer really young ones, from ages five -
offer really young ones, from ages five — seven so that experience is
five - seven so that experience is often a joint
five — seven so that experience is often a joint experience, reading
often a joint experience, reading with mum or dad or carer on a
with mum or dad or rarer on a one-to-one
with mum or dad or carer on a one—to—one basis. You will key in
one-to-one basis. You will key in that
one—to—one basis. You will key in that situation is the one—to—one
that situation is the one-to-one time and
that situation is the one—to—one time and there are no screens
time and there are no screens around, just you and Mum and dad
around, just you and Mum and dad reading a book, and the child wants
reading a book, and the child wants to know what happens over the page
to know what happens over the page and just for the sake of the
and just for the sake of the enjoyment of reading and progressing
enjoyment of reading and progressing a story, and I think that is really
a story, and I think that is really important. There’s a certain amount
important. There’s a certain amount of interactivity with my books
of interactivity with my books because I illustrate my books as
because I illustrate my books as well so you include lots of levels
well so you include lots of levels of detail in your stories so the
of detail in your stories so the child might spot something on the
child might spot something on the fourth or
child might spot something on the fourth orfifth grade
child might spot something on the fourth or fifth grade they had not
fourth or fifth grade they had not spotted before and that adds an
spotted before and that adds an element to the story —— Frith read.
element to the story -- Frith read. As authors
element to the story —— Frith read. As authors and illustrators we
As authors and illustrators we strive to do this. Great to talk to,
strive to do this. Great to talk to, well deserving of the Blue Peter
well deserving of the Blue Peter badge! Thanks for
well deserving of the Blue Peter badge! Thanks forjoining us.
The Queen has been photographed riding in the grounds
of Windsor Castle — the first time she’s been seen
outside since the coronavirus lockdown began.
The Queen was pictured on one of her ponies —
a M year old called Balmoral Fern.
She’s been isolating at Windsor with her husband,
the Duke of Edinburgh, and a small number of staff.
On what is another sunny day for us,
new figures show we’ve just had the sunniest Spring since
records began in 1929.
The Met Office says the amount of sunshine across the UK has been
"absolutely extrordinary".
Roger Harrabin has been looking at the reasons behind it —
and asking whether the glorious weather is also a cause
for concern.
The sun has made lockdown so much easier to beer for those lucky
enough to get outside.
We’ve seen record sunshine in all the home nations,
barely a drop of rain.
But the statistics have dumbfounded scientists.
Look at the numbers.
On average, the UK gets A36 hours of spring sun.
The previous record is 555 of sun between March and the end of May.
This year, we’ve bathed in 613 hours and that’s still rising until final
figures later today.
A Met Office spokesperson said they were staggered by the statistics.
They are very un—British.
Especially following the drenching winter, which saw widespread
flooding and the wettest February on record.
One extreme to another.
Both phenomena are driven by the jet stream, the high—level wind that can
lock weather patterns in place for long periods.
The contrast is unprecedented.
It’s the shift from the amount of rainfall that we saw
during the winter, so December, January and February,
into the spring months, March, April, May.
That is the largest difference in rainfall that we have seen
from a notably wet season, the winter season, into spring.
We’ve never seen that before.
And we do shift from wetter seasons to dry seasons and vice versa,
we have seen prolonged droughts in the past, and we have seen
wetter seasons in the past.
But it’s the largest difference that we have ever recorded
and that is why I use the word unprecedented.
You can blame the jet stream.
That’s the high—level wind that can lock in place
weather patterns in the UK, whether they are wet or dry.
Is man—made climate change playing a part?
Well, we know it’s warming the Arctic, melting ice and causing
wildfires in places like Siberia, which hit record
temperatures recently.
Is this affecting the jet stream?
Scientists are not yet sure.
They do know this fine spell is set to end,
so enjoy it while you can.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Tomasz.
Hello.
The 1st ofJune marks the first day of summer, at least
that is what meteorologists’ say, although midsummer’s
day is still a while away.
Look across the UK today, hardly a cloud in the sky,
late afternoon temperatures will range from the high 205
for a few areas in the south to around about 20
in northern Scotland.
Very little happening on the weather front tonight,
a case of clear skies.
The first signs of a weather front in the very far north—west of the UK
and that’s a sign of things to come in the coming days.
Through the course of Tuesday we will have increasing amounts
of cloud through Scotland and late in the day showers developing over
the Highlands, but elsewhere tomorrow it will be another very
warm and very sunny day but a big temperature contrast
between the very far north and the far south.
This is BBC News. I’m Ben Brown.
The headlines:
The biggest easing in lockdown restrictions is under way,
as primary schools in England re—open and it’s
back to business too
for outdoor markets, car showrooms, and some sports.
We’re now at the stage of that plan where we can get our lives a little
bit more back to normal.
But that isn’t an overnight, big bang thing.
It is measured. It is progressive.
We do it in a safe and responsible way.
In England, more children have returned to primary schools,
but not all parents agree that it’s safe enough.
How is it safe to send back?
The pressure is all being put on us as parents and teachers
and on the children.
I have to say, I woke up and I did feel quite anxious this morning.
It’s...
I know the logic, I know the science but even so, it’s quite scary.
Nice to be out in the sunshine.
Confusion for some,
as restrictions are eased on those classed as extremely vulnerable.
In Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon says she will not hesitate to use
the law to enforce group sizes and travel distances,
after there was a five—fold increase in police dispersal orders.
after there was a five—fold increase in police dispersal orders.
Good afternoon.
We’re building up to today’s Downing Street briefing,
led by Health Secretary Matt Hancock.
Ministers have been trying to reassure people that they are not
relaxing lockdown measures too fast.
The Chancellor Rishi Sunak said the lifting of lockdown has
been carefully planned.
So, let’s remind ourselves of what is changing.
All four nations of the UK now have
guidelines in place allowing more than two people to meet outside.
Vulnerable people in England and Wales, who have been advised
to stay home since March, have been told they can
go outdoors again.
But shielding advice in Northern Ireland
and Scotland hasn’t changed.
The first phase in the reopening of schools has begun in England,
with children in nurseries and Years 1 and 6
returning this morning.
And, provided they meet safety guidelines to protect
shoppers and workers, open air markets and car
showrooms in England are also able to trade again.
But the measures come as another group of public health officials
warn the pace of change could lead to a rise in the infection rate.
Here’s Duncan Kennedy.
Some schools, open—air markets, car showrooms and some sports.
It may not be a Manic Monday of openings but the lid on lockdown
is starting to creek open.
At the Sandbanks Beach in Dorset, the new week and new month brought
more glorious sunshine.
From today, six people can now gather outside in England
if they keep two metres apart.
So, what do people here think of that?
I think we just need to be cautious about it.
Even though we can come out, we have to be cautious.
Everyone seems to respect other people’s space.
You see now there is a good amount of space between
everybody on the beach.
You feel OK? I feel fine.
But local officials say with the numbers they have seen
outside in recent days, the message about the rules
still isn’t clear.
I think people are completely confused now by the rules.
They’re so inconsistent.
They don’t make any sense to people.
You ask people on the beach what the rules are, they don’t know
and frankly they don’t care any more.
What now are the rules for gathering?
In England from today, groups of up to six can
meet anywhere outdoors, including in private gardens.
In Wales, any number of people from a maximum of two households
are able to gather outside, but ideally travelling no more
than five miles from home to meet.
In Scotland, up to eight people from a maximum of two households
are able to meet outside.
Whilst in Northern Ireland, groups of up to six can now
also gather outside.
But everywhere, social distancing rules apply.
All these changes in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland
are dividing opinion.
It’s making some people nervous, but others say they welcome
the opportunity to move out of lockdown.
The one guiding principle you’ll hear across the nation,
and it’s the one we have heard throughout this crisis,
is that science must lead the way.
And the following of that science was again
the Government message today.

Citation: BBC News, 14:00 01/06/2020, BBC News 24, 150 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/162D686B?bcast=132107000 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)