You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
I’m Sharanjit Leyl in Singapore.
The headlines:
Possible murder charges for the head of a South Korean
religious sect over the coronavirus deaths
of some of his followers.
In the US, there are concerns the virus could have been
circulating for weeks — up to 1,500 people
may be infected.
I’m Samantha Simmonds in London.
Also in the programme.
In the US election campaign, Mayor Pete Buttigieg pulls
out — it could be a boost forJoe Biden’s campaign.
After the US—Taliban agreement, the Qatari mediator
tells us that outside countries could still wreck the chances
for peace in Afghanistan.
Live
Live from our studios
Live from our studios in
The army has been deployed to deal with South
Korea’s latest threat.
They’re battling this virus with disinfectant, but as more
cases are confirmed, it appears this is a war
they’re not winning.
A lot of public anger has been aimed at this
secretive religious sect.
The infection has spread rapidly among the followers
of Shincheonji Church ofJesus.
And as officials raced to trace the outbreak,
it’s claimed leaders hid the names of members.
Now they’re being accused of murder.
In a rare interview, the church denied all charges.
TRANSLATION: We feel very sorry for causing concern and worry
to the people of Korea and the world.
I understand if people criticise us.
But rather than point fingers, we think what’s more important
is to end this situation and to make sure no more
confirmed cases come out.
Meanwhile, hospitals in Daegu have been overwhelmed.
At least three people have died while waiting for a bed.
Doctors believe it’s time to free up space
for the most serious patients.
TRANSLATION: We can’t quarantine and treat
all patients.
Those who have mild symptoms should stay
at home and get treated.
We should change our end goal strategy to lower death rates.
Thousands fear they have the virus and are
lining up to be tested.
These drive—through clinics speed up the process.
South Korea is using every resource it has and still this
infection continues to spread.
Laura Bicker, BBC News, Seoul.
The coronavirus has now infected more than 88,000
people and spread to more than 60 countries around
the world, rattling global markets and prompting
unprecedented measures from governments.
In Europe, Italy has been the worst hit.
The number of cases has spiked and 3A have now died.
Courtney Bembridge reports.
Fears over the virus have pushed Italy’s economy to the
pushed Italrs economy to the brink
pushed Italy’s economy to the brink of a recession, and
brink of a recession, and looking at these quiet canals
looking at these quiet ﬁnals in Venice,
looking at these quiet canals in Venice, it’s not hard to see
in Venice, it’s not hard to see why. Nine days ago, Italy knew
why. Nine days ago, Italy knew of
why. Nine days ago, Italy knew ofjust
why. Nine days ago, Italy knew of just three seemingly
of just three seemingly isolated cases. There are no
isolated cases. There are no more than 1700 nationwide. In
more than 1700 nationwide. In the North, Italian soldiers
the North, Italian soldiers patrolled checkpoints outside
patrolled checkpoints outside 11 towns, home to 50,000
11 towns, home to 50,000 peopla. No
11 towns, home to 50,000 people. No one is allowed in or
peopla. No one is allowed in or out. The
people. No one is allowed in or out. The two regions under
out. The two regions under lockdown, generate around a
lockdown, generate around a third of Italy’s economic
third of Italrs economic output,
third of Italy’s economic output, home to everything from
output, home to everything from warehouses to cheese and dairy
warehouses to cheese and dairy processing centres. Even parts
processing centres. Even parts of the country not affected by
of the country not affected by the virus are taking a hit.
the virus are taking a hit. Italrs
the virus are taking a hit. Italy’s tourism agency says 90%
Italrs tourism agency says 9096 of
Italy’s tourism agency says 90% of hotel and travel agency but
of hotel and travel agency but still enough bookings for march
still enough bookings for march “P
still enough bookings for march up and cancelled in Rome and up
up and ancellad in Rome and up to 801: in
up and cancelled in Rome and up to 80% in Sicily. Tourists did
to 8096 in Sicily. Tourists did show up to
to 80% in Sicily. Tourists did show up to the lure Museum in
show up to the lure Museum in Paris, but they were left
Paris, but they were left waiting outside, after staff
waiting outside, after staff refused to go to work.
refused to go to work. We saw on Twitter that people
We saw on Twitter that peopla have
We saw on Twitter that people have been waiting for three
have been waiting for three hours, so, yeah, we are not
hours, so, yeah, we are not going to do that. If it takes
going to do that. If it takes too long, we will
going to do that. If it takes too long, we willjust go
too long, we willjust go somewhere else. Eventually, the
somewhere else. Eventually, the visitors all left, with the
visitors all left, with the promise of a refund. The
promise of a refund. The closure came after the
closure came after the government cancelled all
government cancelled all gatherings of more than 5000
gatherings of more than 5000 peopla in
gatherings of more than 5000 people in confined spaces.
peopla in confined spaces. Staff
people in confined spaces. Staff argue that’s a normal day
Staff argue that’s a normal day at the museum. As fears sweeps
at the museum. As fears sweeps the continents, facemasks are
the continents, facemasks are at a premium,
the continents, facemasks are ata premium, and
the continents, facemasks are at a premium, and the health
at a premium, and the health minister in France and
minister in France and Switzerland have urged citizens
Switzertand have urged citizens to go to the
Switzerland have urged citizens to go to the neck forgo the
to go to the neck forgo the greeting of a kiss on each
greeting of a kiss on each cheek, as well as the customary
cheek, as well as the customary handshake. This video is being
handshake. This video is being shared online showing an
shared online showing an alternate greeting, but still
alternate greeting, but still the disease spreads, and the
the disease spreads, and the (‘zech
the disease spreads, and the Czech Republic has no
Czech Republic has no registered its first three
registered its first three cases. There was some good news
cases. There was some good news for tourists locked down at a
for tourists locked down at a hotel on the Spanish island of
hotel on the Spanish island of tender beef. They are now free
tender beef. They are now free to leave if they test negative
to leave if they test negative for the virus and promised to
for the virus and promised to continue their period of
continue their period of isolation in their home
isolation in their home countries. The US state of
countries. The US state of Washington has declared a state
Washington has declared a state of emergency after its first
of emergency after its first step from the virus. There are
step from the vims. There are no fears
step from the virus. There are no fears the virus has been in
no fears the virus has been in the community undetected for
the community undetected for weeks, after scientists found
weeks, after scientists found similarities between new
similarities between new coronavirus samples and those
coronavirus samplas and those from an
coronavirus samples and those from an undiagnosed patient six
from an undiagnosed patient six weeks ago. That could mean up
weeks ago. That could mean up to
weeks ago. That could mean up M1500
weeks ago. That could mean up to 1500 people have been
to 1500 people have been infected. Courtney Bainbridge,
infected. Courtney Bainbridge, BBC News.
Also making news today.
Also making news today.
An Australian investigation has found evidence that detained
Chinese Uighurs are being used as forced labour in factories
that produce global brands.
It said this was part of what China calls
the re—education of Muslim Uighurs.
The report added that the Uighurs were not able
to refuse the work placements.
Greece says it has stopped almost 10,000 migrants crossing
over the [and border from Turkey, which is
struggling to deal with the number of people fleeing
Syria’s civil war.
The Turkish President has said he will break his country’s
deal with Brussels to prevent migrants entering the EU
unless he gets greater support for his intervention in Syria.
New research suggests that Australian summers are now
twice as long as winters — due to climate change.
The policy group, the Australia Institute,
says raised temperatures mean that summers are a month longer
than half a century ago, while winters have contracted
by three weeks.
A warm winter in 2019 has, for the first time, caused
the failure of Germany’s harvest of ice wine grapes.
The drink is a dessert wine produced from grapes that have
frozen while still on the vine.
None of Germany’s 13 wine—growing regions reached
the required low temperatures to produce the rare wine.
Let’s bring you some breaking news.
114.
US media has been reporting that Pete Buttigieg, the former
that Pete Buttigieg, the former Indiana mayor, is pulling out
Indiana mayor, is pulling out of the race to become the
of the race to become the Democratic party’s presidential
Democratic party’s presidential candidate. The 38—year—old
candidate. The 38—year—old became the first openly gay
became the first openly gay contender when he announced
contender when he announced that he was running for the
that he was running for the Democratic nomination. He
Democratic nomination. He narrowly one the Iowa caucuses
narrowly one the Iowa caucuses earty last
narrowly one the Iowa caucuses early last month and came in a
earty last month and fame in a strong second
early last month and came in a strong second place in the New
strong second place in the New Hampshire primary but faltered
Hampshire primary but faltered badly and Saturday’s South
badly and Saturday’s South Carolina vote.
That was won by former US vice presidentJoe Biden.
His resounding victory dramatically revived his
bid to win nomination.
Our North America editor Jon Sopel reports.
So it would seem reports ofJoe Biden’s imminent demise
were much exaggerated.
The former Vice President’s southern firewall proved to be
rock solid and flame retardant.
His first victory tasted sweet.
Now, thanks to all of you, the heart of the Democratic
Party, we just won, and we won big because of you.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE.
And we are very much alive.
What made the difference was that this was the first state
to vote with a significant African—American population.
Their support for him was almost as enormous
as the food portions in this Spartanburg diner.
Joe Biden.
Biden.
Biden.
You’re Biden?
Yeah, I like Biden.
Because he’s an honest man.
Biden is probably my top choice.
Bernie Sanders is the standard bearer for the left
in this gruelling contest.
He came in second last night, but is expected to return
to frontrunner status on Super Tuesday, in
a couple of days’ time, when M states vote.
You cannot win them all.
There’s a lot of states out there, and tonight we did not
win in South Carolina.
At this college, they are getting ready
for the new baseball season.
And among young people, Bernie Sanders is
the runaway favourite.
For all that, there is a clear majority supporting
a centrist like Joe Biden.
The trouble is, that vote is being split by another
of other candidates who are also moderates.
Or to put it in baseball terms, there seems no—one capable
of knocking it out of the park.
Jon Sopel, BBC News, Spartanburg, South Carolina.
And we are expecting to hear from Pete Buttigieg in the next
from Pete Buttigieg in the next hour or so. Of course we will
hour or so. Of course we will bring you that live on BBC
bring you that live on BBC World News.
The Afghan government has started picking over
the details of the deal signed by the Taliban and
the US on Saturday.
The historic deal will see thousands of American troops
leave Afghanistan in return for commitments from
the Taliban — the focus is now on how the deal will be
implemented and if promises will be kept.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet
has this report.
The first win for Afghans, a week of relative calm.
What was called a reduction in violence before
the signing of a deal.
What happens now?
at least not in the public document,
but in Doha and Kabul,
they will keep monitoring it, so I asked Qatar’s
special envoy, will this partial truce continue?
We hope it will contine.
The parties and the peoples of Afghanistan, so the
result in the reduction of violence, how many lives we
saved, they saved, and I think they have more religious
saved, they saved, and I think they have moral, religious
and legal obligations.
And if they don’t respect them?
Well, again, we hope they...
Hope is not a strategy, as the Pentagon likes to say.
We hope they respect their obligation
in accordance with their agreement,
but I’m sure if there’s a violation from one side,
the other side have the right to self—defense, to act
accordingly, but, again, this is not the solution.
What the Taliban want to see next is the
prisoner release, they say up to 5000 men will be freed.
But in Kabul, the president made it clear that’s up to his
government — the Taliban had been refusing to talk to them.
We need to engage the parties to have a proper discussion
about the way forward, and they think they should compromise
and I hope the parties move forward.
this is the beginning of the talks,
should start today, and I hope we can
do something in the coming days.
If you had to choose one thing that worries you,
that could cause this deal to unravel, what would it be?
The spoilers.
The spoilers, I think.
The spoilers is a major obstacle in the past, and I’m
afraid it might be this obstacle might...
You know, remain.
But I hope with this momentum and with the pressure
from certain major powers, the spoilers should back off.
The spoilers are in Afghanistan or in neighbouring countries?
Mostly I would say in neighbouring countries.
Pakistan, Iran?
I’m not going to comment on this.
I willjust...
You can ask the Taliban, and they will tell you.
A lasting cease—fire, a peace deal are on the agenda
for Afghan talks.
They are expected to start this month,
if all goes as planned.
Lyse Doucet, ABC
Lyse Doucet, BBC News, Doha.
You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
Still to come on the programme: We’ll hearfrom Asia Bibi,
the Pakistani Christian woman who spent years sentenced
to death for alleged blasphemy.
She reveals how her faith helped her through her ordeal.
first, the plate slipped gently off the restaurant tables. Then
off the restaurant tables. Then suddenly, the tables, the
suddenly, the tables, the chairs and the people crashed
chairs and the people crashed sideways and downwards. It was
sideways and downwards. It was just a matter of seconds as the
just a matter of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
ferry lurched onto her side. The hydrogen bomb. On a remote
The hydrogen bomb. On a remote Pacific Atoll, the Americans
Pacific Atoll, the Americans had successfully tested a
had successfuuy tested a weapon
had successfully tested a weapon whose force dwarfed that
weapon whose force dwarfed that of the bomb dropped on
of the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. I saw it went back,
Hiroshima. I saw it went back, back, backstopping the rights
back, backstopping the rights of these mergers are their
of these mergers are their rights as citizens of the
rights as citizens of the United States, and they should
United States, and they should be protected even in the right
be protected even in the right to test them out so that they
to test them out so that they don’t get their heads and sent
don’t get their heads and sent to hospital. This religious
to hospital. This religious controversy, I don’t want to
controversy, I don’t want to 55V
controversy, I don’t want to say too much about it. It
say too much about it. It worries me, yes, but I hope
worries me, yes, butl hope everything
worries me, yes, but I hope everything will be all right in
everything will be all right in the end of the day.
This is Newsday on the BBC.
Thanks for staying with us.
I’m Sharanjit Leyl in Singapore.
I’m Samantha Simmons in London.
Our top stories:
The founder of a secretive religious sect in South Korea
is facing possible murder charges over
the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
American media are reporting that the Democratic Party
presidential contender Pete Buttigieg is pulling out
of the White House race.
Let’s take a look at some front pages from around the world.
The Japan Times is leading with a story criticising
the Prime Minister handling of the Coronavirus outbreak.
The paper says that critics are slamming Shinzo Abe
for being "invisible" on the issue over
the last month.
Singapore’s Straits Times leads with analysis of the political
situation in Malaysia after the country’s
new Prime Minister — Muhyiddin Yassin —
was sworn in on Sunday.
The paper says the turmoil is far from over, with former
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamed claiming that his successor
does not have majority support in the house.
And finally, the Philippines Star is predicting that
injust 10 years’ time, China’s navy will be
the world’s largest.
They cite a retired US Navy admiral who claims that
while the US still dominates the seas, China
is fast catching up.
The Star says that Beijing’s rapid naval growth
is 3 concerning sign for the Phillipines
in the South China see.
And that brings you up—to—date
And that brings you up-to-date with
And that brings you up—to—date with some of those papers.
Samantha, what stories are sparking
discussions online?
IFS:
Not surprisingly, it’s a lot about the coronavirus.
And its impact of the coronavirus
outbreak on sporting events is attracting
a lot of interest.
On Sunday, we saw the Tokyo marathon crowds reduced
from 38,000 runners to just 200 overfears of contagion.
The sumo spring tournament which opens next Sunday
inJapan will be held behind closed doors.
The athletics world indoor championships, scheduled
to take place in China next month, are already off and many
are nervously waiting to see what will happen to the Olympic
games this summer.
Indeed.
Let’s get more on the coronavirus outbreak.
Dr Sarah Borwein is a family doctor in Hong Kong.
She told me how it compared to the Sars outbreak,
way back in 2003.
In Beijing, for
In Beijing, fora
In Beijing, for a long time, there is denial that there was
there is denial that there was even an epidemic, and it was
even an epidemic, and it was really the scariest thing at
really the scariest thing at the time. I think there is some
the time. I think there is some similarities. I even wrote at
similarities. I even wrote at the time that China was a
the time that China was a paradox because freedom of
paradox because freedom of speech was still a work in
speech was still a work in progress and yet their ability
progress and yet their ability to take effective action had to
to take effective action had to command respect, and to some
command respect, and to some extent that is still the case
extent that is still the rase now.
extent that is still the case now. We really have to respect
now. We really have to respect the effective action... Dr
the effective action... Dr Borwein you’re saying China is
Bomein you’re saying China is taking some
Borwein you’re saying China is taking some strides. Let’s look
taking some strides. Let’s look at the outbreak of it happen it
at the outbreak of it happen it a similar
at the outbreak of it happen it a similartime of
at the outbreak of it happen it a similar time of year, winter
a similar time of year, winter session, so do you see the same
session, so do you see the same thing with SARS? Did it
thing with SARS? Did it dissipate or did we manage to
dissipate or did we manage to control it through very
control it through very intensive public health
intensive public health measures? I do that is
measures? I do that is something we don’t know. While
something we don’t know. whila it is
something we don’t know. while it is tempting
something we don’t know. While it is tempting to speculative
it is tempting to speculative mice go away in the summer
mice go away in the summer months, I don’t thing we can
months, I don’t thing we ran afford to
months, I don’t thing we can afford to make that assumption.
afford to make that assumption. Right. And at what is your
Right. And at what is your professional opinion on how the
professional opinion on how the world is coping with this
world is coping with this particular outbreak? Are you
particular outbreak? Are you seeing Asia has learned some
seeing Asia has learned some lessons from SARS and is
lessons from SARS and is therefore dealing with this
therefore dealing with this somewhat better than Europe for
somewhat better than Europe for instance? I think it remains to
instance? I think it remains to be seen exactly how Europe will
be seen exactly how Europe will deal with this, but I do think
deal with this, but I do think that there is a sense of
that there is a sense of Pwpared.
that there is a sense of prepared, mental preparedness,
prepared, mental preparedness, in Asia, that people have been
in Asia, that peopla have been through this
in Asia, that people have been through this before, that the
through this before, that the pub“:
through this before, that the public knows how to react. And
public knows how to react. And what will happen in Europe is
what will happen in Europe is still to be seen. It is
still to be seen. It is untested. You of course are
untested. You of course are seeing a lot of patients
seeing a lot of patients worried about this particular
worried about this particular outbreak. Tell us about the
outbreak. Tell us about the mental health of some of the
mental health of some of the patients you have encountered.
patients you have encountered. It’s interesting. I am sure,
It’s interesting. lam sure, like
It’s interesting. I am sure, like Singapore in a way but
like Singapore in a way but even more in Hong Kong, the
even more in Hong Kong, the people who are here in 2003,
people who are here in 2003, the population is a bit
the population is a bit traumatised what happened
traumatised what happened duﬂng
traumatised what happened during SARS. I really thought
during SARS. I really thought that that would play out and
that that would play out and that people would be very
that people would be very anxious about the disease.
anxious about the disease. Actually, most people take a
Actually, most people take a sensible middle ground here.
sensible middle ground here. They understand that public
They understand that public health risk is very large. .
L111:
But we do see is the mental health aspect of the isolation
health aspect of the isolation measures that have been going
measures that have been going on since January. The schools
on since january. The schools have
on since January. The schools have been out since then, the
have been out since then, the home—schooling, many people are
home-schooling, many peopla are working from
home—schooling, many people are working from home, many people
working from home, many peopla working
—— SO
—— so it is not much fun. Dr
-- so it is not much fun. Dr Sarah
—— so it is not much fun. Dr Sarah Borwein earlier.
Asia Bibi, the Pakistani Christian woman who spent years
on death row after being convicted of blasphemy,
has said she hopes to be able to return to Pakistan one day.
She was in Paris for the release of her memoir,
Finally Free, in which she recounts her time in
jail and her brutal treatment by guards.
In the second part of an interview with the BBC’s
Mishal Husain, Ms Bibi says herfaith helped
her through the ordeal.
Nearly ten yea rs
Nearly ten years ago, a Christian woman from Pakistan’s
Christian woman from Pakistan’s project province was sentenced
project province was sentenced to death for blasphemy. It was
to death for blasphemy. It was a rase
to death for blasphemy. It was a case that spark international
a case that spark international attention and outrage. And even
attention and outrage. And even after Asia Bibi was finally
after Asia Bibi was finally acquitted by Pakistan’s highest
acquitted by Pakistan’s highest court, huge protests prevented
court, huge protests prevented her immediate release. She now
her immediate release. She now has a new life and here
has a new life and here in Paris, she has been telling me
Paris, she has been telling me her story.
her story. TRANSLATION: I suffered a lot
TRANSLATION: I suffered a lot inside the jail. I cannot even
inside the jail. I cannot even tell you what happens to me. I
tell you what happens to me. I lived through all this misery,
lived through all this misery, but God gave me patience and I
but God gave me patience and I got a lot of strength. You
got a lot of strength. You rannot
got a lot of strength. You cannot imagine, but I have
cannot imagine, but I have witnessed miracles. Is
witnessed miracles. Is difficult for you to talk about
difficult for you to talk about because you write in the book
because you write in the book about how you were held by the
about how you were held by the neck and how difficult that
neck and how difficult that time was for you. What was it
time was for you. what was it that gave you
time was for you. What was it that gave you hope in this
that gave you hope in this period?
period? TRANSLATION: My strength fame
TRANSLATION: My strength came from my faith, and I learned
from my faith, and I learned that you should be courageous
that you should be courageous and you should be strong in
and you should be strong in your faith,
and you should be strong in yourfaith, and
and you should be strong in your faith, and you should
your faith, and you should never lose your faith. After
never lose your faith. After everything you have been
everything you have been through, how would you describe
through, how would you describe your emotions today? Do you
your emotions today? Do you feel bitterness? Do you feel
feel bitterness? Do you feel anger?
anger? TRANSLATION: No. I am
anger? TRANSLATION: No. lam not angry
TRANSLATION: No. lam not angry at all. I
TRANSLATION: No. lam notangry at all. Iforgiven
TRANSLATION: No. lam notangry at all. I forgiven everyone
at all. I forgiven everyone from my heart and there is no
from my heart and there is no hard feeling for me. There is
hard feeling for me. There is patience. I learned how to be
patience. I learned how to be patient after having to leave
patient after having to leave my children behind. It
my children behind. It surprises me even. How have I
surprises me even. How have I learned to be so patient? How
learned to be so patient? How ran any
learned to be so patient? How can any mother he
learned to be so patient? How can any mother be patient after
ran any mother be patient after leaving her
can any mother be patient after leaving her children? But God
leaving her children? But God made me patient and I survive
made me patient and I survive the hardships turn my way
the hardships turn my way through my patients. There are
through my patients. There are people today in jail facing
people today in jail facing blasphemy charges. What would
blasphemy charges. what would you say to
blasphemy charges. What would you say to them?
you say to them? TRANSLATION: I can give them
TRANSLATION: I ran give them hope. I
TRANSLATION: I ran give them hope. lam
TRANSLATION: I can give them hope. lam now
TRANSLATION: I can give them hope. I am now free.
TRANSLATION: I can give them hope. lam now free. I
TRANSLATION: I can give them hope. I am now free. I am
hope. lam now free. lam outside. I
hope. I am now free. I am outside. I want to request all
outside. I want to request all media that they should work so
media that they should work so she is also freed and I can
she is also freed and I ran tell her
she is also freed and I can tell her that there will be a
tell her that there will be a day when she will also be free.
day when she will also be free. Asia Bibi’s long ordeal is now
Asia Bibi’s long ordeal is now over, but the issue of
over, but the issue of blasphemy in Pakistan is not
blasphemy in Pakistan is not full sub there are still
full sub there are still questions and Muslims being
questions and Muslims being targeted by the lot today ——
targeted by the lot today -- there
targeted by the lot today —— there are still Christians and
there are still Christians and Muslims. The question is
Muslims. The question is whether the country will take
whether the country will take action to prevent abuses and to
action to prevent abuses and to protect its citizens, whatever
protect its citizens, whatever their religion.
We put allegations about misuse of blasphemy laws to
the authorities in Pakistan.
They said Pakistan has taken considerable steps
to prevent its possible misuse and constantly reviews
its implementation.
The cases of blasphemy are brought before the court
and follow due process of the law.
The acquittal of Asia Bibi is a testimony of Pakistan’s
resolve to protect its citizens as per its Constitution.
About the allegations of abuse in prison, they responded...
You have been watching Newsday.
Thanks very much for being with us.
I’m Samantha Simmonds in London.
And I’m Sharanjit Leyl in Singapore.
Stay with us.
We will be looking at the impact
the coronavirus outbreak is having on India’s
manufacturing industries as disruptions to the supply
chain from China continue.
Just before we go, we’d like to leave
you with pictures of Russians bidding farewell
to winter and welcoming spring.
This is Russia’s pre—Lent festival known as Maslenitsa —
better known as pancake week.
IFS:
Notjust a day
Not just a day there,
Notjust a day there, they have
Not just a day there, they have a whole
Notjust a day there, they have a whole week of it!
It has its roots in pagan traditions, when people
marked the end of winter and the beginning of spring
with massive bonfires.
The festival eventually became part of Russian
Orthodox Christian tradition and it is now a week of folk
celebration and plenty of feasting on blini,
the traditional Russian pancake that symbolizes the sun.
m:
We certainly had lots of pancakes here last Tuesday.
pancakes here last Tuesday. Don’t know about you.
That’s all for now.
Stay with us on BBC World News.
Hello. With rivers running high
Hello. with rivers mnning high and many
Hello. With rivers running high and many fields still
and many fields still underwater, we could do with a
underwater, we could do with a little bit of better weather
little bit of better weather news and to a certain degree,
news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week. It’s
we’ll get that this week. It’s likely to be completely dry but
likely to be completely dry but certainly compared with recent
certainly compared with recent weeks, it won’t be anywhere
weeks, it won’t be anywhere near as wet or is Wendy. The
near as wet or is Wendy. The jet stream is taking a
jet stream is taking a more southerty
jet stream is taking a more southerly track but all that
southerty track but all that does
southerly track but all that does mean is we are into
does mean is we are into slightly cooler air. It will
slightly cooler air. It will certainly be chillier
certainly be chillier particular by night, with frost
particular by night, with frost likely. And that is how we
likely. And that is how we start the Monday morning
start the Monday morning commute. More in the way of
commute. More in the way of frost and ice around. Not quite
frost and ice around. Not quite as frosty toward Southern
as frosty toward Southern counties of England. Outbreak
counties of England. Outbreak severing here and a bit of
severing here and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing
sleet and wet snow first thing in the morning, clearing away
in the morning, clearing away from East Anglia and Southeast
from East Anglia and Southeast quite smartly but than
quite smartly but than brightening up. Showers in the
brightening up. Showers in the West. In mixer of rain hail,
West. In mixer of rain hail, sleet and snow. More of you
sleet and snow. More of you will spend the day complete the
will spend the day complete the dry, with one or two showers
dry, with one or two showers passing away. Winds will
passing away. Winds will overall be latest. Not could be
overall be latest. Not could be quite as cold during the
quite as cold during the afternoon, but the breeze will
afternoon, but the breeze will be picking up across the
be picking up across the Northwest later. We could see
Northwest later. We could see gills for a time during Monday
gills for a time during Monday night into Tuesday. More in the
night into Tuesday. More in the “Y
night into Tuesday. More in the way of showers starting to
way of showers starting to develop through the night and
develop through the night and they will push their way
they will push their way eastwards. In the hills in
eastwards. In the hills in northern Ireland in northern
northern Ireland in northern England’s. . .
northern Ireland in northern England’s... Temperatures will
England’s... Temperatures will soon be close to freezing in
soon be close to freezing in many areas. Frost and ice, the
many areas. Frost and ice, the greatest risk. Cultus of the
greatest risk. Cultus of the weather first thing on Tuesday
weather first thing on Tuesday morning towards the east. This
morning towards the east. This is a set up for Tuesday ——
is a set up for Tuesday -- occultist
is a set up for Tuesday —— occultist of the weather. More
occultist of the weather. More rain bearing weather fronts the
rain bearing weather fronts the road to down towards France and
road to down towards France and Iberia things to that southern
Iberia things to that southern track. It could be close enough
track. It could be close enough to produce some rain. More
to produce some rain. More specially in the Channel
specially in the Channel Islands. More showers around by
Islands. More showers around by and large to start Tuesday
and large to start Tuesday morning. A wintry mix. Those
morning. A wintry mix. Those will clear away and it is back
will clear away and it is back to sunshine and showers for
to sunshine and showers for many into the afternoon.
many into the afternoon. Showers mainly across some
Showers mainly across some western areas. Temperatures
western areas. Temperatures similar to those on Monday. As
similar to those on Monday. As we head into the middle part of
we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many
the week, it looks like many will still stay largely dry.
will still stay largely dry. Still some showers around here
Still some showers around here and there. Chance of some rain
and there. Chance of some rain dose to
and there. Chance of some rain close to the south coast on
close to the south coast on Wednesday but overall,
Wednesday but overall, we continue with that largely dry
continue with that largely dry story. It changes a little bit
story. It changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
towards the end of the week. Thursday night into Friday,
Thursday night into Friday, we’ll see a weather pushing
we’ll see a weather pushing east. This will bring us only
east. This will bring us only spell of rain briefly. The
spell of rain brieﬂy. The chains
spell of rain briefly. The chains of some more wet and
chains of some more wet and windy weather towards the end
windy weather towards the end of the week and into next week
of the week and into next week and. By and large, still the
and. By and large, still the rivers responding to the rain,
rivers responding to the rain, and with the forecast towards
and with the forecast towards the end of the week, never to
the end of the week, never to stay too far from our flood
stay too far from our ﬂood warnings,
stay too far from our flood warnings, there for you online.
I’m Samantha Simmonds with BBC World News.
Our top story.
The founder of a secretive religious sect in South Korea is facing
possible murder charges over some of the country’s coronavirus deaths.
The infection has spread rapidly among the sect’s followers,
and the authorities say its leaders concealed the names of members.
After Saturday’s deal signed between the United States
and the Taliban, the Qatari mediator has told the BBC that
what he called outside spoilers will try to wreck it.
And this story is trending on BBC.com
Australia’s summers have become twice as long as its winters
with increasing temperatures driven by climate change, according
to new weather analysis.
The Australia Institute found that
summer across most of the country over the past 20 years
was about a month longer than in the mid—20th century
while winters had become shorter.
Stay with BBC World News.
Now on BBC News...
It’s time for hard talk.
Welcome to Hardtalk with me.
We are in Cape Town.
The cape is the stronghold of South Africa’s main opposition
party, the democratic alliance, the DA.
And when it elected its first black leader five years ago,
many believed it was the start of a new era, my guest
is Mmusi Maimane, and this is his first interview
to an international broadcaster since he stepped down as Democratic
alliance leader in October.
What does his resignation tell us about race and politics
in South Africa today?
Mmusi Maimane in Cape Town, welcome to Hardtalk.
Thank you very much for having me.
Why did you step down as leader of the Democratic
alliance in October?
Well, I thought, at that point, that the DA and I did not
share a common vision.
At first, I pursued the vision of a nonracial South Africa,
I believe the DA needed to govern in more places, that the DA needed
to grow in the majority of South Africans who are black,
and there were a few people inside the DA who thought it
would be important for them to create an organisation that
served a particular race, and I felt that at that time,
there were divisions of which direction we should take
and that was important for me not to serve in that
kind of context.
When you became leader in 2015, May, you said you wanted to take the race
out of South African politics, so are you basically saying now that
you failed to do that?
No, I think it was important.
When I took over as leader of the DA in 2015, I made it very clear,
I said, "if you don’t see that I’m black, you don’t see me."
I became very deliberate about saying to him actually,
the DA needed to be an organisation for all races.
That, in fact, the only way to deal with race in South Africa
is when you can bring black people and white people to work
together, and then...
But you failed to do that.
No.
You did.
Let me just tell you what a well—known commentator respected
here in South Africa said, "Unfortunately, many "people see
"Mmusi Maimane as something as a puppet,
"that there are powers behind the operation that are not black."
So, basically, you arejust a symbol, and there were
the white members of the DA pulling the strings.
Fundamentally not true.
I fought hard that we govern inJohannesburg.
And when you think about governing inJohannesburg, that requires that
actually black people, white people, people voted
for the DA, and they are working together.
I produce the most diverse caucus of the Democratic alliance
of those different races.
We fought hard for that.
The only failure that I would look at, when you pursue nine racialism,
The only failure that I would look at, when you pursue non—racialism,
it doesn’t always get rewarded at the polls, and so when we lost
1.5% of the vote in the national elections in 2019, there were few
people who started to attack this idea of non—racialism.
It is what is the future of South Africa, and if we start
to regress away from that, South Africa will become
even further polarised.
Let me just explain why commentators like that do say that you were,
sorry to put it crudely, a puppet on a string,
you have your predecessor as leader of the Democratic alliance,
the DA, she was in power from 2007—2015, she is a veteran
South African politician, a former mayor of Cape Town here,
Premier of the Western Cape, you name it, and she’s now been
appointed as the chair of the Federal Council of the DA.
She really was calling the shots, wasn’t she, in the DA?
Absolutely not.
When I took on the DA, you will remember, that
in my tunure, Helen and I, in fact, had an open confrontation,
where I said to her, some of the statements
that she was making or not the things that she could say.
She didn’t resign though is premier
for the Western Cape, when you said that to her.
She said, for example, that South Africa’s Legacy had made
a positive contribution, what you objected to.
I objected strongly, and, actually, insisted that she didn’t serve
in the Council in the federal executive, and she agreed to that,
if you will understand it.
But she didn’t resign as premier of Western Cape.
I didn’t ask her to resign from that, I asked her to resign
from all the structures of the DA, that is the federal executive
and the Federal Council.
When she then got elected, it then became very clear that,
of course, both of us in that context could not pursue the same
vision, because I was pursuing a vision that is particularly
different to hers.
So I’m very comfortable, I think that that statement suggests...
But that’s the point I’m making, that she is now,
an analyst, he says, the return of hell into one
an analyst, he says, the return of Helen into one
of the parties top three leadership posts was essentially confirmation
that Mmusi Maimane’s on colleagues within the Federal Council had lost
faith in his leadership.
Completely wrong.
She’s in a position of power, you are out to.
Completely not.
It was a symbolic response to what happened in the elections in 2019.
It had nothing to do... and the projects that I pursued,
and the projects that I pursued, you will remember, that in fact,
we were looking at governments
inJohannesburg, we were looking at the complexities of that.
I’m comfortable that it wasn’t even a vote of no—confidence
against my own leadership, it was in fact, the position
that she plays is not one of leader, it’s one of Chairman of the party.
And, frankly, at my own behest, had I stayed in the party,
I would’ve continued to pursue the vision that I had.
What I wasn’t willing to do is to force South Africa into this
very debate that we are having, where people say, well,
'berause there are white people in the party,
"they must be the ones that are in charge and not a black
"South African in place.
You said in your resignation speech in October that there has been,
for several months, consistent and coordinated attempt
to undermine your my leadership, and ensure that either this project
failed or I failed.
You said this extended to the smear campaign that was run on the front
pages of an African weekly paper in attempt to destroy my
name and my integrity.
Completely.
What kind of smears are we talking about?
It happens in a political party where sometimes,
some of the institutions that are happening within the DA
actually didn’t do the job they were supposed to do.
So one of my great challenges that I had a few people inside the DA
started to leak false information about me, but my own leadership,
started to infect publicly, run these campaigns,
—— in
—— infect.
—— infect.
because all they wanted it was a DA that represents a particular
race, a minority race.
And because they knew themselves that had they gone to a DA’s
Congress, they wouldn’t be able to
muster the numbers.
They started to attack me personally.
What kind of things did they say that really upset you?
Suddenly, they started to raise questions about my own home,
which were not true.
They started to raise issues about the vehicle I was driving,
which were not true, and so all of this, to sort
of create a sort of sense of doubt was the sort of lack of moral
fortitude that those people demonstrate that ultimately led
to a point where I felt that the environment
within which we were working was toxic, it was not right.
Was toxic and not right, was it basically racism towards you?
I felt that some elements of it were, because there were some
elements that sought to say, because these were a group
of South Africans who thought that, for them, it’s important for the DA
to go backwards rather than go forwards, and they are willing
to pay any price to do that.
And so, I put it to you again, that, really, you’re four years
of stewardship with the Democratic alliance have failed,
because Prince, again, a well—known writer here
in South Africa says I have no doubt that now that
Mmusi Maimane has gone, we will see an exodus of black
leaders and members who will leave the Democratic alliance party.
That’s not a failure of a project. But it will go back to being
But it will go back to being predominantly white again this.
predominantly white again this. Ultimately... It still is, to be
Ultimately... It still is, to be fair. You may have increased the
fair. You may have increased the vote of black supporters, but it’s
vote of black supporters, but it’s still predominantly nonblack. The
still predominantly nonblack. The tenure I had as a
still predominantly nonblack. The tenure I had as 3 DA, to me,
still predominantly nonblack. The tenure I had as a DA, to me, was the
tenure I had as a DA, to me, was the direction that
tenure I had as 3 DA, to me, was the direction that South Africa is to
direction that South Africa is to move on and I fought hard for that.
move on and I fought hard for that. That’s why we could govern in more
That’s why we could govern in more places, why we could move out of the
places, why we could move out of the Western (“ape
places, why we could move out of the Western Cape and to be a party that
Western (“ape and to be a party that was
Western Cape and to be a party that was central to South African
was central to South African politic.
was central to South African politics. That’s come to me, is a
politic. That’s come to me, is a success of a
politics. That’s come to me, is a success of a project. Now, when you
success of a project. Now, when you look at the elections of 2019, there
look at the elections of 2019, there was also an exodus of a number of
was also an exodus of a number of white South Africans who went back
white South Africans who went back to a failing minority weight party.
to a failing minority weight party. Now you never want to lose votes,
Now you never want to lose votes, but ultimately come at the end
but ultimately come at the end of the day, when you focus on the
the day, when you focus on the future of an organisation, you’ve
future of an organisation, you’ve got to bring everybody together. So,
got to bring everybody together. So, for me
got to bring everybody together. 50, for me come at this point of time,
for me come at this point of time, it indicates there is a nonracial
it indicates there is a nonracial movement in South Africa. 50 I
it indicates there is a nonracial movement in South Africa. 50 Ijust
movement in South Africa. So Ijust want to
movement in South Africa. 50 Ijust want to make it clear here that you,
want to make it clear here that you, ran I basically
want to make it clear here that you, can I basically paraphrase what you
ran I basically paraphrase what you have
can I basically paraphrase what you have been saying, is you have left
have been saying, is you have left the Democratic alliance can he stood
the Democratic alliance can he stood down as leader, because it was
down as leader, because it was basically two weights, and there
basically two weights, and there were strong and powerful elements
were strong and powerful elements within it that made your life too
within it that made your life too difficult as a black South African,
difficult as a black South African, is that essentially it —— to white?
is that essentially it -- to white? In that speech
is that essentially it —— to white? In that speech that is that when I
In that speech that is that when I resigned as they do not believe that
resigned as they do not believe that the DA is the best vehicle suited
the DA is the best vehicle suited to advance my vision. Because? Because
advance my vision. Because? Because I fundamentally believe that there
I fundamentally believe that there are some within the DA that I
are some within the DA that I believe it are to be a minority
believe it are to be a minority front to. And they were so powerful
front to. And they were so powerful that you felt you had no choice
that you felt you had no choice but to step down? It wasn’t a fight
to step down? It wasn’t a fight worth having. I mean, having said
worth having. I mean, having said that, I
worth having. I mean, having said that, Iwant
worth having. I mean, having said that, I want to be clear, that not
that, I want to be clear, that not everybody in the DA was racist.
everybody in the DA was racist. There were a few number of people
There were a few number of people who wanted to debate with us this
who wanted to debate with us this vision of non—racialism, they wanted
vision of non-racialism, they wanted to deny the
vision of non—racialism, they wanted to deny the history of South Africa,
to deny the history of South Africa, they wanted us to not focus on
they wanted us to not focus on addressing historical injustices,
addressing historical injustices, the equally so were not committed
the equally so were not committed injury to a project of building
injury to a project of building everybody together. And that’s
everybody together. And that’s became a consistent point of
became a consistent point of friction all the way throughout my
friction all the way throughout my leadership tenure, and as a black
leadership tenure, and as a black South African, I could not in my own
South African, I could not in my own self, betray the fact that I felt it
self, betray the fact that I felt it was important to build a one South
was important to build a one South Africa but you must address those
Africa but you must address those injustices. It wasn’t a comfortable
injustices. It wasn’t a comfortable position for you to be in, you
position for you to be in, you brought up the situation, the
brought up the situation, the election in May of 2019, and under
elaction in May of 2019, and under your the party
election in May of 2019, and under your the party had its lost votes
your the party had its lost votes for the first time in its history.
for the first time in its history. You lost five seats in the
You lost five seats in the National Assembly. Use these to be the
Assembly. Use these to be the official opposition in South
official opposition in South Africa’s biggest province, as you
Africa’s biggest province, as you said to me lost votes to the freedom
said to me lost votes to the freedom fighters, the economic freedom
fighters, the economic freedom fighters on the left, and also the
fighters on the left, and also the freedom front plus Afrikaans party.
freedom front plus Afrikaans party. It didn’t do well.
It didn’t do well. Know. Firstly, let me clarify that
Know. Firstly, let me clarify that when we went on to govern in
when we went on to govern in Johannesburg, the DA had never seen
johannesburg, the DA had never seen growth to that
Johannesburg, the DA had never seen growth to that level. Frankly, there
growth to that level. Frankly, there were more black South Africans that
were more black South Africans that were voting for the DA than it’s
were voting for the DA than it’s ever had. 50, loss of five seats,
ever had. So, loss offive seats, let’s place it in
ever had. 50, loss of five seats, let’s place it in context in a
let’s place it in context in a global situation, where populists
global situation, where populists have risen on either end, where
have risen on either end, where elements of nationalism are starting
elements of nationalism are starting to come on board, and people are in
to come on board, and peopla are in a climate of
to come on board, and people are in a climate of fear with economic
a climate of fear with economic conditions in South Africa is such
conditions in South Africa is such that peopla
conditions in South Africa is such that people are losing their
conditions in South Africa is such that people are losing theirjobs,
that peopla are losing theirjobs, there is
that people are losing theirjobs, there is fear. It was going to be
there is fear. It was going to be natural that parties who sit in
natural that parties who sit in the centre, that includes the DA and the
centre, that includes the DA and the ANC were going to suffer losses, so
ANC were going to suffer losses, so they lost more votes than I ever did
they lost more votes than I ever did under the ANC leadership,
they lost more votes than I ever did underthe ANC leadership, in
they lost more votes than I ever did under the ANC leadership, in fact,
under the ANC leadership, in fact, it was the biggest drop they
it was the biggest drop they had ever seen.
it was the biggest drop they had everseen. Precisely,
it was the biggest drop they had ever seen. Precisely, you have
ever seen. Precisely, you have should’ve benefited from that drop
should’ve benefited from that drop to do well. The benefit was we
to do well. The benefit was we were fighting against elements
fighting against elements of populism, racial divisions, and I
populism, racial divisions, and I think I’m actually coming to have
think I’m actually coming to have stood at the level that we did some
stood at the level that we did some of the losses were only five seats,
of the losses were only five seats, is actually come in my view, very
is actually come in my view, very important stake in the ground for
important stake in the ground for the future of the DA. I consider it,
the future of the DA. I consider it, actually, the right foundation for
actually, the right foundation for the DA to be able to go forward.
the DA to be able to go forward. After the election, you commissioned
After the election, you commissioned a commission because he wanted to
a commission because he wanted to explore why the DA had performed so
explore why the DA had performed so badly, and this is what the report
badly, and this is what the report found. It’s worth quoting, it’s a
found. It’s worth quoting, it’s a bit long, the overwhelming view of
bit long, the overwhelming view of those who made submissions or
those who made submissions or with whom we have discussions is that the
whom we have discussions is that the party hader,
whom we have discussions is that the party leader, you, Mmusi Maimane,
party leader, you, Mmusi Maimane, whilst immensely talented, committed
whilst immensely talented, committed to the cause, hard—working, widely
to the cause, hard-working, widely liked, ran be
to the cause, hard—working, widely liked, can be indecisive
liked, can be indecisive inconsistent, and conflict averse,
inconsistent, and conﬂict averse, how it’s --
inconsistent, and conflict averse, how it’s —— it’s our carefully
how it’s —— it’s our carefully considered review that the most
considered review that the most important factor in shaping the DA
important factor in shaping the DA circumstances is a failure of
circumstances is a failure of effective leadership. They put the
effective leadership. They put the blame at your door. I argued
blame at your door. I argued strongly that I disagreed with that
strongly that I disagreed with that report. Because he didn’t like the
report. Because he didn’t like the result? No, the report had a
result? No, the report had a diagnosis that was seeking problems.
diagnosis that was seeking problams. The diagnosis
diagnosis that was seeking problems. The diagnosis was this, they wanted
The diagnosis was this, they wanted to go back to the DP, if you like,
to go back to the DP, if you like, the regress -- to
to go back to the DP, if you like, the regress —— to regress the
the regress -- to regress the organisation.
the regress —— to regress the organisation. A precursor of the
organisation. A precursor of the Democratic alliance, as it were.
Democratic alliance, as it were. Correct. just
Democratic alliance, as it were. Correct. Just because you disagree
Correct. just because you disagree with the
Correct. Just because you disagree with the direction does not make it
with the direction does not make it in indecision, just means you
in indecision, just means you disagree. They disagree but the fact
disagree. They disagree but the fact that the rest of the report makes it
that the rest of the report makes it quite to connect —— quite
quite to connect -- quite clear, they didn’t
quite to connect —— quite clear, they didn’t want us to govern in
they didn’t want us to govern in johannesburg
they didn’t want us to govern in Johannesburg in partnership with the
Johannesburg in partnership with the Coalition of South Africans of
Coalition of South Africans of different parties, they didn’t want
different parties, they didn’t want us, they wanted us to remain in the
us, they wanted us to remain in the Western Cape, and because you
Western Cape, and because you disagree does not make it in
disagree does not make it in decision, it
disagree does not make it in decision, itjust means that it’s
decision, it just means that it’s not the
decision, itjust means that it’s not the decision you would’ve taken.
not the decision you would’ve taken. So you don’t thank you were
So you don’t thank you were basically out of your depth, as
basically out of your depth, as leader of the Democratic alliance,
leader of the Democratic alliance, this party that has been the
this party that has been the official opposition in South Africa
official opposition in South Africa since the 19605, the party I mean it
since the 19605, the party I mean it stop you leadership is a hard job,
stop you leadership is a hard job, you will make the —— mistakes, I’m
you will make the -- mistakes, I’m not saying my
you will make the —— mistakes, I’m not saying my record was perfect.
not saying my record was perfect. It can’t be. Leaders make mistakes.
It can’t be. Leaders make mistakes. He would learn from your mistakes
He would learn from your mistakes and you build. I believe in the
and you build. I believe in the project I was working towards, and I
project I was working towards, and I certainly believe that the DA was
certainly believe that the DA was heading in the right direction, and
heading in the right direction, and it’s indicated even more so since my
it’s indicated even more so since my departure that the DA is out of
departure that the DA is out of government, the DA is regressing
government, the DA is regressing backwards command more public
backwards command more public representatives can other different
representatives ran other different sectors
representatives can other different sectors are starting to want to find
sectors are starting to want to find other places. Which to me is a
other places. which to me is a tragedy,
other places. Which to me is a tragedy, because ultimately, we want
tragedy, because ultimately, we want to have a South Africa that works
to have a South Africa that works for all the people. If the DA had
for all the peopla. If the DA had failed to
for all the people. If the DA had failed to become the vehicle, it is
failed to become the vehida, it is important to
failed to become the vehicle, it is important to set up another vehicle.
important to set up another vehida. You say that
important to set up another vehicle. You say that you now want to move
You say that you now want to move on. Correct. And you have set up
on. Correct. And you have set up this movement for one South Africa,
this movement for one South Africa, not a political party yet, and there
not a political party yet, and there are already those of you who are
are already those of you who are ahead of the game, Julius, for
ahead of the game, julius, for example, the
ahead of the game, Julius, for example, the economic freedom
example, the economic freedom fighter set up this party a few
fighter set up this party a few years ago, 111% in the elections in
years ago, 11196 in the elections in May of 2019,
years ago, 111% in the elections in May of 2019, they are already
May of 2019, they are already parties occupying the space that you
parties occupying the space that you want to occupy.
wa nt to occupy. The
want to occupy. The EFF is just another version of
The EFF is just another version of the ANC. julius
The EFF is just another version of the ANC. Julius would vigorously
the ANC. julius would vigorously reject that.
the ANC. Julius would vigorously reject that. You’re making to reject
reject that. You’re making to reject that, but... How they disrupted that
that, but... How they dismpted that Mike on
that, but... How they disrupted that Mike on what basis?
Mike on what basis? Because all they wanted to argue was
Because all they wanted to argue was about personal issues of all party
about personal issues of all party matters. It wasn’t about the
matters. It wasn’t about the ideological direction of this
ideological direction of this country, South Africans are starved
country, South Africans are starved for an alternative. If the EFF is
for an alternative. If the EFF is not an alternative, it’s basically a
not an alternative, it’s basically a socialist leftist organisation,
socialist leftist organisation, which is fundamentally
socialist leftist organisation, which is fundamentallyjust
socialist leftist organisation, which is fundamentally just a
which is fundamentally just a militant version of the ANC. But
militant version of the ANC. But he’s tapping into a mood that is
he’s tapping into a mood that is popular with many particularly young
popular with many particularty young South
popular with many particularly young South Africans, for example, the
South Africans, for example, the student protests about fees must
student protests about fees must fall in 2015, he...
fall in 2015, he... They are not EFF orchestrated. No,
They are not EFF orchestrated. No, they aren’t, but he has captured the
they aren’t, but he has captured the mood there, where as you tried
mood there, where as you tried in October of 2015 to go to the
October of 2015 to go to the university in Cape Town to show your
university in (“ape Town to show your solidarity with
university in Cape Town to show your solidarity with the students, what
solidarity with the students, what happened, there were booze and
happened, there were booze and chance, you were told to leave. This
chance, you were told to leave. This was a bunch of people from one
was a bunch of people from one of
was a bunch of peopla from one of the unions
was a bunch of people from one of the unions in the university. They
the unions in the university. They were arguing a different case. I
were arguing a different use. I want to
were arguing a different case. I want to reiterate what the
want to reiterate what the starvation in South Africa is for a
starvation in South Africa is for a vision of a nonracial South Africa
vision of a nonracial South Africa which the EFF and ANC has long
which the EFF and ANC has long forgotten that view, it’s a view
forgotten that view, it’s a view that says there needs to be a social
that says there needs to be a social market system that allows and
market system that allows and inclusive economy, it’s a view that
inclusive economy, it’s a view that 5575
inclusive economy, it’s a view that says there must be an
says there must be an accountable government, but the ANC of the EFF
government, but the MIC of the EFF are facing
government, but the ANC of the EFF are facing serious allegations of
are facing serious allegations of corruption against them, which they
corruption against them, which they must answer for. It requires a
must answer for. It requires a future focused orientation, South
future focused orientation, South Africans are asking and calling out
Africans are asking and falling out for a
Africans are asking and calling out for a different alternative. The
for a different alternative. The biggest party that grew in the
biggest party that grew in the elections in 2019 works of Africans
elections in 2019 works of Africans who didn’t turn out to vote. 18
who didn’t turn out to vote. 18 million did not turn out to vote.
million did not turn out to vote. How are you going to appeal to them
How are you going to appeal to them when we are not sure what your
when we are not sure what your platform or your vision is? The
platform or your vision is? The platform is to fight in a movement
platform is to fight in a movement that says we need to build South
that says we need to build South Africans who can coalesce together
Africans who ran coalesce together around
Africans who can coalesce together around the values I’m articulating,
around the values I’m articulating, nonracial future
around the values I’m articulating, nonracialfuture coming
around the values I’m articulating, nonracial future coming inclusive
nonracial future coming inclusive economy, and accountable government,
economy, and accountable government, a
economy, and accountable government, ammm
economy, and accountable government, a future focused, and ultimately, to
a future focused, and ultimately, to be able to say they must be just as
be able to say they must be just as for the things that happen in the
for the things that happen in the past in this country. We build on
past in this country. We build on those values and bring society into
those values and bring society into silent voices in this country. I
silent voices in this country. I believe that will create an audience
believe that will create an audience that is able to disrupt the current
that is able to disrupt the current institutional politics that we are
institutional politic that we are seeing.
institutional politics that we are seeing. Easy to say. I have this
seeing. Easy to say. I have this vision. But when you look at the
vision. But when you look at the nitty-gritty of
vision. But when you look at the nitty—gritty of policies, it is
nitty-gritty of policies, it is quite hard
nitty—gritty of policies, it is quite hard to implement this vision,
quite hard to implement this vision, so, for example, let’s take one
so, for example, let’s take one eye-catching
so, for example, let’s take one eye—catching policy of the ANC. The
eye-catching policy of the ANC. The black
eye—catching policy of the ANC. The black economic empowerment
black economic empowerment programme. This is all about trying
programme. This is all about trying to address the injustice
to address the injustice economically of apartheid, and the
economically of apartheid, and the idea is to encourage black economic
idea is to encourage black economic empowerment through ownership, and
empowerment through ownership, and you say that you are opposed to
you say that you are opposed to targets for black ownership, yet,
targets for black ownership, yet, here you are saying to them I think
here you are saying to them I think there should be an inclusive economy
there should be an inclusive economy for all black South Africans. So
for all black South Africans. So make it clear, are you for black
make it clear, are you for black economic empowerment are not? I’m
economic empowerment are not? I’m inclusive economy. I’m in for an
inclusive economy. I’m in for an economy that recognises that black
economy that recognises that black South Africans are left out, that
South Africans are left out, that the face of poverty is still black
the face of poverty is still black from a largely young, and therefore,
from a largely young, and therefore, but that doesn’t nullify the fact
but that doesn’t nullify the fact that weight South Africans have a
that weight South Africans have a rola. Tripla B
that weight South Africans have a role. Triple B ee has simply
role. Triple B ee has simply benefited the elite in this country,
benefited the elite in this country, South Africa’s economic
South Africa’s economic infrastructure actually puts 49% of
infrastructure actually puts 49% of citizens as the underclass, the
citizens as the underdass, the poor, where
citizens as the underclass, the poor, where depending on welfare. So
poor, where depending on welfare. So if we are going to address the they
if we are going to address the they have failed willfully to that. You
have failed willfully to that. You must oppose that policy. What I want
must oppose that policy. what I want to opposed up
must oppose that policy. What I want to opposed up my equipment so
to opposed up my equipment so you are opposed to that pogrom? That’s
are opposed to that pogrom? That’s not being opposed to black inclusion
not being opposed to black inclusion into the economy. But you just said
into the economy. But you just said also that doesn’t mean ——
also that doesn’t mean -- excluding the rola of
also that doesn’t mean —— excluding the role of white South Africans.
the rola of white South Africans. They do play
the role of white South Africans. They do play a role of the
They do play a role of the social injustices. They are 9% about ——...
injustices. They are 996 about --... They make up of
injustices. They are 9% about ——... They make up of 70% high net worth
They make up of 70% high net worth individuals. It’s blatantly obvious
individuals. It’s blatantly obvious they are playing a key part in the
they are playing a key part in the economy. And they must contribute to
economy. And they must contribute to building inclusion. That’s the
building inclusion. That’s the point! They must continue to be the
point! They must continue to be the beneficiaries of inequalities in the
beneficiaries of inequalities in the economy. Let me propose a different
economy. Let me propose a different model. Should they continue to be
model. Should they continue to be beneficiaries of this inequality in
beneficiaries of this inequality in the economy that 9% account for?
the economy that 996 account for? They must
the economy that 9% account for? They must continue to address the
They must continue to address the injustices of the past. They must
injustices of the past. They must continue to do that. In my proposal
continue to do that. In my proposal is this, let’s take one industry,
is this, let’s take one industry, the insurance industry in this
the insurance industry in this country. It’s only got four big
country. It’s only got four big companies that still control the
companies that still control the insurance company. Yes, I agree, the
insurance company. Yes, Iagree, the majority of them
insurance company. Yes, I agree, the majority of them are white, but
majority of them are white, but isn’t it about time that rather than
isn’t it about time that rather than simply saying let’s talk about
simply saying let’s talk about tripla B ee
simply saying let’s talk about triple B ee that we establish a
simply saying let’s talk about triple B ee that we establish 3 jobs
tripla B ee that we establish a jobs and
triple B ee that we establish 3 jobs and fund will ultimately find
and fund will ultimately find new entrants, with the majority of which
entrants, with the majority of which are black, of course, to set up more
are black, of course, to set up more insurance companies. All right, so
insurance companies. All right, so another ill that you said afflicting
another ill that you said afﬂicting the ANC,
another ill that you said afflicting the ANC, which by and large
the ANC, which by and large people except corruption. Look, he has only
except cormption. Look, he has only been in power for
except corruption. Look, he has only been in powerfor two years
except corruption. Look, he has only been in power for two years as
been in power for two years as president, sure, he was vice
president, sure, he was vice president, but he himself is talked
president, but he himself is talked about the extensive looting by the
about the extensive looting by the state to the tune of about $38
state to the tune of about $38 billion under the presidency of
billion under the presidency of jacob. You
billion under the presidency of Jacob. You have to get —— give him
jacob. You have to get -- give him time to talk
Jacob. You have to get —— give him time to talk about. How much time?
time to talk about. How much time? He will never do it. He’s only
He will never do it. He’s only been in power for two
He will never do it. He’s only been in powerfor two years. Frankly, he
in power for two years. Frankly, he knows very
in powerfor two years. Frankly, he knows very clearly he will not
knows very dearty he will not arrest any
knows very clearly he will not arrest any members of his own party.
arrest any members of his own party. We will be having exactly the same
We will be having exactly the same conversation five years to come. If
conversation five years to come. If you want to eradicate corruption,
you want to eradicate cormption, you have to
you want to eradicate corruption, you have to eradicate the ANC. He’s
you have to eradicate the ANC. He’s appointed the commission to look at
appointed the commission to look at the allegations of state capture. He
the allegations of state rapture. He is a point --
the allegations of state capture. He is a point —— appointed a former
is a point -- appointed a former Minister of
is a point —— appointed a former Minister of finance as Minister of
Minister of finance as Minister of pub“:
Minister of finance as Minister of public enterprises, and also kind of
public enterprises, and also kind of anti-corruption
public enterprises, and also kind of anti—corruption tsar, so he’s taken
anti-corruption tsar, so he’s taken the right steps,
anti—corruption tsar, so he’s taken the right steps, you can
anti—corruption tsar, so he’s taken the right steps, you canjust go
anti—corruption tsar, so he’s taken the right steps, you can just go and
the right steps, you ran just go and arrest peopla
the right steps, you can just go and arrest people willy—nilly, the
arrest peopla willy-nilly, the pub“:
arrest people willy—nilly, the public prosecution says there will
public prosecution says there will be high—profile arrests. It’s his
be high-profit; arrests. It’s his colleagues
be high—profile arrests. It’s his colleagues who are sitting in
colleagues who are sitting in Parliament with him who key
Parliament with him who key benefactors of state capture. He,
benefactors of state rapture. He, himself,
benefactors of state capture. He, himself, has allowed them to
himself, has allowed them to continue to function in Parliament.
continue to function in Partiament. This is a very
continue to function in Parliament. This is a very crucial role that the
This is a very crucial role that the president has. His hands are tied
president has. His hands are tied come as you well know, by the
come as you well know, by the factions in the ANC, supporters of
factions in the ANC, supporters of him and issued a statement recently
him and issued a statement recently this year saying "Elements engaged
this year saying "Elements engaged in the long term project of state
in the long term project of state rapture
in the long term project of state capture regard the presidency is a
rapture regard the presidency is a necessary
capture regard the presidency is a necessary Interboro before they are
necessary Interboro before they are once more in power."
once more in power." A very powerful statements, he
A very powerful statements, he opposes the ANC, so should the rest
opposes the ANC, so should the rest of South Africa be an audience to
of South Africa be an audience to ANC’s
of South Africa be an audience to ANC’s politics while people aren’t
ANC’s politic whila peopla aren’t doing their
ANC’s politics while people aren’t doing theirjobs was what you have
doing theirjobs was what you have to got to give him time to try
to got to give him time to try to clean up South Africa. I completely
clean up South Africa. I completely disagree. If you want to fight
disagree. If you want to fight cormption,
disagree. If you want to fight corruption, why don’t you think
cormption, why don’t you think about
corruption, why don’t you think about other mechanisms to make it up
about other mechanisms to make it up by today introduce some form of
by today introduce some form of technology that would allow us to
technology that would allow us to move away from corruption. He would
move away from cormption. He would have been
move away from corruption. He would have been coming today, narrowed on
have been coming today, narrowed on his cabinet so it’s much more
his cabinet so it’s much more effective, but he’s not doing any of
effective, but he’s not doing any of those, because he is in ANC
those, because he is in Am: president
those, because he is in ANC president Emma continue to drive in
president Emma continue to drive in and see agenda. All right, so we do
and see agenda. All right, so we do go from here, Mmusi Maimane? The
go from here, Mmusi Maimane? The peopla want to
go from here, Mmusi Maimane? The people want to know are you going to
peopla want to know are you going to set up new
people want to know are you going to set up new political party that’s
set up new political party that’s going to contest the elections in
going to contest the elections in 2024? Are
going to contest the elections in 202A? Are you just going to content
2024? Are you just going to content to have
202A? Are you just going to content to have this movement? No. We
to have this movement? No. We believe the movement will contest
believe the movement will contest for elections, but here is the
for elections, but here is the first... Nationwide elections in
first... Nationwide elections in 2024? Will
first... Nationwide elections in 202A? Will you stand in those
202A? Will you stand in those elections? We have to bring
elections? We have to bring electoral reform, because I
electoral reform, because I introduce that because it’s
introduce that because it’s important that this movement is
important that this movement is clear. We want
important that this movement is clear. We wa nt to
important that this movement is clear. We want to fight to change
clear. We want to fight to change the way people are elected in this
the way peopla are eluted in this country. If you
the way people are elected in this country. If you just keep a
country. If you just keep a one-party
country. If you just keep a one—party state, you end up with
one-party state, you end up with state rapture.
one—party state, you end up with state capture. We want
one—party state, you end up with state capture. We wa nt to
one—party state, you end up with state capture. We want to be able to
state rapture. We want to be able to stand in
state capture. We want to be able to stand in the elections with the view
stand in the elections with the view that these are directly elected
that these are directly eluted peopla in
that these are directly elected people in the community. It’s not a
peopla in the community. It’s not a one-party state.
people in the community. It’s not a one—party state. ANC won the
one-party state. ANC won the elaction
one—party state. ANC won the election parents wear, you will not
election parents wear, you will not expect them to say we have won the
expect them to say we have won the election, but we don’t want to be a
election, but we don’t want to be a one-party state,
election, but we don’t want to be a one—party state, we are going stand
one-party state, we are going stand down.
one—party state, we are going stand down. Don’t make its one—party
down. Don’t make its one-party dominance, I
down. Don’t make its one—party dominance, lam
down. Don’t make its one—party dominance, I am saying... Writes,
dominance, lam saying... Writes, because of
dominance, I am saying... Writes, because of the parties cannot appeal
because of the parties cannot appeal to the black majority vote. At this
to the black majority vote. At this point in time, the liberation
point in time, the liberation movements all end up with the same
movements all end up with the same vision of capturing the state. It
vision of capturing the state. It was in the ANC ‘s documents that
was in the ANC ‘s documents that focused on saying we will go out and
focused on saying we will go out and rapture the
focused on saying we will go out and capture the elements of the state.
rapture the elements of the state. That’s
capture the elements of the state. That’s not
rapture the elements of the state. That’s not my
capture the elements of the state. That’s not my issue. Another party
That’s not my issue. Another party or brieﬂy,
That’s not my issue. Another party or briefly, finally, A0 political
or brieﬂy, finally, 40 political parties
or briefly, finally, A0 political parties already in South Africa, the
parties already in South Africa, the opposition is splintered, you have
opposition is splintered, you have julius and
opposition is splintered, you have Julius and the freedom fighters as
julius and the freedom fighters as we said, so
Julius and the freedom fighters as we said, so for example, would you
we said, so for example, would you go into alliance with the former
go into alliance with the former mayor of
go into alliance with the former mayor ofJohannesburg, Herman, who
mayor of johannesburg, Herman, who also left
mayor ofJohannesburg, Herman, who also left the Democratic alliance
also left the Democratic alliance like you ?
also left the Democratic alliance like you? Let’s build a movement of
like you? Let’s build a movement of South Africans that will come
South Africans that will come together, let’s bring a number of
together, let’s bring a number of political entities, civil society to
political entities, civil society to work together to be able to wrestle
work together to be able to wrestle this big monolithic animal called
this big monolithic animal rallad the a
this big monolithic animal called the a and C, let’s agree on values,
the a and C, let’s agree on values, which are non—racialism, future
which are non-racialism, future focus, that
which are non—racialism, future focus, that we talked about issues
focus, that we talked about issues of climate and technology, that
of climate and technology, that ultimately we bring justice, we
ultimately we bring justice, we reform the electoral, the way that
reform the electoral, the way that people are elected come elected
peopla are eluted come eluted directly,
people are elected come elected directly, and when we do that,
directly, and when we do that, ultimately, it’s not
directly, and when we do that, ultimately, it’s notjust addition
ultimately, it’s not just addition of
ultimately, it’s notjust addition of another party, but building a
of another party, but building a movement of South Africans that can
movement of South Africans that ran bring change to
movement of South Africans that can bring change to this country. For
bring change to this country. For example, who has a
bring change to this country. For example, who has 3 come and have
example, who has a come and have a chat with
example, who has 3 come and have a chat with me over whiskey, don’t be
chat with me over whiskey, don’t be discouraged, my big brother, you are
discouraged, my big brother, you are a good human being, he said. If he
a good human being, he said. If he is willing to build a state of
is willing to build a state of justice in this country, jobs and
justice in this country, jobs and focus on the future of this country,
focus on the future of this country, I will work with him, but I’m not
I will work with him, but I’m not going to work with people who want
going to work with peopla who want to
going to work with people who want to advance any other view outside
to advance any other view outside of that. So we are building this
that. So we are building this movement for South Africans to go
movement for South Africans to go together. Would he be the kingmaker
together. Would he be the kingmaker and you the King? LAUGHING
and you the King? MUGHING Let’s
and you the King? LAUGHING Let’s cross that bridge when we get
Let’s cross that bridge when we get to it.
to it. MY
to it. My focus right now is this movement.
My focus right now is this movement. People are responding positively.
People are responding positively. The silent vote in this country is
The silant vote in this country is those
The silent vote in this country is those that are not voting. The
those that are not voting. The silant
those that are not voting. The silent voice are the citizens who
silent voice are the citizens who are excluded from this economy. This
are excluded from this economy. This movement must be able to say, let’s
movement must be able to say, let’s work with those people, fight for
work with those people, fight for inclusive economy, build a nonracial
inclusive economy, build a nonracial future, and I believe that parties
future, and I believe that parties from different aspects of my
from different aspects of my sectors, will come together. I want
sectors, will come together. I want to bring people together, so we
to bring people together, so we build one future for South Africa.
build one future for South Africa. Mmusi Maimane, thank you very much
Mmusi Maimane, thank you very much indeed for coming onto hard talk.
indeed for coming onto hard talk. Great to see you. Thank you.
Hello.
With rivers running high and many fields still underwater,
we could do with a little bit of better weather news.
And to a certain degree, we will get that this week.
No, it’s not going to be completely dry, but certainly
compared with recent weeks, it won’t be anywhere
near as wet or as windy.
The jet stream is taking a more southerly track
but what that does mean is we are into slightly cooler air.
It will certainly be chillier, particularly by night,
with frost more likely.
And that is how we start the Monday morning commute,
with more in the way of frost and even some ice around
where showers continue in the north and west through the night.
Not quite as frosty toward Southern counties of England.
Outbreaks of rain here and a bit of sleet and wet snow first
thing in the morning, clearing away from East Anglia
and the Southeast quite smartly but then brightening up.
Showers in the West.
A mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
Few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant
during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw
through the weekend.
More of you on Monday will spend the day completely dry,
with just one or two showers passing your way.
Temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
Winds will overall be lighter.
Not going to feel quite as cold during the afternoon as it has done,
but the breeze will be picking up across the Northwest later.
We could see gales for a time during Monday night into Tuesday.
More in the way of showers starting to develop through the night and
they will push their way eastwards.
Snow across parts of Scotland, even in the hills of Northern Ireland
and northern England later on.
Now, temperatures will still be close to freezing in many areas.
Frost and ice, the greatest risk.
Coldest of the weather first thing on Tuesday morning towards the east.
This is the set up for Tuesday.
That weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
More rain bearing weatherfronts diverted down towards France
and Iberia thanks to that southern track in jet stream,
but they could be close enough to produce some rain across southern
most counties of England and more especially the Channel Islands.
More showers around, by and large, to start Tuesday morning.
A wintry mix.
Those will clear away.
Then it’s back to sunshine and showers for many
into the afternoon.
Showers mainly across some western areas.
Temperatures similar to those on Monday.
Then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many
will still stay largely dry.
Still some showers around here and there.
Chance of some rain close to the South Coast on Wednesday
but overall, we continue with that largely dry story.
It changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
Thursday night into Friday, we’ll see a weather front
push its way eastwards, bringing us all a spell
of rain briefly.
Showers follow in its wake.
And then the chance of some more wet and windy weather towards the end
of the week and into next weekend.
But by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw
for the last few days.
And with some rain forecasted towards the end of the week,
never to stay too far away from our flood warnings.
They’re there for you online.
You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
I’m Sharanjit Leyl in Singapore.
The headlines:
Possible murder charges for the head of a South Korean
religious sect over the coronavirus deaths
of some of his followers.
In the US, there are concerns the virus could have been
circulating for weeks — up to 1,500 people
may be infected.
I’m Samantha Simmonds in London.
Also in the programme:
In the US election campaign, Mayor Pete Buttigieg pulls out.
It could be a boost forJoe Biden’s campaign.
After the US—Taliban agreement, the Qatari mediator tells us
that outside countries could still wreck the chances
for peace in Afghanistan.
for peace in Afghanistan.
Life from our studios in Singapore and London, this is
Singapore and London, this is BBC World News. This is
BBC World News. This is Newsday.
Good morning.
It’s 9am in Singapore, 1am in the morning in London
and 103m in the morning in South Korea, where
the founder of a secretive religious sect is facing
possible charges of murder over some of the country’s
coronavirus deaths.
Seoul city government has filed a legal complaint with
prosecutors against Lee Man—hee and other leaders of the
Shincheonji Church of Jesus.
They’ve been accused of failing to hand over
a full list of followers, impeding the authorities’
attempts to control the outbreak.
Our Seoul correspondent Laura Bicker reports.
The army has been deployed to deal with South
Korea’s latest threat.
They’re battling this virus with disinfectant, but as more
cases are confirmed, it appears this is a war
they’re not winning.
A lot of public anger has been aimed at this
secretive religious sect.
The infection has spread rapidly among the followers
of Shincheonji Church ofJesus.
And as officials raced to trace the outbreak,
it’s claimed leaders hid the names of members.
Now they’re being accused of murder.
In a rare interview, the church denied all charges.
TRANSLATION: We feel very sorry for causing concern and worry
to the people of Korea and the world.
I understand if people criticise us.
But rather than point fingers, we think what’s more important
is to end this situation and to make sure no more
confirmed cases come out.
Meanwhile, hospitals in Daegu have been overwhelmed.
At least three people have died while waiting for a bed.
Doctors believe it’s time to free up space
for the most serious patients.
TRANSLATION: We can’t quarantine and treat
all patients.
Those who have mild symptoms should stay
at home and get treated.
We should change our end goal strategy to lower death rates.
Thousands fear they have the virus and are
lining up to be tested.
These drive—through clinics speed up the process.
South Korea is using every resource it has and still this
infection continues to spread.
Laura Bicker, BBC News, Seoul.
The coronavirus has now infected more than 88,000
people and spread to more than 60 countries around
the world, rattling global markets and prompting
unprecedented measures from governments.
In Europe, Italy has been the worst hit.
The number of cases has spiked and 3A people have now died.
Courtney Bembridge reports.
Fears over the virus have pushed Italy’s economy
to the brink of a recession.
And looking at these quiet canals in Venice,
it’s not hard to see why.
Nine days ago, Italy knew of just three
seemingly isolated cases.
There are now more than 1,700 nationwide.
In the North, Italian soldiers patrol checkpoints
outside 11 towns, home to 50,000 people.
No one is allowed in or out.
The two regions under lockdown generate around a third
of Italy’s economic output, home to everything from
warehouses to cheese and dairy processing centres.
Even parts of the country not affected by the virus
are taking a hit.
bookings for March have been cancelled in
Rome and up to 80% in Sicily.
Tourists did show up to the Louvre Museum in Paris,
but they were left waiting outside, after staff
refused to go to work.
We saw on Twitter people have been waiting
for three hours, so, yeah, we are not
going to do that.
If it takes too long, we willjust go somewhere else.
Eventually, the visitors all left, with the
promise of a refund.
The closure came after the government cancelled
all gatherings of more than 5,000 people
in confined spaces.
Staff argue that’s a normal day at the museum.
As fear sweeps the continent, facemasks are at a premium,
and the health ministers in France and Switzerland have
urged citizens to forgo the usual greeting
of a kiss on each cheek, as well as the
customary handshake.
This video is being shared online showing an alternate
greeting, but still, the disease spreads,
and the Czech Republic has now registered
its first three cases.
There was some good news for tourists locked down
at a hotel on the Spanish island of Tenerife.
They are now free to leave if they test negative
for the virus and promise to continue their
period of isolation in their home countries.
The US State of Washington has declared a state of emergency
after its first death from the virus.
There are now fears the virus has been in the community
undetected for weeks, after scientists found
similarities between new coronavirus samples
and those from an undiagnosed patient six weeks ago.
That could mean up to 1,500 people have been infected.
Courtney Bembridge, BBC News.
Also making news today:
An Australian investigation has found evidence that detained
Chinese Uighurs are being used as forced labour in factories
that produce global brands.
It said this was part of what China calls
the re—education of Muslim Uighurs.
The report added that the Uighurs were not able
to refuse the work placements.
Greece says it has stopped almost 10,000 migrants
crossing over the [and border from Turkey, which is
struggling to deal with the number of people fleeing
Syria’s civil war.
The Turkish President has said he will break his country’s
deal with Brussels to prevent migrants entering the EU
unless he gets greater support for his intervention in Syria.
New research suggests that Australian summers are now
twice as long as winters — due to climate change.
The policy group the Australia Institute
says raised temperatures mean that summers are a—month longer
than half a century ago, while winters have contracted
by three weeks.
A warm winter in 2019 has, for the first time, caused
the failure of Germany’s harvest of ice wine grapes.
The drink is produced from grapes that have frozen
while still on the vine.
None of Germany’s 13 wine—growing regions reached
the required low temperatures to produce the rare wine.
The Afghan government has started picking over
the details of the deal signed by the Taliban and
the US on Saturday.
The historic deal will see thousands of American troops
leave Afghanistan in return for commitments from
the Taliban.
The focus is now on how the deal will be implemented and if
promises will be kept.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet
has this report.
The first win for Afghans, a week of relative calm.
What was called a reduction in violence before
the signing of a deal.
What happens now?
The agreement initialed on Saturday isn’t clear
on this, at least not in the public document,
but in Doha and Kabul, they will keep monitoring it.
So I asked Qatar’s special envoy, will this
partial truce continue?
We hope it will contine.
The parties and the people of Afghanistan, so the result
of the reduction of violence, how many lives we saved,
they saved,
and I think they have moral, religious
and legal obligations.
And if they don’t respect them?
Well, again, we hope they...
Hope is not a strategy, as the Pentagon likes to say.
We hope they respect their obligation in accordance
with their agreement, but I’m sure if there’s
a violation from one side, the other side have the right
in self—defense to act accordingly, but, again,
this is not the solution.
What the Taliban want to see next is a prisoner release.
The deal says up to 5,000 of their men will be freed.
But in Kabul, the president made it clear that’s
up to his government — the Taliban had been
refusing to talk to them.
We need to engage the parties to have a proper discussion
about the way forward, and I think they should
compromise and I hope the parties move forward.
This is the beginning of the talks, should start
today, and I hope we can do something in the coming days.
If you had to choose one thing that worries you,
that could cause this deal to unravel, what would it be?
The spoilers.
The spoilers, I think.
The spoilers is a major obstacle in the past,
and I’m afraid it might be, this obstacle might...
You know, remain.
But I hope with this momentum and with the pressure
from certain major powers, the spoilers should back off.
The spoilers are in Afghanistan or in neighbouring countries?
Mostly I would say in neighbouring countries.
Pakistan, Iran?
I’m not going to comment on this.
I willjust...
You can ask the Taliban, and they will tell you.
A lasting cease—fire, a peace deal are on the agenda
for Afghan talks.
They are expected to start this month, if all goes as planned.
Lyse Doucet, BBC News, Doha.
Let’s just bring you some breaking news now.
Within the last hours, US media has been reporting
that Pete Buttigieg — the former Indiana mayor —
is pulling out of the race to become the Democratic
Party’s presidential candidate.
The 38—year—old became the first openly gay contender
when he announced he was running for the
Democratic nomination.
He narrowly won the Iowa caucuses early last month
and came in a strong second place in the New Hampshire
primary, but faltered badly in Saturday’s South Carolina
vote, which was won by former US vice president, Joe Biden.
Our North America correspondent Peter Bowesjoins me now.
Peter, welcome to you. He has not formally announced that he
not formally announced that he is standing down yet we are
is standing down yet we are checking to hear from
is standing down yet we are checking to hearfrom him
checking to hear from him shortly,
checking to hearfrom him shortly, aren’t we? Yes, he is
shortly, aren’t we? Yes, he is going to make a speech. He has
going to make a speech. He has gone back to his home area,
gone back to his home area, South Bend, Indiana, where he
South Bend, Indiana, where he is expected to speak within the
is expected to speak within the hour. We assume to make this
hour. We assume to make this decision formal and to pursue
decision formal and to pursue Mobley explain the background
Mobley explain the background to what has happened. ——
to what has happened. -- presumably
to what has happened. —— presumably explain. What people
presumably explain. What people assume is going on is he and
assume is going on is he and his peopla
assume is going on is he and his people have been looking at
his people have been looking at the numbers closely before
the numbers closely before super Tuesday, when M states
super Tuesday, when 14 states around
super Tuesday, when M states around the country go to the
around the country go to the polls, and what it seems is it
polls, and what it seems is it is a recognition of the fact
is a recognition of the fact that it
is a recognition of the fact thatitis
is a recognition of the fact that it is going to be very
that it is going to be very difficult for him to win
difficult for him to win perhaps in any of the states
perhaps in any of the states and really pose a major
and really pose a major challenge to the front runners,
challenge to the front runners, certainly Bernie Sanders and
certainly Bernie Sanders and also joe
certainly Bernie Sanders and alsoJoe Biden, the former vice
also joe Biden, the former vice president
alsoJoe Biden, the former vice president who did so well in
president who did so well in South Carolina. Interestingly,
South Carolina. Interestingly, joe Biden
South Carolina. Interestingly, Joe Biden and Pete Buttigieg
joe Biden and Pete Buttigieg occupy
Joe Biden and Pete Buttigieg occupy roughly the same ground
occupy roughly the same ground in the party, in the centre,
in the party, in the centre, and the speculation is those
and the speculation is those peopla
and the speculation is those people therefore who may have
people therefore who may have voted for Mayor Pete may well
voted for Mayor Pete may well turn to joe
voted for Mayor Pete may well turn toJoe Biden in the
turn to joe Biden in the future.
turn toJoe Biden in the future. Yeah, he did garner a
future. Yeah, he did garner a lot of support and surprise a
lot of support and surprise a lot of people, not least by the
lot of peopla, not least by the amount
lot of people, not least by the amount of money he raised
amount of money he raised duﬂng
amount of money he raised during this campaign. How vital
during this campaign. How vital will his new for another
will his new for another candidate possibly be? It
will his now for another candidate possibly be? It would
candidate possibly be? It would be
candidate possibly be? It would he usually important if indeed
he usually important if indeed he comes forward immediately
he comes forward immediately and says he is backing another
and says he is backing another of the candidates. He may be
of the candidates. He may be leave it a while before he does
leave it a while before he does that. What is clear, he is
that. what is clear, he is heading to
that. What is clear, he is heading to think things at some
heading to think things at some point in the future, and he may
point in the future, and he may well have his eye on a strategy
well have his eye on a strategy in terms of his own political
in terms of his own political rareer.
in terms of his own political career. What he says at this
career. what he says at this news
career. What he says at this news conference could have
news conference could have quite a significant bearing
news conference could have quite a significant hearing if
quite a significant hearing if he decides to put himself
he decides to put himself firmly behind one candidate or
firmly behind one candidate or another. It could have
another. It could have repercussions in the future.
repercussions in the future. Watching his strategy moving
Watching his strategy moving forward I think is going to be
forward I think is going to be very interesting. Meanwhile, a
very interesting. Meanwhile, a cmcial
very interesting. Meanwhile, a crucialfew
very interesting. Meanwhile, a crucial few days ahead for the
crucial few days ahead for the Democratic presidential
Democratic presidential hopefuls. Super Tuesday coming
hopefuls. Super Tuesday coming up. Now really ought to play
up. Now really ought to play for. joe
up. Now really ought to play for. Joe Biden has had a good
for. joe Biden has had a good David
for. Joe Biden has had a good David Bernie Sanders still
David Bernie Sanders still hopeful he can push through.
hopeful he ran push through. And
hopeful he can push through. And the signs are Bernie
And the signs are Bernie Sanders is still set to do
Sanders is still set to do extremely well on Tuesday. I am
extremely well on Tuesday. I am in Los Angeles, California at
in Los Angeles, California at the moment. California is the
the moment. California is the most populous state, the
most populous state, the biggest prize of the night.
biggest prize of the night. About a quarter of all the
About a quarter of all the delegates the candidates need.
delegates the candidates need. Bernie Sanders seems to be well
Bernie Sanders seems to be well ahead in the big state two
ahead in the big state two states, Texas, around the
states, Texas, around the country. Crucially important
country. Cmcially important for all
country. Crucially important for all the candidates but
for all the candidates but especially for
for all the candidates but especially forJoe Biden muh
especially forJoe Biden muh Bernie Sanders to perhaps
Bernie Sanders to perhaps establish a clear front runner.
establish a dear front runner. 0K, acro
establish a clear front runner. 0K, acro two in Los Angeles.
0K, acro two in Los Angelas. For
-- 0K,
—— 0K, Peter Bowes in Los
-- 0K, Peter Bones in Los Angeles.
You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
You’re watching Newsday on the BBC.
Still to come on the programme, we’ll hearfrom Asia Bibi,
the Pakistani Christian woman who spent years on death row.
She reveals how her faith helped her through her ordeal.
First, the plate slipped gently off the restaurant tables.
Then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and the people
crashed sideways and downwards.
It was just a matter of seconds as the ferry
lurched onto her side.
The hydrogen bomb.
On a remote Pacific Atoll, the Americans had successfully
tested a weapon whose force dwarfed that of the bomb
dropped on Hiroshima.
ﬂ
I had heard the news earlier.
I saw it went back, back, back...
The rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens
of the United States, and they should be protected
even in the right to test them out so that they don’t
get their heads and sent to hospital.
This religious controversy, I know you don’t want
to say too much about it.
Worry you?
It worries me, yes, but I hope everything will be all right
in the end of the day.
Welcome back. You’re watching Newsday on the BBC. And thanks
Newsday on the BBC. And thanks for staying with us.
ﬂ
lam
I am Samantha Simmonds in London. Our
I am Samantha Simmonds in London. Ourtop
I am Samantha Simmonds in London. Our top stories...
The founder of a secretive religious sect in South Korea
is facing possible murder charges over
the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
American media are reporting that the Democratic
Party presidential contender, Pete Buttigieg, is pulling out
of the White House race.
Let’s get more on the coronavirus outbreak.
Dr Sarah Borwein is a family doctor in Hong Kong.
She told me how it compared to the Sars outbreak,
way back in 2003.
In Beijing, for a long time, there was denial that there
was even an epidemic, and it was really the scariest
thing at the time.
I think there is some similarities.
I even wrote at the time that China was a paradox
because freedom of speech was still a work in progress
and yet their ability to take effective action had to command
respect, and to some extent, that is still the case now.
We really have to respect the effective action...
Dr Borwein, you’re saying China is taking some strides.
Let’s look at the SARS outbreak.
It happened at a similar time of year, during
the winter sessions,
so do you see the same timeline with SARS?
H. .\ 115
SARS dissipated in the summer months.
SARS dissipated in the summer months.
Did it dissipate or did we manage to control it
through very intensive public health measures?
I do think that is something we don’t know.
While it is tempting to speculate it might go away
in the summer months, I don’t think we can afford
to make that assumption.
Right.
And what is your professional opinion on how the world
is coping with this particular outbreak?
Are you seeing Asia has learned some lessons from SARS
and is therefore dealing with this somewhat better
than Europe for instance?
I think it remains to be seen exactly how Europe
will deal with this, but I do think that there
is a sense of prepared, mental preparedness,
in Asia, that people have been through this before,
that the public knows how to react.
And what will happen in Europe is still to be seen.
It is untested.
You of course are seeing a lot of patients worried about this
particular outbreak.
Tell us about the mental health of some of the patients
you have encountered.
It’s interesting.
I am sure, like Singapore in a way but even more
in Hong Kong, the people who were here in 2003,
the population is a bit traumatised by what happened
during SARS.
I really thought that that would play out and that people
would be very anxious about the disease.
Actually, most people take a sensible middle ground here.
They understand for them personally, the risk is not
personally, the risk is not great.
They also understand that the public health
risk is very large.
ﬂ
lam seeing
I am seeing less anxiety as the weeks go on about the disease.
But we do see is the mental health aspect of the social
isolation measures that have been going on since January.
The schools have been out since then, people
are home—schooling, many people are working from home.
Many
Ma ny eve nts
Many events have been cancelled.
So it is not much fun.
That was Dr Sarah Borwein in Hong Kong.
And those fears continue about the impact of the global
coronavirus outbreak on markets around the world.
Let’s ta ke
Let’s take a look at how they are performing. Asian markets
are performing. Asian markets open here and we take a look at
open here and we take a look at japan’s
open here and we take a look at Japan’s Nikkei. It is down near
japan’s Nikkei. It is down near 195. It
Japan’s Nikkei. It is down near 1%. It continues to lurk around
196. It continues to lurk around six lows.
1%. It continues to lurk around six lows. We know the, all of
six lows. We know the, all of this, has been Dennis are in
this, has been Dennis are in for a second we now from the
for a second we now from the coronavirus concerns. We saw
coronavims concerns. We saw the
coronavirus concerns. We saw the impact of latest figures on
the impact of latest figures on the weekend on manufacturing in
the weekend on manufacturing in China will stub bets on a
China will stub bets on a plunge in activity as the
plunge in activity as the country deals of the —— that
country deals of the -- that saw a plunge
country deals of the —— that saw a plunge in activity. That
saw a plunge in activity. That is impacting sentiment here in
is impacting sentiment here in Asia. Let’s take a look at last
Asia. Let’s take a look at last week. Last week, we saw some $5
week. Last week, we saw some $5 trillion wiped off global
trillion wiped off global markets. This was really the
markets. This was really the worst performance in a lot of
worst performance in a lot of global markets since 2008, the
global markets since 2008, the height of the global crisis. We
height of the global crisis. We saw... Really dramatic declines
saw... Really dramatic declines as, of course, investors taking
as, of course, investors taking all of these worries around the
all of these worries around the coronavirus.
Thank you.
Nearly ten years ago, a Christian woman from
Pakistan’s Punjabi province was sentenced to
death for blasphemy.
It was a case that sparked international
Asia Bibi, the Pakistani Christian woman who spent years
on death row after being convicted of blasphemy,
has said she hopes to be able to return to Pakistan one day.
She was in Paris for the release of her memoir,
Finally Free, in which she recounts her time in
jail — and her brutal treatment by guards.
In the second part of an interview with the BBC’s
Mishal Husain, Ms Bibi says herfaith helped
her through the ordeal.
Nearly ten years ago, a Christian woman from
Pakistan’s Punjabi province was sentenced to
death for blasphemy.
It was a case that sparked international
attention and outrage.
And even after Asia Bibi was finally acquitted
by Pakistan’s highest court, huge protests prevented
her immediate release.
She now has a new life — and here in Paris, she has been
telling me her story.
TRANSLATION: I suffered a lot inside the jail.
I cannot even tell you what happened to me.
I lived through all of this misery, but God gave
me patience and I got a lot of strength.
You cannot imagine, but I have witnessed miracles.
It’s difficult for you to talk about because you write
in the book about how you were held by the neck
and how difficult that time was for you.
What was it that gave you hope in this period?
TRANSLATION: My strength came from my faith, and I learned
that you should be courageous, and you should be strong
in your faith and you should never lose your faith.
After everything you have been through, how would you describe
your emotions today?
Do you feel bitterness?
Do you feel anger?
TRANSLATION: No.
I am not angry at all.
I have forgiven everyone from my heart and there
is no hardness for me.
There is patience.
I learned how to be patient after having
to leave my children behind.
It surprises me even.
How have I learned to be so patient?
How can any mother be patient after leaving her children?
But God made me patient and I survived the hardships
thrown my way through my patience.
There are people today in jail facing blasphemy charges.
What would you say to them?
TRANSLATION: I can give them hope.
I am now free.
I am outside.
I want to request all media that they should work
so she is also freed and I can tell her that there will be a
day when she will also be free.
Asia Bibi’s long ordeal is now over, but the issue of
blasphemy in Pakistan is not.
There are still Christians and Muslims being targeted
by the law today.
The question is whether the country will take
action to prevent abuses and to protect its citizens,
whatever their religion.
We put allegations about misuse of blasphemy laws to
the authorities in Pakistan.
They said Pakistan has taken considerable steps
to prevent its possible misuse and constantly reviews
its implementation.
The cases of blasphemy are brought before the court
and follow due process of the law.
The acquittal of Asia Bibi is a testimony of Pakistan’s
resolve to protect its citizens as per its Constitution.
About the allegations of abuse in prison, they responded...
Thanks very much for being with us.
You have been watching Newsday.
I’m Samantha Simmonds in London.
And I’m Sharanjit Leyl in Singapore.
Stay with us.
We will be looking at the impact the coronavirus
outbreak is having on India’s manufacturing industries
as disruptions to the supply chain from China continue.
And before we go, we’d like to leave you with pictures
of Russians bidding farewell to winter and welcoming spring.
This is Russia’s pre—Lent festival known as Maslenitsa —
better known as pancake week.
It has its roots in pagan traditions, when people
marked the end of winter and the beginning of spring
with massive bonfires.
The festival eventually became part of Russian
Orthodox Christian tradition and it is now a week of folk
celebration and plenty of feasting on blini,
the traditional Russian pancake that symbolizes the sun.
That’s all for now.
Stay with us on BBC World News.
Hello.
With rivers running high and many fields still underwater,
we could do with a little bit of better weather news
and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
And to a certain degree, we will get that this week.
No, it’s not going to be completely dry, but certainly
compared with recent weeks, it won’t be anywhere
near as wet or as windy.
The jet stream is taking a more southerly track
but what that does mean is we are into
slightly cooler air.
It will certainly be chillier, particularly by night,
with frost more likely.
And that is how we start the Monday morning commute,
with more in the way of frost and even some ice around
where showers continue in the north and west
through the night.
Not quite as frosty toward Southern counties of England.
Outbreaks of rain here and a bit of sleet and wet snow
first thing in the morning, clearing away from East Anglia
and the Southeast quite smartly but then brightening up.
Showers in the West.
A mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
Few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant
during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw
through the weekend.
More of you on Monday will spend the day completely dry,
with just one or two showers passing your way.
Temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
Winds will overall be lighter.
Not going to feel quite as cold during the afternoon as it has
done, but the breeze will be picking up across
the Northwest later.
We could see gales for a time during Monday
night into Tuesday.
More in the way of showers starting to develop
through the night and they will push their way eastwards.
Snow across parts of Scotland, even in the hills of
Northern Ireland and northern England later on.
Now, temperatures will still be close
to freezing in many areas.
Frost and ice, the greatest risk.
Coldest of the weather first thing on Tuesday
morning towards the east.
This is the set up for Tuesday.
That weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
More rain bearing weather fronts diverted down
towards France and Iberia thanks to that southern
track in jet stream, but they could be close enough
to produce some rain across southern most counties
of England and more especially the Channel Islands.
More showers around, by and large, to start
Tuesday morning.
A wintry mix.
Those will clear away.
Then it’s back to sunshine and showers for many
into the afternoon.
Showers mainly across some western areas.
Temperatures similar to those on Monday.
Then, as we head into the middle part of the week,
it looks like many will still stay largely dry.
Still some showers around here and there.
Chance of some rain close to the South Coast on Wednesday
but overall, we continue with that largely dry story.
It changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
Thursday night into Friday, we’ll see a weather front
push its way eastwards, bringing us all a spell
of rain briefly.
Showers follow in its wake.
And then the chance of some more wet and windy weather
towards the end of the week and into next weekend.
But by and large, still the rivers responding
to the rain we saw for the last few days.
And with some rain forecasted towards the end of the week,
never to stay too far away from our flood warnings.
They’re there for you online.
I’m Samantha with BBC World News.
Our top story.
The founder of a secretive religious sect in South Korea is facing
possible murder charges over some of the country’s coronavirus deaths.
The infection has spread rapidly among the sect’s followers,
and the authorities say its leaders concealed the names of members.
The Democratic Party presidential contender Pete Buttigieg
is to end his bid for the white House.
Despite a promising start, he polled badly in the latest
primaries in South Carolina.
And this story is trending on BBC.com
Australia’s summers have become twice as long as its winters
with increasing temperatures driven by climate change, according
to new weather analysis.
The Australia Institute found that summer across most of the country
over the past 20 years was about a month longer
than in the mid—20th century, while winters had become shorter.
More on our websites, the new of course. Now on BBC news live to
course. Now on BBC news live to Singapore for Asia’s business
Singapore for Asia’s business report.
Markets in Japan
Markets inJapan kicked off the new
Markets in japan kicked off the new trading
Markets in japan kicked off the new trading week
Markets inJapan kicked off the new trading week lower, continuing the
trading week lower, continuing the global sell—off, which started last
global sell-off, which started last week in
global sell—off, which started last week in Asia, Europe and the US. We
week in Asia, Europe and the US. We look at how India’s supply chain is
look at how India’s supply chain is dismpted by
look at how India’s supply chain is disrupted by the corona outbreak.
look at how India’s supply chain is disrupted by the corona outbreak.
dismpted by the corona outbreak. Hello, and
disrupted by the corona outbreak. Hello, and welcome to this Monday’s
Hello, and welcome to this Mondays Asia
Hello, and welcome to this Monday’s Asia business report. Of
course, we know it’s a brand—new
course, we know it’s a brand-new week, and
course, we know it’s a brand—new week, and Asian markets are in the
week, and Asian markets are in the red, extending the sell—off from
red, extending the sell-off from last
red, extending the sell—off from last week over in
red, extending the sell—off from last week over inJapan, we take a
last week over injapan, we take a look at
last week over inJapan, we take a look at which has been open for the
look at which has been open for the last hour or so, down about half
last hour or so, down about half a percent, it’s actually scaling some
percent, it’s actually scaling some of its deeper declines just a little
of its deeper declines just a little eartier,
of its deeper declines just a little earlier, still lurking near six
eartier, still lurking near six month
earlier, still lurking near six month lows though, and of course,
month lows though, and of course, really taking its cues from Wall
really taking its cues from Wall Street last week, which saw its
Street last week, which saw its biggest sell—off since the financial
biggest sell-off since the financial crisis in
biggest sell—off since the financial crisis in 2008. The SNP 500 index
crisis in 2008. The SNP 500 index for instance lost about 11 and of
for instance lost about 11 and of course, really taking its cues from
course, really taking its cues from Wall Street last week, which saw its
Wall Street last week, which saw its biggest sell—off since the financial
biggest sell-off since the financial crisis in
biggest sell—off since the financial crisis in 2008. The SNP 500 index
crisis in 2008. The SNP 500 index for instance lost about 11 and a
for instance lost about 11 and a half percent all of last week,
half percent all of last week, that’s really a huge amount, and of
that’s really a huge amount, and of course, we saw some $5 trillion can
course, we saw some $5 trillion ran essentially
course, we saw some $5 trillion can essentially wiped off global
essentially wiped off global markets, and that is as more
markets, and that is as more coronavirus cases came to light in
coronavirus cases fame to light in Europe in the
coronavirus cases came to light in Europe in the US, also dampening
Europe in the US, also dampening sentiments, fresh data over the
sentiments, fresh data over the weekend from China, which showed
weekend from China, which showed factory activity slumping to a
factory activity slumping to a record low, essentially, in
record low, essentially, in Febmary,
record low, essentially, in February, of course, that was the
Febmary, of course, that was the double
February, of course, that was the double whammy of the new —— lunar
double whammy of the new -- lunar new year closures
double whammy of the new —— lunar new year closures in the shutdowns
new year closures in the shutdowns due to coronavirus. No market
due to coronavirus. No market analyst expects the market sell—off
analyst expects the market sell-off to
analyst expects the market sell—off to continue this weekend he explains
to continue this weekend he explains why. I
to continue this weekend he explains why. Ithink
to continue this weekend he explains why. I think that momentum will
why. I think that momentum will continue over the next matter of
continue over the next matter of days, that news comes forward, and I
days, that news comes forward, and I will only from the Chinese numbers
will only from the Chinese numbers but of course from coronavirus. As
but of course from coronavirus. As a gains momentum, I think this
gains momentum, I think this probably further sell—off and
probably further sell—off and contraction across many of those
contraction across many of those markets. Now, you mentioned the
markets. Now, you mentioned the damaging Chinese factory numbers,
damaging Chinese factory numbers, certainly the worst on record. We
certainly the worst on record. We have seen the Chinese government
have seen the Chinese government obviously throwing money at their
obviously throwing money at their problem of stimulus measures, are
problem of stimulus measures, are they expecting them to do more?
they expecting them to do more? Welcome I feel as though it will be
Welcome I feel as though it will be a concerted effort across many of
a concerted effort across many of the developing countries, and, of
the developing countries, and, of course, the major markets. I’m sure
course, the major markets. I’m sure that you will look at the Chinese
that you will look at the Chinese prepared to do whatever is needed to
prepared to do whatever is needed to actually get that growth going
actually get that growth going forward, and you are looking at the
forward, and you are looking at the major ones like the US with numbers
major ones like the US with numbers coming out of the end of the week,
coming out of the end of the week, as far as nonfarm payrolls, and you
as far as nonfarm payrolls, and you ran see the
as far as nonfarm payrolls, and you can see the Fed also looking at
ran see the Fed also looking at cuts.
can see the Fed also looking at cuts. Australia ever seen, Canada,
cuts. Australia ever seen, Canada, so it will be a hectic week for the
so it will be a hectic week for the markets. China isn’t the only
markets. China isn’t the only country putting in place stimulus
country putting in place stimulus measures, throwing money at their
measures, throwing money at their problem, Hong Kong, Singapore
problam, Hong Kong, Singapore amongst
problem, Hong Kong, Singapore amongst others have done the same.
amongst others have done the same. So are you expecting most central
So are you expecting most central banks in the region then to cut
banks in the region than to cut rates in
banks in the region then to cut rates in the coming months?
rates in the coming months? Welcome I wouldn’t be surprised. You know,
I wouldn’t be surprised. You know, we are, as everyone knows, we are at
we are, as everyone knows, we are at record lows, but
we are, as everyone knows, we are at record lows, butl
we are, as everyone knows, we are at record lows, but I think that will
record lows, but I think that will continue. This coronavirus is
continue. This coronavims is really something that
continue. This coronavirus is really something that I don’t think the
something that I don’t think the markets were ready on, and certainly
markets were ready on, and certainly you know, as far as the push
you know, as far as the push forward and what the impact has been, and
and what the impact has been, and there’s no sense at the moment that
there’s no sense at the moment that we have actually got this matter
we have actually got this matter under control. So banks will have to
under control. So banks will have to stimulate
under control. 50 banks will have to stimulate and that all comes down to
stimulate and that all comes down to cutting rates. All rights, all the
cutting rates. All rights, all the uncertainty you mentioned, and of
uncertainty you mentioned, and of course, where you are, Australia,
course, where you are, Australia, the most China dependent development
the most China dependent development economy in the world, expecting some
economy in the world, expecting some growth figures out this week. Do you
growth figures out this week. Do you think going forward, Australia will
think going forward, Australia will be particularly hard hit? Welcome I
be particularty hard hit? Welcome I think so.
be particularly hard hit? Welcome I think so. That’s been demonstrated
think so. That’s been demonstrated by the value of our dollar now when
by the value of our dollar now when the 64 club. 6&50, and our
by the value of our dollar now when the 64 club. 6&50, and ourfeelers
the 64 club. 6450, and our feelers are there
the 64 club. 6&50, and ourfeelers are there is further softness there.
are there is further softness there. So, Australia
are there is further softness there. 50, Australia really feels that, and
So, Australia really feels that, and it’s not
50, Australia really feels that, and it’s not uncommon for a
So, Australia really feels that, and it’s not uncommon for a commodity
it’s not uncommon for a commodity -based currency
it’s not uncommon for a commodity —based currency to really be
—based currency to really be hemorrhaged. Tim speaking to me
hemorrhaged. Tim speaking to me eartier.
hemorrhaged. Tim speaking to me earlier. Now come over to India,
eartier. Now come over to India, which is
earlier. Now come over to India, which is China’s and second largest
which is China’s and second largest trading partner with billions of
trading partner with billions of dollars with a bilateral trade every
dollars with a bilateral trade every year. Now come from you like Tronics
year. Now come from you like Tronis -- electronic
year. Now come from you like Tronics —— electronics to pharmaceuticals,
-- electronic to pharmaceuticals, they are all
—— electronics to pharmaceuticals, they are all heavily dependent on
they are all heavily dependent on the cheap raw materials coming from
the cheap raw materials coming from China. But with coronavirus outbreak
China. But with coronavirus outbreak of the supply chain has been
of the supply chain has been impacted. We went to an industrial
impacted. We went to an industrial hub in northern India and sent us
hub in northern India and sent us this report.
this report. For the past two years this has
For the past two years this has provided tele— dozens across India,
provided tele- dozens across India, they make
provided tele— dozens across India, they make 80,000 LED TV sets every
they make 80,000 LED TV sets every month.
The glass panel and electronic trips use for it or not available in
use for it or not available in India, so they are heavily dependent
India, so they are heavily dependent on China to import them. But with
on China to import them. But with the coronavirus outbreak, factories
the coronavirus outbreak, factories there are shot. These are made in
there are shot. These are made in China. That has put 23—year—old, who
China. That has put 23-year-old, who manages this
China. That has put 23—year—old, who manages this plant, in a tough spot.
manages this plant, in a tough spot. Already, 60—70% of the components
Already, 60-7096 of the components we are using are
Already, 60—70% of the components we are using are highly dependent on
are using are highly dependent on China, so the glass which opens has
China, so the glass which opens has already been increased to 12%, so
already been increased to 1296, so for the
already been increased to 12%, so for the next quarter, if there is a
for the next quarter, if there is a shortage in supply, at least
for the next quarter, if there is a shortage in supply, at least10—15%
shortage in supply, at least10-1596 of
shortage in supply, at least 10-1596 of the prices
shortage in supply, at least10—15% of the prices will increase for the
of the prices will increase for the retailers. They expert over $50
retailers. They expert over $50 billion worth of goods to India,
billion worth of goods to India, while most of it is ready made
whila most of it is ready made product,
while most of it is ready made product, there are crucial raw
product, there are crucial raw materials that are used by Pharma
materials that are used by Pharma and auto industries to name a few
and auto industries to name a few there will be a source of
there will be a source of worry, while big traders do have some...
whila big traders do have some... Too tight over
while big traders do have some... Too tight over the next 2—3 months
Too tight over the next 2-3 months is a small
Too tight over the next 2—3 months is a small trade, struggling to
is a small trade, stmggling to meet the pending
is a small trade, struggling to meet the pending orders. Many businesses
the pending orders. Many businesses are having to look for suppliers
are having to look for suppliers outside China.
outside China. TRANSLATION:
TRANSLATION: South Korea and Japan have
South Korea and Japan have electronic tip dealers that can help
electronic tip dealars that ran help us, but
electronic tip dealers that can help us, but coronavirus is spreading
us, but coronavirus is spreading thereto, so it’s better to get
thereto, so it’s better to get sunplv
thereto, so it’s better to get supply from there as soon as
supply from there as soon as possible. But not everyone can
possible. But not everyone ran afford it,
possible. But not everyone can afford it, and some like this Pharma
afford it, and some like this Pharma factory have cut production by half,
factory have cut production by half, as they mn out
factory have cut production by half, as they run out of key chemical
as they mn out of key chemical ingredients
as they run out of key chemical ingredients imported from China.
ingredients imported from China. TRANSLATION:
TRANSLATION: Clement we are paying twice for the
Clement we are paying twice for the raw material, but because of the
raw material, but because of the price rap on
raw material, but because of the price cap on medicines, we cannot
price rap on medicines, we cannot raise the
price cap on medicines, we cannot raise the cost for the consumers, so
raise the cost for the consumers, so we have cut our production, and
we have cut our production, and in the coming time, it will hurt the
the coming time, it will hurt the labour
the coming time, it will hurt the labourforce as
the coming time, it will hurt the labour force as well.
the coming time, it will hurt the labourforce as well. Job
the coming time, it will hurt the labour force as well. Job losses in
labour force as well. job losses in these
labour force as well. Job losses in these small enterprises will further
these small enterprises will further hurt the Indian economy, and facing
hurt the Indian economy, and facing a slowdown. China is trying to get
a slowdown. China is trying to get its factories back to work, but for
its factories back to work, but for customers like this, the shortage of
customers like this, the shortage of materials will take weeks to clear.
Back to school on a Sunday, well, that’s what these students in Japan
that’s what these students in japan did, that
that’s what these students in Japan did, that was really to pick up
did, that was really to pick up assignments for the coming weeks,
assignments for the coming weeks, because last week, of course, we
because last week, of course, we reported that the government made a
reported that the government made a surprise announcement that all
surprise announcement that all elementary middle and high schools
elementary middle and high schools in japan
elementary middle and high schools inJapan would close for a month
in japan would close for a month from today,
inJapan would close for a month from today, that’s really to try to
from today, that’s really to try to contain the spread of coronavirus,
contain the spread of coronavims, not the only
contain the spread of coronavirus, not the only place in the region to
not the only place in the region to impose school closure, because we
impose school closure, because we know students in the Hong Kong have
know students in the Hong Kong have already missed around five weeks of
already missed around five weeks of classes since January. City
classes since January. City government said schools will remain
government said schools will remain closed until at least the end of
closed until at least the end of April. Parents are really starting
April. Parents are really starting to find it challenging, balancing
to find it challenging, balancing working from home while their
working from home while their children are also home. Over in
children are also home. Over in China where the virus was first
China where the virus was first discovered, there has been no word
discovered, there has been no word yet on when schools there will
yet on when schools there will reopen. Earlier, I spoke with a
reopen. Earlier, I spoke with a consultant Emily
reopen. Earlier, I spoke with a consultant EmilyJones and for
consultant Emily jones and for advice
consultant EmilyJones and for advice on how companies can
advice on how companies can accommodate parents working from
accommodate parents working from home in these unprecedented
home in these unprecedented situations. It was a surprise to
situations. It was a surprise to everybody, and so the HR community
everybody, and so the HR community has kinda been rallying around, lots
has kinda been rallying around, lots of pandemic policy sharing, and
of pandemic policy sharing, and supporting each other in it, you
supporting each other in it, you know, what is working and what is
know, what is working and what is not working. You know, my heart goes
not working. You know, my heart goes out to all of those front—line
out to all of those front-line workers
out to all of those front—line workers who are out there trying to
workers who are out there trying to support, control the virus that
support, control the virus that suddenly you have childcare issues.
suddenly you have childcare issues. That’s rates, what can be done then,
That’s rates, what ran be done then, because quite
That’s rates, what can be done then, because quite aside from the
because quite aside from the front—line workers, some other can
front-line workers, some other ran actually be
front—line workers, some other can actually be done from home, but we
actually be done from home, but we know that agent doesn’t have a work
know that agent doesn’t have a work from home culture, so what needs to
from home culture, so what needs to change? Well I think what is going
change? Well I think what is going to be interesting is what employees
to be interesting is what employees go forward start asking their
go forward start asking their employers for. I think people will
employers for. I think people will get a taste from working from home,
get a taste from working from home, a taste of flexibility, my concern
a taste of ﬂexibility, my concern comes
a taste of flexibility, my concern comes from that then meaning that we
comes from that then meaning that we don’t have the same level of
don’t have the same level of controls over where people are and
controls over where peopla are and what they are
controls over where people are and what they are doing, I think
what they are doing, I think companies are going to have to look
companies are going to have to look at how they monitor and control
at how they monitor and control productivity going forward. I think,
productivity going forward. I think, you know, there has got to be a lot
you know, there has got to be a lot more ﬂexibility
you know, there has got to be a lot more flexibility going forward, and
more ﬂexibility going forward, and expectation
more flexibility going forward, and expectation on both sides. 50, the
expectation on both sides. So, the strategy to
expectation on both sides. 50, the strategy to shut schools in the
strategy to shut schools in the first place, obviously a mention
first place, obviously a mention japan, China
first place, obviously a mention Japan, China China, Singapore has
japan, China China, Singapore has not, is it a good
Japan, China China, Singapore has not, is it a good strategy, what
not, is it a good strategy, what would you advise governments to do?
would you advise governments to do? Personally, my children are in
Personally, my children are in school here in Singapore, they are
school here in Singapore, they are in a [oral
school here in Singapore, they are in a local government school, I’m
in a [oral government school, I’m happy that
in a local government school, I’m happy that the school is still open.
happy that the school is still open. It gives me flexibility to still
It gives me ﬂexibility to still work
It gives me flexibility to still work as well as my husband. And it’s
work as well as my husband. And it’s a controlled environment. They have
a controlled environment. They have been great around keeping parents
been great around keeping parents informed, they are temperature
informed, they are temperature checking regularly. They have
checking regularly. They have controlled, you know, group
controlled, you know, group activities, staggered recesses, you
activities, staggered recesses, you know, in the classroom rather than
know, in the classroom rather than the assembly hall,
know, in the classroom rather than the assembly hell, you know, it’s a
the assembly hell, you know, it’s a controlled environment, and if we do
controlled environment, and if we do start to see social spread, we are
start to see social spread, we are going to know it’s coming from.
going to know it’s coming from. Emily joins
going to know it’s coming from. Emilyjoins speaking to me earlier,
Emily joins speaking to me eartier, let’s
Emilyjoins speaking to me earlier, let’s take a look at the market.
let’s take a look at the market. As I mentioned, this is scaling back
I mentioned, this is scaling back some of its much steeper losses at
some of its much steeper losses at the open, down only .4% right
the open, down only ASS right now, Hong Kong has
the open, down only .4% right now, Hong Kong has also opened fairly
Hong Kong has also opened fairty ﬂat, and
Hong Kong has also opened fairly flat, and that’s really possibly due
ﬂat, and that’s really possibly due to some
flat, and that’s really possibly due to some bargain—hunting from
to some bargain-hunting from investors,
to some bargain—hunting from investors, expectations as well
investors, expectations as well there might be some stimulus
there might be some stimulus measures to try to counter the
measures to try to counter the impact of coronavirus, which has
impact of coronavims, which has absolutely
impact of coronavirus, which has absolutely pummeled markets last
absolutely pummeled markets last week. That’s it for this show.
week. That’s it for this show. Thanks for watching.
This is BBC News — our main headline.
The founder of a religious sect in South Korea could face murder
charges over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
A woman taking legal action against an NHS gender clinic says
she should have been challenged by medical staff when she told them,
aged 16, that she wanted to transition from female to male.
Alison Holt reports.
Keira Bell is 23 years old and her adult life so far has
been defined by the decision she made when she was much younger.
At 16, she was prescribed drugs to delay the signs of female puberty.
She later took male hormones, so her voice deepened
and facial hair grew.
Initially, I felt very relieved and very happy about things,
but I think, as the years go on, you start to feel less and less
enthusiastic or even happy about it.
Keira was treated here at the UK’s only gender identity clinic,
run by the Tavistock Trust.
She’s taking legal action against them because she believes,
when she started taking puberty blockers and cross—sex
hormones, she was too young to understand the implications.
She says, as a child, she felt isolated and different and,
as a teenager, she was desperate to change her gender.
But she now believes she should have been challenged more and had more
psychological support.
I feel angry that I was allowed to run with this idea that I had,
you know, almost like a fantasy, as a teenager, I was allowed to run
with that and it has affected me in the long run.
I’ve onlyjust kind of stepped into adulthood and I had to kind of,
you know, deal with this burden.
What would you tell your 16—year—old self now?
That’s kind of the point of this case, is that
when you are that young, you don’t really want to listen
to anyone and a lot of things won’t get through, so I think
it is up to these, you know, institutions, like the Tavistock,
to step in and make children reconsider what they are saying,
because it is, you know, a life—altering path that
you are going down.
It’s a difficult area and the head of the gender identity clinic says
they are always cautious, working closely with children
and families to help them make their decisions.
So this is a really complex area with strong feelings on all sides,
and, for young people, they come to us in often
really great distress around their sense of themselves.
We are talking about identity here, their identity and a feeling
that their gender identity does not match that body.
And what goes along with that is huge distress.
The clinic says it welcomes Keira’s case, as it will allow a considered
review of the evidence about the most appropriate way
to support young people.
Alison Holt, BBC News.
Hello, I’m Chetan Pathak and this is Sport Today,
live from the BBC Sport Centre.
Coming up on the programme:
Viniciuer makes history as Real Madrid beat
Barcelona in El Classico.
Manchester City win their third English League Cup in a row after
beating Aston Villa at Wembley.
England thrash the West Indies to reach the semi—finals
of the T20 World Cup — along with South Africa,
who see off Pakistan.
Welcome to the programme.
Thanks forjoining us.
Real Madrid are a point clear at the top of La Liga
after a 2—0 win over Barcelona at the Bernabeu on Sunday.
ViniciusJunior got the opener 20 minutes from the end,
becoming the youngst El Clasico goalscorer this century at 19.
Mariano then got the second in stoppage time with his first
touch of the season in La Liga.
This was the first time Barcelona failed to score away at Real
in the league since October 2006.
Sevilla threw away a 2—0 lead against ten—man Osasuna before
scoring a stoppage time winner that takes them third in La Liga.
Atletico Madrid remain two points behind in fifth
after a 1—1 draw at Espanyol.
Manchester City may soon be displaced by Liverpool
as Premier League Champions, but they have won the English League
Cup for a third year in row.
Taking on an Aston Villa side playing their first final for 10
years, Pep Guardiola’s team were too strong in the end winning 2—1.
Our correspondent Natalie Pirks was watching at Wembley.
Agony for these hands leaving Wembley tonight, because they really
Wembley tonight, because they really took the came to city, no one give
took the fame to city, no one give them a prayer,
took the came to city, no one give them a prayer, they had one this
them a prayer, they had one this particular trophy for 2h years, they
particular trophy for 24 years, they were coming
particular trophy for 2h years, they were coming into this match after
were coming into this match after losing three Premier League match is
losing three Premier League match is on the spin, fighting the relegation
on the spin, fighting the relagation battle, so,
on the spin, fighting the relegation battle, so, of course, Manchester
battle, so, of course, Manchester city, this was their 16 time at
city, this was their 16 time at Wembley in the last ten seasons,
Wembley in the last ten seasons, they pretty much set up camp in the
they pretty much set up ramp in the home dressing
they pretty much set up camp in the home dressing room, but didn’t start
home dressing room, but didn’t start that way. Villa, very much the
that way. Villa, very much the better side, almost scored in the
better side, almost scored in the second minute, and the better side
second minute, and the better side of the first 20 minutes, then of
of the first 20 minutes, then of course, city are always going to
course, city are always going to dominate possession, and they began
dominate possession, and they began to dominate. Aguero with the first
to dominate. Aguero with the first all, who
to dominate. Aguero with the first call, who else? Because that was
all, who else? Because that was his tenth goal
call, who else? Because that was his tenth goal against a villa in
tenth goal against a villa in the six starts, then
tenth goal against a villa in the six starts, thenjust
tenth goal against a villa in the six starts, then just ten minutes
six starts, then just ten minutes later, city doubled their lead, some
later, city doubled their lead, some poor defending from a corner, for
poor defending from a corner, for Aston Villa, and it was a
Aston Villa, and it was a contentious issue, because Dean
contentious issue, because Dean Smith from Aston Villa’s manager
Smith from Aston Villa’s manager believe the ball had gone on for a
believe the ball had gone on for a goal kick, replay show that he was
goal kick, replay show that he was probably right, but VA are, even
probably right, but VA are, even though we have that here, doesn’t
though we have that here, doesn’t check that kind of thing, so they
check that kind of thing, so they were 2-0 up.
check that kind of thing, so they were 2—0 up. Just before half—time,
were 2-0 up. just before half-time, they pulled
were 2—0 up. Just before half—time, they pulled himself back in with
they pulled himself back in with excellent diving headers, and almost
excellent diving headers, and almost equalised at the death, and it was
equalised at the death, and it was Claudia Bravo with a fantastic save,
Claudia Bravo with a fantastic save, just a tip onto the post from Bjorn
just a tip onto the post from Bjorn so they could of equalised incentive
so they could of equalised incentive to extra time, but in truth, city
to extra time, but in tmth, city looked
to extra time, but in truth, city looked the better side in the second
looked the better side in the second half. A little testy, but I
half. A little testy, but I think they were good for the win in the
they were good for the win in the end. But you know, Villa fans here
end. But you know, Villa fans here ran leave
end. But you know, Villa fans here can leave with their heads
ran leave with their heads held high, they
can leave with their heads held high, they really did take the game
high, they really did take the game to Manchester city.
In the Premier League, Everton’s Manager Carlo Ancelotti
was sent off as his side drew 1—1 with Manchester United
at Goodison Park.
He wasn’t happy after VAR disallowed a 91st minute
Harry Maguire own goal, which would have won
the match for Everton.
Ancelotti confronted the officials at full time.
Whatever he said, the referee was not impressed and he
was shown a red card.
Everton had taken the lead afterjust 3 minutes when United
keeper David de Gea’s clearance rebounded off Dominic Calvert—Lewin
and went straight into the goal.
Bruno Fernandez did equalise for United, who stay in 5th,
three points behind Chelsea.
ﬂ
I asked for an explanation, they send me off, I had a conversation
send me off, I had a conversation with him, I think I want to keep
with him, I think I want to keep this conversation privates, and
this conversation privates, and the fact that they are going to take
fact that they are going to take issue with it, but when you have to
issue with it, but when you have to take it, sometimes you can be right,
take it, sometimes you can be right, sometimes it can be run, any
sometimes it ran be run, any complaint, I
sometimes it can be run, any complaint, Ijust fight
sometimes it can be run, any complaint, I just fight for them,
complaint, I just fight for them, and they gave us more confidence
and they gave us more confidence that we can compete with these
that we ran compete with these teams.
Jose Mourinho’s Tottenham are seventh and five points off
the top four after being beaten at home by Wolves,
who move above Spurs in the table with that win.
Rauljimenez scored the winner as they twice came from behind
to win 3—2 in North London and move level on points with
Manchester United in fifth.
You have to be ruthless against
You have to be mthless against teams
You have to be ruthless against teams like them that play
teams like them that play fantastically well in contact. I
fantastically well in contact. I think we deserve much more than
think we deserve much more than these results.
In Germany, RB Leipzig are three points behind the leaders Bayern
after a 1—1 draw at home to Bayer Leverkusen.
Leon Bailey gave Leverkusen the lead.
Their advantage lasted only three minutes, though,
with Patrik Shick heading in from a free kick.
In Italy, Atalanta players and fans were checked for coronavirus
symptoms as they arrived at Lecce for Sunday’s Serie A match.
They won it in the end 7—2 to move up to fourth.
Duvan Zapata getting a hat trick.
Matches this weekend in Northern Italy were postponed
because of the coronavirus outbreak.
In the day’s other game, Roma won A—S at Cagliari.
David Beckham’s Inter Miami have been beaten in their first ever MLS
match with a1—0 defeat to Los Angeles FC.
The former England captain is the co—owner
of the 25th MLS franchise.
Former Arsenal and Real Sociedad forward Carlos Vela,
on his Sist birthday, produced a piece of individual
brilliance to get the win.
Inter Miami play away to DC United next week before their first
home match against Beckham’s former team — LA Galaxy — on March 1A.
Time now for some of the other sports stories making the headlines.
Denmark won gold in the men’s madison at the Track Cycling World
Championships in Berlin.
Rider Michael Morkov — seen here on the left —
was initally quarantined ahead of the event after taking
part in the UAE Tour, but was approved to compete
after they were satisfied he didn’t have the coronavirus.
Well, the Tokyo marathon went ahead, but only as an event for a few
hundred elite athletes due to the coronavirus.
The race usually attracts around 38,000 runners.
Ethiopia’s Birhanu Legese won the men’s race for
the second year in a row, while Israel’s Lonah Chemtai
Salpeter broke the course record as she won the women’s race.
And he started the week having never won a European tour title
and was ranked 372 in the world — but Sami Valimaki will end the week
as the Oman Open Champion.
The Amateur from Finland won a dramatic play off
against South African Brandon Stone.
Cricket now — and England are through to the semi—finals
of the Women’s T20 World Cup after beating the 2016 champions
West Indies by 46 runs.
Natalie Sciver once again starred with the bat.
Jo Currie was watching in Sydney.
So we now know three of the four semifinalists in this T20 World Cup.
India were already through, and we can add England
and South Africa to the last four.
England came through against the West Indies,
they won the toss and put themselves into bat.
Danny Wyatt made 29, AmyJones 23, but it was Nat Sciver
who once again shone, making another half—century.
She is now very much cementing her place as one of the top players,
and she is now that top run scorer so far in this World Cup.
50 Net Sciver helped England to win, not bad on a slow wicket.
The West Indies innings got off to a difficult start after they lost
Taylor to an injury.
She had to be stretchered off with what looked
to be a groin problem, but to be fair the West Indies
but is didn’t put up much resistance as England bowled them all out
for 97 to get themselves through to the semifinals.
What we do know, the 2016 champions are now out,
the 2018 runners—up are through, largely thanks to
a Net Sciver innings.
I felt pretty good.
World number two Rafa Nadal won his third Mexican Open title
with a straight sets win over 22—year—old Taylor Fritz.
The Spaniard — at the bottom of the screen — didn’t drop a set
all week in Acapulco and took the first 6—3 against
the unseeded American.
And he sealed his first title of the season
by taking the next 6—2.
It’s the 85th singles title of his career —
and a rather odd one, a pear shapped trophy to go
along with the sombrero.
All smiles.
Heather Watson — in yellow — won the womens title
by beating Canada’s Leylah Fernandez two sets to one.
The British number two took the first set 6—4,
she had five championship points in the second set but
ended up losing it.
Finally battling back to win the decider 6—1
and seal her first title since 2016.
A great win for her. Just reminder
A great win for her. just reminder before we go,
you can get all the latest sports news at our website —
that’s bbc.com/sport.
But from me Chetan Pathak and the rest of the Sport
Today team, goodbye.
Hello.
With rivers running high and many fields still underwater,
we could do with a little bit of better weather news.
And to a certain degree, we will get that this week.
No, it’s not going to be completely dry, but certainly
compared with recent weeks, it won’t be anywhere
near as wet or as windy.
The jet stream is taking a more southerly track
but what that does mean is we are into slightly cooler air.
It will certainly be chillier, particularly by night,
with frost more likely.
And that is how we start the Monday morning commute,
with more in the way of frost and even some ice around
where showers continue in the north and west through the night.
Not quite as frosty toward Southern counties of England.
Outbreaks of rain here and a bit of sleet and wet snow first
thing in the morning, clearing away from East Anglia
and the Southeast quite smartly but then brightening up.
Showers in the West.
A mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow.
Few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant
during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw
through the weekend.
More of you on Monday will spend the day completely dry,
with just one or two showers passing your way.
Temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
Winds will overall be lighter.
Not going to feel quite as cold during the afternoon as it has done,
but the breeze will be picking up across the Northwest later.
We could see gales for a time during Monday night into Tuesday.
We could see gales for a time during Monday night into Tuesday.
More in the way of showers starting to develop through the night and
they will push their way eastwards.
Snow across parts of Scotland, even in the hills of Northern Ireland
and northern England later on.
Now, temperatures will still be close to freezing in many areas.
Frost and ice, the greatest risk.
Coldest of the weather first thing on Tuesday morning towards the east.
This is the set up for Tuesday.
That weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
More rain bearing weatherfronts diverted down towards France
and Iberia thanks to that southern track in jet stream,
but they could be close enough to produce some rain across southern
most counties of England and more especially the Channel Islands.
More showers around, by and large, to start Tuesday morning.
A wintry mix.
Those will clear away.
Then it’s back to sunshine and showers for many
into the afternoon.
Showers mainly across some western areas.
Temperatures similar to those on Monday.
Then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many
will still stay largely dry.
Still some showers around here and there.
Chance of some rain close to the South Coast on Wednesday
but overall, we continue with that largely dry story.
It changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
Thursday night into Friday, we’ll see a weather front
push its way eastwards, bringing us all a spell
of rain briefly.
Showers follow in its wake.
And then the chance of some more wet and windy weather towards the end
of the week and into next weekend.
But by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw
for the last few days.
And with some rain forecasted towards the end of the week,
never to stay too far away from our flood warnings.
They’re there for you online.
Welcome to BBC News.
I’m Maryam Moshiri.
Our top stories:
In the US election campaign, Mayor Pete
Buttigieg pulls out.
It could be a boost forJoe Biden’s campaign.
There are concerns the virus could have been
circulating in the US for weeks.
Up to 1,500 people may be infected.
Turkey sends refugees to Europe to try to force
backing for its campaign in Syria.
And Asia Bibi, the Pakistani Christian
sentenced to death for blasphemy, tells the BBC how
she found faith in jail.
Pete Buttigieg has dropped out of the race to be
the Democratic candidate to take on President Trump
for the US presidency.
The 38—year—old former mayor enjoyed a successful
start to his campaign but it lost momentum in recent weeks.
He narrowly won the Iowa caucuses early last month
and came in a strong second place in the New Hampshire
primary, but faltered badly in Saturday’s South Carolina vote.
He spoke to supporters a few
minutes ago in south Bend, Indiana.
—— South End.
Today
Todayis
Today is a moment of truth. After a year of going
After a year of going everywhere, meeting everyone,
everywhere, meeting everyone, defying every expectation,
defying every expectation, seeking every vote, the truth
seeking every vote, the truth is the path has narrowed to a
is the path has narrowed to a dose, for
is the path has narrowed to a close, for our candidacy if not
dose, for our candidacy if not our cause
close, for our candidacy if not our cause stop the and another
our cause stop the and another of those values is
of those values is responsibility, and we have a
responsibility, and we have a responsibility to consider the
responsibility to consider the effect of remaining in this
effect of remaining in this race any further. Our goal has
race any further. Our goal has always been to help unify
always been to help unify Americans to defeat Donald
Americans to defeat Donald Tmmp and
Americans to defeat Donald Trump and to win the era for
Tmmp and to win the era for our
Trump and to win the era for our values. APPLAUSE
Trump and to win the era for our values. APPLAUSE.
North America correspondent Peter Bowesjoins me now.
Peter, 3
Peter, a surprise here really. Ahead of Super Tuesday, that’s
Ahead of Super Tuesday, that’s unusual. It’s unusual but I
unusual. It’s unusual but I think he is simply being
think he is simply being practical. Looking at the
practical. Looking at the numbers, he did not do well in
numbers, he did not do well in South Carolina. 1A states
South Carolina. 14 states across
South Carolina. 1A states across the country go to the
across the country go to the polls on Tuesday, two of the
polls on Tuesday, two of the big ones, California and Texas,
big ones, California and Texas, and he and his people have
and he and his peopla have dearty
and he and his people have clearly figured out it’s
clearly figured out it’s perhaps unlikely that he will
perhaps unlikely that he will win over Bernie Sanders or
perhaps unlikely that he will win over Bernie Sanders orJoe
win over Bernie Sanders or joe Biden in any
win over Bernie Sanders orJoe Biden in any of those states.
Biden in any of those states. And for all he did well in the
And for all he did well in the Iowa caucuses, for all he did
Iowa caucuses, for all he did well in New Hampshire, he
well in New Hampshire, he doesn’t CA path ultimately to
doesn’t CA path ultimately to being the nominee for the
being the nominee for the Democratic Party. That’s
Democratic Party. That’s essentially what he indicated
essentially what he indicated in his speech, that the path to
in his speech, that the path to victory doesn’t seem to be
victory doesn’t seem to be within his grasp. So what does
within his grasp. So what does it mean for the race now to
it mean for the race now to take on Donald Trump?
take on Donald Trump? Interestingly he said... One of
Interestingly he said... One of the phrases he used was there
the phrases he used was there was too much at stake to stick
was too much at stake to stick to the sidelines, suggesting
to the sidelines, suggesting that he is still going to play
that he is still going to play a rola
that he is still going to play a role in American politics.
a role in American politics. Interestingly he did not say he
Interestingly he did not say he was supporting any of the other
was supporting any of the other candidates. May be that will
candidates. May be that will come at a later stage. What it
come at a later stage. what it means
come at a later stage. What it means probably in terms of
means probably in terms of votes is joe
means probably in terms of votes isJoe Biden is likely to
votes is joe Biden is likely to gain
votes isJoe Biden is likely to gain because he and Pete
gain because he and Pete Buttigieg essentially occupy
Buttigieg essentially occupy the same political ground in
the same political ground in the centre of the Democratic
the centre of the Democratic Party, the great swathes of the
Party, the great swathes of the party who believe in terms of
party who believe in terms of policy similar things to Joe
policy similar things to Joe Biden
policy similar things toJoe Biden and Pete beaded edge,
Biden and Pete beaded edge, especially when it applies to
especially when it applies to big issues like healthcare ——
big issues like healthrare -- Pete
big issues like healthcare —— Pete Buttigieg. Die Biden could
Pete Buttigieg. Die Biden could be the big winner over bony
be the big winner over bony Sanders, who looks like he will
Sanders, who looks like he will do well on Super Tuesday ——
do well on Super Tuesday -- Bernie
do well on Super Tuesday —— Bernie Sanders —— Joe
do well on Super Tuesday —— Bernie Sanders ——Joe Biden.
Bernie Sanders -- joe Biden. Looks
Bernie Sanders ——Joe Biden. Looks like it is building quite
Looks like it is building quite slowly to a race between two or
slowly to a race between two or three of the key characters.
three of the key characters. The clue is in the name, it is
The clue is in the name, it is Super Tuesday. What does that
Super Tuesday. what does that mean
Super Tuesday. What does that mean for the Democratic race
mean for the Democratic race for the presidency? It is
for the presidency? It is called Super Tuesday for a good
called Super Tuesday for a good reason, there are many, many
reason, there are many, many delegates at stake. California
delegates at stake. California has in itself a quarter of all
has in itself a quarter of all of the delegates necessary for
of the delegates necessary for any of these candidates to meet
any of these candidates to meet the threshold to be the nominee
the threshold to be the nominee for the Democrats, so it’s all
for the Democrats, so it’s all down to the maths on Tuesday.
down to the maths on Tuesday. It’s not a winner takes all
It’s not a winner takes all system, it’s a proportional
system, it’s a proportional system, so those Democrats in
system, so those Democrats in the big states like Texas and
the big states like Texas and California will be divided
California will be divided between the continuing
between the continuing candidates and the race is
candidates and the race is simply onto Ghana as many as
simply onto Ghana as many as possibla --
simply onto Ghana as many as possible —— simply on to garner
possibla -- simply on to garner as many as
possible —— simply on to garner as many as possible.
Peter, thank you very much.
Scientists in the United States say
the Covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected
in Washington State for the last six weeks,
infecting up to 1,500 people.
Over the weekend, a man in his 505 from the north—western
state became the first confirmed fatality from
the virus in the US.
In the last few minutes, we’ve heard from South Korea that
heard from South Korea that hearty
heard from South Korea that nearly 500 new coronavirus
hearty 500 new coronavirus rases
nearly 500 new coronavirus cases have said the total
cases have said the total number of those affected by the
number of those affected by the virus in South Korea has gone
virus in South Korea has gone past 4000.
Professor Peter Hotez is Dean of the National School
of Tropical Medicine at Baylor college of medicine.
Hejoins me now from Houston, Texas.
Thank you so much for
Thank you so much forjoining
Thank you so much for joining us, Peter
Thank you so much forjoining us, Peter Hotez. Let me start
us, Peter Hotez. Let me start by asking you about the virus
by asking you about the virus itself because the key thing is
itself because the key thing is many of the public are getting
many of the public are getting infected but health workers
infected but health workers becoming infected has become a
becoming infected has become a huge worry for people like you?
huge worry for peopla like you? Yes,
huge worry for people like you? Yes, absolutely and thanks for
Yes, absolutely and thanks for having me on today. One of the
having me on today. One of the things we noticed it coming out
things we noticed it coming out of Wuhan, the Chinese reported
of Wuhan, the Chinese reported that in the epidemic in Wuhan
that in the epidemic in Wuhan there were more than 1000
there were more than 1000 healthcare workers infected,
healthrare workers infected, with
healthcare workers infected, with six deaths, and about 16%,
with six deaths, and about 1696, about
with six deaths, and about 16%, about 1A.8%, were seriously ill
about 14.896, were seriously ill and many
about 1A.8%, were seriously ill and many required ICU admission
and many required ICU admission so that was a wake—up call that
so that was a wake-up call that our
so that was a wake—up call that our healthcare workforce is
our healthrare workforce is highly to
our healthcare workforce is highly to this virus and
highly to this virus and infection. It occurred to us
infection. It occurred to us here in the United States, and
here in the United States, and of course locally, that things
of course locally, that things good full down quickly if large
good full down quickly if large numbers of the healthcare
numbers of the healthcare workforce went down and
workforce went down and couldn’t fight this infection,
couldn’t fight this infection, and the snowball effect of it
and the snowball effect of it becoming both demoralising and
becoming both demoralising and if healthcare workers feel
if healthrare workers feel therre
if healthcare workers feel they’re not being adequately
they’re not being adequately protected... We are worried
protected... We are worried things could break down and
things could break down and collapsed very quickly, and
collapsed very quickly, and we’ve been writing and speaking
we’ve been writing and speaking about this for the last couple
about this for the last couple of days and then, of course,
of days and then, of course, right on cue, within 2A hours
right on cue, within 24 hours of this,
right on cue, within 2A hours of this, we’ve had two
of this, we’ve had two healthcare workers in
healthcare workers in California now infected
California now infected according to reports. This is
according to reports. This is going to be an area of extreme
going to be an area of extreme vulnerability here in the
vulnerability here in the United States and I would
United States and I would imagine globally, you can
imagine globally, you ran imagine
imagine globally, you can imagine in the Middle East or
imagine in the Middle East or Africa, where healthcare
Africa, where healthcare workers don’t have adequate
workers don’t have adequate personal protective equipment,
personal protective equipment, what we call PPE, I think this
what we all PPE, I think this is going to
what we call PPE, I think this is going to become a major
is going to become a major issue going forward.
is going to become a major issue going forward. You’ve
issue going forward. You’ve personally been working towards
personally been working towards a vaccine, what are your views
a vaccine, what are your views on the vaccine? Do you think we
on the vaccine? Do you think we are 18 months away from one or
are 18 months away from one or is it more complicated than
is it more complicated than that?
that? I think it’s really hard to
I think it’s really hard to predict. There’s a lot of new,
predict. There’s a lot of new, exciting technologies out there
exciting technologies out there for vaccines,
exciting technologies out there forvaccines, RNA
exciting technologies out there for vaccines, RNA vaccines,
exciting technologies out there forvaccines, RNA vaccines, DNA
for vaccines, RNA vaccines, DNA vaccines,
forvaccines, RNA vaccines, DNA vaccines, where using a more
vaccines, where using a more conventional protein approach
conventional protein approach and a number of these
and a number of these strategies are being supported
strategies are being supported by a new international global
by a new international global fund vaccines partly based in
fund vaccines partly based in London called SEPI, that’s the
London rallad SEPI, that’s the exciting
London called SEPI, that’s the exciting part, but the news is
exciting part, but the news is we have to do a lot of safety
wehavetodoalotofsafety testing.
we have to do a lot of safety testing. Typically this can
testing. Typically this ran require a
testing. Typically this can require a year or two at least
require a year or two at least to show that the vaccine is
to show that the vaccine is both safe and effective. We
both safe and effective. We also know with coronavirus
also know with coronavirus vaccines and other respiratory
vaccines and other respiratory vaccines, there’s this
vaccines, there’s this paradoxical what we call immune
paradoxical what we call immune enhancement where the vaccine
enhancement where the vaccine ran
enhancement where the vaccine can actually make things worse.
ran actually make things worse. This
can actually make things worse. This was a phenomenon
This was a phenomenon discovered with a respiratory
discovered with a respiratory virus vaccine in the 605, and
virus vaccine in the 605, and we saw in laboratory animals
we saw in laboratory animals with experimental vaccines
with experimental vaccines after the original Sars came
after the original Sars came out in 2003, that’s a long way
out in 2003, that’s a long way off saying this is not going to
off saying this is not going to go fast and safety testing
go fast and safety testing ran’t
go fast and safety testing can’t be compromised, it’s very
can’t be compromised, it’s very hard to
can’t be compromised, it’s very ha rd to compress
can’t be compromised, it’s very hard to compress timeline, so
hard to compress timeline, so we’re seeing a lot of biotechs
we’re seeing a lot of biotechs and mid—sized biotechnology
and mid—sized biotechnology pharmaceutical companies
pharmaceutical companies promising we’ll have a vaccine
promising we’ll have a vaccine in weeks. You can forget it,
in weeks. You ran forget it, because
in weeks. You can forget it, because of the immune
because of the immune enhancement phenomenon on we
enhancement phenomenon on we are looking at a least a year
are looking at a least a year away before we have a vaccine,
away before we have a vaccine, and I’m guessing probably
and I’m guessing probably longer. Let me know honestly,
longer. Let me know honestly, how worried are you about the
how worried are you about the new coronavirus? It’s clearly
new coronavirus? It’s clearly worrisome. We saw the
worrisome. We saw the devastation this virus caused
devastation this virus caused in Wuhan, particularly amongst
in Wuhan, particularly amongst selected age groups,
selected age groups, individuals over the age of 60
individuals over the age of 60 are especially vulnerable,
are especially vulnerabla, pretty
are especially vulnerable, pretty high mortality rates,
pretty high mortality rates, those with high, chronic
those with high, chronic conditions like diabetes and
conditions like diabetes and hypertension, and obviously our
hypertension, and obviously our healthcare workforce. We are
healthrare workforce. We are seeing use
healthcare workforce. We are seeing case fatality rates of
seeing case fatality rates of 21:
seeing case fatality rates of 2% overall. Many saying that’s
296 overall. Many saying that’s probably
2% overall. Many saying that’s probably not the case, there’s
probably not the case, there’s probably a lot of people with
probably a lot of peopla with low grade
probably a lot of people with low grade infection is that we
low grade infection is that we are missing. Then the World
are missing. Then the World Health Organization gave us a
Health Organization gave us a very chilling statement last
very chilling statement last week saying we think the 2%
week saying we think the 296 fatality
week saying we think the 2% fatality rate is real. The
fatality rate is real. The reason that significant is it
reason that significant is it is so highly contagious. On
is so highly contagious. On average a single individual
average a singla individual will
average a single individual will infect three or four
will infect three or four people, so it’s two or three
people, so it’s two or three times more contain just than
times more contain just than seasonal flu
times more contain just than seasonalﬂu and as
times more contain just than seasonal flu and as many as ten
seasonal ﬂu and as many as ten times
seasonal flu and as many as ten times more serious in terms of
times more serious in terms of fatalities than seasonal flu,
fatalities than seasonal ﬂu, so
fatalities than seasonal flu, so we’ll have our hands full.
so we’ll have our hands full. This is quite a serious
This is quite a serious pathogen and that’s why the
pathogen and that’s why the World Health Organization and
World Health Organization and the director—general, Doctor
the director-general, Doctor Tetros,
the director—general, Doctor Tetros, appropriately declared
Tetros, appropriately declared an emergency of international
an emergency of international concern 3
an emergency of international concern a few weeks ago,
concern a few weeks ago, especially worried about the
especially worried about the countries that don’t have the
countries that don’t have the capacity to manage complex
capacity to manage complex epidemics or public health
epidemic or public health crises.
epidemics or public health crises. In many respects the
crises. In many respects the pub“:
crises. In many respects the public health emergency was not
public health emergency was not declared so much for the UK or
declared so much for the UK or the USA, although we’re
the USA, although we’re certainly concerned, but you
certainly concerned, but you ran
certainly concerned, but you can imagine as this virus goes
ran imagine as this virus goes into
can imagine as this virus goes into sub—Saharan Africa, we’ve
into sub-Saharan Africa, we’ve got 1-3 million
into sub—Saharan Africa, we’ve got 1—3 million Chinese living
got 1-3 million Chinese living there
got 1—3 million Chinese living there now, the Belt and Road
there now, the Belt and Road Initiative in the Middle East,
Initiative in the Middle East, you get the idea. Thanks for
you get the idea. Thanks for coming on the programme. Thank
coming on the programme. Thank you for having me.
Greece says it has stopped almost 10,000
migrants crossing over its [and border from Turkey,
which is struggling to deal with the number of people
fleeing Syria’s civil war.
Turkey’s President has said he will break his country’s
deal with Brussels prevent migrants entering the EU
unless he gets greater support for his intervention in Syria.
Orla Guerin reports from Pazarkule on the border
between Turkey and Greece.
between Turkey and Greece.
At first light, theyjoined the migrant trail from Turkey.
Heading for the River Meric,
all that separates them from Europe.
This group manages to cross, leaping onto Greek soil.
Just a trickle here, not a flood.
And Greece wants to keep it that way.
Greece doesn’t want a repeat of 2015. Caught up in the chaos
2015. Caught up in the chaos this afternoon, Reza, an
this afternoon, Ran, an Iranian
this afternoon, Reza, an Iranian we met who hopes to
Iranian we met who hopes to meet London. There pushing us
meet London. There pushing us by water. Teargas —— they are.
by water. Teargas -- they are. It’s not fair.
It’s not fair. And the young have been in the
And the young have been in the firing line, like 1—year—old
firing line, like 1-year-old Yeshar,
firing line, like 1—year—old Yeshar, whose family is from
Yeshar, whose family is from Afghanistan. The Greeks a shot
Afghanistan. The Greeks a shot at us and threw tear gas at
at us and threw tear gas at him, says his father, Ziman, he
him, says his father, Ziman, he could have died.
could have died. But for Turkey, which has been
But for Turkey, which has been sheltering almost 4 million
sheltering almost 4 million Syrians, the refugees are now
Syrians, the refugees are now human
Syrians, the refugees are new human bargaining chips being
human bargaining chips being used to put pressure on Europe.
used to put pressure on Europe. Well, families are still
Well, families are still arriving here and there not
arriving here and there not coming by accident, there being
coming by accident, there being encouraged to travel by the
encouraged to travel by the Turkish authorities led to
Turkish authorities led to believe they can enter Europe.
believe they ran enter Europe. Instead
believe they can enter Europe. Instead they are stuck here
Instead they are stuck here with no way to cross into
with no way to cross into Greece and they and their
Greece and they and their children are having to camp out
children are having to ramp out in the
children are having to camp out in the cold. And this is what
in the cold. And this is what awaits them now at the border,
awaits them now at the border, a battleground. Greece says it
a battleground. Greece says it won’t allow a referral. Turkey
won’t allow a referral. Turkey 5575
won’t allow a referral. Turkey says it is overwhelmed by
says it is overwhelmed by refugees.
It is now battling the Assad regime and it is determined
that Europe will share the fallout.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
After the US—Taliban agreement, the Qatari mediator tells us
that outside countries could still wreck the chances
for peace in Afghanistan.
First, the plates slid gently off the restaurant tables.
Then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and people crashed
sideways and downwards, and it was just a matter
of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
The hydrogen bomb.
On a remote Pacific atoll, the Americans had successfully
tested a weapon whose explosive force dwarfed that of the bomb
dropped on Hiroshima.
I had heard the news earlier, and so my heart went
bang, bang, bang!
The constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights
as citizens of the United States, and they should be
protected even in the right to test them out, so that they
don’t get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
This religious controversy — I know you don’t want to say
too much about it — but does it worry you that it’s
going to boil up when you get to the States?
Well, it worries me, yes, but I hope everything will be
all right in the end, as they say.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines:
The Democratic Party presidential contender,
Pete Buttigieg, is pulling out of the White House race.
It should boost Joe Biden’s chances.
The Afghan government has started picking over
the details of the deal signed by the Taliban
and the US on Saturday.
The historic deal will see thousands of American troops
leave Afghanistan in return for commitments from the Taliban —
the focus is now on how the agreement will be
implemented and if promises will be kept.
Our chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet has
this report.
The first win for Afghans, a week of relative calm. What was
week of relative ﬁlm. What was called a
week of relative calm. What was called a reduction in violence
rallad a reduction in violance before
called a reduction in violence before the signing of a deal.
before the signing of a deal. What happens now? The agreement
What happens now? The agreement initialled on Saturday isn’t
initialled on Saturday isn’t clear on this, at least not in
clear on this, at least not in the public document. But in
the public document. But in Diehard, in cobble, they will
Diehard, in cobble, they will keep monitoring it. I asked the
keep monitoring it. I asked the Qatar special envoy, will this
Qatar special envoy, will this partial truths continue? I hope
partial tmths continue? I hope it will
partial truths continue? I hope it will continue. The parties
it will continue. The parties and the people of Afghanistan
and the peopla of Afghanistan saw
and the people of Afghanistan saw the result of the reduction
saw the result of the reduction in violence, how many lives we
in violence, how many lives we saved, they saved. And I think
saved, they saved. And Ithink they have
saved, they saved. And I think they have moral, religious and
they have moral, religious and legal obligations. And if they
legal obligations. And if they don’t respect them? Again, we
don’t respect them? Again, we hope that... Hope is not a
hope that... Hope is not a strategy as the Pentagon likes
strategy as the Pentagon likes to say. We hope that they
to say. We hope that they respect there, their
respect there, their obligations in accordance with
obligations in accordance with the agreement. But, I’m sure if
the agreement. But, I’m sure if there is a violation of
there is a violation of one—sided, the other side has
one-sided, the other side has the right to
one—sided, the other side has the right to self defence to
the right to self defence to act accordingly but again, this
act accordingly but again, this is not a dissolution. What the
is not a dissolution. what the Taliban
is not a dissolution. What the Taliban want to see next is a
Taliban want to see next is a prisoner release. It also is up
prisoner release. It also is up to 5000 of them and will be
to 5000 of them and will be freed. But in Kabul made it
freed. But in Kabul made it clear, present a clear that
dear, present a clear that it’s
clear, present a clear that it’s up—to—date government and
it’s up-to-date government and the
it’s up—to—date government and the Taliban are refusing to
the Taliban are refusing to talk to them. We need to engage
talk to them. We need to engage with them to have proper
with them to have proper discussions about the way
discussions about the way forward. And I think they
forward. And I think they should compromise and I hope
should compromise and I hope the parties will move forward.
the parties will move forward. This is the beginning of the
This is the beginning of the talks. They should start today.
talks. They should start today. And I hope we can do something
And I hope we ran do something in the coming
And I hope we can do something in the coming days. If you had
in the coming days. If you had to choose one thing that
to choose one thing that worries you that could cause
worries you that could cause this deal to unravel, what
this deal to unravel, what would it be? The spoilers. The
would it be? The spoilars. The spoilars is
would it be? The spoilers. The spoilers is the major obstacle
spoilars is the major obstacle in the past.
spoilers is the major obstacle in the past. I’m afraid it may
in the past. I’m afraid it may be, this obstacle may remain
be, this obstacle may remain but I hope with this momentum
but I hope with this momentum and with the pressure from a
and with the pressure from a certain major powers, these
certain major powers, these spoilers should back off. The
spoilars should back off. The spoilars are
spoilers should back off. The spoilers are in Afghanistan or
spoilars are in Afghanistan or a
spoilers are in Afghanistan or a neighbouring countries?
a neighbouring countries? Mostly I would say in
Mostly I would say in neighbouring countries.
neighbouring countries. Pakistan, Iran. I’m not going
Pakistan, Iran. I’m not going to comment on this. You can ask
to comment on this. You ran ask the Taliban, you
to comment on this. You can ask the Taliban, you can ask the
the Taliban, you ran ask the Afghans and
the Taliban, you can ask the Afghans and they will tell you.
Afghans and they will tell you. A lasting ceasefire, a peace
A lasting ceasefire, a peace deal, around the agenda for
deal, around the agenda for Afghan talks. They expected to
Afghan talks. They expected to start this month if all goes to
start this month if all goes to plan. -- they
start this month if all goes to plan. —— they are.
Israelis go to the polls on Monday for the third
election in less than a year, to try to break the country’s
political deadlock.
A key stumbling block to forming a governing
coalition has been corruption charges against Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu who’s due to stand trial this month.
Our Middle East editor Jeremy Bowen sent this report.
On the Sea of Galilee, the Bible says Jewish fishermen
who followed Jesus used to debate the future.
Modern Israeli fishermen at election time still do.
On this boat, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s
supporters, led by the skipper Menachim Lev.
He values the bounty from the lake and the strength
he sees in Netanyahu.
He thinks his father, who survived Auschwitz,
would have approved.
He is from here, he is from the Holocaust.
And my father tell me one thing — don’t trust nobody
in your life, trust only yourself and do everything
that is good for you.
The crew unites around fish, not politics.
This man is voting for the centre—left opposition,
worried that the cost—of—living is pricing young Israelis out
of their future.
A lot of young people want to move from Israel.
It is something that is happening.
But hopefully something will be better, I don’t know.
Amid the electoral pyrotechnics, retired general
Benny Gantz, the opposition leader, has had to deny claims
from the Netanyahu camp that he made sex videos.
Netanyahu, he says, is trying to lie and cheat his
way to victory.
The Prime Minister is claiming credit for Donald Trump’s
so—called deal of century — an attempt to end the conflict
on Israel’s terms.
It allows Israel, in defiance of international law,
to annex settlements on [and Palestinians want for a state.
This is Shilo, where they’re building a new school.
The settlers went two election victories this year —
Binyamin Netanyahu and Trump.
It is very important for us, both elections,
and we are engaged in all sorts of personalities
and organisations and groups to assure both here and there
that as much as possible, we get the people in office
that we want.
Nearby, Palestinians were on a hilltop they believe
settlers might grab.
The old issues don’t go away.
And, as ever, it’s come down to control of the land —
that’s always been at the centre of the conflict,
a century ago and today.
By morning, Israeli forces were driving Palestinians
off the hill.
The last real chance of a negotiated peace
was collapsing when these young men were babies.
The big changes — political and diplomatic and especially
President Trump’s out and out support for the Israeli
government — is sharpening the conflict on the ground
and you can see it in places like this.
Conflict is normal for yet another generation —
the election won’t change that.
Jeremy Bowen, BBC News, on the West Bank.
Asia Bibi, the Pakistani Christian woman who spent years
on death row after being convicted of blasphemy,
has said she hopes to be able to return to Pakistan one day.
She was in Paris for the release of her memoir,
Finally Free, in which she recounts her time injail
and her brutal treatment by guards.
In the second part of an interview with the BBC’s
Mishal Husain, Ms Bibi says herfaith helped her
through the ordeal.
Nearly ten yea rs
Nearly ten years ago, a Christian woman from Pakistan’s
Christian woman from Pakistan’s Punjab province was sentenced
Punjab province was sentenced to death for blasphemy. It was
to death for blasphemy. It was a rase
to death for blasphemy. It was a case that sparked
a case that sparked international attention and
international attention and outrage. Even after Asia Bibi
outrage. Even after Asia Bibi was finally acquitted by
was finally acquitted by Pakistan’s highest court, huge
Pakistan’s highest court, huge protests prevented her
protests prevented her immediate release. She now has
immediate release. She now has a new life and here in Paris,
a new life and here in Paris, she has been telling me her
she has been telling me her story. TRANSLATION: I
she has been telling me her story. TRANSLATION: Isuffered
story. TRANSLATION: Isuffered a lot inside the jail. I cannot
a lot inside the jail. I cannot even tell you what happened to
even tell you what happened to me. I lived through all of this
me. I lived through all of this misery but God gave me patience
misery but God gave me patience and I got a lot of strength.
and I got a lot of strength. You cannot imagine but I have
You cannot imagine but I have witnessed miracles. It is
witnessed miracles. It is difficult for you to talk about
difficult for you to talk about because you write in the book
because you write in the book about how you were held by the
about how you were held by the neck and how difficult that
neck and how difficult that time was for you. What was it
time was for you. what was it that gave you
time was for you. What was it that gave you hope in this
that gave you hope in this period? TRANSLATION: My
period? TRANSLATION: My strength came from my faith and
strength came from my faith and I learnt that you should be
I learnt that you should be courageous and you should be
courageous and you should be strong in your faith.
courageous and you should be strong in yourfaith. And
courageous and you should be strong in your faith. And you
strong in your faith. And you should never lose your faith.
should never lose your faith. After everything you have been
After everything you have been through, how would you describe
through, how would you describe your emotions today? Do you
your emotions today? Do you feel bitterness, anger?
feel bitterness, anger? TRANSLATION: Are not angry at
TRANSLATION: Are not angry at all. I
TRANSLATION: Are not angry at all. Iforgiven everyone
TRANSLATION: Are not angry at all. I forgiven everyone from
all. I forgiven everyone from my heart. And there is no
my heart. And there is no hardness in me, there is
hardness in me, there is patience in me because I
patience in me because I learned how to be patient after
learned how to be patient after having to leave my children
having to leave my children behind. It surprises me even.
behind. It surprises me even. However I learnt to be so
However I learnt to be so patient? How can any mother he
patient? How ran any mother be patient after
patient? How can any mother be patient after leaving her
patient after leaving her children? But God may be
children? But God may be patient and I commented two ——
patient and I commented two -- conquered the
patient and I commented two —— conquered the hardships faced
conquered the hardships faced my way. There are people in
my way. There are peopla in jail facing
my way. There are people in jailfacing blasphemy
my way. There are people in jail facing blasphemy charges
jail facing blasphemy charges today, people like this couple.
today, peopla like this couple. What
today, people like this couple. What would you say to them?
What would you say to them? TRANSLATION: I can give them
TRANSLATION: I ran give them hope. I
TRANSLATION: I ran give them hope. lam
TRANSLATION: I can give them hope. lam now
TRANSLATION: I can give them hope. I am now free,
TRANSLATION: I can give them hope. lam now free, I’m
hope. lam now free, I’m outside stop I want to request
outside stop I want to request all media that they should work
all media that they should work for these people as well so
for these peopla as well so that
for these people as well so that she is also free and I can
that she is also free and I ran tell her
that she is also free and I can tell her that there will be a
tell her that there will be a day when she will also be free.
day when she will also be free. Asia Bibi’s long ordeal is now
Asia Bibi’s long ordeal is now over but the issue of blasphemy
over but the issue of blasphemy in Pakistan is not. There are
in Pakistan is not. There are still Christians and Muslims
still Christians and Muslims being targeted by the law
being targeted by the law today. The question is, whether
today. The question is, whether the country will take action to
the country will take action to prevent abuses and to protect
prevent abuses and to protect its citizens whatever the
its citizens whatever the religion.
We put allegations about misuse of blasphemy laws to
the authorities in Pakistan.
They said Pakistan has taken considerable steps
to prevent its possible misuse and constantly
reviews its implementation.
The cases of blasphemy are brought before the court
and follow due process of the law.
The acquittal of Asia Bibi is a testimony of Pakistan’s
resolve to protect its citizens as per its constitution.
About the allegations of abuse in prison,
they responded:
Torture, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment to any
prisoner is not allowed in the prisons of Pakistan.
You can reach me on twitter — I’m @BBCMaryam.
Thank you so much for your company. Goodbye.
With rivers running high and
with rivers mnning high and many a
With rivers running high and many afield still under water,
many a field still under water, we
many afield still under water, we could do with a little bit
we could do with a little bit of better revenues and to a
of better revenues and to a certain degree, will get that
certain degree, will get that this week. No, not going be
this week. No, not going be completely dry but certainly
completely dry but certainly compared with recent weeks,
compared with recent weeks, won’t be anywhere near a wet
won’t be anywhere near a wet and windy. The jetstream
won’t be anywhere near a wet and windy. Thejetstream is
and windy. The jetstream is taking a
and windy. Thejetstream is taking a more southerly trapper
taking a more southerty trapper what
taking a more southerly trapper what that does mean is most
what that does mean is most likely, 50 suddenly chill and
likely, 50 suddenly chill and by night with us more likely.
by night with us more likely. That’s how we start the Monday
That’s how we start the Monday morning commute with more in
morning commute with more in the way of frost and some ice
the way of frost and some ice around with showers within
around with showers within often wet overnight not quite
often wet overnight not quite as costly to southern counties
as costly to southern counties of England. Outbreaks of rain
of England. Outbreaks of rain and a bit of sleet and snow in
and a bit of sleet and snow in the morning. Clearing away from
the morning. Clearing away from East Anglia and the South is
East Anglia and the South is quite quickly but then
quite quickly but then brightening up. Showers in the
brightening up. Showers in the west, this agreement, how and
west, this agreement, how and sleet and snow. If you’re
sleet and snow. If you’re number two began but more
number two began but more coming out other member not as
coming out other member not as many as we saw for the weekend.
many as we saw for the weekend. MY
many as we saw for the weekend. My view on Monday will spend
My view on Monday will spend the day completely dry or if
the day completely dry or if not, just one or two showers
not, just one or two showers passing away. The damages
passing away. The damages around seven to 10 degrees at
around seven to10 degrees at their
around seven to 10 degrees at their highest. Winds will
their highest. Winds will overwhelm a light going to feel
overwhelm a light going to feel quite as cold in the afternoon
quite as cold in the afternoon as it has done but the breeze
as it has done but the breeze will be picking up across the
will be picking up across the north—west later. Gail’s free
north-west later. Gail’s free time for
north—west later. Gail’s free time for Monday night into
time for Monday night into Tuesday. More on the way of
Tuesday. More on the way of showers starting to develop
showers starting to develop through the night and they will
through the night and they will push their way eastwards. A bit
push their way eastwards. A bit of snow across parts of
of snow across parts of Scotla nd
of snow across parts of Scotland that even the hills of
Scotland that even the hills of Northern Ireland and northern
Northern Ireland and northern England later on. Damages will
England later on. Damages will be close to freezing in many
be close to freezing in many areas so frost and ice the
areas so frost and ice the greatest risk. The converse of
greatest risk. The converse of the weather first thing on
the weather first thing on Tuesday morning in the west.
Tuesday morning in the west. The set up for Tuesday, that
The set up for Tuesday, that weather front taking showers is
weather front taking showers is with initially. More rain
with initially. More rain bearing weather fronts diverted
bearing weather fronts diverted down towards France and Iberia
down towards France and Iberia thinks about southerly tracking
thinks about southerty tracking jetstream.
thinks about southerly tracking jetstream. There could be close
jetstream. There could be close enough to produce some rain
enough to produce some rain over the southernmost counties
over the southernmost counties of England and over the Channel
of England and over the Channel Islands. More showers around
Islands. More showers around but morning. A wintry mix.
but morning. A wintry mix. Basil clear away and is back to
Basil clear away and is back to sunshine and showers for many
sunshine and showers for many into the afternoon. Showers
into the afternoon. Showers mainly across and western
mainly across and western areas. That which is similar to
areas. That which is similar to those on Monday. Then, as we
those on Monday. Then, as we head into the middle part of
head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many
the week, it looks like many will still say mostly dry with
will still say mostly dry with showers around here and there.
showers around here and there. The chance of rain closer to
The chance of rain closer to the south coast on Wednesday
the south coast on Wednesday but overall, were continuing
but overall, were continuing with that largely dry story.
with that largely dry story. Changes a
with that largely dry story. Changes 3 little
with that largely dry story. Changes a little Swazi and the
Changes a little Swazi and the way, Thursday night to Friday,
way, Thursday night to Friday, we will see a weather front put
we will see a weather front put its way across. Bringing a of
its way across. Bringing a of rain brieﬂy.
its way across. Bringing a of rain briefly. Showers following
rain brieﬂy. Showers following on its
rain briefly. Showers following on its wake and then a chance
on its wake and then a chance of some more wet and windy
of some more wet and windy weather towards the end of the
weather towards the end of the week and into the next weekend.
week and into the next weekend. BY
week and into the next weekend. By and large, still the rivers
By and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw
responding to the rain we saw the last few days and was some
the last few days and was some rain forecast towards the of
rain forecast towards the of the week, never to date too far
the week, never to date too far away from the flood warnings
away from the ﬂood warnings and they
away from the flood warnings and they are there for you
and they are there for you online.
This is BBC News, the headlines
Pete Buttigieg, the first openly gay US presidential
candidate, is to end his bid for the White House.
His decision to drop out comes just ahead of what’s known
as Super Tuesday, when M states hold primaries.
His withdrawal is likely to benefit the campaign ofJoe Biden.
Scientists in the United States say the Covid—19 virus may have been
spreading undetected in Washington State for the last six
weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
A state of emergency has been declared.
One man is now confirmed to have died from the virus in the US.
Several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed to cross
into Greece after Turkey announced it would no longer stop people
trying to enter the European Union.
Turkey is seeking Western support for its operations in Syria.
An extraordinary meeting of EU foreign ministers has been called
at Athens’ request.
Now on BBC News, The Week in Parliament.
Hello, and welcome to the Week In Parliament,
as the Prime Minister is accused of going AWOL...
After two weeks of flooding, Mr Speaker, there are now
even memes being produced not
asking where’s Wally, saying where’s Boris?
Since the flooding began there has been a constant stream
of ministerial activity led by my right honourable friends.
Can a new drive for kinder, gentler politics succeed
where others have failed?
He went like this to me, shhh, sit down.
Like that, which is incredibly patronising,
so I turned around to him and I said, "Mate,
you’re not my dad!".
And 100 years on, the enduring legacy of the first
woman to speak in the House of Commons.
She introduces the Intoxicating Liquor bill and that of course
is the reason why we all have to wait until we are
18 to drink today.
All that to come and more.
But first, it was a week when BorisJohnson was accused
of hiding rather than face up to the flooding crisis
across England and Wales.
Jeremy Corbyn accused him of being a, "part—time
Prime Minister" who goes missing during emergencies.
BorisJohnson told him the Government was working "flat
out" to help people.
The angry exchanges during Prime Minister’s Questions
came after days of heavy rain.
An emergency evacuation took place when rising waters
on the River Severn "overwhelmed" flood defences at
Ironbridge in Shropshire.
Residents were also evacuated from their homes
in Bewdley, Worcestershire.
Jeremy Corbyn suggested the Prime Minister should
visit flood—hit areas, as he himself had done.
When I visited Pontypridd last week, I saw at first hand the damage
and destruction these floods have caused to people’s lives,
homes and businesses.
But the Prime Minister was silent, sulking in his grace and favour
mansion at Chevening.
After two weeks of flooding,
after two weeks of flooding, Mr Speaker, there are
now even memes being
produced, asking not "Where’s Wally?"
saying, "Where’s Boris? "
When is the Government going to stop hiding and show people
that it actually cares?
Mr Speaker, I am very proud of the response that the Government
has mounted over the past few days.
We convened the National Flood Response Centre on the 14th.
Since the flooding began, there has been a constant stream
of ministerial activity, led by my right honourable
friends the Secretary of State for Environment,
the Secretary of State
for Communities and local Government.
And never forget that in spite of the flooding,
and no one should underestimate the anguish that flooding causes,
and of course it is an absolute shock to the households that
are affected, but it is thanks to the measures that this Government
has put in that 200,000 households have been protected from flooding.
And we don’t hear that from the honourable member.
The Prime Minister was keen to pose for cameras when there’s a crisis
on during the election, but he often goes AWOL.
He was late to respond to the London riots because he was on holiday.
He was on a private island when the Iranian general
was assassinated, and last week he had his head in the sands
in a mansion in Kent.
The MP for Calder Valley, another of his colleagues,
said, "It is not good enough."
How can the country trust 3 Prime Minister,
a part—time Prime Minister?
Last night schmoozing Tory party donors at a very expensive black—tie
ball, instead of getting out there and supporting
the people who are suffering because of the floods?
This Government needs to step up to the plate
and invest in defences and ensure there is real insurance for people
whose homes are being ruined by these floods as we speak.
MEMBERS CHEER
Mr Speaker, the right honourable gentleman asks what this Government
has been doing
in the past few days, so let me tell him, not only have
we been investing massively in flood defences and compensating those
who have suffered from flooding, but we have been stopping the early
release of terrorists, we have restored the nurses’
bursary, we’re beginning work on A0 new hospitals,
we are recruiting 20,000 more police officers.
And we can do that, Mr Speaker, because we have a strong
and dynamic economy.
The Labour leader said the Labour—run Welsh Government had
done its best
to step up to the crisis, despite under—funding
from Westminster.
But in the Senedd, in Cardiff, the roles were reversed,
with opposition Conservatives attacking Labour ministers
over their response to the flooding.
We were flooded out December 2015, March last year, Storm Ciara,
more effects from Storm Dennis.
Your Welsh Government, you have said in your question and response
to me, no further reviews.
People in Llanrwst feel you are not interested, minister.
You have to have a mechanism to be able to deliver that funding.
Do you want to listen or not?
I am listening.
So, every house that’s had internalﬂooding...
You can smirk, Janet Finch—Saunders, I’m not even going to look
at you because you’re just...in fact, Deputy
Presiding Officer, I don’t think she’s worthy of an answer.
Lively exchanges in the Welsh Assembly.
Although flooding dominated Prime Minister’s Questions at Westminster,
BorisJohnson also faced questions about his advisers,
in particular Andrew Sabisky, who resigned after his past comments
about eugenics and race came to light.
An SNP MP took personal offence.
Graham was born with cerebral palsy, unable to talk,
walk or feed himself.
He broughtjoy and love to all who knew him.
And last week one of the Prime Minister’s advisers
resigned when a basic
check of their internet history revealed they had promoted
eugenicist policies of the sort that would have ended my brother,
Graham Doherty’s life before it began.
So can I ask the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom to advise
the House and every disabled person on this island why Andrew Sabisky
remained at the heart of his Government and was not
removed from the position immediately when their abhorrent
views became apparent?
Mr Speaker, let us be absolutely clear that I certainly
do not share those views, and nor are they the views
of anybody in this Government.
That individual no longer works for the Government.
Borisjohnson.
Now for another potential crisis in the Prime Minister’s in—tray.
The coronavirus outbreak has led to plunging stock markets,
the closure of some schools and the cancellation
of international sports fixtures.
The Health Secretary has warned the public against overreacting.
Matt Hancock acknowledged that the Government expects more
cases in the UK, but he said that schools should stay open
unless there are specific reasons for them not to.
About 700 people at a hotel on the island of Tenerife
were confined to their rooms and will remain
in isolation for M days.
The hotel was placed in lockdown on Tuesday after an Italian doctor
staying there tested positive for the virus.
In his statement, Matt Hancock said
the Government had published guidance for schools,
employers and the travel industry.
Mr Speaker, we have a clear four—part plan to respond to the
outbreak of this disease.
Contain, delay, research and mitigate.
We are taking all necessary measures to minimise the risk to the public.
We have put in place enhanced monitoring measures at UK airports,
and health information is available at all international airports, ports
and international train stations.
I can tell the House that in the coming days we will roll out
a wider public information campaign.
While the Government and the NHS have plans in place
for all eventualities, everyone can play their part.
To reiterate, our advice is for everyone to take
sensible precautions like using tissues
and washing hands more.
The World Health Organization has warned that countries are "simply
not ready" for a pandemic.
There has now been significant spread of the virus
across the European continent, Italy in particular,
but other cases have been identified in Austria,
Croatia and Switzerland.
This is clearly now very, very serious.
He moved on to the situation in schools.
We do have several schools in England and Northern Ireland shut
completely at the moment for a deep clean, after students and teachers
returned from skiing trips.
I understand his point that schools should check relevant websites
and get local advice, but is he expecting any advice
to be sent to schools from the Department for Education?
And if schools have to start shutting, will the Government
consider arrangements for alternative schooling
provision for those affected?
We have issued, repeatedly issued advice to schools, which goes
from the Department for Education.
I am glad to see the Minister for Schools in his place.
And we issued revised advice to schools this morning.
Our goal here is to keep schools open wherever we can,
as long as that protects the public.
Our wider goal is to have minimum social and economic disruption,
and indeed to the NHS, subject to keeping the public safe.
Matt Hancock.
Now you may have noticed it’s the awards season.
The Baftas, the Oscars, the Parliamentary Book Awards.
This year there’s even a new set of awards celebrating politicians
who behave with courtesy and decency to one another.
The Civility in Politics Awards are designed to recognise
those politicians who engage in thoughtful,
reflective public debate.
Those shortlisted include the former cabinet ministers
Andrea Leadsom and Kenneth Clarke.
Those who didn’t make the shortlist — spoiler alert —
include these two MPs known for their robust approach.
He put his policy to the British people, inasmuch as anyone could
discern it, in a general election.
He was slaughtered.
What bit of that message does he not understand?
It’s a delight to see your children here watching today,
because I know that while you have a responsibility
to Parliament, that you take your
responsibilities as a parent incredibly seriously also,
and now to the Prime Minister.
Jess Phillips and Mark Francois overcame their disappointment at not
being shortlisted to join me to discuss civility in politics.
I think it’s good that they have got these awards and I can imagine
someone like Jacob Rees—Mogg doing well in that context.
We’ll have to wait and see who the winners are, but
I wasn’t expecting to be up until the small
hours worrying about it, to be honest.
And Jess Phillips, are you equally phlegmatic about this?
Yeah, I think that...| suppose it depends how onejudges
civility, is it people working together for the common good,
or is it those who understand that using a nice voice and saying please
and thank you is the way to appear, at least, civil?
So I suppose we’ll have to wait and see, but again I shan’t be
losing much sleep.
Do you think it is effective or important
in politics?
Does civility get things done?
It does, it definitely does, and there has to be an amount
of cross—party working.
It was vastly more important in the time of
a hung parliament, and it had much more power in the time of a hung
parliament in order to get things done —
and I don’t mean about the substantive,
the Brexit issue, I mean about all the other
things parliamentarians are working on, whether they get talked about
or not.
But people will have seen you over the years being slightly less
than civil, challenging Theresa May, and challenging John Bercow
when he was the Speaker?
I suppose my style is combative.
But I hope not too uncivil, I have never sworn
at anyone in the chamber or anything like that.
But there were great issues at stake
and people felt passionately about them because
if you’re not going to get passionate about the destiny of your
country, what are you going to get passionate about?
And Jess Phillips, you occasionally have put your case
very robustly, sometimes personally in the case of BorisJohnson
as Prime Minister?
Less than civil?
Perhaps it is less than civil, but to me the personal
is political.
It feels very personal to me and as Mark said, if you’re not
going to get passionate about children not being able to go
to school or poverty on our streets, what will
you get passionate about?
It’s very, very personal to me that the decisions
made by BorisJohnson don’t affect him, but they do affect me
and my family.
It’s very personal and so I will absolutely bring my personal to work
and I will expect him to have to answer to that.
But can’t you make that point in a civil way?
Of course, I’m very civil.
I won’t be civil when faced with incivility, and...
..people can criticise me, when you’re faced
with a marauding crowd,
or people on social media having a pop at you,
I don’t feel the need to always be completely civil with people.
I wouldn’t ever be
abusive, but I will fight for what I believe in
and fight to be heard.
I think people want their MPs to have
character about them.
They don’t want the idea of 650 sheep.
The question is where you draw the line?
In my case, I learnt a fairly combative debating
style when I served
on Basildon Borough Council in the ‘905,
once described as the only local authority in the UK
where at council meetings the council is actively heckled by
the public gallery, so it was a lively
forum in which to learn.
One important change you will see, now we have a change
of Speaker I think that has materially affected
the atmosphere in the house.
Lindsay is very good at controlling the House with a bit of humour
in a gentle way and I think now we have had that change you will see
a lot of the tension go out of it.
You said you weren’t civil when people were uncivil to you.
What’s the most uncivil thing someone has said
to you in the Commons?
Oh, gosh.
Erm, you get quite a lot of...
It’s not necessarily people walking up directly,
that rarely happens, argy—bargy in the corridors,
that doesn’t happen.
But when you stand and speak, one minister who is now a minister
again, I was stood talking about something and he went
like this to me, shush! Sit down!
Like that, which is incredibly patronising, so I turned
around and said, "Mate, you’re not my dad,
I earned my seat here, I will carry on exactly as I like."
Modern technology allows people to be rude to you
anonymously and some people take advantage of that.
At least in the Commons if you disagree with
someone in the other party they can look you in the eye
while you are doing it,
online you can be a coward and some people unfortunately are.
Jess Phillips is nodding.
That’s a good note of agreement, a civil note
of agreement to end.
Thank you both very much.
Mark Francois and Jess Phillips, trying their best to get themselves
nominated for next year’s Civility in Politics Awards.
This year’s winners will be announced later in March.
Time for a look now at what else has been
happening around Westminster.
The former Chancellor, Sajid Javid, delivered a measured but pointed
attack on BorisJohnson and his style of government
that surprised many Tory MPs.
MrJavid resigned after MrJohnson told him
to sack his advisers to make way for a joint team of advisers
for the Prime Minister and the Chancellor.
Advisers advise, Ministers decide, and Ministers decide
on their advisers.
I couldn’t see why the Treasury, with the vital role that
it plays, should be the exception to that.
A Chancellor, like all Cabinet Ministers, has to be able to give
candid advice to 3 Prime Minister so he is speaking truth to power.
I believe that the arrangement proposed would significantly inhibit
that and it would not have been in the national interest.
An emergency bill to block the automatic early release
of people convicted of terrorist offences became law after being
rushed through Parliament.
The Terrorist Offenders Restriction of Early Release Act was introduced
after an attack in Streatham, south London earlier in February.
The attacker, Sudesh Amman, had recently been freed
from prison.
Convicted terrorists will serve at least
two thirds of their sentence before being
considered for release.
Now, introducing emergency legislation is
not a step the Government would ever take lightly, but the law was not
working and we had a responsibility to act.
I am pleased that this house agreed with that assessment and we
were able to get the new law on the statute book
as a matter of urgency.
There was widespread criticism of the Government’s policy
towards war widows’ pensions.
Last year, the Ministry of Defence ruled that from April 2015,
those who "remarry, cohabit or form a civil partnership"
would be entitled to keep the pension for life.
But this rule doesn’t apply retrospectively.
We are talking about 200—300 war widows whose former partners
served in the Falklands, Northern Ireland, the first Gulf War,
among other theatres.
And whose only course of action, my lords, today if
they want their pension reinstated is to divorce and
remarry their present partners.
How bonkers is that, my lords?
I want to make clear, my lords, that in no way does the
Government seek to diminish or disregard the support and
contribution made by the ladies to whom the noble lady refers.
My problem is that I have got a very hard nut and I don’t have a
hammer to crack it.
The first woman MP to take her seat in Parliament
made her maiden speech a century ago this week.
The Conservative Nancy Astor had won the Plymouth seat
vacated by her husband, Viscount Astor, after he’d moved
to the House of Lords.
Her speech had a lasting impact, as Gabrielle O’Neill reports.
Presiding over Members Dining Room, the woman whose arrival had MPs
spluttering over the Dover sole.
Nancy Astor is back in Westminster as part of a drive
to display more artworks depicting female politicians.
And if new MPs are nervous about making their maiden speeches
in 2020, what must it have been like for the first woman
to do so?
This is the Hansard Parliamentary Debates volume
for February 1920 which includes the maiden speech of Nancy Astor,
the first woman to take her seat in Parliament.
And so her first words are, "I shall not begin by craving
the indulgence of the House...
"I am only too conscious of the indulgence and
the courtesy of the House.
I know that it is very difficult for some honourable members
to receive the first lady MP into the House.
It is almost as difficult for some of them as it was for the lady
MP herself to come in."
I think it must’ve been incredibly daunting.
She was the first woman to ever enter, with 500 plus men in there,
and I think it probably took a lot of courage.
She said so herself.
The Commons was less welcoming than this portrait suggests.
The original larger version was gifted to Parliament
by her husband, but was sent back, and Astor was to prove
a controversialfigure.
Who faced accusations of appeasement, anti—Semitism
and anti—Catholicism in her lifetime.
She did make statements that are extremely unpalatable at any time.
But she was a woman of her time.
There were other people at that time who held similar views.
That’s not to condone them in any way, but it has been
a challenge to actually present Nancy Astor as a real person
or as a whole person.
Maiden speeches are often on fairly innocuous topics, but actually Astor
chose a really controversial one.
But that’s because the topic was so important to her.
"It does take a bit of courage to address the House
on the vexed question of drink."
And that really is one of Nancy’s objectives.
She really is motivated, as much by the letters from women
and children who complained to her about the impact of drink
on their lives that come into her mailbox, as she often
is by her own party.
So, when other MP5, all different parties,
trickle in to the House of Commons throughout the 19205,
they work together and there’s a new agenda,
and it’s a new agenda about women and the protections
of women and children.
But in particular, two years, three years later, she introduces
the Intoxicating Liquor Bill and that, of course, is the reason
why we all have to wait until we’re 18 to drink today.
DrJacqui Turner there.
Time for a look at the wider world of politics now.
George Debby has our countdown.
The long—awaited blue passports have arrived.
Priti Patel is the first to take a look at a new piece
of Brexit memorabilia.
So much for MP power.
That 296 majority in favour of a third runway
counted for nothing when the Court of Appeal tore into the Heathrow
expansion plans, ruling that they were unlawful.
Much sniggering at the back as Welsh secretary Simon
Hart accidentally revealed the filming location for the hit
comedy series Sex Education.
Sex Education, filmed in my ministerial
colleagues’ constituency...
LAUGHTER.
President Trump visits a famous Indian palace.
It’s not the first time he has visited a Taj Mahal,
but the last one had a slightly different feel.
Did you win the jackpot, Donald?
From Trump to toasties.
£840 of Lords Questions have revealed that Lord Naseby’s world
had fallen apart with the crunchy comestible taken off
the Bishop’s Bar menu for health and safety reasons.
Not a problem here, I am glad to say.
Bon appetit, your Lordship!
George Debby — a man at peace with his toastie!
George Debby giving Lord Naseby hunger pangs there.
Now to the political revelation of the week —
a long forgotten passageway used by prime ministers and closed up
by Victorian labourers.
Historians working on the renovation of the House
of Commons found the lost 360—year—old passageway,
hidden in a secret chamber.
This is the way Charles II came on the way to his
coronation and also James II, and it was the main way to
the House of Commons, which was where
St Stephen’s Hall now is.
The speakers of the House of Commons would have come this way, many MPs
over the centuries, so it is a very historic route.
The chamber was a passageway to the House of Commons.
And the contents of this rather unassuming looking
space are fascinating, for example there was
graffiti on the wall, which was put there by
Charles Barry’s masons when they were walling it up
in 1851, which showed therd had a party
with old ale and gives all their
names and declares them to be true democrats.
History was lost and now it’s found, and the fact we found
it is amazing, we talk about graffiti
but here it is going back to 183k,
the builders have come in with a jug of ale and we had
a bit of beer and a bit of history about themselves,
and they were the workmen that came in 183A
and the fact they left their mark is the mark of history.
Sir Lindsay Hoyle discovering that the Palace of Westminster
still has a secret of two to give up.
That was The Week in Parliament.
Thank you for watching.
I’ll be back on BBC Parliament at 11pm on Monday evening
with the latest from the Commons and the Lords.
Until then, from me, David Cornock, bye for now.
Hello.
With rivers running high and many afield still under
water, we could do with a little bit of better weather
news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
No, not going be completely dry but certainly compared
with recent weeks, won’t be anywhere near as wet
or as windy.
The jetstream is taking a more southerly track but what that
does mean is we’re into slightly cooler air,
so certainly chillier and by night with frost more likely.
That’s how we start the Monday morning commute with more
in the way of frost and even some ice around with showers
continuing through the north and west overnight.
Not quite as frosty towards southern counties of England.
Outbreaks of rain and a bit of sleet and wet snow first
thing in the morning.
Clearing away from East Anglia and the south—east quite
smartly but then brightening up.
Showers in the west, 3 mixture of rain, hail,
sleet and snow.
Few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant
during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw
for the weekend.
More of you on Monday will spend the day completely dry or if not,
just one or two showers passing your way.
The temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
Winds will overall be light, not going to feel quite as cold
in the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be
picking up across the north—west later.
Gail’s for a time for Monday night into Tuesday.
More on the way of showers starting to develop
through the night and they will push their way eastwards.
A bit of snow across parts of Scotland, even in the hills
of Northern Ireland and northern England later on.
Temperatures will be close to freezing in many areas
so frost and ice the greatest risk.
The coldest of the weather first thing on Tuesday morning
towards the east.
The set up for Tuesday, that weather front taking
showers eastwards initially.
More rain bearing weather fronts diverted down
towards France and Iberia thanks to that southerly
tracking jetstream.
They could be close enough to produce some rain over
the southernmost counties of England and over the Channel Islands.
More showers around Tuesday morning — a wintry mix.
Those will clear away and it’s back to sunshine and showers
for many into the afternoon.
Showers mainly across some western areas.
Temperatures similar to those on Monday.
Then, as we head into the middle part of the week,
it looks like many will still stay mostly dry with showers
around here and there.
The chance of rain closer to the south coast on Wednesday
but overall, we’re continuing with that largely dry story.
Changes 3 little bit towards the end of the week,
Thursday night to Friday, we will see a weather front
push its way across — bringing a spell of rain briefly.
Showers following on its wake and then a chance of some more
wet and windy weather towards the end of the week
and into next weekend.
By and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw
over the last few days and with some rain forecast
towards the end of the week, never stay too far away
from the flood warnings and they are there for you online.
Welcome to BBC News.
I’m Maryam Moshiri.
Our top stories:
In the US election campaign, mayor Pete
Buttigieg pulls out.
It could be a boost forJoe Biden’s campaign.
There are concerns the new coronavirus could have been
circulating in the US for weekss.
Up to 1,500 people may be infected.
Turkey sends refugees to Europe to try to force
backing for its campaign in Syria.
We’ll hearfrom Asia Bibi, the Pakistani Christian woman
who spent years on death row.
She reveals how her faith helped her through the ordeal.
Pete Buttigieg has dropped out of the race to be
the Democratic candidate to take on President Trump
for the US presidency.
The 38—year—old former mayor enjoyed a successful
start to his campaign, but it lost momentum
in recent weeks.
He narrowly won the Iowa caucuses early last month
and came in a strong second place in the New Hampshire
primary, but faltered badly in Saturday’s South Carolina vote.
He made the announcement a short time ago at a rally
in his hometown of South Bend, Indiana.
Today is a moment of truth.
After a year of going everywhere, meeting everyone,
defying every expectation, seeking every vote, the truth
is the path has narrowed to a close, for our candidacy
if not our cause.
And another of those values is responsibility,
and we have a responsibility to consider the effect
of remaining in this race any further.
Our goal has always been to help unify Americans,
to defeat Donald Trump and to win the era for our values.
APPLAUSE
Robert Kraymer is a Democratic strategist.
Hejoins me now from Chicago.
Robert, thanks for joining
Robert, thanks forjoining us
Robert, thanks for joining us here on
Robert, thanks forjoining us here on BBC News. Are you
here on BBC News. Are you surprised by this move? I think
surprised by this move? I think there’s some inevitability to
there’s some inevitability to it. He ran a remarkable
it. He ran a remarkabla campaign
it. He ran a remarkable campaign and, as he said, he
campaign and, as he said, he did make the improbable
did make the improbable possible, but the path to his
possible, but the path to his victory seemed to narrow. I do
victory seemed to narrow. I do think that there is some
think that there is some question as to the exact impact
question as to the exact impact of this withdrawal. There was a
of this withdrawal. There was a morning console poll 3
of this withdrawal. There was a morning console poll a couple
morning console poll a couple of days ago that second choices
of days ago that second choices to Buttigieg, his own
to Buttigieg, his own supporters’ second choices, 61%
supporters“ second choices, 6196 were for
supporters’ second choices, 61% were for Biden and 21% for
were for Biden and 2196 for Sanders,
were for Biden and 21% for Sanders, 19% for Biden, 19% for
Sanders, 19% for Biden, 19% for Elizabeth Warren and another
Elizabeth Warren and another 1795
Elizabeth Warren and another 17% for Bloomberg. There’s not
1796 for Bloomberg. There’s not a
17% for Bloomberg. There’s not a definitive break to Biden in
a definitive break to Biden in that respect, but the one thing
that respect, but the one thing that would be helpful to Biden
that would be helpful to Biden is by narrowing the field, this
is by narrowing the field, this increases the odds a number of
increases the odds a number of these candidates may reach the
these candidates may reach the 15% of viability level in some
1596 of viability level in some of the
15% of viability level in some of the upcoming primaries and,
of the upcoming primaries and, as a consequence, peel off some
as a consequence, peel off some delegates intentionally away
delegates intentionally away from Bernie. Why do you think
from Bernie. why do you think this
from Bernie. Why do you think this happened before Super
this happened before Super Tuesday? I think there was
Tuesday? I think there was probably a good of discussion
probably a good of discussion with some of the other
with some of the other candidates with respect to
candidates with respect to exactly that question. If he
exactly that question. If he doesn’t think he can make it,
doesn’t think he ran make it, narrow
doesn’t think he can make it, narrow the number of people in
narrow the number of people in the field so the 15% viability
the field so the 15% viability threshold can be reached and
threshold can be reached and Sanders doesn’t run away with
Sanders doesn’t mn away with it. I
Sanders doesn’t mn away with it. Idon’t
Sanders doesn’t run away with it. I don’t know that will be
it. I don’t know that will be the actual outcome, but I
the actual outcome, but I suspect that was the principal
suspect that was the principal rationale for the move before
rationale for the move before Super Tuesday.
Super Tuesday. How do you think Buttigieg’s
How do you think Buttigieg’s supporters, those really keen
supporters, those really keen supporters, feel right now
supporters, feel right now about the fact he’s pulled out?
about the fact he’s pulled out? Because he came from virtually
Because he came from virtually nothing, didn’t he, do
nothing, didn’t he, do something quite impressive.
something quite impressive. Yes, he did. And in any
Yes, he did. And in any campaign when the candidate
campaign when the candidate you’ve invested your heart and
you’ve invested your heart and soul in withdrawals, that’s a
soul in withdrawals, that’s a disappointing development and
disappointing development and I’m sure a number of them will
I’m sure a number of them will be disappointed. The effect of
be disappointed. The effect of his withdrawal on the immediate
his withdrawal on the immediate Super Tuesday election is
Super Tuesday election is mitigated by the fact huge
mitigated by the fact huge numbers of people will vote in
numbers of people will vote in their election on Tuesday will
their elaction on Tuesday will all already
their election on Tuesday will all already have voted in early
all already have voted in earty voting,
all already have voted in early voting, particularly in
voting, particularly in California. I might add in
California. I might add in Massachusetts, for instance, he
Massachusetts, for instance, he was sharing a lot of the vote
was sharing a lot of the vote with Elizabeth Warren and that
with Elizabeth Warren and that might help boost Elizabeth
might help boost Elizabeth there. The exact final impact
there. The exact final impact we’re not going to see luckily,
we’re not going to see luckily, pretty quickly,
pretty quickly, until three days from now. I know it’s
days from now. I know it’s earty days
days from now. I know it’s early days but who is your
earty days but who is your money on,
early days but who is your money on, Robert? The odds are
money on, Robert? The odds are best still. . .
money on, Robert? The odds are best still... I think Bernie
best still... I think Bernie Sanders is the likely nominee.
Sanders is the likely nominee. I’m a big fan personally of
I’m a big fan personally of Elizabeth Warren if you are
Elizabeth Warren if you are able to continue to hang on and
able to continue to hang on and build her support.
able to continue to hang on and build hersupport. Biden
able to continue to hang on and build her support. Biden has a
build her support. Biden has a head of steam coming out of
head of steam coming out of South Carolina, but he’s going
South Carolina, but he’s going to have to do a lot to broaden
to have to do a lotto broaden his base
to have to do a lot to broaden his base to include
his base to include particularly Hispanic voters.
particularty Hispanic voters. The big
particularly Hispanic voters. The big problem in the general
The big problem in the general election we have is not so much
elaction we have is not so much swing voters
election we have is not so much swing voters who might
swing voters who might otherwise vote for Trump, it’s
otherwise vote for Tmmp, it’s mostly
otherwise vote for Trump, it’s mostly assuring the people who
mostly assuring the peopla who voted
mostly assuring the people who voted for Obama on the one hand
voted for Obama on the one hand and then didn’t vote or voted
and then didn’t vote or voted for third—party, those people
for third-party, those peopla have got to
for third—party, those people have got to be back with us in
have got to be back with us in the fall, and that’s what Biden
the fall, and that’s what Biden has to show that he can do.
has to show that he ran do. Bernie I
has to show that he can do. Bernie I think can do that.
Bernie I think ran do that. Robert
Bernie I think can do that. Robert Kraymer, good to talk
Robert Kraymer, good to talk to 7°“-
Robert Kraymer, good to talk to you, thank you very much for
you, thank you very much for your analysis stop eager to to
your analysis stop eager to to be with you. ——. Good to be
be with you. --. Good to be with you.
Scientists in the United States say
the Covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected
in Washington State for the last six weeks,
infecting up to 1,500 people.
Over the weekend, a man in his fifties from the northwestern
state became the first confirmed fatality from
the virus in the US.
A short while ago I spoke with Professor Peter Hotez,
Dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor
college of medicine.
I put it to him that the safety of health care workers
is becoming a major issue.
One of the things we noticed it coming out of Wuhan,
the Chinese reported that in the epidemic in Wuhan
there were more than 1,000 healthcare workers infected,
with six deaths, and about 16%, about 1A.8%, were seriously ill
and many required ICU admission so that was a wake—up call
that our healthcare workforce is highly to this
virus and infection.
It occurred to us here in the United States,
and of course locally, that things good full down
quickly if large numbers of the healthcare workforce
went down and couldn’t fight this infection,
and the snowball effect of it becoming both demoralising
and if healthcare workers feel they’re not being adequately
protected...
We are worried things could break down and collapsed
very quickly, and we’ve been writing and speaking about this
for the last couple of days and then, of course,
right on cue, within 2A hours of this, we’ve had two
healthcare workers in California now infected
according to reports.
This is going to be an area of extreme vulnerability
here in the United States and I would imagine globally,
you can imagine in the Middle East or Africa,
where healthcare workers don’t have adequate personal
protective equipment, what we call PPE, I think this
is going to become a major issue going forward.
You’ve personally been working on a vaccine,
towards a vaccine, what are your views on the vaccine?
Do you think we are 18 months away from one,
or is it more complicated than that?
I think it’s really hard to predict.
There’s a lot of new, exciting technologies out
there for advancing vaccines —
RNA vaccines, DNA vaccines,
we’re using a more conventional recombanent protein approach
and a number
of these strategies are being supported
by a new international global fund vaccines partly
headquartered in London called CEPI,
Coalition for Epidemic
Preparedness Innovations, that’s the exciting part,
but the bad news is we still have to do a lot
of safety testing.
Typically this can require a year or two at least
to show that the vaccine is both
safe and effective.
We also know with coronavirus vaccines and other respiratory
vaccines, there’s this paradoxical what we call immune
enhancement where the vaccine can actually make things worse.
This was a phenomenon discovered with a respiratory
virus vaccine in the ‘605, and we saw in laboratory
animals with experimental vaccines after the original
Sars came out in 2003.
That’s a long way of saying this is not going to go fast.
That safety testing can’t be
compromised, it’s very hard to compress timelines,
so we’re seeing a lot of biotechs and mid—sized
biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies
promising we’ll have a vaccine in weeks.
You can forget it —
because of the immune enhancement phenomenon,
we’re looking at at least
a year away before we have a vaccine, and I’m
guessing probably longer.
Let me know honestly, how worried are you about
the new coronavirus?
It’s clearly worrisome.
We saw the devastation this virus caused in Wuhan,
particularly amongst selected age groups,
individuals over the age of 60 are especially vulnerable,
pretty high fatality rates, those with underlying chronic
conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, and obviously
our healthcare workforce.
We’re seeing case fatality rates of 2% overall.
Many were saying that’s probably not the case,
there’s probably a lot of people with low—grade
infectionis that we’re missing,
but then the World Health Organization gave us a very
chilling statement last week
saying we think the 2% fatality rate is real.
The reason that significant is it is so highly contagious.
On average a single individual will infect three or four
people, so it’s two or three times more contain just
than seasonal flu and as many as ten times more serious
in terms of fatalities than seasonal flu, so we’ll
have our hands full.
This is quite a serious pathogen, and that’s why
the World Health Organization and the director—general,
Doctor Tedros, appropriately declared an emergency
of international concern a few weeks ago, especially worried
about the countries that don’t have the capacity to manage
complex epidemics or public health crises.
In many respects the public health emergency was not
declared so much for the UK or the USA, although we’re
certainly concerned, but you can imagine as this
virus goes into sub—Saharan Africa, we’ve got 1—3 million
Chinese living there now, the Belt and Road Initiative
in the Middle East, you get the idea.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news:
Iraq’s Prime Minister—designate,
Mohammed Allawi, has withdrawn his nomination,
hours after parliament again failed to approve
his proposed cabinet.
In a damning tweet, Mr Allawi accused Iraqi politicalforces,
without naming them, of not being serious
about reform and protesters’ demands.
Several thousand people have rallied in central Prague
against the Czech Republic’s billionaire prime minister
and the way his government treats public institutions.
Prime Minister Andrej Babis is facing police charges over
an EU subsidy fraud.
The EU has also launched a probe into his dual role
as a politician distributing EU subsidies and entrepreneur
receiving them.
The Greek government has announced it’s suspending
the processing of asylum applications and will
immediately return anyone who enters the country illegally.
It comes after days of clashes at its [and border with Turkey.
Several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed
to cross, after Turkey announced it would no longer
stop migrants who wanted to go to the European Union.
Orla Guerin reports from Pazarkule on the border
between Turkey and Greece.
At first light, theyjoined the migrant trail from Turkey.
Heading for the River Meric,
all that separates them from Europe.
This small group manages to cross, reaches the shores
of Greece, which fears a new flood of refugees.
At border crossings with Turkey, it’s been
pushing them back.
Greece doesn’t want a repeat of 2015.
Caught up in the chaos this afternoon, Reza,
an Iranian we met who hopes to meet London.
They’re pushing us by water, teargas...
COUGHS
It’s not fair.
And the young have been in the firing line,
like 1—year—old Yeshar, whose family is from Afghanistan.
"The Greeks a shot at us and threw tear gas at him,"
says his father, Ziman, "he could have died."
But for Turkey, which has been sheltering almost 4 million
Syrians, the refugees are new human bargaining chips
being used to put pressure on Europe.
Well, families are still arriving here and they’re not
coming by accident, they’re being encouraged to travel
by the Turkish authorities led to
believe they can enter Europe.
Instead they are stuck here with no way to cross
into Greece and they and their children are having to camp out
in the cold.
And this is what awaits them now at the border,
a battleground.
Greece says it won’t allow a free—for—all.
Turkey says it’s overwhelmed by refugees.
It’s determined that Europe will share the fallout
from Syria’s long and brutal war.
Orla Guerin, BBC News, on the Turkey—Greece border.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
The 220—year—old piano that’s seen
war and peace in Paris,
the north African desert and New York, and could fetch
more than $1 million at auction.
First, the plates slid gently off the restaurant tables.
Then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and people crashed
sideways and downwards, and it was just a matter
of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
The hydrogen bomb.
On a remote Pacific atoll, the Americans had successfully
tested a weapon whose explosive force dwarfed that of the bomb
dropped on Hiroshima.
I had heard the news earlier, and so my heart went
bang, bang, bang!
The constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights
as citizens of the United States, and they should be
protected even in the right to test them out, so that they
don’t get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
This religious controversy — I know you don’t want to say
too much about it — but does it worry you that it’s
going to boil up when you get to the States?
Well, it worries me, yes, but I hope everything will be
all right in the end, as they say.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines:
The Democratic Party presidential contender,
Pete Buttigieg, is pulling out of the White House race.
It’s expected to boost Joe Biden’s chances.
Scientists in the United States say the covid—19 virus may have
been spreading undetected in Washington State
for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
Asia Bibi, a Pakistani Christian woman who spent years
on death row after being convicted of blasphemy,
has said she hopes to be able to return to Pakistan one day.
She’s been in Paris for the release of her memoir,
Finally Free, in which she recounts her time injail —
and her brutal treatment by guards.
In the second part of an interview with the BBC’s
Mishal Husain, Ms Bibi says herfaith helped her
through the ordeal.
Nearly ten years ago, a Christian woman from
Pakistan’s Punjab province was sentenced to death
for blasphemy.
It was a case that sparked international attention
and outrage.
And even after Asia Bibi was finally acquitted
by Pakistan’s highest court, huge protests prevented
her immediate release.
She now has a new life and here in Paris, she has been
telling me her story.
TRANSLATION: I suffered a lot inside the jail.
I cannot even tell you what happened to me.
I lived through all of this misery but God gave me patience
and I got a lot of strength.
You cannot imagine but I have witnessed miracles.
It is difficult for you to talk about because you write
in the book about how you were held by the neck
and how difficult that time was for you.
What was it that gave you hope in this period?
TRANSLATION: My strength came from my faith and I learnt that
you should be courageous and you should be strong
in yourfaith.
And you should never lose your faith.
After everything you have been through, how would you describe
your emotions today?
Do you feel bitterness, anger?
TRANSLATION: No, I’m not angry at all.
I’ve forgiven everyone from my heart.
And there is no hardness in me, there is patience in me
because I learned how to be patient after having
to leave my children behind.
It surprises me even, how have I learnt to be so patient?
How can any mother be patient after leaving her children?
But God made me patient and I conquered the hardships
thrown my way through patience.
There are people injailfacing blasphemy charges today,
people like Shagufta Kausar and Shafqat Emmanuel.
What would you say to them?
TRANSLATION: I can give them hope.
I’m now free, I’m outside.
So I want to request all media that they should work
for Shagufta as well so that she is also freed
and I can tell her that there will be a day when she will
also be free.
Asia Bibi’s long ordeal is now over but the issue of blasphemy
in Pakistan is not.
There are still Christians and Muslims being targeted
by the law today.
The question is, whether the country will take action
to prevent abuses and to protect its citizens
whatever the religion.
We put allegations about misuse of blasphemy laws to
the authorities in Pakistan.
They said Pakistan has taken considerable steps
to prevent its possible misuse and constantly
reviews its implementation.
The cases of blasphemy are brought before the court
and follow due process of the law.
About the allegations of abuse in prison,
they responded:
Torture, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment to any
prisoner is not allowed in the prisons of Pakistan
Israelis go to the polls on Monday for the third
election in less than a year, to try to break the country’s
political deadlock.
A key stumbling block to forming a governing
coalition has been corruption charges against Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu, who’s due to stand trial this month.
Here’s our Middle East editorJeremy Bowen.
On the Sea of Galilee, the Bible says Jewish fishermen
who followed Jesus used to debate the future.
Modern Israeli fishermen at election time still do.
On this boat, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s
supporters, led by the skipper Menachim Lev.
He values the bounty from the lake and the strength
he sees in Netanyahu.
He thinks his father, who survived Auschwitz,
would have approved.
He is from here, he is from the Holocaust.
And my father tell me one thing — don’t trust nobody
in your life, trust only yourself and do everything
that is good for you.
The crew unites around fish, not politics.
This man is voting for the centre—left opposition,
worried that the cost—of—living is pricing young Israelis out
of their future.
A lot of young people want to move from Israel.
It is something that is happening.
But hopefully something will be better, I don’t know.
Amid the electoral pyrotechnics, retired general
Benny Gantz, the opposition leader, has had to deny claims
from the Netanyahu camp that he made sex videos.
Netanyahu, he says, is trying to lie and cheat his
way to victory.
The Prime Minister is claiming credit for Donald Trump’s
so—called deal of century — an attempt to end the conflict
on Israel’s terms.
It allows Israel, in defiance of international law,
to annex settlements on [and Palestinians want for a state.
This is Shilo, where they’re building a new school.
The settlers went two election victories this year —
Binyamin Netanyahu and Trump.
It is very important for us, both elections,
and we are engaged in all sorts of personalities
and organisations and groups to assure both here and there
that as much as possible, we get the people in office
that we want.
Nearby, Palestinians were on a hilltop they believe
settlers might grab.
The old issues don’t go away.
And, as ever, it’s come down to control of the land —
that’s always been at the centre of the conflict,
a century ago and today.
By morning, Israeli forces were driving Palestinians
off the hill.
The last real chance of a negotiated peace
was collapsing when these young men were babies.
The big changes — political and diplomatic and especially
President Trump’s out and out support for the Israeli
government — is sharpening the conflict on the ground
and you can see it in places like this.
Conflict is normal for yet another generation —
the election won’t change that.
Jeremy Bowen, BBC News, on the West Bank.
A very different story involving Israel now.
A rare piano that’s been described as immortal goes up
for auction in Israel next week.
The Piano of Sienna — which is more than 220 years
old — has spent its life at the World’s Fair in Paris,
in a Second World War African battlefield, and has travelled
from New York to Tel Aviv — and is expected to fetch more
than a million dollars.
Stay tuned for this story from Rich Preston.
With an unusually ornate
with an unusually ornate design,
With an unusually ornate design, the instrument has had
design, the instrument has had quite a life. It was made in
quite a life. It was made in 1799 according to the winners
1799 according to the winners auction house in
1799 according to the winners auction house inJerusalem by
auction house in jemsalem by the
auction house inJerusalem by the children in based Harper
the children in based Harper scored at maker Sebastian much
scored at maker Sebastian much easier and has been described
easier and has been described as a visual masterpiece. He
as a visual masterpiece. He died before he could finish it
died before he could finish it but he is descendents finished
but he is descendents finished for him endeavour to his
for him endeavour to his granddaughter
for him endeavour to his granddaughterfor a
for him endeavour to his granddaughter for a wedding
granddaughter for a wedding gift. It appeared at the
gift. It appeared at the World’s Fair in Paris in 1867
World’s Fair in Paris in 1867 before being given to Italy’s
before being given to Italrs then
before being given to Italy’s then prints and future king,
then prints and future king, Humberto the first before
Humberto the first before falling into Nazi hands. The
falling into Nazi hands. The piano surfaced again after the
piano surfaced again after the 1942 Battle of El Alamein in
1942 Battla of El Alamein in Egypt in a
1942 Battle of El Alamein in Egypt in a crate with a mind at
Egypt in a crate with a mind at all. TRANSLATION: When the
all. TRANSLATION: When the British forces opened it, they
British forces opened it, they were astonished to see a piano
were astonished to see a piano inside buried in the desert
inside buried in the desert sand. From there, it ended up
sand. From there, it ended up with an Israeli piano merchant
with an Israeli piano merchant to fixed it up and took it to
to fixed it up and took it to New York where it was displayed
New York where it was displayed in Steinway Hall. TRANSLATION:
in Steinway Hall. TRANSLATION: It was displayed as a kind of a
It was displayed as a kind of a wonder in the most well—known
wonder in the most well-known piano shop in
wonder in the most well—known piano shop in New York and
piano shop in New York and became a pilgrimage for
became a pilgrimage for pianists and enthusiasts. Now,
pianists and enthusiasts. Now, its owner says it is time to
its owner says it is time to let go of this beautiful
let go of this beautiful creation and for the next
creation and for the next chapter in its life to begin.
chapter in its life to begin. It goes under the hammer on
It goes under the hammer on Tuesday. Rich Preston, BBC
Tuesday. Rich Preston, BBC News. What a wonderful story.
News. what a wonderful story. Thank you so
News. What a wonderful story. Thank you so much for your
Thank you so much for your company. Plenty of more to
company. Plenty of more to come. Goodbye.
Hello.
With rivers running high and many afield still under
water, we could do with a little bit of better weather
news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
No, not going be completely dry but certainly compared
with recent weeks, won’t be anywhere near as wet
or as windy.
The jetstream is taking a more southerly track but what that
does mean is we’re into slightly cooler air,
so certainly chillier and by night with frost more likely.
That’s how we start the Monday morning commute with more
in the way of frost and even some ice around with showers
continuing through the north and west overnight.
Not quite as frosty towards southern counties of England.
Outbreaks of rain and a bit of sleet and wet snow first
thing in the morning.
Clearing away from East Anglia and the south—east quite
smartly but then brightening up.
Showers in the west, 3 mixture of rain, hail,
sleet and snow.
Few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant
during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw
for the weekend.
More of you on Monday will spend the day completely
dry or if not, just one or two showers passing your way.
The temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
Winds will overall be light, not going to feel quite as cold
in the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be
picking up across the north—west later.
Gail’s for a time for Monday night into Tuesday.
More on the way of showers starting to develop
through the night and they will push their way eastwards.
A bit of snow across parts of Scotland, even in the hills
of Northern Ireland and northern England later on.
Temperatures will be close to freezing in many areas
so frost and ice the greatest risk.
The coldest of the weather first thing on Tuesday morning
towards the east.
The set up for Tuesday, that weather front taking
showers eastwards initially.
More rain bearing weather fronts diverted down
towards France and Iberia thanks to that southerly
tracking jetstream.
They could be close enough to produce some rain over
the southernmost counties of England and over the Channel
Islands.
More showers around Tuesday morning — a wintry mix.
Those will clear away and it’s back to sunshine and showers
for many into the afternoon.
Showers mainly across some western areas.
Temperatures similar to those on Monday.
Then, as we head into the middle part of the week,
it looks like many will still stay mostly dry with showers
around here and there.
The chance of rain closer to the south coast on Wednesday
but overall, we’re continuing with that largely dry story.
Changes 3 little bit towards the end of the week,
Thursday night to Friday, we will see a weather front
push its way across - bringing
a spell of rain briefly.
Showers following on its wake and then a chance of some more
wet and windy weather towards the end of the week
and into next weekend.
By and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw
over the last few days and with some rain forecast
towards the end of the week, never stay too far away
from the flood warnings and they are there for you online.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
Pete Buttigieg — the first openly gay US presidential candidate —
is to end his bid for the White House.
His decision to drop out comes just ahead of what’s known
as Super Tuesday, when M states hold primaries.
His withdrawal is likely to benefit the campaign ofJoe Biden.
Scientists in the United States say the Covid—19 virus may have been
spreading undetected in Washington State for the last six
weeks, infecting up to 1500 people.
A state of emergency has been declared.
One man is now confirmed to have died from the virus in the US.
Several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed to cross
into Greece, after Turkey announced it would no longer stop people
trying to enter the European Union.
Turkey is seeking Western support for its operations in Syria.
An extraordinary meeting of EU foreign ministers has been called
at Athens’ request.
Now on BBC News, it’s time for Dateline London.
Hello, and welcome to Dateline London.
I’m Carrie Gracie.
This week:
Wake up, get ready, coronavirus is coming —
the message from the World Health Organization
to governments everywhere.
Hopes of stopping the new virus at national borders all but
vanished over the past week — and global financial markets
reacted accordingly.
But if we can’t stop this coronavirus, can we slow it down?
My guests today:
Stefanie Bolzen of Die Welt.
American journalist, Henry Chu.
Iain Martin of the London Times.
Mina Al—Oraibi, editor of the National — a news service
for the Middle East.
I want to start by looking at how different countries and different
regions are handling it so far.
Let’s start with Iran and the Middle East.
Iran, marks out of ten?
Two at best.
It’s really concerning that the government has not been
straight with how far the cases there has spread.
Cases have come to Iraq and Lebanon through Iran
because people were not tested.
This kind of hiding the scale of the problem.
BBC Persian, for example, has been able to verify deaths
of about 210 people, whereas, the government
until recently has been insisting it is only 3A and dismissing media
reports that say otherwise.
It’s not so much about the number of deaths, but much more
being indicative of a country not playing it straight,
therefore, the ability to spread to other countries.
Cases have cropped up in Afghanistan, also
originated from Iran.
These are vulnerable countries Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan —
huge numbers of displaced people.
If it catches on there, it will be incredibly difficult
to try and help these people, save these people but
also stop the spread.
Unfortunately, the Iranian government, which leads
on from what we saw at the beginning of the year with the Ukrainian
jetliner, also not being straight about how that jetliner
was struck down.
They have to be transparentand working with governments
in the region and also globally.
You can’t hide these important figures.
We’ll come back to China in a moment on transparency.
Let’s deal with South Korea, now the country with the largest number
of growing infections after China.
How well are they doing?
I think they are trying to take the steps that they can
as a democratic society, for example, closing schools.
Which Japan is doing as well.
With transparency, I feel there is a government where we can
have more confidence in the figures being put out and the
measures put in place.
Moreso than, say, China.
Although, they had a difficulty with a secretive Christian sect,
slowing things up initially.
Correct, transparency of the people on the ground is perhaps a different
issue from what the government is trying to do.
Also, in the region, Indonesia, another largely and densely
populated country has denied that it has infections.
A little hard to believe at this point.
A mixed picture in that region.
Europe — Italy currently the centre of the problem in Europe?
Northern Italy, Venice.
You can see almost day by day how it is creeping up
northwards, also to Germany.
I was just in Germany, Cologne, at a regionalfestival,
there were millions of people on the street and parties.
Actually, there is a very small town between Cologne
and the Dutch border, there they have 37 people already
infected, two persons I think are really seriously ill.
They got ill at a carnival party.
I attended those.
Of course, you have to make a personal choice.
But it’s these kind of mass gatherings which are now something
that we all look at and get very worried about.
Yet you weren’t wary enough to not go?
It was five days ago.
Today, I probably wouldn’t go.
Five days ago, it was only in northern Italy, but it’s
spreading very quickly.
The UK are somewhat in the European camp.
I want you to look at the US for us, that is a country with unexplained
cases, they can’t trace the contact.
Also, the political leadership, Donald Trump talking
slightly at odds with his public health officials?
That makes the US in this story possibly one of the most troubling
areas to look at because it appears as though the administration
is going to try a rather dangerous experiment,
which is for the president and the senior leadership to be
at odds with the healthcare establishment and the
scientific establishment.
Now, you saw last week the President’s tweets and
statements from the administration that appear to suggest that they see
this in terms of various television networks trying to do down
the President’s ratings, and I don’t really think
that is what this crisis is about.
Of course, the Trump’s re—election rests on on a booming stock market,
we will talk later what has happened to the markets, but he is
desperately worried.
You would hope — traditionally it’s been the case with previous
American presidents — that when you get a crisis
like this, that America is a country that has leaders that want to show
leadership, rather than picking fights with scientists.
If I can interject something about that.
It is true that Trump is trying to minimise this crisis.
Even on Friday, he was already saying this is all a bit of a hoax
perpetrated by the Democrats.
That confidence is surging in the economy, when we saw
Wall Street have it’s biggest weekly loss in more than decade.
But because the USA is a federal system, you do have states
tackling the problem with their own health department.
I’m from California, it has about half the reported infections,
I think it is doing a betterjob than the federal government
as a whole in terms of trying to walk the line
between overreacting and under reacting to a public health crisis.
There are now some unexplained infections, but that means
California is now monitoring more people than it did before,
it is expanding its testing regime.
A bit of a mixed picture, but what is coming out of Washington
is definitely troubling.
Henry, can you take us to possibly another glimmer of hope,
that the number of new infections is going down in China?
Do you think there is a sense of China beginning to turn a corner?
I think there has been a sense like that over
the past few days already, that the lockdown on Hubei province,
the epicentre, has been effective.
Now we see that this is China beginning to pat itself on its back
for the measures it’s taking.
While, to some degree, that’s true — to another degree, it is also
containing a fire that it helped start and fan in the first
place by not learning the lessons of SARS in 2003,
and covering up these infections in the beginning.
I think you have to weigh those two against each other to determine how
China has performed.
In terms of raising awareness, taking necessary precautions
but also not raising the alarm.
I think is a difficult decision for officials,
but it’s also been difficult for us as journalist.
Absolutely, coronavirus is the most read topic on our websites
since the beginning of the year.
In some way, we have to keep informing people,
but at the same time, you don’t want to alarm people.
The decision about schools, in the UAE, the first Arab country
that declared it had coronavirus patients, then five people
have actually recovered.
They have been really good about briefing us
about who is recovering, because I think it’s
a really important to get the information out.
Yes, there is about a 2.2% death rate, it is concerning but not
at the rate of 10—15% where people would lose control.
At the same time, talking about people who do recover.
They think that alarmism rattles markets, people are scared,
at the same time, it really important to say, these
are the people precautions you can take, but you can also claim some
semblance of control over your life.
It brings us of the questions about relating to the public —
trust, transparency, conviction in...
Communicating effectively in messaging.
Henry alluded to the way the Chinese system is beginning to take credit
and deliver a message about their superior
system in dealing in this top—down effective way,
but the liberal democracies will take a different view
of some of their strengths?
I must say, lam highly critical of China.
Why did it become so big in the first place?
Apparently, the Chinese officials were not very keen to be
transparent about it.
I would think, in Europe, governments in general are trying
to be very transparent.
At the same time, you get the sense they are cautious to not overreact
because they do not want to cause panic, also very difficult.
They can be blamed afterwards for not being strict
enough with the measures.
Then again, it’s a question of whether you live in a centralised
country, or like Germany, one which is highly federalised
so decisions can be taken at a very local level.
One village will close the school, another one will not.
One town will stop a train, another will not.
It is a very complex situation and it depends
on your institutional framework.
It is also about truth telling.
If the Chinese government now wants us to believe it is on top of this —
I certainly hope that is the case, and a lot of indications suggest
they have turned a corner — but does that mean they were telling
the truth two months ago, or telling the truth now?
We know better than any one it is an autocratic system,
it is a culture in which people are not encouraged to speak
the truth if it conflicts with what the powerful centre commands.
I think people are right to be sceptical about what China is saying
now, because what the government was saying a few weeks ago
turns out to be wrong.
Speaking to Iain’s point, it has been very interesting
in China that there has been a cover—up and denial
until the point where it can no longer be denied?
I think what is dangerous about this narrative of congratulating China —
it has taken very strong measures recently, that is incontestable —
is the core area that a liberal, democratic state could not mount
an effective response in quite the same way.
But in the US, we have emergency protocols,
there can be declarations of emergency, use of greater powers
sparingly — which is why they are called emergency protocols.
That can help contain and mitigate the effects of coronavirus.
Whereas in China, this is a system that arrogates to itself these
powers all the time.
I think that is a big difference to point out between the two
institutional frameworks.
Let’s talk about the science.
I know none of you are virologists or epidemiologists,
but on the other hand, we all have to, as journalists
and citizens, get on top of our understanding of the science
up to a point.
I want to ask you about the point of the measures we have been
talking, to slow infection rates.
Two months in, do we know enough about this virus itself
to choose the best weapons with which to deal that?
It is very difficult for western governments because the Chinese have
done something which is clearly within frame of reference,
complete lockdown.
I think if you were to try that in a major European city like Paris,
London or Berlin, it would be very difficult.
We do know that we have become, since SARS, in the last 20 years
or so, even more mobile globally.
If you look at how this could be spread, in terms of Europe,
whether it has really taken hold, it is the case the number of flights
globally has doubled since SARS 17 years ago.
The pace of technical change, the amount of travel that we do,
the opportunities for this to spread at speed and mutate,
has increased in the last 20 years.
We should remember this is not new.
This is the story of the last 100 years or so since the great flu
pandemic after the First World War.
This is something which lots of scientists have warned about,
and have seen and in the context of other global outbreaks.
It is one of the major downsides of globalisation, and it is very,
very difficult to deal with.
And yet, Mina, there is also mobility of information.
Is the public health messaging, in so far
as we understand the virus — how to beat it with barriers,
masks, hygiene, social distancing and so on —
are those messages getting out effectively to communities
in your part of the world?
I think globally they are getting out effectively.
In our part of the world, absolutely.
Again, it depends on the country, but you get much more regular public
briefings than you would have had five years ago.
Public officials are more used to speaking to their constituents.
Again, you get countries like Iran where the information is not
necessarily accurate.
The incredible thing, of course, is social media.
The World Health Organization has messages going out on Facebook,
Twitter, and they are actually paying and promoting
for these ads to come out.
Google has been great in terms of, if you look up coronavirus,
the first thing that comes up is the World Health Organization.
I think five, six years ago, someone would have tweaked
the algorithm and search engine optimisation to get the clicks.
You’re actually getting much more sensible technological advances
of how do we mobilise in global emergencies like this.
One thing to keep in context as well, it was pointed out to me,
at this point, we don’t really know the number of infections around
the world, it could be vastly more than we are relies.
While that is not a good thing in terms of absolute number,
it actually can be a hopeful sign in that we would know
about it if the mortality rate was much greater.
If these are not actually causing deaths, it shows the mortality rate
is much lower than we have so far seen.
That could be a piece of good news.
One of the things that we wait to see.
It is complicated by more good news, all the early indications suggest
that 80% of those who catch this will suffer really mild symptoms.
Even to the extent that they don’t know that they carry it.
The concern is that if they are right, if about 50%
of the population of the UK that can be infected, if the death rate
is 1%, maybe even 2% — those are still huge numbers
of potential deaths.
Henry, coming back to China, one of the things that we will see
over time in that giant petri dish, as it were, is that when people do
start going a back to normality — how much infection there is then
when the quarantine is over.
In China, you have some of the most densely populated cities on Warth,
where there is a lot of social mixing, running up against each
other all the time.
But I think will be the further test of where we see this virus going.
There can be plenty of infections that we just don’t know anything
about, they willjust disappear.
One thing about the science that concerns me is people thinking
that these surgical mass will keep you safe for the longest time.
Some doctors say they will only last for about 20 minutes,
at best, six hours, because they are
quite loose—fitting.
You can understand people are buying them to make
sure they are covered, but in some ways, it can gather more
germs, you knw, taken on and off.
I think that is one of those scientific issues not
clearly stated for people.
There are others that we just don’t have time to list all of now.
Let’s move on to the economic impact, and the political,
cultural impact.
Stefanie, saw a massive sell—off on global markets over the past week
as they corrected enormously.
Factories possibly closing down, transport links suspended around
the world, and the unpredictability that we will be talking about?
Absolutely, we don’t even know how things will be tomorrow, next week.
You see currencies going down.
Germany is highly dependent on trade with China, for example,
I think there was a calculation that even if the Chinese GDP dopped
by 1%, that will be a GDP drop in Germany of 0.2%.
It will have a knock—on effect on everything,
it feels like we are back in the 2008 financial crash times,
but somehow, even more unpredictable as to what is going to happen next.
Notable that its those shares most vulnerable
to cross—border travel, cross—border trade, events
where people come together in densely—packed spaces —
these are all suffering the biggest hits?
Yes.
Sports, travel, retail.
Also, look at what is happening with the financial system,
because it depends on those businesses still bringing
money for their revenues.
If people are no longer buying and travelling in at the same way,
that is the thing that concerns the authorities the most
at the end of last week.
That is what is happening underneath the surface.
They are stress testing and looking at how solid the banking system is,
because it wouldn’t take that much.
For example, in the euro zone, where there are already
existing banking problems, if you see a collapse
in economic activity — which hopefully will not happen.
Hopefully, this dissipates, the weather warms up
and things improve.
There are some indications China is starting getting back to work,
starting to see production tip up.
People should not think it is the Apocalypse,
but the authorities are deeply concerned.
I think also it goes beyond what we might think
of as regular consumer products, let say from China,
an iPhone or Nike shoes.
A friend of mine who works in a hospital in California says
because the drug manufacturing in China is so big,
they are witnessing shortages now in the US.
Not necessarily because of the coronavirus, just in general,
because China is such a big workshop for the world in so
many different ways.
Perhaps a silver lining that may come out of this,
economically speaking, maybe governments and economists
will stop obsessing about growth and consumption in quite the same
way we have in the past, given the environmental questions
looming over us and other issues that come from purely looking
at growth as the measure of the health of the global economy.
There is the beginnings of a trend with government starting
to talk about a re—shoring.
We have become very dependent, particularly in Europe,
on that trade with emerging giants like China.
So a country like China, it used to be Britain’s 29th
biggest for exports, it is now fourth.
For all sorts of reasons, I think you will start to see,
after this pandemic if that is what it is,
people becoming much more fashionable to try and re—shore some
manufacturing back to Europe.
I am worried about that because it comes after such tensions
between the US and China, this trade war, more protectionism,
a decoupling from China.
This almost becomes an excuse in certain politcal circles,
where it becomes politicised, and therefore, an excuse
for saying, "Actually, look, things from China, had.
"We don’t want it, let’s decouple even more."
Because of the political climate we have been
in for the past couple of years.
Interestingly, Donald Trump, in the last week or so,
it seems to have dawned on him.
Looking at some of his tweets, he’s actually saying,
"I didn’t mean to completely cancel globalisation — global
trade really matters."
It’s almost like it’s an election year!
Stefanie, everyone is trying to stay positive about the economy and open
minded about the prospects of damage limitation in relation
to coronavirus.
Are you agreeing with Iain and Henry on that?
Do you think we are bound for a limitation of growth,
as we are hearing from bankers and economists, or do you think
it is potentially worse?
I’m no economist, but before coronavirus, there was already
a recession looming in Germany, growth was going down.
What happens Germany then affects what happens in the rest
of euro zone and EU.
On top of that, the uncertainties of Brexit, it was going to happen
this year, how frictionless trade will continue in Europe or not.
Somehow feeding into a situation that was already volatile,
and could make it worse.
I’m pretty pessimistic, to be honest.
The potential upside, the good news, is that if this is relatively brief
and the weather warms up and things improve and it does not
turn into a pandemic, all the historical evidence is that
you then get a very rapid bounce back, and you get a huge surge
in demand as people get back to work and life returns to normal.
We also have quite a few events on the calendar that people need
to peer down the months and see.
Is there going to be the Hajj?
Is there going to be Tokyo Olympics, the normal campaigning you see
around the US elections?
Mina, the Hajj?
Well, Saudi Arabia has stopped the Umrah,
which is the mini pilgrimage.
I can’t remember a time when that’s actually happened,
so that a big indicator that the Saudis are like,
"We have to close the doors."
The problem during the Hajj is that most people get
meningitis shots anyway, because you have problems
with meningitis and other diseases that are transmitted.
I imagine that if this is not under control by April, May,
they will have to be reconside, and they may very well
really limit the numbers.
Saying, from each country, we can only have X amount.
50 really limit them and put people into quarantine almost.
So, your Hajj journey, instead of taking a week out,
do you take a month?
I can’t imagine them cancelling it altogether, they can’t.
But I think they will really limit it.
They have to make those decisions soon.
You were mentioning going to the carnival.
Churches, mosques, sports events, we look through April and May,
are they all going to start unfolding in front of our eyes?
The news from Europe and Germany last night,
one event after the other is being cancelled.
The international tourism fair in Germany was cancelled last night.
Things like the Olympics, of course, a massive question.
There have been talks for a long time whether you
can actually have it.
It is a really big question, is it foing to become a pandemic or not?
It is the responsibility of the governments to
take those decisions.
Henry, I want to ask you about something slightly more
broader and cultural.
Xenophobia, we have seen a big problem in relation to ethnic
Chinese citizens abroad.
Have you felt it?
Funny that you ask, I was just back in the US and flying.
I was very conscious of the fact that I was trying to remain looking
healthy at all times and not coughing or sniffling on the flight.
They were already people with surgical masks on,
people taking precautions.
I think there has been a reported drop in, for example,
people going to Chinese restaurants, just feeling that this is somehow
so connected with China that all Chinese people of any heritage,
stripe or background are somehow infected.
That was also exarcebated in some ways in the US by Trump’s travel
restrictions on people entering from China.
By that measure now, we should be talking about travel
restrictions on people from Italy, South Korea.
Time for one last point.
Iain, picking up from what Henry just said, it is not some weird them
and is thing any more, it is us and us.
This is a virus potentially anywhere?
This is globalisation in action, the world has been speeding up,
we travel more, human being are social animals.
Globalisation, a positive thing, comes with a downside.
You now hopefully, hopefully, will see coordinated global action
to deal with it now.
Let’s end on a high note.
Thank you all very much, a fascinating discussion,
I hope you felt the same.
Thanks forjoining us.
We’re back next week at the same time.
Goodbye.
Good morning. Overall, nowhere near as wet or as windy through this
as wet or as windy through this coming week as we’ve seen over the
coming week as we’ve seen over the past few weeks. Not completely dry,
past few weeks. Not completely dry, however, we’ve showers through the
however, we’ve showers through the night and that will lead to icy
night and that will lead to icy conditions through the morning with
conditions through the morning with temperatures close to freezing. Rain
temperatures dose to freezing. Rain and even
temperatures close to freezing. Rain and even wet snow mixed into parts
and even wet snow mixed into parts of East Anglia and the south
of East Anglia and the south bursting before that clears and the
bursting before that clears and the sunshine returns. Showers in the
sunshine returns. Showers in the north and west, mixture of rain,
north and west, mixture of rain, hail, sleet and snow and snow in
hail, sleet and snow and snow in places in Scotland in particular, on
places in Scotland in particular, on the hills in the west and slightly
the hills in the west and slightly more showers in the afternoon
more showers in the afternoon compared with the morning but that
compared with the morning but that said, not as many as recent days.
said, not as many as recent days. The winds will be lighter, so fewer
The winds will be lighter, so fewer showers in eastern parts. Many will
showers in eastern parts. Many will be dry but for all, reasonably cool
be dry but for all, reasonably cool but with winds lighter, not feeling
but with winds lighter, not feeling too bad for the time of year with
too bad for the time of year with temperatures anywhere between five
temperatures anywhere between five and ten. Through into Tuesday and
and ten. Through into Tuesday and Wednesday, continuing with the
Wednesday, continuing with the sunshine and showers story. Perhaps
sunshine and showers story. Perhaps more showers around on Tuesday stop
more showers around on Tuesday stop Wednesday, watch out for some rain
Wednesday, watch out for some rain in the south. But, overall, better
in the south. But, overall, better than it has been.
This is BBC News — welcome if you’re watching here
in the UK or around the globe.
I’m Maryam Moshiri.
Our top stories:
In the US election campaign, ‘Mayor’ Pete Buttigieg pulls
out — it could be a boost forJoe Biden’s campaign.
There are concerns the new coronavirus could have been
circulating in the US for weeks — up to 1500 people
may be infected.
Turkey sends refugees to Europe to try to force backing
for its campaign in Syria.
After the US—Taliban agreement, the Qatari mediator tells us
that outside countries could still wreck the chances
for peace in Afghanistan.
Pete Buttigieg has dropped out of the race to be
the Democratic candidate to take on President Trump
for the US presidency.
The 38—year—old former mayor enjoyed a successful start
to his campaign, but it lost momentum in recent weeks.
He narrowly won the Iowa caucuses early last month
and came in a strong second place in the New Hampshire
primary, but faltered badly in Saturday’s South Carolina vote.
He made the announcement a short time ago at a rally
in his hometown of South Bend, Indiana.
Today is a moment of truth.
After a year of going everywhere, meeting everyone,
defying every expectation, seeking every vote, the truth
is the path has narrowed to a close, for our candidacy
if not for our cause.
And another of those values is responsibility,
and we have a responsibility to consider the effect
of remaining in this race any further.
Our goal has always been to help unify Americans,
to defeat Donald Trump and to win the era for our values.
APPLAUSE
I asked our correspondent Peter Bowes if Pete Buttigieg’s
withdrawal is unusual ahead of Super Tuesday.
It’s unusual but I think he is simply being practical.
Looking at the numbers,
he did not do well in South Carolina.
1A states across the country go to the polls on Tuesday,
two of the big ones, California and Texas,
and he and his people have clearly figured out it’s
perhaps unlikely that he will win over Bernie Sanders
orJoe Biden in any of those states.
And for all he did well in the Iowa caucuses,
for all he did well in New Hampshire, he doesn’t
see path ultimately to being the nominee for the Democratic
Party.
That’s essentially what he indicated in his speech,
that the path to victory doesn’t seem to be
within his grasp.
So what does it mean for the race now to take
on President Trump?
Interestingly he said...
One of the phrases he used was there was too much at stake
to stick to the sidelines, suggesting that he is still
going to play a role in American politics.
Interestingly he did not say he was supporting any
of the other candidates.
Maybe that will come at a later stage.
What it means probably in terms of votes isJoe Biden is likely
to gain because he and Pete Buttigieg essentially occupy
the same political ground in the centre of the Democratic
Party, the great swathes of the party who believe
in terms of policy similar things toJoe Biden and Pete
Buttigieg, especially when it applies to big
issues like healthcare.
Joe Biden could be the big winner over Bernie Sanders,
who looks like he will do well on Super Tuesday.
Looks like it is building quite slowly to a race between two
or three of the key characters.
The clue is in the name, it is Super Tuesday.
What does that mean for the Democratic race
for the presidency?
It is called Super Tuesday for a good reason, there
are many, many delegates at stake.
California has in itself a quarter of all of
the delegates necessary for any of these candidates to meet
the threshold to be the nominee for the Democrats, so it’s
all down to the maths on Tuesday.
It’s not a winner takes all system, it’s a proportional
system, so those Democrats in the big states like Texas
and California will be divided between the continuing
candidates and the race is simply on to garner
as many as possible.
Scientists in the United States say the COVID—19 virus may have
been spreading undetected in Washington State
for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1500
people.
Over the weekend, a man in his fifties from the northwestern
state became the first confirmed fatality from
the virus in the US.
A short while ago I spoke to Professor Peter Hotez,
Dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor
college of medicine.
I put it to him that the safety of healthcare workers
is becoming a major issue.
One of the things we noticed it coming out of Wuhan,
the Chinese reported that in the epidemic in Wuhan
there were more than 1,000 healthcare workers infected,
with six deaths, and about 16%, about 1A.8%, were seriously ill
and many required ICU admission so that was a wake—up call
that our healthcare workforce is highly to this
virus and infection.
It occurred to us here in the United States,
and of course locally, that things good full down
quickly if large numbers of the healthcare workforce
went down and couldn’t fight this infection,
and the snowball effect of it becoming both demoralising
and if healthcare workers feel
they’re not being adequately protected...
We are worried things could break down and collapsed
very quickly, and we’ve been writing and speaking about this
for the last couple of days and then, of course,
right on cue, within 2A hours of this, we’ve had two
healthcare workers in California now infected
according to reports.
This is going to be an area of extreme vulnerability
here in the United States and I would imagine globally,
you can imagine in the Middle East or Africa,
where healthcare workers don’t have adequate personal
protective equipment, what we call PPE, I think this
is going to become a major issue going forward.
You’ve personally been working on a vaccine,
towards a vaccine, what are your views on the vaccine?
Do you think we are 18 months away from one,
or is it more complicated than that?
I think it’s really hard to predict.
There’s a lot of new, exciting technologies out
there for advancing vaccines — RNA vaccines, DNA vaccines,
we’re using a more conventional recombinant protein protein
approach and a number
of these strategies are being supported
by a new international global fund vaccines partly
headquartered in London called CEPI,
Coalition for Epidemic
Preparedness Innovations, that’s the exciting part,
but the bad news is we still have to do a lot
of safety testing.
Typically this can require a year or two at least
to show that the vaccine is both
safe and effective.
We also know with coronavirus vaccines and other respiratory
vaccines, there’s this paradoxical what we call immune
enhancement where the vaccine can actually make things worse.
This was a phenomenon discovered with a respiratory
virus vaccine in the ‘605, and we saw in laboratory
animals with experimental vaccines after the original
Sars came out in 2003.
That’s a long way of saying this is not going to go fast.
That safety testing can’t be
compromised, it’s very hard to compress timelines,
so we’re seeing a lot of biotechs and mid—sized
biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies
promising we’ll have a vaccine in weeks.
You can forget it —
because of the immune enhancement phenomenon,
we’re looking at at least
a year away before we have a vaccine, and I’m
guessing probably longer.
Professor Hotez, tell me honestly, how worried
are you about the new coronavirus?
It’s clearly worrisome.
We saw the devastation this virus caused in Wuhan,
particularly amongst selected age groups,
individuals over the age of 60 are especially vulnerable,
pretty high fatality rates, those with underlying chronic
conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, and obviously
our healthcare workforce.
We’re seeing case fatality rates of 2% overall.
Many were saying that’s probably not the case,
there’s probably a lot of people with low—grade
infectionis that we’re missing,
but then the World Health Organization gave us a very
chilling statement last week
saying we think the 2% fatality rate is real.
The reason that significant is it is so highly contagious.
On average a single individual will infect three or four
people, so it’s two or three times more contageous
than seasonal flu and as many as ten times more serious
in terms of fatalities than seasonal flu, so we’ll
have our hands full.
This is quite a serious pathogen, and that’s why
the World Health Organization and the director—general,
Doctor Tedros, appropriately declared an emergency
of international concern a few weeks ago, especially worried
about the countries that don’t have the capacity to manage
complex epidemics or public health crises.
In many respects the public health emergency was not
declared so much for the UK or the USA, although we’re
certainly concerned, but you can imagine as this
virus goes into sub—Saharan Africa, we’ve got 1—3 million
Chinese living there now through the Belt
and Road Initiative
in the Middle East, you get the idea.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news:
Iraq’s Prime Minister—designate,
Mohammed Allawi, has withdrawn his nomination,
hours after parliament again failed to approve
his proposed cabinet.
In a damning tweet, Mr Allawi accused Iraqi politicalforces,
without naming them, of not being serious
about reform and protesters’ demands.
Several thousand people have rallied in central Prague
against the Czech Republic’s billionaire Prime Minister
and the way his government treats public institutions.
Prime Minister Andrej Babis is facing police charges over
an EU subsidy fraud.
The EU has also launched a probe into his dual role
as a politician distributing EU subsidies — and an entrepreneur
receiving them.
Actors and musicians from France’s most prestigious
theatre troupe have protested against President Macron’s
pension reforms with a special production on the steps
of the Comedie Francaise.
Performers at the state—owned theatre currently have
a separate pension system, and many hung from the windows
of the theatre to perform a selection of scenes
from Moliere’s play ‘The Miser’.
Greece says it has stopped almost 10,000 migrants crossing
over the land borderfrom Turkey, which is struggling
to deal with the number of people fleeing Syria’s civil
{SH F
The growing crisis comes after an airstrike in Syria
killed at least 33 Turkish soldiers deployed to support
the Syrian opposition.
Turkey’s President has said he will break his country’s
deal with Brussels — to prevent migrants entering the EU —
unless he gets greater support for his intervention in Syria.
Orla Guerin reports from the Turkey and Greece border.
At first light, theyjoined the migrant trail from Turkey.
Heading for the River Meric,
all that separates them from Europe.
This small group manages to cross, reaches the shores
of Greece, which fears a new flood of refugees.
At border crossings with Turkey, it’s been
pushing them back.
Greece doesn’t want a repeat of 2015.
Caught up in the chaos this afternoon, Reza,
an Iranian we met who hopes to meet London.
They’re pushing us by water...
COUGHS
..teargas.
It’s not fair.
And the young have been in the firing line,
like 1—year—old Yeshar, whose family is from Afghanistan.
"The Greeks a shot at us and threw tear gas at him,"
says his father, Ziman, "he could have died."
But for Turkey, which has been sheltering almost 4 million
Syrians, the refugees are new human bargaining chips
being used to put pressure on Europe.
Well, families are still arriving here and they’re not
coming by accident, they’re being encouraged to travel
by the Turkish authorities led to
believe they can enter Europe.
Instead they are stuck here with no way to cross
into Greece and they and their children are having to camp out
in the cold.
And this is what awaits them now at the border,
a battleground.
Greece says it won’t allow a free—for—all.
Turkey says it’s overwhelmed by refugees.
It’s determined that Europe will share the fallout
from Syria’s long and brutal war.
Orla Guerin, BBC News, on the Turkey—Greece border.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
The 220—year—old piano that’s seen war and peace in Paris,
the north African desert and New York —
and could fetch more than $1 million at auction.
First, the plates slid gently off the restaurant tables.
Then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and people crashed
sideways and downwards, and it was just a matter
of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
The hydrogen bomb.
On a remote Pacific atoll, the Americans had successfully
tested a weapon whose explosive force dwarfed that of the bomb
dropped on Hiroshima.
I had heard the news earlier, and so my heart went
bang, bang, bang!
The constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights
as citizens of the United States, and they should be
protected even in the right to test them out, so that they
don’t get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
This religious controversy — I know you don’t want to say
too much about it — but does it worry you that it’s
going to boil up when you get to the States?
Well, it worries me, yes, but I hope everything will be
all right in the end, as they say.
This is BBC World News.
The latest headlines:
Democratic Party presidential contender
Pete Buttigieg is pulling out of the White House race.
It’s expected to boost Joe Biden’s chances.
Scientists in the United States say the Covid—19
virus may have been spreading undetected in Washington State
for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
The Afghan government has started picking over
the details of the deal signed by the Taliban
and the US on Saturday.
The historic deal will see thousands of American troops
leave Afghanistan in return for commitments from the Taliban,
the focus is now on how the agreement will be
implemented and if promises will be kept.
Chief international correspondent Lyse Doucet
has this report.
The first win for Afghans — a week of relative calm.
What was called a reduction in violence
before the signing of a deal.
What happens now?
The agreement initialled on Saturday isn’t
clear on this, at least not in the public document.
But in Doha, in Kabul, they will
keep monitoring it.
I asked the Qatar special envoy, will this
partial truce continue?
We hope it will continue.
The parties and the people of Afghanistan
saw the result of the reduction in violence — how many lives
we saved, they saved.
And I think they have moral, religious and
legal obligations.
And if they don’t respect them? Again, we hope that...
Hope is not a strategy as the Pentagon likes
to say.
We hope that they respect their...
their obligation in accordance with the agreement.
But, I’m sure if there is a violation from one side,
the other side willl have the right in self defence
to act accordingly, but again, this
is not a solution.
What the Taliban want to see next is a prisoner release.
The deal says up to 5,000 of their men will be freed.
But in Kabul, President Ghani made it clear that it’s up
to their government and the Taliban are refusing
to talk to them.
We need to engage the parties to have proper
discussions about the way forward.
And I think they should compromise and I hope
the parties will move forward.
This is the beginning of the talks.
It should start today.
And I hope we can do something in the coming days.
If you had to choose one thing that
worries you that could cause this deal to unravel,
what would it be?
The spoilers.
The spoilers is the major obstacle in the past.
I’m afraid it might be, this obstacle might remain,
but I hope with this momentum and with the pressure
from certain major powers, these
spoilers should back off.
The spoilers are in Afghanistan or in neighbouring countries?
Mostly I would say in neighbouring countries.
Pakistan, Iran...
I’m not going to comment on this.
You can ask the Taliban, you can ask the Afghans
and they will tell you.
A lasting ceasefire, a peace deal, around the agenda
for Afghan talks.
for Afghan talks.
—— are on the agenda.
They’re expected to start this month if all goes to plan.
Lyse Doucet, BBC News, Doha.
Israelis go to the polls on Monday for the third
election in less than a year to try to break the country’s
political deadlock.
A key stumbling block to forming a governing
coalition has been corruption charges against Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu, who’s due to stand trial this month.
Here’s our Middle East editorJeremy Bowen.
On the Sea of Galilee, the Bible says Jewish fishermen
who followed Jesus used to debate the future.
Modern Israeli fishermen at election time still do.
On this boat, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s
supporters, led by the skipper Menachim Lev.
He values the bounty from the lake and the strength
he sees in Netanyahu.
Menachim thinks his father, who survived Auschwitz,
would have approved.
He is from here, he is from the Holocaust.
And my father tell me one thing — don’t trust nobody
in your life, trust only yourself and do everything
that is good for you.
The crew unites around fish, not politics.
This man is voting for the centre—left opposition,
worried that the cost—of—living is pricing young Israelis out
of their future.
A lot of young people want to move from Israel.
It is something that is happening.
But hopefully something will be ebetter, I don’t know.
Amid the electoral pyrotechnics, retired general
Benny Gantz, the opposition leader, has had to deny claims
from the Netanyahu camp that he made sex videos.
Netanyahu, he says, is trying to lie and cheat his
way to victory.
The Prime Minister is claiming credit for Donald Trump’s
so—called deal of century —
an attempt to end the conflict on Israel’s terms.
It allows Israel, in defiance of international law,
to annex settlements on [and Palestinians want for a state.
This is Shilo, where they’re building a new school.
The settlers went two election victories this year —
Netanyahu and Trump.
It is very important for us, both elections,
and we are engaged in all sorts of personalities
and organisations and groups to assure both here and there
that, as much as possible,
we get the people in office that we want.
Nearby, Palestinians were on a hilltop they believe
settlers might grab.
The old issues don’t go away.
And, as ever, it’s come down to control of the land —
that’s always been at the centre of the conflict,
a century ago and today.
By morning, Israeli forces were driving Pammians Palestinians
off the hill.
The last real chance of a negotiated peace
was collapsing when these young men were babies.
The big changes, political and diplomatic and especially
President Trump’s out—and—out support for the Israeli
government, is sharpening the conflict on the ground
and you can see it in places like this.
Conflict is normal for yet another generation —
the election won’t change that.
Jeremy Bowen, BBC News, on the West Bank.
A rare piano that’s been described as immortal goes up
for auction in Israel this week.
The Piano of Sienna, which is more than 220 years
old, has spent its life at the World’s Fair in Paris,
in a second world war African battlefield,
and has travelled from New York to Tel Aviv.
Stay ‘tuned’ for this story from Rich Preston.
With an unusually ornate design,
the instrument has had quite a life.
It was made in 1799 according to the Winner’s Auction House
inJerusalem by the Turin—based harpsichord maker
Sebastian Marchisio,
and has been described as a visual masterpiece.
He died before he could finish it, but his descendents
finished for him and gave it to his granddaughter
as a wedding gift.
It appeared at the World’s Fair in Paris in 1867 before
being given to Italy’s then—prince and future king
Umberto the First,
before falling into Nazi hands.
The piano surfaced again
after the 1942 Battle of El Alamein in Egypt
in a crate with a mine detector.
TRANSLATION: When the British forces opened it,
they were astonished to see a piano inside
buried in the desert sand.
From there, it ended up with an Israeli piano merchant
who fixed it up and took it to New York where
it was displayed in Steinway Hall.
TRANSLATION: It was displayed as a kind of eighth wonder
in the most well—known piano shop in New York,
and became a pilgrimage for pianists and enthusiasts.
Now its owner says it’s time to let go of this beautiful
creation and for the next chapter in its life to begin.
It goes under the hammer on Tuesday.
Rich Preston, BBC News.
Before we go, some bits of information we’re getting at
information we’re getting at the BBC regarding the new
the BBC regarding the new coronavirus. Thailand reporting
coronavims. Thailand reporting one new
coronavirus. Thailand reporting one new case of coronavirus, so
one new use of coronavims, so infected
one new case of coronavirus, so infected in Thailand is 43 and
infected in Thailand is 43 and this off the back of news the
this off the back of news the Moto GP in Thailand, due to
Moto GP in Thailand, due to take place on the 22nd of
take place on the 22nd of March, has been cancelled due
March, has been ancellad due to
March, has been cancelled due to the coronavirus. Also news
to the coronavirus. Also news from South Korea, for more
from South Korea, for more peopla have
from South Korea, for more people have died in South Korea
peopla have died in South Korea after
people have died in South Korea after contracting coronavirus
after contracting coronavirus -- four.
after contracting coronavirus —— four. All came from the
-- four. All came from the worst hit
—— four. All came from the worst hit area, Daegu. More on
worst hit area, Daegu. More on that breaking news on our
that breaking news on our website, BBC.com/news.
website, “(Loom/news. Thank
website, BBC.com/news. Thank you so much for watching.
Thank you so much for watching. Goodbye.
Hello.
With rivers running high and many afield still under
water, we could do with a little bit of better weather
news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
No, not going be completely dry but certainly compared
with recent weeks, won’t be anywhere near as wet
or as windy.
The jetstream is taking a more southerly track but what that
does mean is we’re into slightly cooler air,
so certainly chillier and by night with frost more likely.
That’s how we start the Monday morning commute with more
in the way of frost and even some ice around with showers
continuing through the north and west overnight.
Clearing away from East Anglia and the south—east quite
smartly but then brightening up.
Showers in the west, 3 mixture of rain, hail,
sleet and snow.
Few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant
during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw
for the weekend.
More of you on Monday will spend the day completely
dry or if not, just one or two showers passing your way.
The temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
Winds will overall be light, not going to feel quite as cold
in the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be
picking up across the north—west later.
Gail’s for a time for Monday night into Tuesday.
More on the way of showers starting to develop
through the night and they will push their way eastwards.
A bit of snow across parts of Scotland, even in the hills
of Northern Ireland and northern England later on.
Temperatures will be close to freezing in many areas
so frost and ice the greatest risk.
The coldest of the weather first thing on Tuesday morning
towards the east.
The set up for Tuesday, that weather front taking
showers eastwards initially.
More rain bearing weather fronts diverted down
towards France and Iberia thanks to that southerly
tracking jetstream.
They could be close enough to produce some rain over
the southernmost counties of England and over the Channel
Islands.
More showers around Tuesday morning — a wintry mix.
Those will clear away and it’s back to sunshine and showers
for many into the afternoon.
Showers mainly across some western areas.
Temperatures similar to those on Monday.
Then, as we head into the middle part of the week,
it looks like many will still stay mostly dry with showers
around here and there.
The chance of rain closer to the south coast on Wednesday
but overall, we’re continuing with that largely dry story.
Changes 3 little bit towards the end of the week,
Thursday night to Friday, we will see a weather front
push its way across — bringing a spell of rain
briefly.
Showers following on its wake and then a chance of some more
wet and windy weather towards the end of the week
and into next weekend.
By and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw
over the last few days and with some rain forecast
towards the end of the week, never stay too far away
from the flood warnings and they are there for you online.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
Pete Buttigieg — the first openly gay US presidential candidate —
Pete Buttigieg — the first openly gay US presidential candidate —
is to end his bid for the White House.
His decision to drop out comes just ahead of what’s known
as Super Tuesday, when M states hold primaries.
His withdrawal is likely to benefit the campaign ofJoe Biden.
Four more people have died in South
Four more peopla have died in South Korea
Four more people have died in South Korea after catching coronavirus.
Korea after catching coronavirus. All of them come from the worst hit
All of them come from the worst hit city of Daegu. One new case of
city of Daegu. One new case of coronavirus has been announced in
coronavims has been announced in Thailand.
Several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed to cross
into Greece, after Turkey announced it would no longer stop people
trying to enter the European Union.
Turkey is seeking Western support for its operations in Syria.
An extraordinary meeting of EU foreign ministers has been called
at Athens’ request.
IE
No new on BBC’s it’s time for HARDtalk. No,
Welcome to Hardtalk with me.
No,
We are in Cape Town.
The cape is the stronghold of South Africa’s main opposition
party, the democratic alliance, the DA.
And when it elected its first black leader five years ago,
many believed it was the start of a new era, my guest
is Mmusi Maimane, and this is his first interview
to an international broadcaster since he stepped down as Democratic
alliance leader in October.
What does his resignation tell us about race and politics
in South Africa today?
Mmusi Maimane in Cape Town, welcome to Hardtalk.
Mmusi Maimane in Cape Town, welcome to Hardtalk.
Thank you very much for having me.
Why did you step down as leader of the Democratic
alliance in October?
Well, I thought, at that point, that the DA and I did not
share a common vision.
At first, I pursued the vision of a nonracial South Africa,
I believe the DA needed to govern in more places, that the DA needed
to grow in the majority of South Africans who are black,
and there were a few people inside the DA who thought it
would be important for them to create an organisation that
served a particular race, and I felt that at that time,
there were divisions of which direction we should take
and that was important for me not to serve in that
kind of context.
When you became leader in 2015, May, you said you wanted to take the race
out of South African politics, so are you basically saying now that
you failed to do that?
No, I think it was important.
When I took over as leader of the DA in 2015, I made it very clear,
I said, "If you don’t see that I’m black, you don’t see me."
I became very deliberate about saying to him actually,
the DA needed to be an organisation for all races.
That, in fact, the only way to deal with race in South Africa
is when you can bring black people and white people to work
together, and then...
But you failed to do that. No.
You did.
Let me just tell you what a well—known commentator respected
here in South Africa said, "Unfortunately, many "people see
"Mmusi Maimane as something as a puppet,
"that there are powers behind the operation that are not black."
So, basically, you arejust a symbol, and there were
the white members of the DA pulling the strings.
Fundamentally not true.
I fought hard that we govern inJohannesburg.
And when you think about governing inJohannesburg, that requires that
actually black people, white people, people voted
for the DA, and they are working together.
I produce the most diverse caucus of the Democratic alliance
of those different races.
We fought hard for that.
The only failure that I would look at, when you pursue non—racialism,
it doesn’t always get rewarded at the polls, and so when we lost
1.5% of the vote in the national elections in 2019, there were few
people who started to attack this idea of non—racialism.
It is what is the future of South Africa, and if we start
to regress away from that, South Africa will become
even further polarised.
Let me just explain why commentators like that do say that you were,
sorry to put it crudely, a puppet on a string,
you have your predecessor as leader of the Democratic alliance,
the DA, she was in power from 2007—2015, she is a veteran
South African politician, a former mayor of Cape Town here,
Premier of the Western Cape, you name it, and she’s now been
appointed as the chair of the Federal Council of the DA.
She really was calling the shots, wasn’t she, in the DA?
Absolutely not.
When I took on the DA, you will remember, that
in my tenure, Helen and I, in fact, had an open confrontation,
where I said to her, some of the statements
that she was making or not the things that she could say.
She didn’t resign though as premier
for the Western Cape, when you said that to her.
She said, for example, that South Africa’s Legacy had made
a positive contribution, which you objected to.
I objected strongly, and, actually, insisted that she didn’t serve
in the Council in the federal executive, and she agreed to that,
if you will understand it.
But she didn’t resign as premier of Western Cape.
I didn’t ask her to resign from that, I asked her to resign
from all the structures of the DA, that is the federal executive
and the Federal Council.
When she then got elected, it then became very clear that,
of course, both of us in that context could not pursue the same
vision, because I was pursuing a vision that is particularly
different to hers.
So I’m very comfortable, I think that that statement suggests...
But that’s the point I’m making, that she is now,
an analyst, he says, the return of Helen into one
of the party’s top three leadership posts was essentially confirmation
that Mmusi Maimane’s own colleagues within the Federal Council had lost
faith in his leadership.
Completely wrong.
She’s in a position of power, you are out to.
Completely not.
It was a symbolic response to what happened in the elections in 2019.
It had nothing to do...
and the projects that I pursued, you will remember, that in fact,
we were looking at governments
inJohannesburg, we were looking at the complexities of that.
I’m comfortable that it wasn’t even a vote of no—confidence
against my own leadership, it was in fact, the position
that she plays is not one of leader, it’s one of Chairman of the party.
And, frankly, at my own behest, had I stayed in the party,
I would’ve continued to pursue the vision that I had.
What I wasn’t willing to do is to force South Africa into this
very debate that we are having, where people say, well,
'berause there are white people in the party,
"they must be the ones that are in charge and not a black
"South African in place.
You said in your resignation speech in October that there has been,
for several months, a consistent and coordinated attempt
to undermine my leadership, and ensure that either this project
failed or I failed.
You said this extended to the smear campaign that was run on the front
pages of an Afrikaans weekly paper "in attempt
"in attempt to destroy my name
and my integrity. "
Completely.
What kind of smears are we talking about?
It happens in a political party where sometimes,
some of the institutions that are happening within the DA
actually didn’t do the job they were supposed to do.
So one of my great challenges that I had, a few people inside the DA
about my own leadership,
started to in fact, publicly, run these campaigns,
because all they wanted it was a DA that represents a particular
race, a minority race.
And because they knew themselves that had they gone to a DA’s
Congress, they wouldn’t be able to
master the numbers
they started to attack me personally.
What kind of things did they say that really upset you?
Suddenly, they started to raise questions about my own home,
which were not true.
They started to raise issues about the vehicle I was driving,
which were not true, and so all of this, to sort
of create a sort of sense of doubt was the sort of lack of moral
fortitude that those people demonstrate that ultimately led
to a point where I felt that the environment
within which we were working was toxic, it was not right.
Was toxic and not right.
Was it basically racism towards you?
I felt that some elements of it were, because there were some
elements that sought to say, because these were a group
of South Africans who thought that, for them, it’s important for the DA
to go backwards rather than go forwards, and they are willing
to pay any price to do that.
And so, I put it to you again, that, really, yourfour years
of stewardship with the Democratic Alliance have failed,
because a well—known writer here
in South Africa says "I have no doubt that
now that Mmusi Maimane has gone,
we will see an exodus of black leaders and members who will leave
the Democratic Alliance party."
That’s not a failure of a project.
But it will go back to being predominantly white again this.
Ultimately...
It still is, to be fair.
You may have increased the vote of black supporters, but it’s
still predominantly nonblack.
The tenure I had as 3 DA, to me, was the
direction that South Africa needs to move on and Ifought
hard for that.
That’s why we could govern in more places,
why we could move out of the
Western Cape and to be a party that was central to South African
politics.
That’s come to me, is a success of a project.
Now, when you look at the elections of 2019, there
was also an exodus of a number of white South Africans who went back
to a fairly minority white party.
Now you never want to lose votes, but ultimately come at the end of
the day, when you focus on the future of an organisation, you’ve
got to bring everybody together.
So, for me at this point of time,
it indicates there hunger for a nonracial movement in South
Africa.
So Ijust want to make it clear here that you,
can I basically paraphrase what you have been saying, is you have left
the Democratic Alliance and stood down as leader,
because it was
basically too white and there were strong and powerful
elements within it that made your life too
difficult as a black South African, is that essentially it?
In that speech that is that when I resigned
as they do not believe that
the DA is the best vehicle suited to advance my vision.
Because?
Because I fundamentally believe that there
are some within the DA that I believe are to be a minority
front.
And they were so powerful that you felt you had no choice but
to step down?
It wasn’t a fight worth having.
I mean, having said that, I want to be clear, that not
everybody in the DA was racist.
There were a few number of people who wanted to debate with us this
vision of non—racialism, they wanted to deny the history of South Africa,
they wanted us to not focus on addressing historical injustices,
they equally so were not committed in truth to a project of building
everybody together.
And that’s became a consistent point of
friction all the way throughout my leadership tenure,
and as a black South African, I could not in my own
self, betray the fact that I felt it was important to build a one
South Africa but you must address those
injustices.
It wasn’t a comfortable position for you to be in, you
brought up the situation, the election in May of 2019,
and under your the party had lost votes
for the first time in its history.
You lost five seats in the National Assembly.
You used to be the official opposition in South
Africa’s biggest province, as you said to me, lost votes
to the freedom fighters, the economic freedom
fighters on the left, and also the freedom front
plus Afrikaans party.
It didn’t do well.
No.
Firstly, let me clarify that when we went on to govern in
Johannesburg, the DA had never seen growth to that level.
Frankly, there were more black South Africans that
were voting for the DA than it’s ever had.
So, a loss of five seats, let’s place it in context
in a global situation, where populists
have risen on either end, where
elements of nationalism are starting to come
on board, and peopla are in
a climate of fear with economic conditions in South Africa,
such that peopla are losing
theirjobs, there is fear.
It was going to be natural that parties who sit in the
centre, that includes the DA and the ANC were
going to suffer losses, so Cyril Ramaphosa
lost more votes than I ever did under the ANC leadership,
in fact,
it was the biggest drop they had ever seen.
Precisely, you have should’ve benefited from that drop
to do well.
The benefit was we were fighting against elements of
populism, racial divisions, and I think I’m actually,to
have
stood at the level that we did some of the losses were only five seats,
is actually come in my view, very important stake in the ground for
the future of the DA.
I consider it, actually, the right foundation for
the DA to be able to go forward.
After the election, you commissioned a commission because he wanted to
explore why the DA had performed so badly, and this
is what the report found.
It’s worth quoting, it’s a bit long, "the overwhelming view
of those who made submissions
or with whom we have
discussions is that the
party leader, you, Mmusi Maimane, whilst immensely talented, committed
to the cause, hard—working, widely liked, can be indecisive
inconsistent, and conflict averse.
It’s our carefully
considered review that the most important factor in shaping the DA
circumstances is a failure of effective leadership."
They put the blame at your door.
I argued strongly that I disagreed with that
report.
Because he didn’t like the result?
No, the report had a diagnosis that was seeking problems.
The diagnosis was this, they wanted to go back to the DP,
if you like, to regress the organisation.
A precursor of the Democratic Alliance, as it were.
Correct.
Just because you disagree with the direction does not make it
an indecision, itjust means you disagree.
They disagree but the fact that the rest of the report makes it
quite clear — they didn’t
want us to govern in
Johannesburg in partnership with the Coalition of South Africans of
different parties, they didn’t want us,
they wanted us to remain in the
Western Cape, and because you disagree does not make it in
decision, itjust means that it’s not the decision you would’ve taken.
So you don’t thank you were basically
out of your depth, as
leader of the Democratic Alliance, this party that has been
the official opposition in South Africa
since the 19605.
The party, I mean.
Leadership is a hard job, you will make mistakes,
I’m not saying my record was perfect.
It can’t be.
Leaders make mistakes.
You would learn from your mistakes and you build.
I believe in the project I was working towards, and I
certainly believe that the DA was heading
in the right direction, and
it’s indicated even more so since my departure that the DA
is out of government, the DA is regressing
backwards command more public representatives can other different
sectors are starting to want to find other places.
Which to me is a tragedy, because ultimately, we want
to have a South Africa that works for all the people.
If the DA had failed to become the vehicle, it is
important to set up another vehicle.
You say that you now want to move on.
Correct.
And you have set up this movement for one South Africa,
not a political party yet, and there are already those
of you who are ahead of the game, Julius Malemma,
for example, the economic freedom
fighter set up this party a few
years ago, won 11% in the elections in May of 2019, they are already
parties occupying the space that you want to occupy.
The EFF is just another version of the ANC.
Julius would vigorously reject that.
He can reject that, but...
How they disrupted Ramaphosa?
On what basis?
Because all they wanted to argue was about personal issues
of all party matters.
It wasn’t about the ideological direction of this
country, South Africans are starved for an alternative.
If the EFF is not an alternative, it’s basically a
socialist leftist organisation, which is fundamentally just a
militant version of the ANC.
But he’s tapping into a mood that is popular with many particularly young
South Africans, for example, the student protests about fees must
fall in 2015, he...
They are not EFF orchestrated.
No, they aren’t, but he has captured the
mood there, where as you tried in October of 2015 to go to the
university in Cape Town to show your solidarity
with the students, what
happened, there were boos and chants, you were told to leave.
This was a bunch of people from one of
the unions in the university.
They were arguing a different case.
I want to reiterate what the starvation in South Africa
is for a vision of a nonracial South Africa, which the EFF has not
and the ANC has long forgotten that view,
it’s a view that says there needs
to be a social market system that allows and inclusive economy,
it’s a view that says there must be an accountable government,
both the ANC of the EFF are facing serious allegations of corruption
against them, which they must answer for.
It requires a future—focused orientation.
South Africans are asking
and calling out for a different alternative.
The biggest party that grew in the elections in 2019 was South
Africans who didn’t turn out to vote.
18 million did not turn out to vote.
How are you going to appeal to them when we’re not sure
what your platform or your vision is?
The platform is to fight in a movement that says,
"We need to build South Africans who can
coalesce together around the values
I’m articulating, nonracialfuture, an inclusive economy,
an accountable government, a future focused, and ultimately,
to be able to say they must be just as for the things that happen
in the past in this country.
We build on those values and bring society into silent voices
in this country.
I believe that will create an audience that is able to disrupt
the current institutional politics that we are seeing.
Easy to say, "I have this vision",
but when you look at the nitty—gritty of policies,
it is quite hard to implement this vision, so, for example,
let’s take one eye—catching policy of the ANC,
the black economic empowerment programme.
This is all about trying to address the injustices economically
of apartheid, and the idea is to encourage black economic
empowerment through ownership, and you say that you are opposed
to targets for black ownership,
yet here you are saying I think
there should be an inclusive economy for all black South Africans.
So make it clear, are you for black economic empowerment are not?
I’m for an inclusive economy.
I’m for an economy that recognises that black South Africans
are left out, that the face of poverty is still black
from a largely young, and therefore, but that doesn’t nullify the fact
that weight South Africans have a role.
BBBEE has simply benefited the elite in this country,
South Africa’s economic infrastructure actually puts 49%
of citizens as the underclass, the poor, who are depending
on welfare.
So if we are going to address that, BBBEEE have failed
willfully to that.
You must oppose that policy.
What I want to opposed up my equipment so you are opposed
to that programme?
That’s not being opposed to black inclusion into the economy.
But you just said also that doesn’t mean
excluding the role of white South Africans.
They do play a role of the social injustices.
They make up of 70% high net worth individuals.
Correct.
It’s blatantly obvious they are playing a key part
in the economy.
And they must contribute to building inclusion.
That’s the point!
And continue to be the beneficiaries of inequalities
in the economy?
Let me propose a different model.
Should they continue to be beneficiaries of this inequality
in the economy that 9% account for 70%...
They must continue to address the injustices of the past.
They must continue to do that.
In my proposal is this, let’s take one industry,
the insurance industry in this country.
It’s only got four big companies that still control
the insurance company.
Yes, I agree, the majority of them are white, but isn’t it about time
that rather than simply saying let’s talk about BBBEE,
we establish 3 jobs and justice fund will ultimately find new entrants,
with the majority of which are black, of course,
to set up more insurance companies.
All right, so another ill that you said affecting the ANC,
which, by and large, people except corruption.
Look, he has only been in power for two years as president,
sure, he was vice president, but he himself is talked
about the extensive looting by the state to the tune
of about $38 billion under the presidency ofJacob Zuma.
You have to give him time to try to tackla
You have to give him time to try to tackle that kind of corruption?
How much time?
He will never do it.
He’s only been in power for two years.
Frankly, he knows very clearly he will not arrest any members
Frankly, he knows very clearly he will not arrest any members
of his own party.
We will be having exactly the same conversation five years to come.
If you want to eradicate corruption, you have to eradicate the ANC.
He’s appointed the Zondo Commission to look at the allegations
of state capture.
He has appointed a highly respected former minister of finance
as minister of public enterprises,
and also kind of anti—corruption
tsar, so he’s taken the right steps,
you can just go and arrest people
willy—nilly, the public prosecution says there
will be high—profile arrests.
It’s his colleagues who are sitting in Parliament with him who key
benefactors of state capture.
He, himself, has allowed them to continue to function in Parliament.
This is a very crucial role that the president has.
His hands are tied come as you well know, by the pro—Zuma factions
in the ANC,
supporters of Cyril Ramaphosa issued a statement recently this year
saying, "Elements engaged in the long term project of state
capture regard the Ramaphosa presidency is necessary before
they are once more in power."
A very powerful statements, he opposes the ANC, so should
the rest of South Africa be an audience to ANC’s politics
while people aren’t doing theirjobs was what you have to got to give him
time to try to clean up South Africa.
I completely disagree.
If you want to fight corruption, why don’t you think about other
mechanisms to make it up by today introduce some form of technology
that would allow us to move away from corruption.
He would have been today able to nail down his cabinet so it’s
much more effective, but he’s
not doing any of those,
because he is in ANC president Emma continue to drive in and see agenda.
All right, so we do go from here, Mmusi Maimane?
The people want to know are you going to set up
new political party that’s going to contest the elections in 202A?
Are you just going to content to have this movement?
No.
We believe the movement will eventually contest
for elections, but here is the first...
Nationwide elections in 202A?
Will you stand in 2024 elections?
The next challenge is we have to bring electoral reform,
because I introduce that
because it’s important that this movement is clear.
We want to fight to change the way people are elected in this country.
If you just keep a one—party state, you end up with state capture.
We want to be able to stand in the elections with the view
that these are directly elected people in the community.
It’s not a one—party state.
The ANC win the elections fair and square wear,
you will not expect them to say
we have won the election, but we don’t want to be a one—party
state, we are going stand down.
It’s 1—party
It’s1—party dominance and I’m
It’s1-party dominance and I’m simply
It’s1—party dominance and I’m simply saying... Yes, because...
simply saying... Yes, because... Lots of the parties cannot appeal to
Lots of the parties cannot appeal to the black majority vote.
At this point in time, the liberation movements all end up
with the same vision of capturing the state.
It was in the ANC’s documents that focused on saying we will go out
and capture the elements of the state.
That’s not my issue.
Another party or briefly, finally, 48 political parties already
in South Africa, the opposition is splintered, you have
and the Freedom Fighters, as we said, so for example,
would you go
into alliance with the former mayor ofJohannesburg,
Herman, who also left the Democratic Alliance like you?
Let’s build a movement of South Africans that will come
together, let’s bring a number of political entities,
civil society to work together to be able to wrestle this big monolithic
animal called the ANC, let’s agree on values,
which are non—racialism, future focus, that we talk
about issues of climate and technology, that ultimately
we bring justice, we reform the electoral act so people
are elected directly, the way that people
are elected come elected directly, and when we do that,
ultimately, it’s notjust addition of another party,
but building a movement of South Africans that can bring
change to this country.
And that’s going to happen.
For example, Julius Malema, who has 3 come and have a chat
with me over whiskey, don’t be discouraged,
my big brother, you are a good human being, he said.
If he is willing to build a state ofjustice in this country,
jobs and focus on the future of this country, I will work with him,
but I’m not going to work with people who want to advance
any other view outside of that.
So we are building this movement for South Africans to go together.
Would he be the kingmaker and you the king?
Let’s cross that bridge when we get to it.
My focus now is building this movement
of all South Africans,
and people are responding positively.
The silent vote in this country is those that are not voting.
The silent voice are the citizens who are excluded from this economy.
This movement must be able to say, "Let’s work with those people,
fight for an inclusive economy, build a nonracialfuture,
and I believe that parties from different sectors
will come together.
1. II
IfI
If I was an ANC strategist, I would start more parties.
I want to bring people together
so we build one future for South Africa.
Mmusi Maimane, thank you very much indeed for coming onto HARDtalk.
Great to see you. Thank you.
Hello.
With rivers running high and many afield still under water,
we could do with a little bit of better weather news
and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
No, not going be completely dry but certainly compared with recent
weeks, won’t be anywhere near as wet or as windy.
The jetstream is taking a more southerly track but what that does
mean is we’re into slightly cooler air, so certainly chillier
and by night with frost more likely.
That’s how we start the Monday morning commute with more in the way
of frost and even some ice around with showers continuing
through the north and west overnight.
Not quite as frosty towards southern counties of England.
Outbreaks of rain and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing
in the morning.
Clearing away from East Anglia and the south—east quite smartly
but then brightening up.
Showers in the west, 3 mixture of rain, hail,
sleet and snow.
Few in number to begin with, becoming a bit more abundant
during the afternoon, but not as many as we saw
for the weekend.
More of you on Monday will spend the day completely dry or if not,
just one or two showers passing your way.
The temperatures around 7—10 degrees at their highest.
Winds will overall be light, not going to feel quite as cold
in the afternoon as it has done, but the breeze will be picking up
across the north—west later.
Gail’s for a time for Monday night into Tuesday.
More on the way of showers starting to develop through the night
and they will push their way eastwards.
A bit of snow across parts of Scotland, even in the hills
of Northern Ireland and northern England later on.
Temperatures will be close to freezing in many areas so frost
and ice the greatest risk.
The coldest of the weather first thing on Tuesday morning
towards the east.
This is set—up for Tuesday,
that weather front taking showers eastwards initially.
More rain bearing weatherfronts diverted down towards France
and Iberia thanks to that southerly—tracking jetstream.
They could be close enough to produce some rain over
the southernmost counties of England,
more especially over the Channel Islands.
More showers around by and large to start Tuesday morning —
a wintry mix.
Those will clear away and it’s back to sunshine and showers for many
into the afternoon.
Showers mainly across some western areas.
Temperatures similar to those on Monday.
Then, as we head into the middle part of the week, it looks like many
will still stay mostly dry.
There will still be some showers around here and there.
The chance of rain closer to the south coast on Wednesday
but overall, we’re continuing with that largely dry story.
It changes a little bit towards the end of the week.
Thursday night to Friday, we will see a weather front
push its way across, bringing a spell of rain briefly.
Showers follow on its wake and then a chance of some more wet
and windy weather towards the end of the week and into next weekend.
But by and large, still the rivers responding to the rain we saw over
the last few days, and with some rain forecast towards the end
of the week, never stay too far away from the flood warnings
and they are there for you online.
This is The Briefing.
I’m Sally Bundock.
Our top story:
New results suggest the coronavirus could have been
circulating in the US for weeks.
Up to 1,500 people may be infected.
In the US election campaign, Mayor Pete Buttigieg pulls out.
It could be a boost forJoe Biden’s campaign.
Pawns in a geopolitical crisis:
Turkey sends thousands of migrants to the border.
Greece calls an urgent meeting of EU ministers.
Counting the cost of coronavirus —
could the growing outbreak now lead to a global recession?
We take a look.
A warm welcome to the programme,
briefing you on all you need to know in global news,
business and sport.
And we’d like to hear from you.
Today we’re asking have you changed your behaviour,
routine or way you work due to coronavirus?
Do get in touch and tell us your story.
Just use the hashtag: BBCTheBriefing
We start with the latest on the coronavirus outbreak.
Scientists in the United States say the Covid—19 strain
of the coronavirus may have been spreading undetected
in Washington state for the last six weeks.
The US has two confirmed deaths caused by the virus —
both of them in Washington state.
The number of confirmed cases around the world
continues to rise.
Rich Preston has this report.
1m
New cases are being confirmed on a daily basis. Countries
on a daily basis. Countries that do not currently have the
that do not currently have the virus are preparing themselves
virus are preparing themselves for its almost inevitable
for its almost inevitable arrival. Officials in the US
arrival. Officials in the US state of Washington say up to
state of Washington say up to 1500 people may have veered
1500 people may have veered infected and the virus may have
infected and the virus may have been present in the state for
been present in the state for six weeks. On the east Coast,
six weeks. On the east Coast, the state of New York has
the state of New York has reported its first case. The
reported its first use. The total
reported its first case. The total number of confirmed cases
total number of confirmed cases nationwide is more than 80. The
nationwide is more than 80. The number of corona don’t virus
number of corona don’t virus deaths worldwide has now
deaths worldwide has now exceeded 3000. —— coronavirus.
exceeded 3000. -- coronavirus. The country
exceeded 3000. —— coronavirus. The country outside of China
The country outside of China with the most infections in
with the most infections in South Korea, with A76 cases on
South Korea, with 476 cases on Monday,
South Korea, with A76 cases on Monday, bringing the total to
Monday, bringing the total to more than 4000. South Korea has
more than 4000. South Korea has urged peopla
more than 4000. South Korea has urged people to stay at home
urged peopla to stay at home and
urged people to stay at home and scientist are continuing to
and scientist are continuing to try and find a vaccine and some
try and find a vaccine and some are being trialed on animals.
are being trialad on animals. That safety
are being trialed on animals. That safety testing cannot be
That safety testing cannot be compromised. It is a very hard
compromised. It is a very hard compressed Highline so we have
compressed Highline so we have seen via text and mid—sized
seen via text and mid—sized biotechnology and
biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies
pharmaceutical companies promising we will have a
promising we will have a vaccine in weeks. You can
vaccine in weeks. You ran forget it.
vaccine in weeks. You can forget it. Because of this
forget it. Because of this phenomena, we are looking at
phenomena, we are looking at least one year away before we
least one year away before we may have a vaccine and I’m
may have a vaccine and I’m guessing longer. Italy still
guessing longer. Italy still has the highest number of
has the highest number of coronavirus cases in Europe.
coronavirus cases in Europe. The head of the civil
The head of the civil protection for says the number
protection for says the number of infections had doubled in
of infections had doublad in more
of infections had doubled in more than 148 hour period and a
more than 148 hour period and a charity in Rome was closed on
charity in Rome was closed on Monday after one of the priests
Monday after one of the priests tested positive. The British
tested positive. The British Prime Minister, Boris
tested positive. The British Prime Minister, BorisJohnson
Prime Minister, Boris johnson is to
Prime Minister, BorisJohnson is to chair a meeting of the
is to chair a meeting of the emergency committee after a
emergency committee after a jump in infection rates in the
jump in infection rates in the UK and it comes as around 150
UK and it comes as around 150 awaiting repatriation from
awaiting repatriation from Tenerife where they have been
Tenerife where they have been in repatriation for a week.
in repatriation for a week. They will only be allowed home
They will only be allowed home if they have tested negative
if they have tested negative for the virus. COVID—19 is not
for the vims. COVID-19 is not as deadly as
for the virus. COVID—19 is not as deadly as other strange such
as deadly as other strange such as SARS, but what worries
as SARS, but what worries officials is the speed at which
officials is the speed at which the virus spreads, often with
the virus spreads, often with such mild symptoms.
Robin Brant is our Asia correspondent.
He’s in Hong Kong for us.
What is the latest from where
what is the latest from where you are? The
What is the latest from where you are? The latest is yet more
you are? The latest is yet more horrific figures, really, on
horrific figures, really, on China ‘s economy revealed today
China ‘s economy revealed today a private survey today revealed
a private survey today revealed that production and new orders
that production and new orders at factories in China on the
at factories in China on the mainland, remember
at factories in China on the mainland, rememberthe
at factories in China on the mainland, remember the world ‘s
mainland, remember the world ‘s second biggest economy falling
second biggest economy falling off a cliff in January and
second biggest economy falling off a cliff inJanuary and this
off a cliff inJanuary and this confirms what we saw from
confirms what we saw from official government statistics
official government statistis on
official government statistics on Saturday. The economy here
on Saturday. The economy here is already slowing to growth at
is already slowing to growth at 6.1%, the slowest China has
6.196, the slowest China has seen in
6.1%, the slowest China has seen in three decades with this
seen in three decades with this revealed the extent to which
revealed the extent to which the outbreak of coronavirus
the outbreak of coronavirus will have, a very, very
will have, a very, very significant effect on the
significant effect on the economy. Their work — their
economy. Their work - their workers
economy. Their work — their workers are still not back in
workers are still not back in factories and offices at the
factories and offices at the level the government wanted to
level the government wanted to see a few weeks ago and so what
see a few weeks ago and so what we’re seeing now is the market
we’re seeing now is the market is actually surging in certain
is actually surging in certain sectors, real estate and
sectors, real estate and infrastructure because they
infrastructure because they believe some sort of enhanced
believe some sort of enhanced enhanced stimulus from the
enhanced stimulus from the central bank on the mainland is
central bank on the mainland is all but certain but yet again,
all but certain but yet again, confirmation today in a second
confirmation today in a second survey of purchasing managers
survey of purchasing managers that the economy here,
that the economy here, particularly at the factory
particularty at the factory gates, is
particularly at the factory gates, is taking a significant
gates, is taking a significant knot from the whole thing.
knot from the whole thing. Despite that, markets in Asia
Despite that, markets in Asia seeing a little bit of upside,
seeing a little bit of upside, certainly in
seeing a little bit of upside, certainly inJapan where as you
certainly in japan where as you say, the
certainly inJapan where as you say, the action on the part of
say, the action on the part of central banks in
say, the action on the part of central banks inJapan and the
central banks in japan and the central
central banks inJapan and the central bank governor saying
central bank governor saying they are ready to take action
they are ready to take action if necessary, and that has
if necessary, and that has brought some relief? Yes, that
brought some relief? Yes, that is certainly the case. Shinzo
is certainly the use. Shinzo Abe, the
is certainly the case. Shinzo Abe, the Prime Minister of
Abe, the Prime Minister of japan, also
Abe, the Prime Minister of Japan, also talking about new
japan, also talking about new lagislation
Japan, also talking about new legislation being rushed
legislation being rushed through so they could, if need
through so they could, if need be, declare a national
be, declare a national emergency, so what everyone is
emergency, so what everyone is looking for, the normal person
looking for, the normal person returning to work in Hong Kong,
returning to work in Hong Kong, where civil servants have gone
where civil servants have gone back to the office, if you are
back to the office, if you are a much more significant
a much more significant investor with a lot of money,
investor with a lot of money, is reassurance that we are
is reassurance that we are seeing a sense of that from
seeing a sense of that from central bankers, as you said,
central bankers, as you said, in japan but
central bankers, as you said, inJapan but also on the
inJapan but also on the Chinese mainland. It looks
Chinese mainland. It looks almost certain now that Chinese
almost certain now that Chinese central bankers beyond those
central bankers beyond those rate cuts and efforts to help
rate cuts and efforts to help small if it to perhaps
small if it to perhaps something — that will move on
something - that will move on beyond the
something — that will move on beyond the smaller efforts to
beyond the smaller efforts to something more substantial. We
something more substantial. We will have a lot more on that in
will have a lot more on that in business briefing and we want
business briefing and we want to hear from you as I already
to hear from you as I already mentioned. Many have been in
mentioned. Many have been in touch already to say how it is
touch already to say how it is impacting you. I now over to
impacting you. I now over to the United States.
On Tuesday 1A, American States will decide who they want to be
the Democratic candidate to take on Donald Trump
in November’s presidential candidate but that field
will no longer include Pete Buttigieg.
The 38—year—old former mayor from Indiana has ended his bid
for the White House.
He’d enjoyed a meteoric rise from virtual unknown
to a leading contender, winning the first caucus
in Iowa but a poor showing in South
Carolina at the weekend
brought his campaign to an end.
Today is a moment of truth.
After a year of going everywhere, meeting everyone,
defying every expectation, seeking every vote, the truth
is the path has narrowed to a close, for our candidacy
if not for our cause.
And another of those values is responsibility,
and we have a responsibility to consider the effect
of remaining in this race any further.
Our goal has always been to help unify Americans,
to defeat Donald Trump and to win the era for our values.
APPLAUSE.
Little was known about the former Indiana mayor
before the start of the nomination process.
Our North America correspondent, Peter Bowes,
looks now at the future for him and for his supporters.
Pete Buttigieg had built up a tremendous amount of support
tremendous amount of support since he started this campaign
since he started this campaign as a virtual unknown, as a
as a virtual unknown, as a small town Mayor, working in a
small town Mayor, working in a small office without a huge
small office without a huge bank account behind him but he
bank account behind him but he managed to garner all of that
managed to garner all of that support by occupying largely
support by occupying largely the centre politically, similar
the centre politically, similar to joe
the centre politically, similar toJoe Biden, and of course
the centre politically, similar toJoe Biden, and of coursejoe
to joe Biden, and of course joe Biden
toJoe Biden, and of coursejoe Biden now beginning to be one
Biden now beginning to be one of the leading candidates,
of the leading candidates, alongside Bernie Sanders and
alongside Bernie Sanders and likely that
alongside Bernie Sanders and likely thatJoe Biden will
likely thatJoe Biden will actually benefit from Pete
actually benefit from Pete Buttigieg dropping out of the
Buttigieg dropping out of the campaign, in terms of votes
campaign, in terms of votes moving forward because the next
moving forward because the next big challenge is Super Tuesday,
big challenge is Super Tuesday, when four states around the
when four states around the country go to the polls, two of
country go to the polls, two of the biggest including
the biggest including California and Texas. There is
California and Texas. There is a lot at stake. Pete Buttigieg
a lot at stake. Pete Buttigieg leaving at this stage
leaving at this stage acknowledging that perhaps it
acknowladging that perhaps it is the
acknowledging that perhaps it is the end of the role in terms
is the end of the role in terms of the mathematics, that he and
of the mathematis, that he and his
of the mathematics, that he and his supporters could not see
his supporters could not see that road to victory, so he is
that road to victory, so he is stepping aside. Interestingly,
stepping aside. Interestingly, he did not, certainly at the
he did not, certainly at the meeting he had with his
meeting he had with his supporters, he did not support
supporters, he did not support any of the other candidates but
any of the other candidates but maybe that will come at some
maybe that will come at some point soon. What he did
point soon. What he did indicate is that is certainly
indicate is that is certainly not getting out of politics. He
not getting out of politic. He said
not getting out of politics. He said there is too much at stake
said there is too much at stake to stick to the sidelines. This
to stick to the sidelines. This is dearty a
to stick to the sidelines. This is clearly a man with a lot of
is dearty a man with a lot of support in
is clearly a man with a lot of support in the Democratic party
support in the Democratic party and many are saying he has a
and many are saying he has a strong future ahead of him.
Let’s brief you on some of the other stories
making the news:
Several thousand people have rallied in central Prague
against the Czech Republic’s billionaire Prime Minister
and the way his government treats public institutions.
Prime Minister Andrej Babis is facing police charges over
an EU subsidy fraud.
The EU has also launched a probe into his dual role
as a politician distributing EU subsidies and entrepreneur
receiving them.
Iraq’s Prime Minister—designate,
Mohammed Allawi, has withdrawn his nomination,
hours after parliament again failed to approve
his proposed cabinet.
In a damning tweet, Mr Allawi accused Iraqi politicalforces,
without naming them, of not being serious
about reform and protesters’ demands.
The EU’s Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier
and the UK’s negotiator, David Frost,
are due to meet in Brussels
for a first round of talks on future relations.
The talks will be held again every two to three
weeks, alternating between Brussels and London.
Eighteen days of talks have been scheduled until mid—May.
Today in Asia we have seen some recovery in markets in Asia,
recovery in markets in Asia, notably in Japan
recovery in markets in Asia, notably inJapan where early
notably inJapan where early losses were reversed, and the
losses were reversed, and the central bank supporting markets
central bank supporting markets and last week coronavirus wiped
and last week coronavirus wiped out $5 trillion from global
out $5 trillion from global stocks. We have the brief of
stocks. We have the brief of speed group for a briefing.
speed group for a briefing. Lovely to see you. Many are
Lovely to see you. Many are bracing themselves with what
bracing themselves with what will happen on stock markets. I
will happen on stock markets. I know it is hard to predict but
know it is hard to predict but at least we have seen some sort
at least we have seen some sort of support today. Yes, and the
of support today. Yes, and the earty
of support today. Yes, and the early markets have rallied a
earty markets have rallied a little
early markets have rallied a little bit after the sell—off
little bit after the sell-off last
little bit after the sell—off last week which some would say
last week which some would say was high time to have a
was high time to have a sell—off. We have had a very
sell-off. We have had a very good bull mn
sell—off. We have had a very good bull run for a while but
good bull run for a while but sentiment is everything. This
sentiment is everything. This is a story not only of supply
is a story not only of supply but demand challenges for
but demand challenges for markets, people are not buying
markets, peopla are not buying things and
markets, people are not buying things and that is disrupting
things and that is disrupting those all—important supply
those all—importa nt supply chains.
those all—important supply chains. Now, step back,
chains. Now, step back, sentiment is everything in
sentiment is everything in markets, everything for
markets, everything for investors. And all of the
investors. And all of the predictions that people have
predictions that peopla have made,
predictions that people have made, including lots of
made, including lots of business group, we’re just
business group, we’rejust about
business group, we’re just about to produce survey results
about to produce survey results this week, all of those things
this week, all of those things were done, all of those surveys
were done, all of those surveys were done before all the
were done before all the predictions were done before
predictions were done before this. It shows you how fickle
this. It shows you how fickle and sensitive markets are. And
and sensitive markets are. And they always have been but last
they always have been but last week was a significant drop,
week was a significant drop, the West we have seen for
the West we have seen for financial markets since the GFC
financial markets since the GFC more than ten years ago and I
more than ten years ago and I think we will see volatility
think we will see volatility for some time now depending on
for some time now depending on headlines and from where.
headlines and from where. Difficult to see that not being
Difficult to see that not being the use,
Difficult to see that not being the case, absolutely, Sally.
the use, absolutely, Sally. when you
the case, absolutely, Sally. When you look at the purchasing
when you look at the purchasing managers
When you look at the purchasing managers index in China,
managers index in China, notoriously difficult to read,
notoriously difficult to read, in China, it is at 35, the
in China, it is at 35, the lowest it has been and oil down
lowest it has been and oil down to $50 a barrel and commodities
to $50 a barrel and commodities are being hit. People are not
are being hit. People are not buying and purchasing, buying
buying and purchasing, buying is down. I am asking viewers
is down. I am asking viewers whether they are changing
whether they are changing behaviour, argue? I
whether they are changing behaviour, argue? lam not at
behaviour, argue? lam not at the moment, no, but
behaviour, argue? lam not at the moment, no, butl
behaviour, argue? lam not at the moment, no, but I am going
the moment, no, but I am going to watch what the British
to watch what the British government ‘s going to say and
government ‘s going to say and the countries I’m going to
the countries I’m going to visit as well. That will be the
visit as well. That will be the use
visit as well. That will be the rase for
visit as well. That will be the case for many people but
rase for many peopla but already
case for many people but already people are not making
already people are not making essential travel plans. Dare I
essential travel plans. Dare I say, people are not booking
say, peopla are not booking holidays
say, people are not booking holidays yet. That will all
holidays yet. That will all have an impact and come back to
have an impact and come back to the all—important sentiment,
the all-important sentiment, Sally.
the all—important sentiment, Sally. Thank you for now. Some
Sally. Thank you for now. Some strong coffee in the green room
strong coffee in the green room and a lot to take in between
and a lot to take in between now and then news briefing.
now and then news briefing. Going live now to
now and then news briefing. Going live now toJerusalem
Going live now toJerusalem because polls have just opened
because polls have just opened there.
Want to take you live to Tel Aviv briefly
because polls have just opened there in the third election
in a year to try to break the country’s
political deadlock.
A key stumbling block to forming a governing
coalition has been corruption charges against Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s longest serving leader,
who’s due to stand trial later this month.
But he’s been buoyed by support from the US
President Donald Trump and a recent controversial
pledge to expand Israeli settlements.
You can see that polling has
You ran see that polling has now
You can see that polling has now opened and we will keep you
now opened and we will keep you across that it develops.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come: All the sport,
including a setback for Leipzig in the Bundesliga —
losing ground in the race for the title.
won’t come out
First, the plates slid gently off the restaurant tables.
off the restaurant tables.
Then suddenly, the tables, the chairs and people crashed
sideways and downwards, and it was just a matter
of seconds as the ferry lurched onto her side.
The hydrogen bomb.
On a remote Pacific atoll, the Americans had successfully
tested a weapon whose explosive force dwarfed that of the bomb
dropped on Hiroshima.
I had heard the news earlier, and so my heart went
bang, bang, bang!
The constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights
as citizens of the United States, and they should be
protected even in the right to test them out, so that they
don’t get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
This religious controversy — I know you don’t want to say
too much about it — but does it worry you that it’s
going to boil up when you get to the States?
Well, it worries me, yes, but I hope everything will be
Well, it worries me, yes, but I hope everything will be
all right in the end, as they say.
You’re watching The Briefing.
Our headlines:
The Democratic Party presidential contender,
Pete Buttigieg, has pulled out of the White House race.
It’s expected to boost Joe Biden’s chances.
Scientists in the United States say the Covid—19 virus may have
been spreading undetected in Washington State
for the last six weeks, infecting up to fifteen hundred
people.
Greece says it’s stopped nearly 10,000 migrants
Greece says it’s stopped nearly 10,000 migrants
crossing the border into the EU from Turkey over the weekend.
Turkey says it cannot deal with the amount of people
fleeing Syria’s war.
Now Greek officials have announced they’ll block any
new asylum applications and turn illegal immigrants away.
From Kastanies on the Greek side of the border here
is our correspondent Jonah Fisher.
The route overland to Europe is
The route overtand to Europe is being
The route overiand to Europe is being given
The route overland to Europe is being given new life by
being given new life by Turkeys
being given new life by Turkey’s president. This road
Turkeys president. This road mns very
Turkey’s president. This road runs very close to the border
runs very close to the border between Greece and Turkey.
between Greece and Turkey. There are a couple of official
There are a couple of official crossing points which are now
crossing points which are now closed and heavily protected
closed and heavily protected but there are, we have been
but there are, we have been told,
but there are, we have been told. plenty
but there are, we have been told, plenty of other places
told, planty of other places along this
told, plenty of other places along this stretch where people
along this stretch where peopla ran get
along this stretch where people can get through. As the icy
ran get through. As the icy rain falls,
can get through. As the icy rain falls, we come across a
rain falls, we come across a family group from Afghanistan.
family group from Afghanistan. Pawns in a geopolitical crisis
Pawns in a geopolitical crisis and now shivering and alone.
They tell us they have been bust to the border by Turkish
bust to the border by Turkish authorities and then crossed
authorities and then crossed into Greece by cutting the
into Greece by cutting the barbed wire on the border
barbed wire on the border fence. Further down the road we
fence. Further down the road we find a group of West Africans.
find a group of West Africans. They say they walk along a dirt
They say they walk along a dirt track to get here. Evading
track to get here. Evading teargas and border guns. We
teary-as and border guns. We want to go
teargas and border guns. We want to go to Germany, we don’t
want to go to Germany, we don’t want to stay here in Greece. We
want to stay here in Greece. We want a better life for us and
want a better life for us and our
want a better life for us and ourfamilies. Then, as the
our families. Then, as the dock
ourfamilies. Then, as the clock approached midnight we
dock approached midnight we fame
clock approached midnight we came across four Young migrants
came across four Young migrants from the Middle East. You’ve
from the Middle East. You’ve come from Iraq and Syria... As
come from Iraq and Syria... As we started to talk, men with
we started to talk, men with their faces covered and no
their faces covered and no insignia arrived. The migrants
insignia arrived. The migrants were put in the back of a van
were put in the back of a van that had no numberplates.
that had no numberplates. Excuse me, where are they being
Excuse me, where are they being taken? To the police station.
taken? To the police station. What will happen? I am not in
what will happen? I am not in officer, 0K,
What will happen? I am not in officer, OK, I
What will happen? I am not in officer, 0K, lam not
What will happen? I am not in officer, 0K, lam nota
officer, 0K, lam nota sergeant. Greece says fewer
sergeant. Greece says fewer than 200 migrants have managed
than 200 migrants have managed to get through since Friday and
to get through since Friday and they have all been detained. At
they have all been detained. At one of the closed border
one of the closed border crossings we caught up with the
crossings we caught up with the defence minister. We saw people
defence minister. We saw people being taken away in a vehicle
being taken away in a vehicle yesterday with no numberplates
yesterday with no numberplates and men with their faces
and men with their faces covered. Is that normal
covered. Is that normal procedure here? In my mind,
procedure here? In my mind, normal procedure for one
normal procedure for one country, that is all I have to
country, that is all I have to say. But they are getting
say. But they are getting through the fence. A med is one
through the fence. A med is one of the few migrants we have met
of the few migrants we have met who comes from Syria. I don’t
who comes from Syria. I don’t have money water or food.
who comes from Syria. I don’t have money water orfood. I
have money water or food. I don’t
have money water orfood. I don’t have anything. Number
don’t have anything. Number migrants crossing is still
migrants crossing is still small but the daughter Europe
small but the daughter Europe is far
small but the daughter Europe is farfrom
small but the daughter Europe is far from closed.
small but the daughter Europe is farfrom closed. It
small but the daughter Europe is far from closed. It is
small but the daughter Europe is farfrom closed. It is no
is far from closed. It is no good. Very
is farfrom closed. It is no good. Very tiring. We will be
good. Very tiring. We will be discussing that story and more
discussing that story and more detail later on in our News
detail later on in our News Briefing. But let’s head over
Briefing. But let’s head over now to the BBC sports centre.
Hello I’m Chetan Pathak with Monday’s Sport Briefing.
Real Madrid are a point clear at the top of La Liga
after a 2—0 win over Barcelona at the Bernabeu.
ViniciusJunior got the opener twenty
minutes from the end,
becoming the youngst El Clasico goalscorer this century at 19.
Mariano then got the second in stoppage time with his first
touch of the season in La Liga.
It’s the first time Barcelona failed to score away at Real
in the league since October 2006.
In Germany RB Leipzig are three points behind the leaders
Bayern Munich after a 1—1 draw at home to Bayer Leverkusen.
Leon Bailey gave Leverkusen the lead.
Their advantage lasted
only three minutes though, with Patrik Shick heading
in from a free kick.
World number two Rafa Nadal won his third
Mexican Open title with a straight sets win over
22—year—old Taylor Fritz.
The Spaniard — at the bottom of the screen —
didn’t drop a set all week in Acapulco and took the first
6—3 against the unseeded American.
And he sealed his first title of the season by taking
the next 6—2.
It’s the 85th singles title of his career —
and a rather unique one — a pear shapped trophy to go
along with the sombrero.
Nadal all smiles at the end.
Winning a title is always
winning a tiﬂa is always special
Winning a title is always special and here in Latin
special and here in Latin America and Acapulco, it has
America and Acapulco, it has been the first big title I want
been the first big title I want in my career so
been the first big title I want in my career sol
been the first big title I want in my career so I am able to
in my career so I am able to stay here, after 15 years, it
stay here, after 15 years, it is amazing. I can’t think
is amazing. I can’t think enough all the people here. It
enough all the people here. It makes me feel at home every
makes me feel at home every single time.
Arsenal will look to bounce back from their defeat
to Olympiakos when they travel to Portsmouth in the fifth
round of the FA Cup on Monday.
Arsenal have won the cup 3 record 13 times —
and it’s the only trophy
Mikel Arteta can possibly win this season following their
exit from the Europe League.
But after a little over two months in thejob,
he admits it’s a work in progress:
m:
We are still far
We are still farfrom
We are still far from the debt to
We are still far from the debt h __
We are still far from the debt to —— dejected. And we have to
to -- dejected. And we have to keep fighting
to —— dejected. And we have to keep fighting game by game.
keep fighting game by game. There is no point us making big
There is no point us making big plans. The most important thing
plans. The most important thing is that we have to lift up now
is that we have to lift up now and we have to keep going and
and we have to keep going and react.
And finally — plenty of celebratory reaction
on social media to Manchester City’s 2—1 win over Aston Villa
in the League Cup final.
Here’s our favourite video from the dressing room —
Manchester City defender
Benjamin Mendy decided to celebrate with one of City’s
most famous fans — Noel Gallagher from Oasis.
The rest of the City players were able to provide great
backing vocals as a rendition of the song Wonderwall broke
out.
Noel no match for Mendy’s dance moves.
Managed to escape to the back in the end!
You can get all the latest sports news
at our website — that’s bbc.com/sport.
But from me Chetan Pathak and the rest
of the Sport team, that’s your Monday Sport Briefing.
A rare piano that’s been described as ‘immortal’ goes up
That is a great song at karaoke,
people always seem to know the words.
A rare piano that’s been described as ‘immortal’ goes up
for auction in Israel next week.
The Piano of Sienna — which is more than 220 years
old — has spent its life at 3 World’s Fair,
in a Second World War battlefield, has travelled
the world — and is expected to fetch more than a million
dollars.
Stay tuned for this story, from Gail MacLellan.
With an unusually ornate design,
the instrument has had quite a life.
It was made in 1799 according to the Winner’s Auction House
inJerusalem by the Turin—based harpsichord maker
Sebastian Marchisio,
and has been described as a visual masterpiece.
He died before he could finish it but his descendents finished
for him and gave it to his granddaughter
as a wedding gift.
It appeared at the World’s Fair in Paris in 1867 before
being given to Italy’s then prince and future king,
Umberto the First before falling into Nazi hands.
The piano surfaced again
after the 1942 Battle of El Alamein in Egypt
in a crate with a mine detector.
TRANSLATION: When the British forces opened it,
they were astonished to see a piano inside
buried in the desert sand.
From there, it ended up with an Israeli piano merchant
who fixed it up and took it to New York where
it was displayed in Steinway Hall.
TRANSLATION: It was displayed as a kind of eighth wonder
in the most well—known piano shop in New York and became
a pilgrimage for pianists and enthusiasts.
Now, its owner says it’s time to let go of this beautiful
creation and for the next chapter in its life to begin.
It goes under the hammer on Tuesday.
Stay with me on BBC News, I’ll be back with the Business
Briefing in just a few moments.
m:
We have been asking you about our top story today. We do have
our top story today. We do have the Prime Minister during a
the Prime Minister during a Cobra meeting here in the UK
Cobra meeting here in the UK today is the virus spreads in
today is the virus spreads in the UK and elsewhere outside
the UK and elsewhere outside China full so we have been
China full so we have been asking you, are you changing
asking you, are you changing your behaviour or your routine
your behaviour or your routine as a consequence? Tell us your
as a consequence? Tell us your story. Many people have been in
story. Many peopla have been in touch.
story. Many people have been in touch. Eric says that in
touch. Eric says that in addition to washing hands he is
addition to washing hands he is postponing travel and
postponing travel and restricting attending crowded
restricting attending crowded events and observing personal
events and observing personal space. He is doing a lot to try
space. He is doing a lot to try and prevent spread. Another
and prevent spread. Another Twitter user says they do not
Twitter user says they do not touch door handles with their
touch door handles with their bare hands anymore. Haley, a
bare hands anymore. Halay, a taxi
bare hands anymore. Haley, a taxi driver says she disinfects
taxi driver says she disinfects her taxi after every passenger
her taxi after every passenger and provide free hand
and provide free hand sanitiser. Thank you for the
sanitiser. Thank you for the comments, we will see you
comments, we will see you shortly.
Hello.
With rivers running high and many afield still under
water, we could do with a little bit of better weather
news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
news and to a certain degree, we’ll get that this week.
Nowhere we’ll get that this week. near as wet nor as
windy.
Nowhere near as wet nor as windy. Completely dry later in
windy. Complately dry later in the
windy. Completely dry later in the week but the jetstream is
the week but the jetstream is on a more southerly track at
on a more southerty track at the
on a more southerly track at the moment taking wet weather
the moment taking wet weather to France and Liberia but ——
to France and Liberia but -- France and
to France and Liberia but —— France and the Iberian
France and the Iberian Peninsula. And we start Monday
Peninsula. And we start Monday morning with a frosty and in
morning with a frosty and in place icy start. Temperatures
place icy start. Temperatures at or below sea —— freezing.
at or below sea -- freezing. Here, wet
at or below sea —— freezing. Here, wet snow mixed in, cooler
Here, wet snow mixed in, cooler from East Anglia in the
from East Anglia in the south—east first thing this
south-east first thing this morning
south—east first thing this morning so as the sunshine
morning so as the sunshine develops more widely. Icy rain
develops more widely. Icy rain across the North and the West
across the North and the West to begin with, sleet and snow,
to begin with, sleet and snow, more showers developing through
more showers developing through the day but not as many as we
the day but not as many as we saw through the weekend so more
saw through the weekend so more of you will spend the bulk, if
of you will spend the bulk, if not all day, dry on Monday with
not all day, dry on Monday with temperatures where they should
temperatures where they should be,
temperatures where they should he, the
temperatures where they should be, the wind later as well. The
be, the wind later as well. The wind will pick up Monday night
wind will pick up Monday night through Tuesday in Gail’s
through Tuesday in Gail’s across the North, more in the
across the North, more in the “Y
across the North, more in the way of rain and sleet and snow
way of rain and sleet and snow heading eastwards as we go
heading eastwards as we go through to Tuesday morning. An
through to Tuesday morning. An icy start and for some there
icy start and for some there will be lying snow around in
will be lying snow around in the north and west as we start
the north and west as we start the day. Nothing significant at
the day. Nothing significant at this stage but it could be a
this stage but it could be a wintry start to Tuesday is this
wintry start to Tuesday is this area of low pressure pushes
area of low pressure pushes weather fronts eastwards. As I
weather fronts eastwards. As I said, the
weather fronts eastwards. As I said, thejetstream is
said, the jetstream is southerly
said, thejetstream is southerly so the bulk of the
southerty so the bulk of the rain
southerly so the bulk of the rain will be over France. Close
rain will be over France. Close enough to produce wet weather
enough to produce wet weather near Devon and Cornwall and
near Devon and Cornwall and across the Channel Islands
across the Channel Islands through Tuesday. Elsewhere,
through Tuesday. Elsewhere, more on the way of showers
more on the way of showers around on Tuesday compared to
around on Tuesday compared to Monday, they were clear through
Monday, they were clear through the afternoon, looking dry and
the afternoon, looking dry and bright once again and we do see
bright once again and we do see the showers and extra of hail
the showers and extra of hail sleet and snow, the
sleet and snow, the temperatures are similar to
temperatures are similar to Monday. As we go into Wednesday
Monday. As we go into Wednesday and Thursday looks like a
and Thursday looks like a showery mix across the country
showery mix across the country with more of you spending time
with more of you spending time dry. Watching for rain close to
dry. Watching for rain dose to the
dry. Watching for rain close to the south of England and Wales.
the south of England and Walas. And
the south of England and Wales. And then as we see the weekend,
And then as we see the weekend, Thursday into Friday, one with
Thursday into Friday, one with will push eastwards and then
will push eastwards and then another one will start to push
another one will start to push insult turn wet and windy again
insult turn wet and windy again as we go into next weekend.
as we go into next weekend. Overall, a promising scene but
Overall, a promising scene but don’t forget the river is still
don’t forget the river is still responding to recent wet
responding to recent wet weather and that rain later in
weather and that rain later in the week. Steak oscillators
the week. Steak oscillators ﬂood
the week. Steak oscillators flood warnings, they are you on
ﬂood warnings, they are you on the BBC
flood warnings, they are you on the BBC weather website. ——
the BBC weather website. -- stay across
the BBC weather website. —— stay across the flood warnings.
This is the Business Briefing.
I’m Sally Bundock.
Counting the cost of coronavirus —
could the growing outbreak now lead to a global recession?
We take a look.
And China’s efforts to contain the virus hit
manufacturing in the workshop of the world.
Indian firms begin to run low on key imports.
And, thanks to promises of support from Japan’s central
bank, Asian financial markets have seen some relief but more
than $5 trillion was wiped off global stocks
just last week.
Share prices in Asia have reversed early losses
after Japan’s central bank promised
to support markets in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.
The virus is continuing to spread across the world,
with the total number of cases now close to 90,000
and the economic impact is growing.
Factory activity in China fell at a record rate in February,
as manufacturers closed their operations to contain
the virus.
China’s official measure of manufacturing activity the
Purchasing Manager’s Index,
dropped to 35.7 from 50 inJanuary —
that’s their worst on record.
China makes up more
than a quarter of world manufacturing and is
the world’s largest exporter, so this drop will have
a knock—on effect on well—known brands including Apple,
Diageo and Volkswagen.
And that’s got markets spooked.
Last Friday,
the three main US indexes ended the week down 10% —
their worst week since
the global financial crisis.
The UK’S FTSE 100 index meanwhile
dropped 13% over the week, wiping a combined £210 billion,
or $269 billion,
off the value of some of the world’s biggest
companies.
And here’s how the Asian markets
have been performing today.
m:
We have seen some relief, as I mentioned but it is not across
mentioned but it is not across the board. Let’s now go to the
the board. Let’s now go to the Asia business hub to get the
Asia business hub to get the latest. And Sharon is a cross
latest. And Sharon is a cross it for all of us, give us more
it for all of us, give us more detail how this is able to
detail how this is able to boost sentiment, the comments
boost sentiment, the comments from japan?
boost sentiment, the comments from Japan? Absolutely Sally
from japan? Absolutely Sally and you
from Japan? Absolutely Sally and you summed it all up. What
and you summed it all up. what a
and you summed it all up. What a difference a week and makes!
a difference a week and makes! We saw the Asian market
We saw the Asian market starting off reflecting a
starting off reflecting a massive sell—off last week in
massive sell-off last week in the US
massive sell—off last week in the US and Europe which are
the US and Europe which are illustrated as well but by
illustrated as well but by mid—morning it all started to
mid-morning it all started to change here,
mid—morning it all started to change here, the Hong Kong
change here, the Hong Kong index and Chinese markets were
index and Chinese markets were all ﬂat to hire and the Nikkei
all ﬂat to hire and the Nikkei reversing some of the
all flat to hire and the Nikkei reversing some of the steeper
reversing some of the steeper declines and despite the awful
declines and despite the awful news that you mentioned of the
news that you mentioned of the factory output in China, which
factory output in China, which is a key gauge of activity,
is a key gauge of activity, falling at its masters pace on
falling at its masters pace on record in February, essentially
record in Febmary, essentially showing
record in February, essentially showing that Chinese economy is
showing that Chinese economy is really suffering. This is the
really suffering. This is the world ‘s second largest of
world ‘s second largest of course and it is dealing a
course and it is dealing a severe blow to factories across
severe blow to factories across Asia, including Japan, South
Asia, including japan, South Korea,
Asia, including Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, really showing
Korea, Taiwan, really showing evidence yet of the damaging
evidence yet of the damaging effects of the epidemic on the
effects of the epidemic on the global business and yet markets
global business and yet markets are rebounding. Why, you may
are rebounding. why, you may ask?
are rebounding. Why, you may ask? Because there are hopes
ask? Because there are hopes that central banks around the
that central banks around the world may come to the rescue
world may come to the rescue and stabilise the global
and stabilise the global sell—off and this is after the
sell-off and this is after the Bank
sell—off and this is after the Bank of Japan
sell—off and this is after the Bank ofJapan moved to take
Bank ofJapan moved to take efforts to try and stabilise
efforts to try and stabilise the market and we saw the
the market and we saw the central bank making a rare
central bank making a rare statement, something it often
statement, something it often does not do, think they would
does not do, think they would strive to provide ample
strive to provide ampla liquidity
strive to provide ample liquidity and ensure stability
liquidity and ensure stability in financial markets and that
in financial markets and that of course after the massive
of course after the massive sell—off that you were just
sell-off that you were just telling us
sell—off that you were just telling us about. The Federal
telling us about. The Federal reserve on Friday said
reserve on Friday said something similar. They hinted
something similar. They hinted at a fresh interest rate cuts
at a fresh interest rate cuts at the ranks next meeting but
at the ranks next meeting but of course all of this is still
of course all of this is still “P
of course all of this is still up in the air. We are seeing
up in the air. We are seeing markets reversing that analysts
markets reversing that analysts are still warning of further
are still warning of further turmoil on trading floors as
turmoil on trading floors as governments struggle to contain
governments struggle to contain the coronavirus, which is now
the coronavims, which is now killed
the coronavirus, which is now killed more than 3000 and
killed more than 3000 and infected am almost 19,000. 0K,
infected am almost 19,000. 0K, thank you.
Joining me now is Markus Kuger, chief economist
at Dun & Bradstreet.
You are listening to that in watching markets and watching
watching markets and watching economic data closely, what do
economic data closely, what do you think? There are obviously
you think? There are obviously two transmission channels and
two transmission channels and how it can impact, and the
how it ran impact, and the company
how it can impact, and the company has analysed that and 5
company has analysed that and 5 million companies around the
million companies around the globe sourced directly from
globe sourced directly from China and currently trying to
China and currently trying to include data from South Korea,
include data from South Korea, which saw some falls last
which saw some falls last weekend as well is Italy so
weekend as well is Italy so that is a severe risk for the
that is a severe risk for the economy but that is the
economy but that is the macroeconomic component, China
macroeconomic component, China accounts for 20% of GDP and the
accounts for 2096 of GDP and the could be
accounts for 20% of GDP and the could be severe knock—on
could be severe knock—on effects for those economies.
effects for those economies. when you
effects for those economies. When you say severe, do you
when you say severe, do you think we
When you say severe, do you think we could see a global
think we could see a global recession, how severe are we
recession, how severe are we talking about? Certainly some
talking about? Certainly some economies more exposed than
economies more exposed than others. We have to remember
others. We have to remember that the crisis comes at a time
that the crisis comes at a time when global GDP growth has
when global GDP growth has already been week in
when global GDP growth has already been week inJapan,
already been week in japan, Italy, GDP
already been week inJapan, Italy, GDP fell in the last
Italy, GDP fell in the last quarter and that has nothing to
quarter and that has nothing to do with coronavirus so without
do with coronavirus so without more monetary stimulus or
more monetary stimulus or fiscal stimulus, there is a set
fiscal stimulus, there is a set - at risk
fiscal stimulus, there is a set — at risk that some countries
— at risk that some countries authentic recession. Italy
authentic recession. Italy announced on Sunday that 3.6
announced on Sunday that 3.6 billion euros in stimulus for
billion euros in stimulus for those companies in the areas
those companies in the areas affected in northern Italy. We
affected in northern Italy. We are hearing from Japan’s
are hearing from Japan’s central bank that the Fed is
central bank that the Fed is implying it is ready to help.
implying it is ready to help. How some of these countries
How some of these countries going to afford to pay for
going to afford to pay for this? Big question, Italy’s
this? Big question, Italy’s government deficit has really
government deficit has really been very high and the proposed
been very high and the proposed measures are very small in
measures are very small in size, so questionable whether
size, so questionabla whether that
size, so questionable whether that will be enough help those
that will be enough help those economies in the north of the
economies in the north of the country. From a monetary point
country. From a monetary point of view, we also have to keep
of view, we also have to keep in mind that interest rates are
in mind that interest rates are really rock bottom and have
really rock bottom and have been rock bottom so this
been rock bottom so this transmission channel is
transmission channel is questionable. I went about the
questionabla. I went about the fear
questionable. I went about the fear factor,
questionable. I went about the fearfactor, everyone is
fear factor, everyone is talking
fearfactor, everyone is talking about it everywhere in
talking about it everywhere in the world. For this impact
the world. For this impact decisions on holidaying and
decisions on holidaying and what they may do, some people
what they may do, some peopla are
what they may do, some people are stockpiling all sorts of
are stockpiling all sorts of things are going on depending
things are going on depending on where you are and how
on where you are and how exposed you. What impact could
exposed you. what impact could that
exposed you. What impact could that have? On economic
that have? On economic activity? Sentiment is a key
activity? Sentiment is a key driver and we’ve seen the PMI
driver and we’ve seen the PMI from China and waiting on data
from China and waiting on data from North America but if
from North America but if sentiment is hit by the crisis
sentiment is hit by the crisis and I expect this hit, then
and I expect this hit, then private consumption could fall
private consumption could fall and that would impact on the
and that would impact on the economy. Thank you for your
economy. Thank you for your time, we appreciate it, and
time, we appreciate it, and lots more detail and advice on
lots more detail and advice on the website. Take a look.
China is India’s second largest trading partner
and, with billions of dollars’ worth of trade every year,
India has become heavily dependent
on its Asian partner.
However, as we’ve been hearing, the coronavirus outbreak
is beginning to cause major disruption to supply chains
and nowhere more so than in India as the BBC’s
Devina Gupta has been finding out.
For the past two years, this television factory in a Western
television factory in a Western state has applied new
state has applied new generation televisions to
generation televisions to global brands across India.
global brands across India. They make 80,000 LED TV sets
They make 80,000 LED TV sets every month. The glass panel
every month. The glass panel and electronic chips used for
and electronic chips used for it are not available in India,
it are not available in India, so they are heavily dependent
so they are heavily dependent on China to import them. But
on China to import them. But with the coronavirus outbreak,
with the coronavirus outbreak, factories there are shot. That
factories there are shot. That has put 23—year—old who manages
has put 23-year-old who manages the plant in a
has put 23—year—old who manages the plant in a tough spot.
the plant in a tough spot. Already, 60— 70% components we
Already, 60- 7096 components we are using we
Already, 60— 70% components we are using we are highly
are using we are highly dependent on China so the glass
dependent on China so the glass has already been increased so
has already been increased so for the next quarter, they are
for the next quarter, they are definitely short in supply and
definitely short in supply and at least 15% will stop for
at least15% will stop for retailers. China exports over
retailars. China exports over $50
retailers. China exports over $50 billion worth of goods to
$50 billion worth of goods to India and while most of it is
India and whila most of it is ready made
India and while most of it is ready made product, there are
ready made product, there are cmcial, raw
ready made product, there are crucial, raw materials used by
cmcial, raw materials used by farming and
crucial, raw materials used by farming and auto industries
farming and auto industries that will be a source of worry.
that will be a source of worry. while big
that will be a source of worry. While big traders do have some
whila big traders do have some inventory to
While big traders do have some inventory to tie over, the next
inventory to tie over, the next two to three months is a small
two to three months is a small trade as small traders are
trade as small traders are struggling to meet the orders.
stmggling to meet the orders. For now,
struggling to meet the orders. For now, many businesses are
For now, many businesses are having to look for suppliers
having to look for suppliers outside of China. Taiwan, South
outside of China. Taiwan, South Korea and Japan have some
Korea and Japan have some electronic chip dealers who can
electronic chip dealcrs who can help us but
electronic chip dealers who can help us but coronavirus is
help us but coronavirus is spreading there also so it is
spreading there also so it is better to get supply from there
better to get supply from there as soon as possible. But not
as soon as possible. But not everyone can afford it and
everyone ran afford it and some,
everyone can afford it and some, like this factory have
some, like this factory have cut production by half as they
cut production by half as they mn out
cut production by half as they run out of key chemical
run out of key chemical ingredients imported from
ingredients imported from China. We are paying twice for
China. We are paying twice for the raw material but because of
the raw material but because of the price on medicines we
the price on medicines we cannot raise the cost for the
cannot raise the cost for the consumers that we have cut
consumers that we have cut production and in the coming
production and in the coming time it will hurt the labour
time it will hurt the labour force as well. Job losses in
force as well. job losses in these
force as well. Job losses in these small enterprises will
these small enterprises will further hurt the Internet
further hurt the Internet economy, facing a slowdown.
economy, facing a slowdown. China is getting its factories
China is getting its factories back to work but for customers
back to work but for customers like this, the shortage of
like this, the shortage of materials will take weeks to
materials will take weeks to clear.
Now let’s brief you on some other business stories:
A hundred British negotiators are travelling
to Brussels to begin talks about a new trade deal
with the EU.
The first phase of discussions, due to last four days,
will be led by the Prime Minister’s Europe advisor,
David Frost.
They’ll also cover areas such as co—operation
on security and transport.
Elsewhere, the UK’s Prime Minister BorisJohnson
has promised to "drive a hard bargain" as he set out the UK’s
negotiating position for a post—Brexit free trade
deal with the US.
Talks on a deal are expected to begin later this month
with healthcare and food standards set to be among
the key issues discussed.
That’s it for the Business Briefing this hour.
m:
We will stay with more of those stories such as coronavirus in
stories such as coronavirus in a moment.
The south Wales valleys could see as much as 50%
more rainfall in the next ten years, with weather experts
warning that the devastation caused by Storm Dennis
is a "taste of things to come".
Wyre Davies reports.
The floods that tore through
The ﬂoods that tore through these
The floods that tore through these communities have left
these communities have left devastation in their wake and
devastation in their wake and residence driven from homes. A
residence driven from homes. A man in his 905
residence driven from homes. A man in his 90s rescued by
man in his 905 rescued by stretcher on his birthday. A
stretcher on his birthday. A young woman almost drowned in
young woman almost drowned in her bed by rising water levels.
her bed by rising water levels. People are shellshocked. I’m
People are shellshocked. I’m surprised that everybody
surprised that everybody survived. The water came in so
survived. The water fame in so quick and
survived. The water came in so quick and people were surprised
quick and people were surprised to quickly, people could have
to quickly, people could have drowned. Lives and livelihoods
drowned. Lives and livelihoods were completely overwhelmed as
were completely overwhelmed as the River Taff burst its banks
the River Taff burst its banks and rising waters at this car
and rising waters at this car showroom meant that hundreds of
showroom meant that hundreds of vehidas
showroom meant that hundreds of vehicles were written off.
vehicles were written off. Businesses like this furniture
Businesses like this furniture store were cleaned out. This
store were cleaned out. This will cost thousands to replace
will cost thousands to replace and unlike some big stores,
and unlike some big stores, they are not covered. The
they are not covered. The Council is giving flooded
Council is giving flooded businesses £1000 each to get
businesses £1000 each to get them back on their feet and the
them back on their feet and the Welsh government has promised
Welsh government has promised £10 million towards emergency
£10 million towards emergency help but it is nowhere near
help but it is nowhere near enough. Lives have been turned
enough. Lives have been turned upside down in communities like
upside down in communities like this. The human cost is clear
this. The human cost is clear but it could cost hundreds of
but it could cost hundreds of millions of pounds to clear up
millions of pounds to clear up and repair the damage to homes,
and repair the damage to homes, businesses and communities. But
businesses and communities. But there were warnings that this
there were warnings that this was not going to be a
there were warnings that this was not going to be a1—off and
was not going to be a 1-off and this is
was not going to be a1—off and this is the shape of
was not going to be a 1—off and this is the shape of things to
this is the shape of things to come. As a cleanup continues,
come. As a cleanup continues, the Welsh government says
the Welsh government says addressing the issues around
addressing the issues around climate change is a priority.
climate change is a priority. The warning signs are there.
The warning signs are there. More rainfall and flooding is
More rainfall and flooding is inevitable. How will we deal
inevitable. How will we deal with it when the next deluge
with it when the next deluge comes?
Coming up at six o’clock on Breakfast, Dan Walker
and Louise Minchin will have all the day’s news, business
and sport.
This is The Briefing from BBC News.
The latest headlines:
Scientists in the United States say the Covid—19 virus may have
been spreading undetected in Washington State for six
weeks, infecting hundreds of people.
One man is now confirmed to have died from the virus
in the US.
Pete Buttigieg — the first openly gay US presidential
candidate — has ended his bid for the White House.
His decision to drop out comes just ahead of what’s known
as Super Tuesday, when M states hold primaries.
Several thousand migrants are demanding to be allowed
to cross into Greece, after Turkey announced it
would no longer stop people trying to enter
the European Union.
Greece has called an extraordinary meeting
of EU foreign ministers.
your people use
Now it’s time to look at the stories that are making
at the stories that are making
the headlines in the media across the world.
We begin with The times looking ahead
to the emergency coronavirus
meeting being held by the government here
in London later.
It quotes BorisJohnson saying they’ll stop at nothing to stem
the spread of the virus and reports that a lockdown
on whole cities hasn’t been ruled out.
The Financial Times looks at Italy and how
it’s injecting $3.6 billion dollars into
its economy to mitigate
the fallout from it becoming Europe’s hotbed for the virus.
Die Welt now and like all the German media,
its main story
is the thousands of migrants gathering on Turkey—Greece
border after Turkey’s president said he’d open the gates
to the EU.
Pete Buttigieg bowing out is a big story for
Business Insider — it quotes the Democrat who’d
hoped to become his party’s pick to take on Donald Trump —
saying he’d made history.
And finally, the i looks at wellbeing in the workplace,
say more and more companies
say more and more companies are offering wellness packages. So
offering wellness packages. 50 within the job ad, it is
within the job ad, it is becoming more of a discussion
becoming more of a discussion point.
With me is Oliver Cornock who’s Editor—in—Chief, Oxford
Business Group.
Let’s get stuck in. Most of the front pages in the UK and I
front pages in the UK and I imagine elsewhere in the world
imagine elsewhere in the world have coronavirus front—end
have coronavirus front-end centre. They
have coronavirus front—end centre. They were looking at
centre. They were looking at the Cobra meeting today. An
the Cobra meeting today. An interesting story in the times
interesting story in the times because it talks about
because it talks about worst—case scenario and what
worst-case scenario and what that might
worst—case scenario and what that might be. At the moment
that might be. At the moment the UK government had put out
the UK government had put out the message that they are very
the message that they are very much on a containment footing.
much on a containment footing. So it is containment and it is
So it is containment and it is the worst case that 80% of the
the worst case that 8096 of the population
the worst case that 80% of the population can be infected and
population ran be infected and 5000
population can be infected and 5000 people could die. We are
5000 peopla could die. We are not
5000 people could die. We are not there yet and that is the
not there yet and that is the four message. I get the
four message. I get the impression that the message
impression that the message government wants to put out
government wants to put out there. Social distancing might
there. Social distancing might be important and the export of
be important and the export of events coming up. And other
events coming up. And other peopla
events coming up. And other people enclose contained
people enclose contained environments. That may need to
environments. That may need to be reviewed. Scales that make
be reviewed. Scales that make schools are already closing in
schools are already closing in certain places on the question
certain places on the question is that we just don’t know how
is that we just don’t know how far this is going to be spread.
far this is going to be spread. And all the time, these awful
And all the time, these awful phrases about the super
phrases about the super spreaders and patient zero, I
Spreaders and patient zero, I think there is an awful and
think there is an awful and difficult balance to be made
difficult balance to be made between making the public aware
between making the public aware and washing your hands, all
and washing your hands, all those things we can do
those things we can do ourselves but also the
ourselves but also the government level being prepared
government level being prepared and the political games that
and the political games that are going on. This is a big
are going on. This is a big challenge for the new Prime
challenge for the new Prime Minister. The newly elected
Minister. The newly elected Prime Minister. All these
Prime Minister. All these headlines are coming and the
headlines are coming and the Cobra meeting is following, the
Cobra meeting is following, the biggest single rise in a single
biggest singla rise in a singla day in
biggest single rise in a single day in the UK. One in Scotland
day in the UK. One in Scotland now so every part of the UK has
now so every part of the UK has got someone with a corona’s
got someone with a corona’s virus infection. As you say it
virus infection. As you say it is a very difficult balancing
is a very difficult balancing act between feeling fear and
act between feeling fear and what that may lead to and
what that may lead to and actually making sure they have
actually making sure they have a grip on this situation. What
a grip on this situation. what I thought
a grip on this situation. What I thought was quite interesting
I thought was quite interesting is not covered in this story
is not covered in this story but was covered in the FT over
but was covered in the FI’ over the
but was covered in the FT over the weekend, having a state run
the weekend, having a state mn NHS
the weekend, having a state run NHS National hills Service here
NHS National hills Service here in the UK is being highlighted
in the UK is being highlighted as a huge strength. Some places
as a huge strength. Some places in the US where it is more
in the US where it is more diverse and has more private
diverse and has more private sector involvement is far more
sector involvement is far more difficult to come up with
difficult to come up with pub“:
difficult to come up with public policy. And a nationwide
public policy. And a nationwide reaction, as it were, and
reaction, as it were, and sharing of resources as well.
sharing of resources as well. Let’s look at the Financial
Let’s look at the Financial Times and as you mention, as we
Times and as you mention, as we already discussed, Italy are
already discussed, Italy are unveiling a huge stimulus
unveiling a huge stimulus package for the areas affected.
package for the areas affected. They are really practical and
They are really practical and it talks about companies who
it talks about companies who have reported a 25% drop in
have reported a 2596 drop in revenues,
have reported a 25% drop in revenues, seeing significant
revenues, seeing significant tax breaks in that kind of
tax breaks in that kind of thing. So these tax credits
thing. So these tax credits that the Italian government
that the Italian government have spoken about, this 3.6
have spoken about, this 3.6 billion euros of stimulus
billion euros of stimulus injected into the economy
injected into the economy actually only .2% of GDP is not
actually only 296 of GDP is not that big and
actually only .2% of GDP is not that big and this speaks to a
that big and this speaks to a broader position where the
broader position where the Italian economy is not in great
Italian economy is not in great shape. It says in the FT that
shape. It says in the FI’ that it was
shape. It says in the FT that it was almost on the brink of
it was almost on the brink of recession before this started.
recession before this started. And, really, this is perhaps a
And, really, this is perhaps a bellwether for other economies,
bellwether for other economies, adding to that the refugee
adding to that the refugee story we will talk about, not
story we will talk about, not in a great position. The
in a great position. The eurozone and level GDP was
eurozone and level GDP was under the pump before the
under the pump before the coronavirus. All these things
coronavirus. All these things are a catalyst, perhaps, they
are a catalyst, perhaps, they are not the sole source of this
are not the sole source of this problem but they are pushing
problem but they are pushing decision—makers and
decision—makers and policymakers. And as each
policymakers. And as each country releases data, economic
country releases data, economic data, it will be analysed. I
data, it will be analysed. I was reading a story about Italy
was reading a story about Italy and thinking about Germany and
and thinking about Germany and the powerhouse of the European
the powerhouse of the European Union. We know that that
Union. We know that that economy has been struggling for
economy has been stmggling for some
economy has been struggling for some time and there was a
some time and there was a concern it would tip into
concern it would tip into recession. It the biggest
recession. It the biggest exporters cars and a lot of
exporters cars and a lot of that supply chain come from
that supply chain come from Asia, notably China. And it
Asia, notably China. And it will be interesting watching
will be interesting watching this week, governors of central
this week, governors of central banks and ministers of fine
banks and ministers offine and,
banks and ministers of fine and, treasurers around the
and, treasurers around the world, how they will play
world, how they will play policy because there is not
policy because there is not that much softer policy to go.
that much softer policy to go. Historic rates are historically
Historic rates are historically low. You mentioned that we
low. You mentioned that we would discuss the story about
would discuss the story about mass migration flowing from
mass migration ﬂowing from Turkey
mass migration flowing from Turkey into Greece with the
Turkey into Greece with the ambition of these poor refugees
ambition of these poor refugees trying to reach places like
trying to reach places like Germany. 50 develop and many
Germany. So develop and many papers in
Germany. 50 develop and many papers in Germany are focused
papers in Germany are focused on this issue. There are three
on this issue. There are three things here that struck me. The
things here that stmck me. The economic
things here that struck me. The economic impact that we spoke
economic impact that we spoke about the Eurozone challenges,
about the Eurozone challanges, Germany,
about the Eurozone challenges, Germany, it’s a kind of me was
Germany, it’s a kind of me was quite impacted by opening the
quite impacted by opening the doors to Syrian refugees. What
doors to Syrian refugees. what is going on in
doors to Syrian refugees. What is going on in Syria and then
is going on in Syria and then that humid story, I looked at
that humid story, I looked at the weather forecast before I
the weather forecast before I fame
the weather forecast before I came in the green room.
fame in the green room. Travelling
came in the green room. Travelling cold weather.
Travelling cold weather. Hundreds of thousands of people
Hundreds of thousands of peopla sat on
Hundreds of thousands of people sat on the border and we must
sat on the border and we must not forget that humid element.
not forget that humid element. And that was brought through in
And that was brought through in that piece earlier in the
that piece earlier in the programme from Greece. And it
programme from Greece. And it is a tragic story when you hear
is a tragic story when you hear the individuals, what they have
the individuals, what they have been through just to reach that
been through just to reach that point and Greece saying that if
point and Greece saying that if you have no official papers nor
you have no official papers nor anything of that nature they
anything of that nature they would just send you back. And
would just send you back. And they are pawns in this
they are pawns in this political game going on, sadly,
political game going on, sadly, in war—torn Syria, war going on
in war-torn Syria, war going on for nine years
in war—torn Syria, war going on for nine years and they have
for nine years and they have been told by Turkey and Russia,
been told by Turkey and Russia, Turkeys LA
been told by Turkey and Russia, Turkey’s LA Russia, all very
Turkeys LA Russia, all very confusing
Turkey’s LA Russia, all very confusing over this last rebel
confusing over this last rebel [cad
confusing over this last rebel lead enclave. The Turkish have
lead enclave. The Turkish have downed a few planes and I don’t
downed a few planes and I don’t see that change although we do
see that change although we do understand that the presidents
understand that the presidents of Turkey and Russia will meet
of Turkey and Russia will meet so one hopes they may be a
so one hopes they may be a breakthrough but they have been
breakthrough but they have been saying that for nine years and
saying that for nine years and all the time, this flow of
all the time, this ﬂow of refugees
all the time, this flow of refugees is coming. Turkey have
refugees is coming. Turkey have 4 million at the moment.
4 million at the moment. Millions in Turkey. How is this
Millions in Turkey. How is this resolved? It is
Millions in Turkey. How is this resolved? It isjust
Millions in Turkey. How is this resolved? It is just such a
resolved? It is just such a huge humanitarian crisis in the
huge humanitarian crisis in the making in Turkey. It is one
making in Turkey. It is one that governments and
that governments and policymakers have ignored
policymakers have ignored because remember, it is not
because remember, it is not just Syrians, it is the bulk of
just Syrians, it is the bulk of them. We have Afghans Libyans
them. We have Afghans Libyans and Africans. Are you
and Africans. Are you disappointed that Buttigieg has
disappointed that Buttigieg has decided to pull out of the race
decided to pull out of the race for the White House? I am
for the White House? I am disappointed because I felt he
disappointed because Ifelt he was
disappointed because I felt he was offering a real challenge,
was offering a real challange, not only to
was offering a real challenge, not only to the consensus but a
not only to the consensus but a challanging
not only to the consensus but a challenging age range. He is
challenging age range. He is 38. The rest of them, all of
38. The rest of them, all of them, all of these people are
them, all of these people are quite elderly at the moment,
quite elderty at the moment, perhaps I
quite elderly at the moment, perhaps I shouldn’t say that,
perhaps I shouldn’t say that, they are quite senior, as you
they are quite senior, as you may say. But I think this was
may say. But I think this was nonetheless a brave run and I
nonetheless a brave mn and I think he
nonetheless a brave run and I think he managed in that first
think he managed in that first caucus to get some really
caucus to get some really interesting results but sadly
interesting results but sadly that did not play out on
that did not play out on Saturday in South Carolina and
Saturday in South Carolina and he pulled up before super
he pulled up before super Tuesday. And it is significant
Tuesday. And it is significant that he chose to do that. It
that he chose to do that. It gives others a real chance,
gives others a real chance, doesn’t it? Joe Biden was
doesn’t it? joe Biden was expected
doesn’t it? Joe Biden was expected to be the front runner
expected to be the front mnner and it
expected to be the front runner and it was that first one in
and it was that first one in Iowa, Pete Ida Wirth, this guy
Iowa, Pete Ida wirth, this guy we never
Iowa, Pete Ida Wirth, this guy we never heard of, came out of
we never heard of, came out of nowhere. So maybe
we never heard of, came out of nowhere. So maybejoe Biden
nowhere. So maybe joe Biden will
nowhere. So maybejoe Biden will see some new momentum.
will see some new momentum. Absolutely and it could go to
Absolutely and it could go to him and Donald Trump tweeted to
him and Donald Tmmp tweeted to wait away
him and Donald Trump tweeted to wait away that those votes
wait away that those votes would go to
wait away that those votes would go toJoe Biden and not
would go to joe Biden and not Bernie
would go toJoe Biden and not Bernie Sanders, his great
Bernie Sanders, his great rival. But Buttigieg did say he
rival. But Buttigieg did say he wanted new politics and that is
wanted new politic and that is what
wanted new politics and that is what he is fighting for and so
what he is fighting for and so much of him spoke of that. Gay,
much of him spoke of that. Gay, married to his husband, 38
married to his husband, 38 years old, a huge user of
years old, a huge user of social media. He will be back,
social media. He will be back, for sure.
social media. He will be back, forsure. Looking
social media. He will be back, for sure. Looking now at the
for sure. Looking now at the eye. An interesting article
eye. An interesting article about mental health support
about mental health support being used to recruit, in
being used to recmit, in almost
being used to recruit, in almost 200 job ads last month
almost 200 job ads last month mental health support and
mental health support and service was part of the job
service was part of the job offer. What a change. It speaks
offer. what a change. It speaks to this
offer. What a change. It speaks to this environment we are in
to this environment we are in where people are a lot more
where peopla are a lot more aware
where people are a lot more aware of mindfulness. Kids in
aware of mindfulness. Kids in school or mindfulness. Our
school or mindfulness. Our mental health is something that
mental health is something that is still taboo in many areas.
is still taboo in many areas. There is great strides being
There is great strides being made in the UK what Prince
made in the UK what Prince William and Prince Harry have
William and Prince Harry have done in terms of talking about
done in terms of talking about it but, Sally, still young man,
it but, Sally, still young man, it is the highest killer of
it is the highest killar of young
it is the highest killer of young men, suicide, to secular
young men, suicide, to secular fencer
young men, suicide, to secular cancer to mental health. Mental
rancer to mental health. Mental health
cancer to mental health. Mental health crisis and it leads
health crisis and it leads peopla
health crisis and it leads people to kill themselves. That
people to kill themselves. That is what we we need to talk
is what we we need to talk about. In addition to a gym
about. In addition to a gym membership that may be a perk,
membership that may be a perk, you get mental health support.
you get mental health support. As you say, let’s talk about
As you say, let’s talk about it. Thank you so much. It has
it. Thank you so much. It has been brilliant to have you on
been brilliant to have you on the programme and thank you for
the programme and thank you for all of your comments about
all of your comments about coronavirus. Many of you have
coronavirus. Many of you have been in touch to say that
been in touch to say that actually I am changing my
actually I am changing my behaviour. Daniel, he says he
behaviour. Daniel, he says he has not changed a single thing.
has not changed a singla thing. It is not
has not changed a single thing. It is not concerning but it is
It is not concerning but it is not concerning the people are
not concerning the people are being told to wash their hands.
being told to wash their hands. Surely this is basic hygiene.
Surely this is basic hygiene. That is just one comment of
That is just one comment of many.
With rivers running high and
with rivers mnning high and many
With rivers running high and many fields still under water,
many fields still under water, we could do with a little bit
we could do with a little bit of better weather news and to a
of better weather news and to a certain degree we will get that
certain degree we will get that this week. It is not meant to
this week. It is not meant to be completely dry but compared
be completely dry but compared with recent weeks it won’t be
with recent weeks it won’t be anywhere near as wet and windy.
anywhere near as wet and windy. The jetstream
anywhere near as wet and windy. Thejetstream is
anywhere near as wet and windy. The jetstream is taking a
The jetstream is taking a southerly track but that means
southerty track but that means that we
southerly track but that means that we are into slightly
that we are into slightly cooler hour. Chillier,
cooler hour. Chillier, especially at night with the
especially at night with the frost more likely and that is
frost more likely and that is how we start the Monday morning
how we start the Monday morning commute with more in the way of
commute with more in the way of frost and even ice around with
frost and even ice around with showers continuing on the north
showers continuing on the north and west. Not quite as frosty
and west. Not quite as frosty towards Southern counties of
towards Southern counties of England. Outbreaks of rain and
England. Outbreaks of rain and sleet and wet snow first thing
sleet and wet snow first thing in the morning, clearing away
in the morning, clearing away from East Anglia in the
from East Anglia in the south—east smartly but then
south—east smartly but then brightening up. Showers in the
brightening up. Showers in the west with them mixture of rain
west with them mixture of rain hail sleet and snow coming a
hail sleet and snow coming a bit more abundant during the
bit more abundant during the afternoon but not as many as we
afternoon but not as many as we saw in the afternoon. Many of
saw in the afternoon. Many of you on Monday will spend the
you on Monday will spend the day dry with a couple of
day dry with a couple of showers passing away and
showers passing away and temperatures around 7— 10
temperatures around 7- 10 degrees at
temperatures around 7— 10 degrees at the highest. Overall
degrees at the highest. Overall the wind will be lighter so it
the wind will be lighter so it will not feel quite as cold in
will not feel quite as cold in the afternoon as it has been
the afternoon as it has been but the breeze will pick up
but the breeze will pick up across the north—west later. We
across the north-west later. We could see
across the north—west later. We could see gales for a time
could see galas for a time through
could see gales for a time through Monday night into
through Monday night into Tuesday, more on their way of
Tuesday, more on their way of showers starting to develop
showers starting to develop through the night and they will
through the night and they will push their way eastwards. A
push their way eastwards. A cover of snow across parts of
cover of snow across parts of Scotla nd
cover of snow across parts of Scotland and even in the hills
Scotland and even in the hills of Northern Ireland in northern
of Northern Ireland in northern England later on. The
England later on. The temperature will still be close
temperature will still be close to freezing in many areas so
to freezing in many areas so frost and ice are the greatest
frost and ice are the greatest risk, coldest of the weather
risk, coldest of the weather first thing on Tuesday morning
first thing on Tuesday morning in the east. This is a set up
in the east. This is a set up for Tuesday, that whether front
for Tuesday, that whether front will take showers eastwards
will take showers eastwards initially and more rain bearing
initially and more rain bearing weather fronts diverting down
weather fronts diverting down towards France in Iberia thanks
towards France in Iberia thanks to that’s a link tracking
to that’s a link tracking jetstream but there could be
jetstream but there could be close enough to produce rains
close enough to produce rains across the southernmost of
across the southernmost of England and especially the
England and especially the Channel Islands. More showers
Channel Islands. More showers around to start Tuesday
around to start Tuesday morning, wintry mix. Those will
morning, wintry mix. Those will clear away and then it is back
clear away and then it is back to sunshine and showers for
to sunshine and showers for many, mainly across western
many, mainly across western areas, temperatures similar to
areas, temperatures similar to those on Monday. And in the
those on Monday. And in the middle of the week, many of
middle of the week, many of those will stay largely dry,
those will stay largely dry, still some showers around here
still some showers around here and there with the chance of
and there with the chance of someone to the south coast on
someone to the south coast on Wednesday but overall we
Wednesday but overall we continue without likely dry
continue without likely dry story. It changes a little bit
story. It changes a little bit towards the end of the week,
towards the end of the week, Thursday and Friday we will see
Thursday and Friday we will see whether front pushing through
whether front pushing through so brings a solar spell of rain
so brings a solar spell of rain brieﬂy.
so brings a solar spell of rain briefly. Showers fall in its
brieﬂy. Showers fall in its wake
briefly. Showers fall in its wake and then the chance of
wake and then the chance of some more and windy weather
some more and windy weather towards the end of the week and
towards the end of the week and into next weekend. By and
into next weekend. By and large, still the rivers are
large, still the rivers are responding to the rains over
responding to the rains over the last few days and with some
the last few days and with some rain forecast, don’t stay too
rain forecast, don’t stay too far away from the flood
far away from the ﬂood warnings
far away from the flood warnings online.
We’re only interested in one thing here, and one thing only,
and that’s bent coppers.
The hijack required a police insider.
Someone’s still pulling the strings.
If you’ve ever asked yourself why we do thisjob, this is it.
Family means getting together and having a laugh.
Making sure everyone’s all right,
because sometimes, a smile isn’t what it seems.
Family means making mistakes and having regrets.
It means keeping it together when you’re falling apart,
and knowing some family, you choose...
..and some, you don’t.
Family?
Hello! I’m just doing my bit for Sport Relief,
to get the bottoms of Britain moving
and to help people in the UK and all around the world.
There’s loads of ideas in these fundraising packs.
Even for you, darling! 0h, right! Thank you.
That’s for you... Get your kit on!
Sorry, I’m late. I’m here for Sporty Relief!
You mean Sport Relief? That’s the one.
You can be an absolute legend too and raise money for Sport Relief
by ordering your fundraising pack
for loads of wicked ideas.
Just cos I eat toast doesn’t mean I need to know how a toaster works.
That’s the sort of arrogance
that’ll get you killed on the motorway, mate.
This could be an exhilarating ride...
..or we could just plummet to our deaths!
Whoa!
Here we go! oh!
I’ve gone four days without changing my pants.
Sounds very unsanitary.
We are in at the deepest of ends.
Rule number one — don’t die.
What have we got ourselves into?
Let’s go!
Whoa!
This looks dangerous.
Put the camera down.
Get out there and restore some sanity!
This is mental.
Fast, fast, fast. Go, go, go!
Oh, my word!
What the...?
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Dan Walker
and Louise Minchin.
Our headlines today.
BorisJohnson will today chair an emergency Cobra meeting,
as the number of cases of coronavirus in
the UKjumps to 36.
The worldwide death toll is now more than 3,000,
as fears grow of a major outbreak in the United Sates
as a second person dies there.
ﬂ
lam in
I am in Manchester Victoria where the vessel commuters will be on
the vessel commuters will be on trains operated by the operator of
trains operated by the operator of last resort.
We want a better life for our families, that’s why we cross.
Making it across the border.
As Europe faces afresh migrant
crisis, we have a special report from Greece.
Three in a row for Manchester City.
Pep Guardiola’s men see off Aston Villa
to win the League Cup for the third successive year.
After the wettest February on record, March is a starting off on a
record, March is a starting off on a quieter note. Still showers around
quieter note. Still showers around but not the relentless heavy rains
but not the relenﬂass heavy rains and strong
but not the relentless heavy rains and strong winds we have seen
and strong winds we have seen recently. I will keep you
recently. I will keep you up—to—date.
It’s Monday, March 2nd.
Our top story.
The Prime Minister will chair his first meeting of the government’s
emergency Cobra committee this morning, as the number
of cases of coronavirus in the UK rises to 36.
13 of those were diagnosed yesterday -
the biggestjump in a single day.
Overnight, the United States reported its second death.
More than 3,000 people are now known to have
died worldwide.
Andy Moore has the latest.
Ahead of chairing a Cobra emergency meeting, BorisJohnson went to visit
the health professionals in the front line of the fight
against coronavirus.
At the laboratories of Public Health England in London,
he expressed every confidence in the people around him.
Coronavirus is a concern.
It is a novel illness, but it’s something that this country
really amply has the resources to deal with.
We have state of the art testing facilities, we have a fantastic NHS.
We will have to get through this, but believe me,
we are going to beat it.
The jump in cases announced yesterday includes a family cluster
of three adults related to a man in Hazlemere, who was confirmed
as testing positive on Friday.
It’s still not known how he got the virus.
There are now 36 confirmed infections across the UK,
with the first case in Scotland, on Tayside, announced
yesterday evening.
This is a serious situation, but we have well established
procedures in place and there’s no need for the public
to be unduly concerned.
But the public can help, because we are still very firmly
in the containment phases of this infection.
Last night, some of the first Britons released from several days’
In the USA in Washington state, a nursing home is still under lockdown
nursing home is still under lockdown amid fears dozens might have the
amid fears dozens might have the vims.
amid fears dozens might have the virus. Local
amid fears dozens might have the virus. Localscientist
amid fears dozens might have the virus. Local scientist thought he
vims. Local scientist thought he thought the
virus. Local scientist thought he thought the true number of
thought the true number of infections could run into their 100
infections could mn into their 100 is
infections could run into their 100 is because the virus had been
is because the virus had been mnning
is because the virus had been running undetected for many weeks.
And at the source of the infection in China, the daily toll
of new infections continues to fall.
But, with another 42 fatalities, the global death toll from Covid—19
has now passed 3,000.
Andy Moore, BBC News.
In a moment we’ll get an update on the British holiday—makers
staying at a quarantined hotel in Tenerife from our correspondent,
Fiona Trott.
But first, let’s get more now on the Government’s response
from our political correspondent, Chris Mason, who is in
Downing Street for us.
Good morning. This is number one priority at the moment, is it? It
priority at the moment, is it? It is, yes. It’s really striking seeing
is, yes. It’s really striking seeing the language that is being used
the language that is being used within government ahead of this
within government ahead of this Cobra emergency contingency meeting
Cobra emergency contingency meeting being chaired by the Prime Minister
being chaired by the Prime Minister this morning, it gives you some
this morning, it gives you some sense of the scale of the concern
sense of the scale of the concern there is now within government. They
there is now within government. They say this meeting this morning is
say this meeting this morning is about coordinating their battle
about coordinating their battle plan, as they describe it, to put in
plan, as they describe it, to put in place the necessary countermeasures
place the necessary countermeasures to deal with coronavirus and try and
to deal with coronavirus and try and contain its spread. They emphasised
contain its spread. They emphasised that containment is the state they
that containment is the state they are at now, they talk about the need
are at now, they talk about the need for the government to do all they
for the government to do all they ran but is
for the government to do all they can but is well individuals, in
ran but is well individuals, in terms of
can but is well individuals, in terms of self isolating if you have
terms of self isolating if you have symptoms if you have spoken to NHS
symptoms if you have spoken to NHS 111, and basic things like washing
111, and basic things like washing hands to minimise the likelihood of
hands to minimise the likelihood of spread of infection. When you hear
spread of infection. when you hear the language
spread of infection. When you hear the language they use, you get a
the language they use, you get a sense of the scale

Citation: BBC News, 00:00 02/03/2020, BBC1 London, 360 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/158EEF4F?bcast=131447079 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)
