give longer spells of rain. These black circles indicating the
black cirdas indicating the strength
black circles indicating the strength of the wind gust.
Temperatures nine to about 1k degrees.
We started this morning between 15 and 18 in the south,
those temperatures dipping by quite a few degrees.
Overnight, a band of rain pushes north eastwards across Scotland
and northern England and we’ve got another one coming in
across southern counties.
That will clear to the east through Tuesday, and then
we are back into drier conditions with a few showers.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines for viewers in the UK
and around the world.
BorisJohnson will urge MPs to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England, when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons later.
The PM is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease
restrictions after a month. the government’s intention to ease
If you want to get in touch about the new restrictions
coming in in England, or any of today’s other
stories, do get in touch.
The Hollywood actorJohnny Depp will find out later today
whether he’s won his libel case against the Sun newspaper.
Donald Trump and Joe Biden head to crucial swing states to campaign,
as the US election campaign enters its final stage.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK or around
the world — and stay with us for the latest news and analysis
from here and across the globe. for the latest news and analysis
BorisJohnson will urge MPs to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England, when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons today.
He’s expected to stress the government’s intention to ease
the new restrictions after a month.
The Prime Minister announced on Saturday that strict
measures will be imposed across England from Thursday.
People will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
Pubs, restaurants, gyms, non—essential shops and places
of worship will close.
And meeting indoors or in private gardens will not be allowed.
But you will be able to meet one other person from another household
outside in a public place.
Our political correspondent, Jonathan Blake, reports.
And so now is the time to take action because
there is no alternative.
After addressing the nation, Boris Johnson will today attempt
to get MP5 on board with his plan for a national lockdown in England.
The Prime Minister is expected to again point to stark warnings
from scientists that unless the government acts,
from scientists that unless the government acts,
deaths over the winter could be twice as bad or more
than during the first wave of the pandemic.
He’ll acknowledge Labour’s view that he should have acted sooner,
but defend the system of regional restrictions he has
pursued until now.
Labour’s support means the plan is likely to pass when MPs vote
on it later this week but some Conservatives are taking a stand.
If these kind of measures were being taken in any totalitarian
country around the world, we would be denouncing
it as a form of evil.
And here, the removal of people’s fundamental liberties
is going almost without comment.
The national lockdown will see non—essential retail
closed along with pubs, bars and restaurants,
except for takeaway and delivery.
Gyms, hairdressers and beauty salons must also shut,
and only two people from different households can meet outside.
After the Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove’s admission yesterday
that the lockdown could continue beyond the beginning of December,
the Prime Minister will try to reassure MPs that the end
is in sight.
And there will be a return to the tiered system on the 2nd
of December according to the latest data and trends.
Just a reminder that we love to hear
just a reminder that we love to hear your thoughts on
Just a reminder that we love to hear your thoughts on any of the stories
your thoughts on any of the stories we are doing, whether it is about
we are doing, whether it is about lockdown is, at the restrictions,
lockdown is, at the restrictions, the US presidential elections and so
the US presidential elections and so on. Do get in touch with me on
on. Do get in touch with me on Twitter and you can use the hashtag
Twitter and you ran use the hashtag to pot. --
Twitter and you can use the hashtag to pot. —— #BBCYourQuestions
Well, we’ve already been hearing about the new coronavirus
restrictions on their way for people in England.
What’s the situation in other parts of the UK?
I’ve been getting more details from Chris Page in Belfast,
Tomos Morgan in Cardiff and — first — Lorna Gordon in Glasgow.
As England moves into this national lockdown, Scotland has
moved to a more localised five tier system.
It is not the easiest system to follow, but there is a postcode
checker where you can put your postcode.
I did that this morning and it told me this area is level
three, the second highest level of restrictions.
It is pretty tight, they are asking you not to travel
outside your council area if you are in a level three area.
Some areas have fewer restrictions.
Orkney, Shetland, the Western Isles, Murray and the Highlands are under
level one restrictions.
The backdrop against all of this is that the Scottish Government
is warning that they cannot rule out a full lockdown
at some later point.
However, that said, there are early indications here that the prevalence
of the virus is plateauing, meaning people are still going
into hospital but the rate of increase has slowed right down
in those figures.
Ahem, excuse me.
There is a hope, but not a guarantee that the national
lockdown can be avoided.
0K, Lorna, thank you very much.
Let’s go now to Tomos Morgan in Cardiff.
Wales’ First Minister, Mark Drakeford, will set out
the new restrictions to be put in place when the country’s
firebreak lockdown ends a week today.
Mark Drakeford concentrating on the exit strategy from all of this.
that
thatis
that is occupying a lot of our thoughts, how do we get out of these
thoughts, how do we get out of these restrictions once we are into them?
Based on what has been going on so far with this firebreak,
does Wales think that it will be able to achieve that next Monday?
Well, I think Mark Drakeford said from the start, and this morning,
that it will not be initially on Monday the ninth when we will see
whether or not the firebreak has had the desired effect
which is of course to reduce the R rate and reduce
the strain on the NHS.
It will be at least two weeks later because there is always
a delay in the figures.
It will be at that point we will know whether it has worked.
They have done for this two—week approach, a stricter approach,
because they thought a short sharp break like this would make
more of a difference.
On the ninth, businesses that have been closed,
hospitality, nonessential shops, leisure, will all re open
and what we are hoping for today and what we will be getting today
is a strategy up until Christmas so the number of people that can now
mix from now on until Christmas and the rules on travel,
what will happen in terms of people coming into Wales
from Covid hotspots —
of course England now going into a national lockdown —
how will that affect Wales?
Will there be a travel ban coming into Wales?
But what Mark Drakeford said this morning is there will be no
going back to local restrictions in Wales.
It will be a national approach.
There will be a basic set of national rules in Wales that
will be simpler and clearer, and it will allow for something
beyond what we have had during the firebreak period.
But my top message to people in Wales is, don’t make your first
question to yourself, "How far can I stretch the rules?"
Make the first question, "What should I do?
What contribution can I make to keeping myself and others safe?"
And tojudge your actions against that criteria.
If we do that, then there is a way out of coronavirus that
will safeguard us all.
If we play it as a game in which yourjob is to think
about what the rule is and see how much you can stretch it,
then I’m afraid the weeks ahead will be very difficult indeed.
So, at the moment, people coming into Wales from Tier 2
and above from England, from Northern Ireland and from
that Central Belt of Scotland, they are actually banned by law
from coming into Wales and people will be fined and turned back.
It will be interesting to see...
Logically, what one would expect
today is potentially there will be a travel ban extending
to the whole of England, other than for essential work
reasons, childcare or some of the valid exceptional
circumstances, of course.
People will be really looking forward to seeing how
they will be able to mix again with friends and family.
Mark Drakeford has said there will be some easing of those
restrictions and people will be able to meet up socially to some degree.
The hope is that this set of national restrictions today,
national rules, will be able to take us all the way until Christmas
and the First Minister here is hoping for a joint approach
from the four different nations of the UK to agree upon something
over the festive period, but potentially after that,
if the numbers increase again, the government here have said
all along that there is a likelihood that there would be another short,
sharp firebreak again in the New Year if the figures
increase again after that.
0K, thank you for that.
Tomos Morgan in Cardiff.
Let’s head to Northern Ireland, to Belfast.
Chris Page is there.
Good morning.
Schools returning in Northern Ireland today
after an extended half—term break but that is just part
of the jigsaw of restrictions.
Other restrictions are still in place.
What sort of effect have they been having so far?
The infection rate in Northern Ireland has been coming
down but it is still much higher than anybody would like.
Just over a fortnight ago, the devolved government here brought
in a series of measures designed to deal with what at that time
m:
We are breaking away there from Chris Page to bring you news from
Chris Page to bring you news from the High Court that the Hollywood
the High Court that the Hollywood star johnny
the High Court that the Hollywood starJohnny Depp has lost his High
star johnny Depp has lost his High Court
starJohnny Depp has lost his High Court libel action against the Sun
Court libel action against the Sun newspaper over an article published
newspaper over an article published in the paper which had labelled him
in the paper which had labellad him a wife
in the paper which had labelled him a wife beater. That news just coming
a wife beater. That news just coming in on the last few seconds. Johnny
in on the last few seconds. johnny DePP
in on the last few seconds. johnny Depp has lost
in on the last few seconds. Johnny Depp has lost his High Court libel
Depp has lost his High Court libel action.
m:
We can go to our correspondent who
We ran go to our correspondent who has been
We can go to our correspondent who has been following the case and is
has been following the use and is at
the Royal Courts of Justice.
what more can you tell us? A highly
what more ran you tell us? A highly anticipated
what more can you tell us? A highly anticipated judgment from the High
anticipated judgment from the High Court, it has been handed down
Court, it has been handed down electronically. Johnny Depp and
electronically. johnny Depp and Amber
electronically. Johnny Depp and Amber Heard, his former wife, they
Amber Heard, his former wife, they are not actually hear at the Royal
are not actually hear at the Royal Courts of
are not actually hear at the Royal Courts ofJustice, but in the last
Courts of justice, but in the last couple of
Courts ofJustice, but in the last couple of minutes we have had the
couple of minutes we have had the judgment handed down by Mr
couple of minutes we have had the judgment handed down by MrJustice
judgment handed down by Mr justice Nicholl.
judgment handed down by MrJustice Nicholl. Johnny Depp the Hollywood
Nicholl. johnny Depp the Hollywood actor
Nicholl. Johnny Depp the Hollywood actor has not succeeded in his libel
actor has not succeeded in his libel case against the publisher of the
rase against the publisher of the Sun
case against the publisher of the Sun newspaper. I will read you a
Sun newspaper. I will read you a summary of what the judge has said.
summary of what the judge has said. The judgment
summary of what the judge has said. Thejudgment itself is
summary of what the judge has said. The judgment itself is 128 pages
The judgment itself is 128 pages long. In his summary, the
The judgment itself is 128 pages long. In his summary, thejudge has
long. In his summary, the judge has said the
long. In his summary, thejudge has said the claimant, Johnny Depp, has
said the claimant, johnny Depp, has not
said the claimant, Johnny Depp, has not succeeded in his action for
not succeeded in his action for libel, although he has proved the
libel, although he has proved the necessary elements of his cause of
necessary elements of his cause of action in libel, the defendants,
action in libel, the defendants, that is the publishers of the Sun
that is the publishers of the Sun newspaper, have shown that what they
newspaper, have shown that what they published in the meaning which I
published in the meaning which I have held the words to bear
published in the meaning which I have held the words to beer was
have held the words to bear was substantially true. The summary
substantially tme. The summary judgment
substantially true. The summary judgment goes on to say, I have
judgment goes on to say, I have reached these conclusions having
reached these conclusions having examined in detail the 1A incidents
examined in detail the 14 incidents in which
examined in detail the 1A incidents in which the defendants rely as well
in which the defendants rely as well as the overarching considerations
as the overarching considerations which the claimant submitted I
which the claimant submitted I should take into account. 50 in the
should take into account. So in the last couple of
should take into account. 50 in the last couple of minutes, that
last couple of minutes, that judgment which has been highly
judgment which has been highly anticipated and will be watched
anticipated and will be watched around the world, in particular in
around the world, in particular in Hollywood, that’s news just in that
Hollywood, that’s news just in that johnny Depp
Hollywood, that’s news just in that Johnny Depp has lost his libel case
johnny Depp has lost his libel use against the
Johnny Depp has lost his libel case against the publisher of the Sun
against the publisher of the Sun newspaper. The case here at the High
newspaper. The use here at the High Court in
newspaper. The case here at the High Court in the summer, in
newspaper. The case here at the High Court in the summer, inJuly, it
Court in the summer, in july, it heard
Court in the summer, inJuly, it heard some dramatic details about
heard some dramatic details about what was a very difficult marriage
what was a very difficult marriage between
what was a very difficult marriage betweenjohnny Depp and Amber Heard.
between johnny Depp and Amber Heard. They were
betweenJohnny Depp and Amber Heard. They were married for
betweenJohnny Depp and Amber Heard. They were married forjust over a
They were married for just over a year in 2015.
They were married forjust over a year in 2015. And both actors gave
year in 2015. And both actors gave evidence during the libel case that
evidence during the libel use that johnny Depp
evidence during the libel case that Johnny Depp had brought against the
johnny Depp had brought against the Sun and
Johnny Depp had brought against the Sun and during the hearing and the
Sun and during the hearing and the head, his former wife,
Sun and during the hearing and the head, his formerwife, made 1A
head, his former wife, made 14 allegations of
head, his formerwife, made 1A allegations of domestic violence.
allegations of domestic violence. She said her
allegations of domestic violence. She said herformer
allegations of domestic violence. She said her former husband
allegations of domestic violence. She said herformer husband had been
She said her former husband had been violent
She said herformer husband had been violent towards her on more than 1A
violent towards her on more than 14 occasions.
violent towards her on more than 1A occasions. She also said, through
occasions. She also said, through her lawyers, that she alleged that
her lawyers, that she alleged that he was controlling and verbally and
he was controlling and verbally and physirallv
he was controlling and verbally and physically abusive towards her and
physically abusive towards her and particularty
physically abusive towards her and particularly when he was under the
particularly when he was under the influence of drugs and alcohol.
inﬂuence of drugs and alcohol. During the
influence of drugs and alcohol. During the hearing, Johnny Depp
During the hearing, johnny Depp strenuously
During the hearing, Johnny Depp strenuously denied all of those
strenuously denied all of those allegations that Amber Heard had
allegations that Amber Heard had made against him in the courtroom.
made against him in the courtroom. He said had never been violent
He said had never been violent towards his former wife. In fact, he
towards his former wife. In fact, he said, he had never been violent
said, he had never been violent towards any woman at all. He had
towards any woman at all. He had brought this case, his lawyers had
brought this rase, his lawyers had said, to try
brought this case, his lawyers had said, to try and rebuild his
said, to try and rebuild his reputation because his lawyers,
reputation berause his lawyers, duﬂng
reputation berause his lawyers, during the
reputation because his lawyers, during the case, said that the
during the use, said that the article,
during the case, said that the article, and this all goes back to
article, and this all goes back to an artida
article, and this all goes back to an article that was published in the
an artida that was published in the Sun
an article that was published in the Sun newspaper by its executive
Sun newspaper by its executive editor Dan Wotton, the article
editor Dan Wotton, the article referred to Johnny
editor Dan Wotton, the article referred toJohnny Depp as a
referred toJohnny Depp as a wife—beater. Johnny Depp’s barrister
wife-beater. johnny Depp’s barrister said it
wife—beater. Johnny Depp’s barrister said it had made defamatory
said it had made defamatory allegations of the utmost
allegations of the utmost seriousness against him, and that is
seriousness against him, and that is why johnny
seriousness against him, and that is whyJohnny Depp had brought this
why johnny Depp had brought this use to
whyJohnny Depp had brought this case to the High Court. What we also
use to the High Court. what we also heard,
rase to the High Court. what we also heard, apart
case to the High Court. What we also heard, apart from those very serious
heard, apart from those very serious allegations made by Amber Heard,
allegations made by Amber Heard, against her
allegations made by Amber Heard, against herformer
allegations made by Amber Heard, against her former husband
allegations made by Amber Heard, against herformer husband in
allegations made by Amber Heard, against her former husband in at the
against her former husband in at the hearing in july
against her former husband in at the hearing inJuly at the High Court,
hearing in july at the High Court, was
hearing inJuly at the High Court, was there very difficult marriage.
was there very difficult marriage. His drug—taking, alcohol use, those
His drug-taking, alcohol use, those were all
His drug—taking, alcohol use, those were all laid bare in a public court
were all laid bare in a public court room for the whole world to hear. I
room for the whola world to hear. I don’t know
room for the whole world to hear. I don’t know if
room for the whola world to hear. I don’t know if you
room for the whole world to hear. I don’t know if you remember but Amber
don’t know if you remember but Amber Heard came out on the steps of the
Heard came out on the steps of the High Court after that hearing
High Court after that hearing finished, and she had said that this
finished, and she had said that this was not something that she wanted to
was not something that she wanted to do. She had not wanted to come to
do. She had not wanted to come to the court for her private life, her
the court for her private life, her marriage to
the court for her private life, her marriage toJohnny Depp to be laid
marriage to johnny Depp to be laid bare in a
marriage toJohnny Depp to be laid bare in a courtroom. David Sillito,
bare in a courtroom. David Sillito, my colleague, sat
bare in a courtroom. David Sillito, my colleague, set through the
my colleague, set through the three—week hearing and here is the
three-week hearing and here is the background.
One time, Johnny was hitting me and
One time, johnny was hitting me and he was hitting
One time, Johnny was hitting me and he was hitting me hard and
he was hitting me hard and repeatedly.
The heart of this is a single word.
The heart of this is a singla word. johnny Depp,
The heart of this is a single word. Johnny Depp, one of the most
Johnny Depp, one of the most successful actors in the world, was
successful actors in the world, was accused of being a wife—beater at. A
accused of being a wife-beater at. A man who
accused of being a wife—beater at. A man who assaulted his wife on more
man who assaulted his wife on more than 14
man who assaulted his wife on more than 1A occasions, who left her
than 14 occasions, who left her fearing for her
than 1A occasions, who left her fearing for her life. Amber Heard
fearing for her life. Amber Heard had photographs. She also had video.
had photographs. She also had video. What happened? But
had photographs. She also had video. What happened? ButJohnny Depp said
what happened? But johnny Depp said it was
What happened? ButJohnny Depp said it was all a hoax. The couple had
it was all a hoax. The couple had met on the set of a film. Six years
met on the set of a film. Six years later they were married. It lasted
later they were married. It lasted just over a year and ended with
just over a year and ended with Amber Heard appearing at the divorce
Amber Heard appearing at the divorce hearing the same
Amber Heard appearing at the divorce hearing the samejohnny Depp
Amber Heard appearing at the divorce hearing the sameJohnny Depp had
hearing the same johnny Depp had been
hearing the samejohnny Depp had been verbally and physically
hearing the sameJohnny Depp had been verbally and physically abusive
been verbally and physically abusive towards her. In the years that
towards her. In the years that followed, she became an activist for
followed, she became an activist for women’s rights and wrote about
women’s rights and wrote about enduring domestic violence. And when
enduring domestic violence. And when the Sun newspaper it to the macro
the Sun newspaper it to the macro question
the Sun newspaper it to the macro questionjohnny Depp’s casting in
question johnny Depp’s tasting in the
questionjohnny Depp’s casting in the fantastic beast movie, the star
the fantastic beast movie, the star made a decision. He would go to
made a decision. He would go to court. And he had an army of fans
court. And he had an army offans convinced
court. And he had an army of fans convinced that he was the victim of
convinced that he was the victim of domestic violence, not Amber Heard.
domestic violence, not Amber Heard. justice for
domestic violence, not Amber Heard. Justice forJonny! All of the
Justice forJonny! All of the allegations against him, I don’t
allegations against him, I don’t believe. He seems like a very gentle
believe. He seems like a very gentle person. I
believe. He seems like a very gentle person. Ithink
believe. He seems like a very gentle person. I think this will change
person. I think this will change history. If he winds it will change
history. If he winds it will change history. I really do think that
history. I really do think that because I feel it will give men
because I feel it will give men courage to come forward and speak
courage to come forward and speak out more. This case was an attempt
out more. This use was an attempt to
out more. This rase was an attempt to save the
out more. This case was an attempt to save the reputation. Fans cheered
to save the reputation. Fans cheered him on as he arrived in court each
him on as he arrived in court each day to challenge his ex wife’s
day to challenge his ex wife’s claims. Of course this wasn’t Amber
claims. Of course this wasn’t Amber Heard’s case. The accusation had
Heard’s use. The accusation had been
Heard’s case. The accusation had been made in the Sun he was pursuing
been made in the Sun he was pursuing News group newspapers for libel. But
News group newspapers for libel. But everything hinged on whether Amber
everything hinged on whether Amber head was telling the truth about
head was telling the truth about incidents such as this. I grew up in
incidents such as this. I grew up in Texas riding horses. This was Amber
Texas riding horses. This was Amber Heard on james
Texas riding horses. This was Amber Heard onJames Cording’s late late
Heard on james Cording’s late late show in
Heard onJames Cording’s late late show in December 2015. In court she
show in December 2015. In court she claimed that just
show in December 2015. In court she claimed thatjust before this she
claimed that just before this she had
claimed thatjust before this she had been hit repeatedly by
claimed thatjust before this she had been hit repeatedly byJohnny
had been hit repeatedly by johnny Depp. Of
had been hit repeatedly byJohnny Depp. Of these photographs, she
Depp. Of these photographs, she says, showed the injuries that lay
says, showed the injuries that lay behind the make—up. Here, sitting on
behind the make-up. Here, sitting on the TV sofa,
behind the make—up. Here, sitting on the TV sofa, she said she had two
the TV sofa, she said she had two black eyes and a broken nose. But
black eyes and a broken nose. But most of the alleged incidents were
most of the alleged incidents were said to have taken place far away
said to have taken place far away from any public scrutiny. This was
from any public scmtiny. This was where they
from any public scrutiny. This was where they lived, and penthouse
where they lived, and penthouse apartments owned by
where they lived, and penthouse apartments owned byJohnny Depp.
apartments owned by johnny Depp. This
apartments owned byJohnny Depp. This was a world of private planes,
This was a world of private planes, even a private island, and a
even a private island, and a relationship that both sides
relationship that both sides accepted was stormy, troubled. But
accepted was stormy, troubled. But the videos and recordings, what did
the videos and recordings, what did they tmly
the videos and recordings, what did they truly show? Was this evidence
they tmly show? Was this evidence that johnny
they truly show? Was this evidence thatJohnny Depp was violent to his
that johnny Depp was violent to his partner was
thatJohnny Depp was violent to his partner was to let you drink this
partner was to let you drink this morning? Is this going? I
partner was to let you drink this morning? Is this going? Ijust
morning? Is this going? Ijust started it. Or
morning? Is this going? Ijust started it. Orjust angry at being
started it. Orjust angry at being secretly filmed? Another recording
secretly filmed? Another recording talked about a punch, but not by
talked about a punch, but not by johnny Depp.
And this was
And this wasJohnny Depp in hospital
And this was johnny Depp in hospital after his
And this wasJohnny Depp in hospital after his finger was severed during
after his finger was severed during another row. The question is, who do
another row. The question is, who do you believe about how it happened?
you believe about how it happened? Amber Heard said this was her moment
Amber Heard said this was her moment to tell.
Amber Heard said this was her moment to tell her truth. It has been
to tell her truth. It has been incredibly painful to relive the
incredibly painful to relive the break-up
incredibly painful to relive the break—up of my relationship, to have
break-up of my relationship, to have my motives, my
break—up of my relationship, to have my motives, my truth questioned. And
my motives, my truth questioned. And the most dramatic and intimate
the most dramatic and intimate details of my life with
the most dramatic and intimate details of my life withJohnny
details of my life withJohnny shared in court and broadcast to the
shared in court and broadcast to the entire world. Today’s judgment has
entire world. Todars judgment has decided
entire world. Today’s judgment has decided there was truth in what she
decided there was truth in what she said. Leaving a shadow over the
said. Leaving a shadow over the reputation of
said. Leaving a shadow over the reputation ofJohnny Depp. David
reputation of johnny Depp. David Sillito,
reputation ofJohnny Depp. David Sillito, BBC News.
Has there been any reaction from any of the parties in this case to the
of the parties in this use to the judgment?
of the parties in this case to the judgment? Yes, we have
of the parties in this case to the judgment? Yes, we havejust had a
judgment? Yes, we havejust had a statement from the Sun newspaper.
statement from the Sun newspaper. That is that newspaper that
statement from the Sun newspaper. That is that newspaper thatJohnny
That is that newspaper that johnny DePP
That is that newspaper that johnny Depp had
That is that newspaper thatJohnny Depp had brought his libel case here
Depp had brought his libel rase here against the
Depp had brought his libel case here against the publisher of the Sun
against the publisher of the Sun newspaper, Newsgroup. The statement
newspaper, Newsgroup. The statement in the last couple of moments has
in the last couple of moments has come in from the Sun newspaper,
come in from the Sun newspaper, saying the Sun has stood up and
saying the Sun has stood up and campaign for the victims of domestic
campaign for the victims of domestic abuse for over 20 years. Domestic
abuse for over 20 years. Domestic abuse victims must never be silenced
abuse victims must never be silenced and we thank the judge for his
and we thank the judge for his careful consideration and thank
careful consideration and thank Amber Heard for her courage in
Amber Heard for her courage in giving evidence to the court. And we
giving evidence to the court. And we have actually come in the last
have actually come in the last couple of seconds, had a statement
couple of seconds, had a statement from Amber Heard’s spokesperson, who
from Amber Heard’s spokesperson, who has said in that statement, for
has said in that statement, for those of us present for the London
those of us present for the London High Court trial, this decision and
High Court trial, this decision and judgment are not a surprise. The
judgment are not a surprise. The statement goes on to say, very soon
statement goes on to say, very soon we will be presenting even more
we will be presenting even more volume as evidence in the US. We are
volume as evidence in the US. We are committed to obtaining justice for
committed to obtaining justice for Amber Heard in the US court and
Amber Heard in the US court and defending her right to free speech.
defending her right to free speech. So that
defending her right to free speech. 50 that is the statement from Amber
So that is the statement from Amber Heard’s spokesperson. She herself,
Heard’s spokesperson. She herself, you will remember, came to the High
you will remember, fame to the High Court to give
you will remember, came to the High Court to give what were very serious
Court to give what were very serious allegations, she made very serious
allegations, she made very serious allegations against her former
allegations against her former husband, who she was married to for
husband, who she was married to for just over a year in 2015. She
just over a year in 2015. She outlined during her evidence here at
outlined during her evidence here at the High Court more than 1A
the High Court more than 1A instances where she alleged that
instances where she allaged that johnny
instances where she alleged that Johnny Depp had been violent towards
johnny Depp had been violent towards her. She
Johnny Depp had been violent towards her. She said in her witness
her. She said in her witness statement, during her evidence to
statement, during her evidence to the courts, that’s
statement, during her evidence to the courts, that’sJohnny Depp had
the courts, that’s johnny Depp had verbally and
the courts, that’sjohnny Depp had verbally and physically
the courts, that’sJohnny Depp had verbally and physically abused her.
verbally and physically abused her. She described in court that there
She described in court that there was a screaming, swearing, punching,
was a screaming, swearing, punching, slapping, kicking and, at times,
slapping, kicking and, at times, she, during her evidence, said that
she, during her evidence, said that she was in fear of her life when she
she was in fear of her life when she was in the company of her former
was in the company of her former husband. 50 that breaking news, the
husband. So that breaking news, the long-awaited
husband. 50 that breaking news, the long—awaited judgment that’s
long—awaited judgment that’s Hollywood, of course, we’ll be
Hollywood, of course, we’ll be watching very closely, that’s
Hollywood, of course, we’ll be watching very closely, that’sJohnny
watching very closely, that’s johnny DePP-
watching very closely, that’s johnny Depp, the
watching very closely, that’sJohnny Depp, the Hollywood actor who
Depp, the Hollywood actor who brought the case against the sun
brought the rase against the sun newspaper
brought the case against the sun newspaper to try and clear his name,
newspaper to try and clear his name, he said his reputation and his
he said his reputation and his future reputation were damaged by an
future reputation were damaged by an article that the Sun newspaper had
article that the Sun newspaper had published in 2018, where they
published in 2018, where they referred to him as a wife—beater.
referred to him as a wife-beater. Well, this
referred to him as a wife—beater. Well, this morning, the
referred to him as a wife—beater. Well, this morning, thejudge, Mr
Well, this morning, the judge, Mr justice Nicol,
Well, this morning, thejudge, Mr Justice Nicol, has found against
justice Nicol, has found against johnny
Justice Nicol, has found against Johnny Depp. Johnny Depp has lost
johnny Depp. johnny Depp has lost his libel
Johnny Depp. Johnny Depp has lost his libel case against the sun
his libel case against the sun newspaper. Whether we hear
his libel case against the sun newspaper. Whether we hearfrom the
newspaper. whether we hear from the actor at all,
newspaper. Whether we hearfrom the actor at all, we are not clear at
actor at all, we are not clear at this stage. But he has today found
this stage. But he has today found out he has lost his libel case, a
out he has lost his libel use, a hugely
out he has lost his libel case, a hugely expensive one, here at the
hugely expensive one, here at the High Court this morning. Thank you
High Court this morning. Thank you very much. Our news correspondent
very much. Our news correspondent Helena Wilkinson at the Royal Courts
Helena Wilkinson at the Royal Courts of justice
Helena Wilkinson at the Royal Courts ofJustice with that breaking news.
More new on the reaction from national lockdown
announced in England.
Our political correspondent, Iain Watson, is in Westminster.
So, this is due to happen on Thursday, or to begin on Thursday.
Thursday, or to begin on Thursday. But not everybody in the
But not everybody in the Conservative Party is happy with the
Conservative Party is happy with the prime Minster’s decision. He is due
prime Minster’s decision. He is due to speak to
prime Minster’s decision. He is due to speak to MP5 later, so what
prime Minster’s decision. He is due to speak to MPs later, so what is he
to speak to MPs later, so what is he going to do to try
to speak to MP5 later, so what is he going to do to try to persuade those
going to do to try to persuade those who are unhappy with the idea of
who are unhappy with the idea of another lockdown that is, you know,
another lockdown that is, you know, this is the right way ahead? He will
this is the right way ahead? He will be facing criticism on two fronts.
be facing criticism on two fronts. Primarily from some of his own
Primarily from some of his own backbenchers who are worried about
backbenchers who are worried about the economic impact of a month long
the economic impact of a month long lockdown in England. Some I worried
lockdown in England. Some I worried of course not that it is a month
of course not that it is a month long but that it could be extended
long but that it could be extended beyond that because of some
beyond that because of some ambivalent comments made by Cabinet
ambivalent comments made by Cabinet Minister at Michael Gove yesterday.
Minister at Michael Gove yesterday. They are concerned about what
They are concerned about what happens after the 2nd of December
happens after the 2nd of December and whether at least a large swathes
and whether at least a large swathes of England will still be in very
of England will still be in very severe restrictions. There are also
severe restrictions. There are also those on the Labour benches in
those on the labour benches in particular
those on the Labour benches in particular who are saying the
particular who are saying the government ought to have acted
government ought to have acted sooner, so the Prime Minister’s
sooner, so the Prime Minister’s message will be come on two fronts,
message will be come on two fronts, he will say, yes, he acknowledges
he will say, yes, he acknowledges the people pressing him to go for a
the peopla pressing him to go for a national
the people pressing him to go for a national lockdown sooner, including
national lockdown sooner, including some of his own scientific advisers,
some of his own scientific advisers, but he will defend the regional
but he will defend the regional approach, trying to do his best to
approach, trying to do his best to get this under control without
get this under control without imposing a national lockdown in the
imposing a national lockdown in the first place. Secondly he will be
first place. Secondly he will be saying to some of his own restless
saying to some of his own restless backbenchers that he had no choice
backbenchers that he had no choice but to act. It was interesting this
but to act. It was interesting this morning that Rishi Sunak, the
morning that Rishi Sunak, the Chancellor, who is seen as someone
Chancellor, who is seen as someone who is really pushing behind the
who is really pushing behind the scenes to try to keep as much of the
scenes to try to keep as much of the economy open as possible, he said he
economy open as possible, he said he backed the Prime Minister and the
backed the Prime Minister and the reason for doing so was the growing
reason for doing so was the growing pressure on the NHS.
There is a range of different models and different estimates and I agree
with the Prime Minister that we have to be humble in the face of nature.
We’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster
than we had anticipated or feared.
It’s the last thing we want to do, to bring in such
restrictive measures.
We strove very hard to avoid being in this situation.
Even the areas with currently low incidence now have some
of the highest rates of increase and because of the way
that the NHS is constructed in some of those areas,
actually the pressure on beds would manifest itself quite soon —
in a matter of weeks — and I think when we heard
all of that and saw all of that from all of our scientific medical
advisers, it was clear — very regrettably — that,
unless we took action now, and quite significant action,
we would be in an unacceptable situation in just a matter of weeks.
At number
At number",
At number 11, saying along with Number 10 that there is no choice to
Number 10 that there is no choice to act. What is interesting is that
act. what is interesting is that some
act. What is interesting is that some Conservative MPs are saying,
some Conservative MPs are saying, actually, let’s look at this in the
actually, let’s look at this in the round and what they want the
round and what they want the Chancellor to do is to come up with
Chancellor to do is to come up with an economic impact assessment of a
an economic impact assessment of a month long lockdown in England to
month long lockdown in England to look at the potential economic cost,
look at the potential economic cost, the jobs that may be lost, the human
the jobs that may be lost, the human cost, and some are also saying they
cost, and some are also saying they need more information about how the
need more information about how the health service is going to be
health service is going to be treating other illnesses, other than
treating other illnesses, other than a Covid over the next month. Some
a Covid over the next month. Some very practical interventions, I
very practical interventions, I think, this afternoon when the Prime
think, this afternoon when the Prime Minister makes a statement to the
Minister makes a statement to the House of Commons, from MPs asking
House of Commons, from MPs asking for specific information. But beyond
for specific information. But beyond that, I
for specific information. But beyond that, Ithink
for specific information. But beyond that, I think a measure of some of
that, I think a measure of some of the restlessness on the Conservative
the restlessness on the Conservative backbenches can be seen in the
backbenches can be seen in the comments from Mr Graham Brady, the
comments from Mr Graham Brady, the chair of the influential committee
chair of the inﬂuential committee of
chair of the influential committee of backbench Conservative MPs and he
of backbench Conservative MPs and he told the BBC last night if some of
told the BBC last night if some of these measures were introduced by a
these measures were introduced by a totalitarian country, we would be
totalitarian country, we would be denouncing them as a form of evil.
denouncing them as a form of evil. That shows you just the strength of
That shows you just the strength of feeling against some in Boris
feeling against some in Boris johnson’s
feeling against some in Boris Johnson’s own ranks. He said
johnson’s own ranks. He said basically it is
Johnson’s own ranks. He said basically it is a fundamental breach
basically it is a fundamental breach of human rights, the right to a
of human rights, the right to a family life, the right to who you
family life, the right to who you ran sleep
family life, the right to who you can sleep with, even. They will be
ran sleep with, even. They will be criticisms.
can sleep with, even. They will be criticisms. I don’t expect when the
criticisms. I don’t expect when the vote is on Wednesday that the
vote is on Wednesday that the government will lose because Labour
government will lose because labour have
government will lose because Labour have been criticising the tidiness
have been criticising the tidiness of the covenant and most of their
of the covenant and most of their MPs are likely to support the
MPs are likely to support the lockdown in England —— criticising
lockdown in England -- criticising the
lockdown in England —— criticising the tidiness. Concerns from MPs I’ve
the tidiness. Concerns from MPs I’ve heard over the weekend, some are
heard over the weekend, some are reluctant to rebel this week but the
reluctant to rebel this week but the concern is that this may go on and
concern is that this may go on and on and on so that when it comes to
on and on so that when it comes to renewing these restrictions, if that
renewing these restrictions, if that is what the government decides to do
is what the government decides to do on December the 2nd, we might be
on December the 2nd, we might be facing a much larger rebellion and
facing a much larger rebellion and even more descent than. 0K, thank
even more descent than. 0K, thank you very much, Iain Watson in
you very much, Iain Watson in Westminster.
Ryanair customers will not be refunded forﬂights in November,
according to its boss, despite the UK government
banning all but essential travel.
Michael O’Leary said
if a flight was operating, passengers would not get their money
if a flight was operating, passengers would not get their money
back but they could change to a later flight
without paying a fee.
Ryanair has reported an 80% slump in passenger numbers
during the coronavirus crisis.
Prince William was unwell with Covid—19 earlier this year
but it was not publicly announced.
Palace sources have confirmed the Duke Of Cambridge had the virus
around the same time that his father Prince Charles was self—isolating.
Jon Donnison reports.
Prince William appearing on ITV’s Pride of Britain awards last night.
You’ve had it in your own family, as well?
Yeah, my father had it very early on.
It turns out it wasn’t just his father who was infected.
The Prince made no mention that he had also fallen ill
with Covid—19lastspring, but paid tribute to NHS workers.
The devastating impact of the coronavirus pandemic has
reminded us as a nation of how much we owe to the thousands of NHS
workers who have gone far beyond the call of duty this year.
Kensington Palace is giving no official comment or confirmation
but a Palace source told the BBC that a story in today’s Sun
newspaper that the Prince had shown symptoms of Covid—19 around a week
into the national lockdown last spring is accurate.
I’m Catherine and this is William next to me.
At the time, Prince William continued to carry out a number
of official engagements using video conferencing.
News of his father’s Covid—19 infection was made public.
At the time he was photographed self—isolating in Scotland.
But it may be that, given the national mood last spring,
there was no desire to add further alarm by revealing Prince
William’s condition.
Jon Donnison, BBC News.
The US presidential election enters its final day of campaigning,
with both President Trump and Joe Biden appealing to voters
in crucial battleground states.
The scale of early voting has been unprecedented with more
than 93 million Americans having cast their ballots already.
Our correspondent Nomia Iqbal reports from Florida.
This is the most important election of our lifetime.
It is crunch time.
President Trump and Joe Biden have been making a push in the Midwestern
states and if those swing states are crucial, then
Florida is critical.
MUSIC PLAYS.
Donald Trump needs more than their love.
He needs their votes.
To become president it requires 270 points from the electoral college
system and Florida has 29 up for grabs.
Without this state, the path back to the White House
looks near impossible.
More than eight million residents here have already voted.
This is the last day of in—person early voting here in Florida
and at this polling station there are Donald Trump supporters
on one side and Joe Biden supporters on the other,
with no—one meeting in the middle.
And that sums up what it is like to be in a swing state.
People love the guy because they think he is like us, a regular
person and not a politician.
He is a liar.
He wants power, that is it.
He does not care about the community.
And some say Donald Trump is trying to portray his rival, Joe Biden,
in a way that plays on the fears of many Latino voters.
The Trump administration needs something to grab
onto because their record is terrible.
So one of the biggest ways to scare Cubans and Venezuelans is by fear
mongering them into talking about communism and socialism.
My entire family is voting for Donald Trump.
My entire family.
I am one of the few in my family who is not voting for Trump,
who is voting forJoe Biden.
Florida has been problematic in delivering election results.
Officials tell us they are ready this time.
If that is true, then on election night Florida will give us an early
sense of which man is on track to become the next president.
The headlines on BBC News...
ActorJohnny Depp has lost his High Court libel action
against The Sun newspaper over an article which labelled
him a "wife beater".
BorisJohnson will urge MPs to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons later.
The PM is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease
restrictions after a month.
Donald Trump and Joe Biden head to crucial swing states to campaign,
as the US election campaign enters its final stage.
In just a few days’ time, England’s second national lockdown
will be brought in and the whole country will be facing much
tighter restrictions.
The government says they must do this to halt the spread
of coronavirus and save lives — but what’s the reaction in towns
where infection rates have been relatively low?
Duncan Kennedy reports from Winchester.
It’s home to 125,000 people.
And is one more place that has endured Covid.
So when you ask people in Winchester what they think of this
week’s new lockdown, the first thing you hear
is resigned weariness.
Boring, boring.
To go through it again?
Boring, yeah.
But places like Winchester in the south of England haven’t seen
the kinds of Covid numbers areas in the North have experienced.
Here in Winchester, the figure is running at about 135
cases per 100,000 people.
But compare that to a town in the North of similar size,
say, Preston, and there, the figure is more like 464
cases per 100,000 people.
And that’s why many here, it’s hard tojudge numbers,
think an England wide lockdown isn’t right.
I still think it’s a bit unfair on the south,
when the cases down here are quite low in comparison the north.
So the tiered system would have probably worked out better.
Yeah, I totally agree.
I think in the south, we are coping, it seems, anyway,
people are sensible.
But up in the north, obviously, it doesn’t seem to be going as well.
In the shops and businesses here, the views are more mixed.
Adrienne Henry runs a hat making shop and store and believes
when it comes to lockdowns, the south is different.
To lockdown the whole country, I don’t know that it’s a good idea.
If the numbers were very high here, then, yes,
I agree that we should be locked down.
But as a whole country, I don’t know.
But her neighbour, Susan Woodman, isn’t so sure.
So, you know, we can do it for a month.
If it’s going to mean that we make a considerable, dramatic
improvement to the situation.
All in it together?
Yeah, absolutely.
From Thursday, we’re all on the lockdown again.
Nowhere wants to be locked down.
And although Covid’s footprint does very widely across the country,
it’s a collective response that will once again be the nation’s
new direction of travel.
Duncan Kennedy, BBC News, in Winchester.
Just looking through tweets she had
just looking through tweets she had been
Just looking through tweets she had been sending me on a similar theme
been sending me on a similar theme to the report there from Duncan, one
to the report there from Duncan, one viewer says we are furious in East
viewer says we are furious in East Sussex, the count is low, we have
Sussex, the count is low, we have obeyed the rules.
Sussex, the count is low, we have obeyed the rules. Lockdown is
obeyed the mles. Lockdown is unnecessary
obeyed the rules. Lockdown is unnecessary in the south. Steve
unnecessary in the south. Steve says, why have care homes been
says, why have rare homes been forgotten, my
says, why have care homes been forgotten, my mother is locked away
forgotten, my mother is locked away in her rare
forgotten, my mother is locked away in her care home and I haven’t seen
in her rare home and I haven’t seen her since
in her care home and I haven’t seen her since February, this is
her since February, this is heartbreaking, no one talks about
heartbreaking, no one talks about it. She will die alone. Another
it. She will die alone. Another viewer says regarding school staying
viewer says regarding school staying open because of the mental health of
open because of the mental health of the children, what about the
the children, what about the teachers? Trying to keep 30 children
teachers? Trying to keep 30 children safe and teaching them, its
safe and teaching them, its training, my wife is mentally
training, my wife is mentally exhausted when she gets home every
exhausted when she gets home every day. There was one on gymnasiums, if
day. There was one on gymnasiums, if I ran find it, how
day. There was one on gymnasiums, if I can find it, how are not
I can find it, how are not essential? Government has no idea
essential? Government has no idea how important they are too many
how important they are too many transmission rates are minimal here,
transmission rates are minimal here, I am so lost. And in fact we will
I am so lost. And in fact we will speak to someone who runs a
speak to someone who runs a gymnasium, I think it is a gymnasium
gymnasium, I think it is a gymnasium for children, actually. That is
for children, actually. That is coming up in the next few minutes.
BorisJohnson will urge MPs to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons today.
The Prime Minister is expected to stress the government’s intention
to ease restrictions after a month despite a suggestion
by the Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove that it
could last longer.
Some Conservative backbenchers are threatening to vote
against the measures.
I’ve been speaking to Professor Sir Mark Walport, who’s
a former Chief Scientific Adviser to the UK government
and is now a member of SAGE — the committee that advises
ministers.
The first thing to say is of course it’s extraordinarily difficult for
it’s extraordinarily difficult for policymakers who are faced with some
policymakers who are faced with some of the toughest decisions any
of the toughest decisions any politicians have to make but numbers
politicians have to make but numbers are really speaking themselves. We
are really speaking themselves. We are at a quarter of the death rate,
are at a quarter of the death rate, just over 250, of the first wave of
just over 250, of the first wave of this and doubling times of about two
this and doubling times of about two weeks each, that takes us up to the
weeks each, that takes us up to the peak of eartier
weeks each, that takes us up to the peak of earlier in the year. Over
peak of eartier in the year. Over 11,000
peak of earlier in the year. Over 11,000 patients in our hospitals at
11,000 patients in our hospitals at the moment. The numbers there are
the moment. The numbers there are very dear. I’m not
the moment. The numbers there are very clear. I’m not sure about the
very dear. I’m not sure about the argument about
very clear. I’m not sure about the argument about a totalitarian state,
argument about a totalitarian state, I think if we were looking at that,
I think if we were looking at that, ignoring those numbers, we would not
ignoring those numbers, we would not think much of that either. I was
think much of that either. I was going to ask you about that, what
going to ask you about that, what did you think of author Graham Brady
did you think of author Graham Brady had to say and you outlined what you
had to say and you outlined what you think about. The numbers, the
think about. The numbers, the predictions that Cambridge data,
predictions that Cambridge data, there are other predictions but the
there are other predictions but the fact of the matter is they are all
fact of the matter is they are all very high in terms of the number of
very high in terms of the number of deaths, aren’t they? Yes, the
deaths, aren’t they? Yes, the answers are these are projections
answers are these are projections that the projections get more and
that the projections get more and more reliable as more numbers come
more reliable as more numbers come in. The numbers have been very, very
in. The numbers have been very, very consistent over a number of weeks,
consistent over a number of weeks, the number of cases going up,
the number of rases going up, spreading to
the number of cases going up, spreading to older and the more
spreading to older and the more vulnerable generations, we know
vulnerable generations, we know people of all generations are
people of all generations are susceptible to some of the
susceptible to some of the non—disease—macro like symptoms
non-disease-macro like symptoms which ran
non—disease—macro like symptoms which can be very debilitating over
which ran be very debilitating over long periods.
which can be very debilitating over long periods. 50 the evidence is
long periods. So the evidence is there, the
long periods. 50 the evidence is there, the only way this can’t be
there, the only way this can’t be stopped is by preventing the virus
stopped is by preventing the virus from leaping from one person to
from leaping from one person to another, that involves social
another, that involves social distancing. I’m sure you would agree
distancing. I’m sure you would agree as much as the next person, a series
as much as the next person, a series of lockdown is is by no means ideal
of lockdown is is by no means ideal and you know, not the most effective
and you know, not the most effective “Y
and you know, not the most effective way perhaps to deal with peaks and
way perhaps to deal with peaks and troughs but the only way we have
troughs but the only way we have right now. The last lockdown was all
right now. The last lockdown was all about flattening the curve, that was
about ﬂattening the curve, that was the phrase we
about flattening the curve, that was the phrase we heard over and over
the phrase we heard over and over again and certainly this lockdown
again and certainly this lockdown will be about cutting the numbers of
will be about cutting the numbers of deaths and stopping the NHS from
deaths and stopping the NHS from being overwhelmed but is this
being overwhelmed but is this lockdown going to be able to achieve
lockdown going to be able to achieve more than that? Can it go beyond
more than that? (“an it go beyond ﬂattening the
more than that? Can it go beyond flattening the curve? What we need
ﬂattening the curve? what we need to do is get the
flattening the curve? What we need to do is get the number of cases
to do is get the number of rases down so
to do is get the number of cases down so we need to get this
down so we need to get this reproduction number below one. And
reproduction number below one. And that was achieved the first time
that was achieved the first time round and actually the cases came
round and actually the cases came down very well but the brakes were
down very well but the brakes were taken off a bit too much, if you
taken off a bit too much, if you like, and so was able to come back.
like, and so was able to come back. We do need to get them down and of
We do need to get them down and of course, one of the reasons we are
course, one of the reasons we are doing this very aggressively is
doing this very aggressively is because there is the prospect of
because there is the prospect of better treatments and we are already
better treatments and we are already in a better position in that your
in a better position in that your chance of surviving if you end up in
chance of surviving if you end up in intensive care significantly better
intensive rare significantly better than
intensive care significantly better than before and there is the
than before and there is the prospect of antibody treatments and
prospect of antibody treatments and vaccines. So it’s worth that effort,
vaccines. So it’s worth that effort, we should be able to get on top of
we should be able to get on top of it with additional interventions. Is
it with additional interventions. Is the 2nd of December December doable
the 2nd of December December doable as a point exit this new lockdown
as a point exit this new lockdown and what needs to happen to actually
and what needs to happen to actually make that work? Well, the answer is,
make that work? Well, the answer is, the 2nd of December won’t yield is a
the 2nd of December won’t yield is a magical situation where it’s all
magical situation where it’s all gone away. We are not going to be
gone away. We are not going to be able to return to social life as it
able to return to social life as it was before coronavirus. So there
was before coronavirus. So there will need to be measures after
will need to be measures after December, the 2nd of December and,
December, the 2nd of December and, frankly, the only way we’re going to
frankly, the only way we’re going to find out is what the numbers of
find out is what the numbers of rases
find out is what the numbers of cases and see they change. People
cases and see they change. People need to play their part, everyone
need to play their part, everyone has to be careful about their own
has to be careful about their own behaviour. But in terms of
behaviour. But in terms of government policy, health policy,
government policy, health policy, and the test and trace system, what
and the test and trace system, what needs to happen there? When the
needs to happen there? when the government is
needs to happen there? When the government is asked about this the
government is asked about this the answer tends to focus on the testing
answer tends to focus on the testing but dearty,
answer tends to focus on the testing but clearly, even if testing is
but dearty, even if testing is ramped up
but clearly, even if testing is ramped up and there is mass testing
ramped up and there is mass testing and faster testing, that doesn’t
and faster testing, that doesn’t preclude the trace part of the
preclude the trace part of the system needing to work as well stop
system needing to work as well stop so I’d like to get your thoughts on
so I’d like to get your thoughts on that. You are absolutely right. The
that. You are absolutely right. The whola point of
that. You are absolutely right. The whole point of testing is that you
whola point of testing is that you do
whole point of testing is that you do something with the test result.
do something with the test result. And so, obviously, it is important
And so, obviously, it is important to test peopla
And so, obviously, it is important to test people so they can
to test people so they can self—isolate but it’s equally
self-isolate but it’s equally important
self—isolate but it’s equally important that we are then able to
important that we are then able to trace their contacts so they can be
trace their contacts so they can be warned as well and also isolate for
warned as well and also isolate for a period of time. So
warned as well and also isolate for a period of time. Sol
warned as well and also isolate for a period of time. So I think that is
a period of time. So I think that is absolutely critical and it’s the
absolutely critical and it’s the other reason for trying to get the
other reason for trying to get the numbers down because we know when
numbers down because we know when the numbers are very large it’s very
the numbers are very large it’s very difficult for even the best test and
difficult for even the best test and trace systems in the world to stay
trace systems in the world to stay on top of it. They’ve had to
on top of it. They’ve had to introduce measures at a rather
introduce measures at a rather eartier stage
introduce measures at a rather earlier stage because they realise
eartier stage berause they realise their
earlier stage because they realise their test and tracing capacity was
their test and tracing capacity was overwhelmed. Do you think more needs
overwhelmed. Do you think more needs to be done to make it easier
overwhelmed. Do you think more needs to be done to make it easierfor
to be done to make it easier for people to
to be done to make it easierfor people to stay at home, if they are
peopla to stay at home, if they are found to
people to stay at home, if they are found to be positive, because there
found to be positive, because there have been a variety of figures, some
have been a variety of figures, some of them not very encouraging, on the
of them not very encouraging, on the number of people who even if they
number of people who even if they had been told they are a contact of
had been told they are a contact of someone positive or have tested
someone positive or have tested positive, don’t isolate for a
positive, don’t isolate for a variety of reasons? They’re
variety of reasons? Therre absolutely
variety of reasons? They’re absolutely does need to be support
absolutely does need to be support for people staying at home, it’s no
for peopla staying at home, it’s no good being at
for people staying at home, it’s no good being at home if you have no
good being at home if you have no food. You need money to live on. And
food. You need money to live on. And I think government is extremely well
I think government is extremely well aware of that. That’s exactly right,
aware of that. That’s exactly right, there needs to be a whole package
there needs to be a whole package of.
there needs to be a whole package of, if you like, public health and
of, if you like, public health and economic measures that make it
economic measures that make it possible for people to do what is
possibla for peopla to do what is the right
possible for people to do what is the right thing which is to
the right thing which is to stay—at—home and isolate. And to
stay-at-home and isolate. And to avoid a cycle of
stay—at—home and isolate. And to avoid a cycle of lockdown? Yes,
avoid a cycle of lockdown? Yes, indeed. Germany of course is another
indeed. Germany of course is another country entering a four—week period
country entering a four-week period of
country entering a four—week period of lockdown. Just hearing in the
of lockdown. just hearing in the last few
of lockdown. Just hearing in the last few moments the German defence
last few moments the German defence Minister is self quarantining after
Minister is self quarantining after learning she came into contact with
learning she came into contact with the person who tested positive
the person who tested positive Covid-19,
the person who tested positive Covid—19, that has just been
Covid—19, that has just been announced by the German Defence
announced by the German Defence Ministry. At test on herself has
Ministry. At test on herself has come back negative but she is self
come back negative but she is self quarantining after learning she came
quarantining after learning she came into contact with a person who
into contact with a person who tested positive for coronavirus.
More new on the US election race as it enters its final hours,
both Donald Trump and Joe Biden have been focusing on the swing—states
on which their success orfailure depends.
In the last few days both have been in the upper Midwest
home to North America’s Great Lakes.
Michigan and Wisconsin were two of the three historically
Democratic industrial states, along with Pennsylvania, that
narrowly voted Republican in 2016, delivering Mr Trump his victory.
Our correspondent Yalda Hakim spent the weekend in Milwaukee,
in Wisconsin, where both parties have been chasing down
votes from communities they don’t usually target.
Waukesha County.
The suburban dream.
When Donald Trump talks about saving the suburbs,
this is where he means.
Mostly white, affluent, the red heart of Wisconsin.
We voted for Trump.
We feel he loves his country, he loves his people, he loves
America.
He mentions God.
God comes first.
I think he’s done a lot of major things in the
United States and the world.
And he doesn’t fool around.
He is obnoxious at times.
I just feel like he’s been doing a lot
of great things with the economy, trying to get it
back to what it should
be.
What about the last four years?
Do you think it’s been quite a roller—coaster for Americans?
I think it’s been more of a roller—coaster
for President Trump, that poor man, what he has been
through.
But things could be shifting.
The Democrats made big gains in suburbs like these in the
2018 midterms.
We are used to having a lot of folks who may support us or
may support us for the first time ever, they are going to vote
Democrat but they are not necessarily super confident in
saying it out loud because that changes the dynamics of friendships
and parent teacher groups and things like that.
If Biden can eat Trump’s margins even slightly it could help
flip the state.
Democrats know that the vast majority of people in this
county will vote for Donald Trump and the Republican Party but they
are trying to change as many minds as possible
and they say there is
growing signs of support.
Patrick and Barb have lived in this neighbourhood for decades.
We are seeing a little bit of a crack, at
least in our city.
You didn’t used to see Democratic signs very
prominently in our city and now we are seeing
more and more and more of
them.
So, it’s a little bit encouraging, because like, a crack.
A 30 minute drive and we are in a totally political landscape.
Milwaukee is the most racially polarised metropolitan area in
America.
And intensely Democratic.
Hey, how are you?
These African—Americans are also campaigning.
But not for Biden.
I do have quite a few friends who are
Christians like myself, who are kind of struggling
with who to vote for
and once I share, you know, why I feel so strongly about, you know,
voting in, the re—election of President Trump, they kind of
understood.
You know, why that might be but I have a feeling one or two
friends might be reconsidering their vote.
This is a community becoming more and more aware of the impact of
their vote.
In Wisconsin, it may come down to black and Latinx voters and we
know that we can be the margin of victory and it really kind
of goes to show the power that
we have.
With the ghost of 2016 hanging over this state, where Trump’s
majority was a narrow one, both sides are fighting as if every vote
could be decisive.
Yalda Hakim, BBC News, Wisconsin.
Hollywood starJohnny Depp has lost his High Court libel action
against The Sun newspaper over an article which labelled
him a "wife beater".
The actor sued the paper’s publisher and its executive editor,
Dan Wootton, over a 2018 article which claimed he had
assaulted his ex—wife Amber Heard, which he denies.
Our media correspondent David Sillito is here now.
David, this is just
David, this isjust breaking
David, this is just breaking within the last hour. Take us through the
the last hour. Take us through the detail we heard from the court and
detail we heard from the court and any reaction so far. We’ve got to go
any reaction so far. We’ve got to go to what the allegations were. 1A
to what the allegations were. 14 allegations
to what the allegations were. 1A allegations in court. These were
allegations in court. These were very serious. This was Amber Heard,
very serious. This was Amber Heard, the former wife of
very serious. This was Amber Heard, the former wife ofJohnny Depp,
the former wife of johnny Depp, saying she
the former wife ofJohnny Depp, saying she was at times in fear of
saying she was at times in fear of her life, saying she had been facial
her life, saying she had been facial bruising, broken nose, black eyes,
bruising, broken nose, black eyes, repeated assaults against. And the
repeated assaults against. And the judge has said and I will read it, I
judge has said and I will read it, I have found that the great majority
have found that the great majority of allaged
have found that the great majority of alleged assaults on Amber Heard
of allaged assaults on Amber Heard by
of allaged assaults on Amber Heard bylohnny
of alleged assaults on Amber Heard byJohnny Depp have been proved to
by johnny Depp have been proved to the civil
byJohnny Depp have been proved to the civil standard, that is 12 or M
the civil standard, that is 12 or 14 allagations. He
the civil standard, that is 12 or M allegations. He says to place. So,
allegations. He says to place. So, the statement in the Sun newspaper,
the statement in the Sun newspaper, that headline that
the statement in the Sun newspaper, that headline thatJohnny Depp is a
that headline that johnny Depp is a wife
that headline thatJohnny Depp is a wife beater, he says, to be
wife beater, he says, to be substantially true. This is
substantially true. This is shattering for the reputation of
shattering for the reputation of johnny
shattering for the reputation of Johnny Depp. And vindication for
johnny Depp. And vindication for Amber
Johnny Depp. And vindication for Amber Heard. A statement, of course,
Amber Heard. A statement, of course, she is also facing further legal
she is also facing further legal action from Johnny Depp, seeking to
action from johnny Depp, seeking to sue her in
action from Johnny Depp, seeking to sue her in America and a statement
sue her in America and a statement from her council saying for those of
from her council saying for those of us present in the High Court, the
us present in the High Court, the decision and judgment are not a
decision and judgment are not a surprise, very soon we will be
surprise, very soon we will be presenting even more voluminous
presenting even more voluminous evidence in the US, we are committed
evidence in the US, we are committed to obtaining justice for Amber
to obtaining justice for Amber Heard. That reference to voluminous
Heard. That reference to voluminous evidence is because of course Amber
evidence is because of course Amber Heard was not the person who was
Heard was not the person who was being sued here, it was News group
being sued here, it was News group newspapers and so she was not
newspapers and so she was not obﬁged
newspapers and so she was not obliged to reveal all the
obliged to reveal all the documentation about their
documentation about their relationship. Statement, of course,
relationship. Statement, of course, now from the Sun newspaper, the Sun
now from the Sun newspaper, the Sun has stood up and campaign for the
has stood up and campaign for the victims of domestic abuse for over
victims of domestic abuse for over 20 years, victims must never be
20 years, victims must never be silenced and we thank the judge for
silenced and we thank the judge for his careful consideration and we
his careful consideration and we thank Amber Heard for her courage in
thank Amber Heard for her courage in giving evidence to the court. I
giving evidence to the court. I think one thing that is also worth
think one thing that is also worth mentioning, Amber Heard has, since
mentioning, Amber Heard has, since she got her divorce from Johnny
she got her divorce from johnny DePP-
she got her divorce from johnny Depp, has
she got her divorce from Johnny Depp, has spoken up on behalf of the
Depp, has spoken up on behalf of the peopla who
Depp, has spoken up on behalf of the people who suffered domestic
people who suffered domestic violence, she has been essentially,
violence, she has been essentially, and ambassador, to be questioned
and ambassador, to be questioned about what she was saying, told that
about what she was saying, told that it was all a hoax, this is very,
it was all a hoax, this is very, very important to her reputation and
very important to her reputation and also, to be believed about what she
also, to be believed about what she said over the course of their
said over the course of their relationship and the judge said, a
relationship and the judge said, a recurring theme in the evidence from
recurring theme in the evidence from johnny Depp is
recurring theme in the evidence from Johnny Depp is that Amber Heard had
Johnny Depp is that Amber Heard had constructed a hoax and that she had
constmcted a hoax and that she had done this
constructed a hoax and that she had done this as an insurance policy. He
done this as an insurance policy. He was not convinced by that argument.
was not convinced by that argument. David, thank you.
More new on the new lockdown restrictions due to come into force
across England on Thursday.
Everyone will be told to stay at home except
for specific reasons, and pubs, restaurants,
non—essential shops and gyms will be told to close.
We can speak now to Simon Green, an instructor
at The Little Gym — a children’s gym offering various
activities and classes for children and parents.
Simon, thank you very much for joining us today. The impact on your
joining us today. The impact on your business of this lockdown will be...
business of this lockdown will be... Good morning. We are facing closure
Good morning. We are facing closure again, we are still waiting for
again, we are still waiting for confirmation across the different
confirmation across the different age groups that we serve but it’s
age groups that we serve but it’s devastating, as always. This is a
devastating, as always. This is a complicated problem and obviously
complicated problem and obviously there is no easy solution to this at
there is no easy solution to this at the moment. But as a small business
the moment. But as a small business owner, we faced this before, we will
owner, we faced this before, we will visit again, we are adaptable. I am
visit again, we are adaptable. I am lucky to be part of our franchise
lucky to be part of our franchise EWUP
lucky to be part of our franchise group with 11 other franchisees,
lucky to be part of our franchise group with 11 otherfranchisees, we
group with 11 other franchisees, we adapted
group with 11 otherfranchisees, we adapted before, created an online
adapted before, created an online service and we have come through
service and we have come through this so I think we are ready to face
this so I think we are ready to face it again and we are nervous, we
it again and we are nervous, we don’t know where it will end and I
don’t know where it will end and I think that is our biggest problem.
think that is our biggest problem. Do you think that your sector, the
Do you think that your sector, the gymnasium sector, should be subject
gymnasium sector, should be subject to the same restrictions as many
to the same restrictions as many other sectors, like pubs,
other sectors, like pubs, restaurants etc? Have you had any
restaurants etc? Have you had any known cases of transmission at any
known cases of transmission at any of your 13 gymnasiums? That’s a good
of your 13 gymnasiums? That’s a good question. In terms of transmission
question. In terms of transmission of rases, we
question. In terms of transmission of cases, we have had one case at
of rases, we have had one rase at one gymnasium
of cases, we have had one case at one gymnasium over the whole period
one gymnasium over the whole period of which we went through the normal
of which we went through the normal procedures that we would need to do,
procedures that we would need to do, outside of that, we have run the
outside of that, we have nm the gymnasiums
outside of that, we have run the gymnasiums as normal, we had all the
gymnasiums as normal, we had all the normal precautions and, being Covid
normal precautions and, being Covid save as an environment, we are
save as an environment, we are dealing with children from four
dealing with children from four months to 12 years old, we are in
months to 12 years old, we are in our sector that is typically seen as
our sector that is typically seen as very low risk to start with. But, as
very low risk to start with. But, as everything, we are more cautious
everything, we are more cautious about our staff and customers more
about our staff and customers more than anything else, first of all.
than anything else, first of all. But, you know, we are also aware
But, you know, we are also aware that there are other needs, social,
that there are other needs, social, mental, physical needs, especially
mental, physical needs, especially young children, facing and young
young children, facing and young parents are facing so we want to be
parents are facing so we want to be there to serve them but we want to
there to serve them but we want to do the right thing by what the
do the right thing by what the government restrictions are as well.
government restrictions are as well. just finally, if I
government restrictions are as well. Just finally, if I can put to you,
just finally, if I ran put to you, are you going
Just finally, if I can put to you, are you going to be able to survive
are you going to be able to survive and keep everyone in employment that
and keep everyone in employment that you currently employ through this
you currently employ through this period? With, obviously, the Prime
period? with, obviously, the Prime Minister
period? With, obviously, the Prime Minister hoping that the lockdown
Minister hoping that the lockdown ran be
Minister hoping that the lockdown can be exited on the 2nd of December
ran be exited on the 2nd of December but was no
can be exited on the 2nd of December but was no absolute guarantees, I
but was no absolute guarantees, I guess? At the moment we are in it
guess? At the moment we are in it for the long term rather than a
for the long term rather than a short—term blip so staffing wise,
short-term blip so staffing wise, that is
short—term blip so staffing wise, that is all fine. The furlough
that is all fine. The furlough scheme really helps us make sure
scheme really helps us make sure that we keep those staff on and keep
that we keep those staff on and keep them employed and if we can
them employed and if we ran obviously
them employed and if we can obviously see a clear end date
obviously see a clear and date insight that
obviously see a clear end date insight that we are reopening back
insight that we are reopening back in December, hopefully, when
in December, hopefully, when everything should be good for us, we
everything should be good for us, we have seen a good bounce back from
have seen a good bounce back from the previous lockdown and we hope to
the previous lockdown and we hope to see that again, going forward,
see that again, going forward, especially in the youngest age group
especially in the youngest age group that we have stop the four months,
that we have stop the four months, to three years, that has been
to three years, that has been fantastic for us so far so we hope
fantastic for us so far so we hope to see them coming back in numbers
to see them coming back in numbers as before. Simon, thank you so much
as before. Simon, thank you so much for your time.
Just a couple more of your comments
just a couple more of your comments from Twitter,
Just a couple more of your comments from Twitter, Steve saying the
from Twitter, Steve saying the restrictions are clear, we are
restrictions are clear, we are supposed to reduce contact with
supposed to reduce contact with others as much as possible so why
others as much as possibla so why are
others as much as possible so why are teachers being forced to work in
are teachers being forced to work in unsafe conditions? I guess lots of
unsafe conditions? I guess lots of schools would say they have put
schools would say they have put effort into making sure the schools
effort into making sure the schools settings are as safe as possible.
settings are as safe as possible. One from Harry on Twitter who says
One from Harry on Twitter who says what is the government expecting
what is the government expecting university students to do this time
university students to do this time and are there any guarantees we will
and are there any guarantees we will be allowed to travel home at
be allowed to travel home at Christmas even if lockdown is
Christmas even if lockdown is extended? Of course we are always
extended? Of course we are always trying to answer these questions for
trying to answer these questions for you here on BBC News and we will
you here on BBC News and we will endeavour to keep on doing that.
A group of nuns in the south of England has found unlikely success
with a chart—topping debut album.
For these women who live a monastic life — seeing very few outsiders
and only leaving the grounds for medical appointments —
their new—found fame has come as quite a shock!
The BBC’s Clare Casey reports.
SINGING.
In tough times, music speaks louder than ever,
and it seems the collective voices of the Poor Clares have unwittingly
tapped into a market of people in need of spiritual healing.
Back in a pre—Covid existence, Decca music executives approached
the community of enclosed sisters with an idea for an album —
blending their plainchant with a 21st—century chilled—out
vibe, perfectly designed for headphone—wearing masses
looking for a moment of escape.
The group of women took a vote and decided it could be fun.
When we received this request, about Decca,
for this album, we thought
that it was a good adventure for all of us to live this together,
as a community, and it brings a lot ofjoy and energy to the community.
Liturgy is part of our life.
It’s part of our prayer, really.
Fortunately, all but one of the recording sessions
was completed before England’s first lockdown hit,
and the composers had enough material to make the album.
We love singing, we love music.
And when it’s a good sound, it’s even better.
Unlike most girl groups, it wasn’t fame and money these
singers were hoping for, but to bring a touch
of calm to people’s lives.
Clare Casey, BBC News.
Good music for meditation, I should think. The singing nuns whose voices
think. The singing nuns whose voices are now being heard by many more
are now being heard by many more peopla than
are now being heard by many more people than before. You are watching
peopla than before. You are watching BBC
people than before. You are watching BBC News. Rebecca is here in
people than before. You are watching BBC News. Rebecca is here injust a
BBC News. Rebeca is here injust a few
BBC News. Rebecca is here injust a few moments to take you through
few moments to take you through until 1pm.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carol Kirkwood.
Hello again.
Some parts of the southeast and eastern England this morning
started off with temperatures between 15 and 18 degrees.
But as this cold front sinks south, the temperature will
actually go down behind it.
And you can see another weather front coming in from the west,
enhancing the showers.
And all those isobars are telling us that it’s
going to be another windy day.
Not as windy in the north as it was over the weekend,
but still windy in the west and also the south.
So, some dry weather today, some sunshine to look forward to.
But, equally, we’ve got quite a lot of showers and some of those
will merge to give some longer spells of rain at times.
These are the kind of wind gust strengths that we’re expecting —
so still gusty winds to watch out for.
Temperatures, nine in the north to about 1k in parts
of the southeast, so dropping for some by about
four degrees or so.
Now, through this evening and overnight, the rain
in the northwest pushes across Scotland.
We could see some wet snow in Argyll and Bute,
the South Highlands, for example.
And we’ve got another band coming in across southern Wales and also
central parts of England.
Behind that, on higher ground in Wales, on the moors,
we could also see some wet snow — butjust on higher ground.
Now, that will bring rain into the southeast
and then it turns cooler.
A ridge of high pressure starts to build in and you can see all that
mild air indicated by the yellows and oranges pushed away
and we see a return to blue — indicating that cooler weather.
So for Tuesday, we eventually say goodbye to this weather front
as it drifts off into the North Sea — lot drier behind it.
There will still be some showers dotted around.
The winds will be a lot lighter, as well, than they have been
in the last few days, and are going to be
for some of us today.
And temperaturewise on Tuesday — well, roughly between nine
in Lerwick and 12 as we sweep down towards London.
Now, moving on from Tuesday night into Wednesday,
we start to see this ridge of high pressure build in.
That’s going to settle things down, but it’s also going to turn much
colder, so first thing Wednesday morning, we could be looking at some
frost and also some fog as we go through notjust Wednesday,
but the overnight period and the next couple of nights, as well.
So what can you expect?
Well, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, it will be drier.
There’ll still be one or two showers.
It’s not going to be as windy, but it’s going to be
cooler by day and night.
This is BBC News.
I’m Rebecca Jones.
The headlines at 11:
BorisJohnson will urge MPs to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England, when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons later.
The PM is expected to stress the Government’s intention to ease
restrictions after a month.
Scotland’s new five—tier system of restrictions comes into force,
with Edinburgh, Glasgow and the Central Belt facing
controls on alcohol sales and restaurant opening times.
And new restrictions for Wales — later today the First Minister
will set out his plans for when the country’s firebreak
lockdown ends next Monday.
Business in England faces more restrictions, the CBI describes a
restrictions, the CBI describes a second lockdown is a real blow for
second lockdown is a real blow for firms.
ActorJohnny Depp has lost his High Court libel action
against The Sun newspaper over an article which labelled
him a "wife beater".
Donald Trump and Joe Biden head to crucial swing states to campaign,
as the US election campaign enters its final stage.
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
BorisJohnson will urge MPs today to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England, when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons later.
He’s expected to stress the Government’s intention to ease
the new restrictions after a month.
The Prime Minister announced on Saturday that strict
measures will be imposed across England from Thursday.
People will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
Pubs, restaurants, gyms, nonessential shops and places
of worship will close.
And meeting indoors or in private gardens will not be allowed.
But you will be able to meet one other person from another household
outside in a public place.
Elsewhere, Scotland has moved into its new five—tier system
of restrictions this morning.
Nowhere has yet been placed into the most severe, Tier 4.
Later today, the First Minister of Wales, Mark Drakeford,
will outline an exit plan from the country’s national
firebreak, which is due to end on the 9th November.
And as mentioned, we expect the Prime Minister to address MPs
this afternoon, to try to win over some Tories who are
threatening to vote against the lockdown in England.
He has though cancelled plans to speak to business
leaders this morning.
The Business Secretary, Alok Sharma, will instead speak at the annual CBI
conference as concerns mount over the impact of upcoming restrictions.
First, this report from Jonathan Blake.
And so now is the time to take action because
there is no alternative.
After addressing the nation, Boris Johnson will today attempt
to get MP5 on board with his plan for a national lockdown in England.
The Prime Minister is expected to again point to stark warnings
from scientists that unless the government acts,
deaths over the winter could be twice as bad or more
than during the first wave of the pandemic.
He’ll acknowledge Labour’s view that he should have acted sooner,
but defend the system of regional restrictions he has
pursued until now.
Labour’s support means the plan is likely to pass when MPs vote
on it later this week but some Conservatives are taking a stand.
If these kind of measures were being taken in any totalitarian
country around the world, we would be denouncing
it as a form of evil.
And here, the removal of people’s fundamental liberties
is going almost without comment.
The national lockdown will see non—essential retail
closed along with pubs, bars and restaurants,
except for takeaway and delivery.
Gyms, hairdressers and beauty salons must also shut,
and only two people from different households can meet outside.
After the Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove’s admission yesterday
that the lockdown could continue beyond the beginning of December,
the Prime Minister will try to reassure MPs that the end
is in sight.
And there will be a return to the tiered system on the 2nd
of December according to the latest data and trends.
Let’s speak to our political correspondent, Iain Watson.
Good to have you with us. As jonathan was
Good to have you with us. As Jonathan was saying, not everyone in
jonathan was saying, not everyone in the
Jonathan was saying, not everyone in the Conservative Party is happy with
the Conservative Party is happy with this lockdown. How much of a job has
this lockdown. How much of a job has Boris johnson
this lockdown. How much of a job has BorisJohnson got to win over his
Boris johnson got to win over his own
BorisJohnson got to win over his own MPs?
BorisJohnson got to win over his own MP5? I think they will certainly
own MP5? I think they will certainly be his prime audience at 3:30pm when
be his prime audience at 3:30pm when he gives his statement to the House
he gives his statement to the House of Commons. He would have preferred
of Commons. He would have preferred to announce the lockdown this
to announce the lockdown this afternoon rather than Saturday, but
afternoon rather than Saturday, but links to newspapers and broadcasters
links to newspapers and broadcasters forced his hand. Effectively, what
forced his hand. Effectively, what he will be saying as it is far too
he will be saying as it is far too dangerous not to act, given the
dangerous not to act, given the evidence that has been piling up and
evidence that has been piling up and the threats to life that would have
the threats to life that would have happened otherwise across Winter as
happened otherwise across winter as we have
happened otherwise across Winter as we have been hearing. I think the
we have been hearing. I think the specific demands he will be facing
specific demands he will be facing from some of his own MPs will be to
from some of his own MPs will be to look at this problem, as they see
look at this problam, as they see it, in
look at this prohlam, as they see it, in the
look at this problem, as they see it, in the round. Could there be for
it, in the round. Could there be for example an economic assessment done
example an economic assessment done of the impact of a months long
of the impact of a months long lockdown in England? How many
of the impact of a months long lockdown in England? How manyjobs
lockdown in England? How manyjobs would be lost? What would be the
would be lost? what would be the overall
would be lost? What would be the overall loss to the economy? A whole
overall loss to the economy? A whole range of Conservative MPs have been
range of Conservative MPs have been falling for this
range of Conservative MPs have been calling for this or raising concerns
railing for this or raising concerns about
calling for this or raising concerns about the economy, including former
about the economy, including former Conservative leader Iain Duncan
Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith. In addition to that, I think
Smith. In addition to that, I think he also has to convince people that
he also has to convince people that he has some kind of plan that this
he has some kind of plan that this will not be either a continuing
will not be either a continuing cycle of lockdowns or that the
cycle of lockdowns or that the existing lockdown on December the
existing lockdown on December the 2nd will be either extended or in
2nd will be either extended or in reality de facto extended by putting
reality de facto extended by putting perhaps the whole country or almost
perhaps the whola country or almost all of it in
perhaps the whole country or almost all of it in these Tier 3
all of it in these Tier 3 restrictions for a longer period in
restrictions for a longer period in the mn-up to
restrictions for a longer period in the run—up to Christmas. At this
the mn-up to Christmas. At this stage, we had
the run—up to Christmas. At this stage, we had from Sir Graham Brady
stage, we had from Sir Graham Brady who was raising concerns about
who was raising concerns about fundamentally breaching human
fundamentally breaching human rights, but
fundamentally breaching human rights, butl
fundamentally breaching human rights, but I think it is
rights, but I think it is interesting that certainly inside
interesting that certainly inside government, the Chancellor has been
government, the Chancellor has been pressing to keep as much of the
pressing to keep as much of the economy open it for as long as
economy open it for as long as possible, but now he is weighing in
possible, but now he is weighing in at very dearty
possible, but now he is weighing in at very clearly behind the Prime
at very clearly behind the Prime Minister and saying the pressure on
Minister and saying the pressure on the NHS is forcing the government to
the NHS is forcing the government to act.
There is a range of different models and different estimates and I agree
with the Prime Minister that we have to be humble in the face of nature.
We’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster
than we had anticipated or feared.
It’s the last thing we want to do, to bring in such
restrictive measures.
We strove very hard to avoid being in this situation.
Even the areas with currently low incidence now have some
of the highest rates of increase and because of the way
that the NHS is constructed in some of those areas,
actually the pressure on beds would manifest itself quite soon —
in a matter of weeks — and I think when we heard
all of that and saw all of that from all of our scientific medical
advisers, it was clear — very regrettably — that,
unless we took action now, and quite significant action,
we would be in an unacceptable situation in just a matter of weeks.
So, united front from Number Ten and number 11 Downing St, arguing that
number 11 Downing St, arguing that these restrictions are absolute you
these restrictions are absolute you necessary. What we hear from
these restrictions are absolute you necessary. What we hearfrom Labour
necessary. what we hear from labour this
necessary. What we hearfrom Labour this afternoon is that the
this afternoon is that the government is doing perhaps too
government is doing perhaps too little too late and they should have
little too late and they should have had a lockdown much earlier in
had a lockdown much eartier in England to
had a lockdown much earlier in England to coincide with the October
England to coincide with the October half term, but none the less, they
half term, but none the less, they will support the restrictions that
will support the restrictions that are being introduced which means
are being introduced which means when MPs vote on this on Wednesday,
when MPs vote on this on Wednesday, it will definitely go through. There
it will definitely go through. There will be because the Conservative
will be because the Conservative rebellion but I think it will be far
rebellion but I think it will be far more likely that greater numbers of
more likely that greater numbers of Conservative MPs will express
Conservative MPs will express discontent if there is any extension
discontent if there is any extension beyond the month long lockdown. At
beyond the month long lockdown. At this stage, I think there will be
this stage, I think there will be some concerns expressed by the
some concerns expressed by the government will get its measures
government will get its measures through. Thanks.
Let’s speak to the epidemiologist Dr Tom Jefferson from
Oxford University.
A very warm welcome to BBC News. I wonder what your reaction is to the
wonder what your reaction is to the announcement of this latest lockdown
announcement of this latest lockdown for Doctor you understand where the
for Doctor you understand where the government is coming from? As we
government is coming from? As we explain sometimes, the data which is
explain sometimes, the data which is referred to as black—and—white as
referred to as black-and-white as anything but
referred to as black—and—white as anything but black and white. We do
anything but black and white. We do not really understand how cases are
not really understand how cases are calculated and projections that we
ralmlated and projections that we have
calculated and projections that we have seen or forecasts that we have
have seen or forecasts that we have seen of cases and deaths are
seen of rases and deaths are actually
seen of cases and deaths are actually really quite exaggerated.
actually really quite exaggerated. We have shown that in our trackers
We have shown that in our trackers on the website. Anybody can go on
on the website. Anybody ran go on and check
on the website. Anybody can go on and check predictions versus the
and check predictions versus the actual evidence that is coming out.
actual evidence that is coming out. I must say, however, that this is
I must say, however, that this is very difficult to untangle, because
very difficult to untangle, because there are quite a number of
there are quite a number of different servings and data sources
different servings and data sources which give different estimates and
which give different estimates and no reports of methods and most often
no reports of methods and most often do not display the presumptions
do not display the presumptions behind these models. Isn’t there
behind these models. Isn’t there some assertion that a lockdown does
some assertion that a lockdown does reduce the spread of infections and
reduce the spread of infections and therefore the number of deaths?
therefore the number of deaths? Unfortunately, the patchwork of
Unfortunately, the patchwork of restrictions that has been applied
restrictions that has been applied throughout Europe actually makes
throughout Europe actually makes that statement very problematic to
that statement very problematic to check, to assess. Because what you
check, to assess. Because what you would have to do, you would have to
would have to do, you would have to have a state or a nation or an area
have a state or a nation or an area with some kind of restrictions and
with some kind of restrictions and one without restrictions and then
one without restrictions and then compare them. This has not happened.
compare them. This has not happened. The increasing number of
The increasing number of restrictions, all patchwork,
restrictions, all patchwork, doubUng
restrictions, all patchwork, doubling and sometimes very unclear,
doubling and sometimes very unclear, makes that kind of interpretation
makes that kind of interpretation "TY
makes that kind of interpretation very difficult. What is certain is
very difficult. what is certain is that
very difficult. What is certain is that restrictions have an impact, a
that restrictions have an impact, a human toll, and they have an
human toll, and they have an economic toll. A societal told and
economic toll. A societal told and that toll.
economic toll. A societal told and that toll is never modelled. The
that toll is never modelled. The forecasts that we see and that we
forecasts that we see and that we are shown are all about the
are shown are all about the projected benefits or restrictions.
projected benefits or restrictions. There may be some people listening
There may be some people listening who say you are essentially putting
who say you are essentially putting livelihoods ahead of lives. Isn’t
livelihoods ahead of lives. Isn’t one death still too many deaths? All
one death still too many deaths? All deaths are regrettable.
deaths are regrettable. Unfortunately, we are allowed to die
Unfortunately, we are allowed to die at the end of our life. The question
at the end of our life. The question becomes wider, if you want to widen
becomes wider, if you want to widen the question, it becomes as follows,
the question, it becomes as follows, are we going to use restrictions
are we going to use restrictions every winter? If we have a very bad
every winter? If we have a very bad acute infection this season, are we
acute infection this season, are we going to start using restrictions
going to start using restrictions there? Because this is the logic
there? Because this is the logic that is behind applying
that is behind applying restrictions. Why
that is behind applying restrictions. Whyjust folk over 19?
restrictions. why just folk over 19? Why
restrictions. why just folk over 19? why not for
restrictions. Whyjust folk over 19? Why not for the other bugs which
why not for the other bugs which will
Why not for the other bugs which will start moving around very soon
will start moving around very soon if they have not already done so? ——
if they have not already done so? -- why just for
if they have not already done so? —— whyjust for Covid—19? You said you
why just for Covid-19? You said you have exchange
whyjust for Covid—19? You said you have exchange opposition several
have exchange opposition several times, I know you presented a plan
times, I know you presented a plan to the private what is your reaction
to the private what is your reaction been from him? What are you hearing
been from him? what are you hearing from government
been from him? What are you hearing from government to the ideas and
from government to the ideas and arguments you are putting forward?
arguments you are putting forward? Nothing. Nothing at all? Nothing at
Nothing. Nothing at all? Nothing at all. why do
Nothing. Nothing at all? Nothing at all. Why do you think that is? I
all. why do you think that is? I think
all. Why do you think that is? I think that that is a question for
think that that is a question for government. I do not think... Does
government. I do not think... Does not appear that they are open to
not appear that they are open to debate. Any governments are open to
debate. Any governments are open to debate. And I personally think this
debate. And I personally think this is regrettable, simply because the
is regrettable, simply because the measures that are taken impact on
measures that are taken impact on everybody. Unfortunately we must
everybody. Unfortunately we must leave it there, but very good to
leave it there, but very good to talk to you, thanks for
leave it there, but very good to talk to you, thanks forjoining us
talk to you, thanks for joining us on BBC
talk to you, thanks forjoining us on BBC News. Thank you.
Wales’s First Minister, Mark Drakeford, will set out
the new restrictions to be put in place when the country’s
firebreak lockdown ends a week today.
People in Wales have been told to stay at home except for exercise
and essential journeys.
Meetings between households are banned, and pubs,
restaurants and nonessential shops are shut.
Well, there will be a basic set of national rules in Wales
which will be simpler and clearer and it will allow for something
beyond what we have had during the firebreak period.
But my top message to people in Wales is do not make your first
question to yourself, "How far can I stretch the rules?"
Make the first question, "What should I do?"
"What contribution can I make to keeping myself and others safe?"
And tojudge your actions against that criteria.
If we do that, then there is a way out of coronavirus that
will safeguard us all.
If we play it as a game, in which yourjob is to think
about what the rules are and see how far you can stretch it,
then I am afraid the weeks ahead will be very difficult indeed.
People in Scotland are waking up to new restrictions today,
as the country is split into a five—tiered system.
The new rules came into effect at six
o’clock this morning.
Glasgow, Edinburgh and Dundee are amongst the areas with strict
restrictions in tier three — although no area in Scotland
is currently in the highest tier.
Well, this afternoon on BBC News we’ll be answering your questions
on the national lockdown in England and restrictions in
other parts of the UK.
At 2.30pm we’ll be joined by two leading public health experts.
So, send your questions to #BBC Your Questions or email them
to yourquestions@bbc.co.uk
Johnny Depp has lost his libel case against The Sun.
The Hollywood star sued the newspaper’s publisher
and its executive editor, Dan Wootton, over an article in 2018
which claimed he had assaulted his ex—wife Amber Heard,
which he denies.
Our news correspondent Helena Wilkinson is at
the Royal Courts of Justice.
What more detail do you have? Yes,
what more detail do you have? Yes, it was a highly
What more detail do you have? Yes, it was a highly anticipated ruling.
it was a highly anticipated mling. It has
it was a highly anticipated ruling. It has been about three and a half
It has been about three and a half months since the dramatic hearing
months since the dramatic hearing here at the High Court, which saw
here at the High Court, which saw both Amber Heard and Johnny Depp
both Amber Heard and johnny Depp both gave
both Amber Heard and Johnny Depp both gave evidence in the hearing
both gave evidence in the hearing where Amber Heard said that there
where Amber Heard said that there were more than 1A occasions where
were more than 14 occasions where her former
were more than 1A occasions where herformer husband,
were more than 1A occasions where her former husband, Johnny Depp,
were more than 1A occasions where herformer husband, Johnny Depp, had
her former husband, johnny Depp, had been
her former husband, johnny Depp, had been
herformer husband, Johnny Depp, had been Assaulted her. She said at
been Assaulted her. She said at times she had feared for her life.
times she had feared for her life. The judge
times she had feared for her life. Thejudge handed his
times she had feared for her life. Thejudge handed hisjudgment and
The judge handed his judgment and said
Thejudge handed hisjudgment and said that the claimant, that is
said that the claimant, that is johnny
said that the claimant, that is Johnny Depp, had not succeeded in
johnny Depp, had not succeeded in his libel
Johnny Depp, had not succeeded in his libel case against the sun. And
his libel rase against the sun. And the publisher
his libel case against the sun. And the publisher of that article in
the publisher of that artida in 2018
the publisher of that article in 2018 rich were referred to
the publisher of that article in 2018 rich were referred toJohnny
2018 rich were referred to johnny DePP
2018 rich were referred to johnny Depp as a
2018 rich were referred toJohnny Depp as a wife in the hearing the
Depp as a wife in the hearing the burden of the proof was on The Sun
burden of the proof was on The Sun to prove what they had published was
to prove what they had published was tmthful.
to prove what they had published was truthful. Be
to prove what they had published was truthful. Bejudge and his
to prove what they had published was truthful. Bejudge and hisjudgment
tmthful. Be judge and his judgment had
truthful. Bejudge and hisjudgment had said that the power words that
had said that the power words that were published by the publisher of
were published by the publisher of The Sun News group newspapers were
The Sun News group newspapers were substantially true. So in The Sun
substantially tme. So in The Sun newspaper
substantially true. So in The Sun newspaper had managed to prove that
newspaper had managed to prove that they were truthful in what they had
they were truthful in what they had published. But it was a
they were truthful in what they had published. But it was atrial
they were truthful in what they had published. But it was a trial here
published. But it was a trial here in july, just
published. But it was a trial here inJuly, just have lockdown, which
in july, just have lockdown, which had details,
inJuly, just have lockdown, which had details, revelations, about the
had details, revelations, about the Hollywood couple, the breakdown of
Hollywood couple, the breakdown of their marriage and a difficult
their marriage and a difficult marriage that it was. Very serious
marriage that it was. Very serious allegations come as I say, that
allegations come as I say, that Amber Heard had made against her
Amber Heard had made against her former husband, Johnny Depp. My
former husband, johnny Depp. My colleague sat
former husband, Johnny Depp. My colleague set through the whole case
colleague sat through the whole use and
colleague set through the whole case and here is his background to it.
One time, um, Johnny was hitting me.
And he was hitting me..
. . ha rd and repeatedly.
CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKS.
The heart of this is a single word.
Johnny Depp, one of the most successful actors in the world,
was accused of being a "wife—beater" — a man who assaulted his wife
on more than 1A occasions, who left her fearing for her life.
Amber Heard had photographs.
She also had video.
BLEEPING.
What happened 7
ButJohnny Depp said it was all a hoax.
The couple had met on the set of a film — The Rum Diary.
Six years later, they were married.
It lasted just over a year and ended with Amber Heard appearing
at a divorce hearing saying Johnny Depp had been verbally
and physically abusive towards her.
In the years that followed, she became an activist
for women’s rights, and wrote about enduring domestic violence.
And when the Sun questioned Johnny Depp’s casting
in the Fantastic Beasts movie, the star made a decision —
he would go to court.
And he had an army of fans convinced that HE was the victim
of domestic violence — not Amber Heard.
CHANTING: Justice forJohnny!
All of the allegations againstJohnny, I don’t believe he’s
that sort of person.
From what I’ve seen in the media, he seems like a very gentle person.
I think this will change history.
If he wins this, this will change history.
I really do think that.
Because I feel it will give men courage to come forward
and speak out more.
This case was an attempt to save a reputation.
Fans cheered him on as he arrived in court each day to challenge
his ex—wife’s claims.
Of course, this wasn’t Amber Heard’s case —
the accusation had been made in the Sun, he was suing
Newsgroup Newspapers for libel — but everything hinged
on whether Amber Heard was telling the truth
about incidents such as this.
I grew up in Texas riding horses and...
This was Amber Heard onJames Corden’s Late Late
Show in December 2015.
In court she claimed that, just before this, she had been hit
repeatedly byJohnny Depp.
These photographs, she says, show the injuries that
lay behind the make—up.
Here, sitting on the TV sofa, she said she had two black
eyes and a broken nose.
But most of the alleged incidents were said to have taken place far
away from any public scrutiny.
This was where they lived — in penthouse apartments
owned byJohnny Depp.
This was a world of private planes — even a private island —
and a relationship that both sides accepted was stormy, troubled.
You wanna see crazy?
I’ll give you BLEEP crazy.
But the videos and recordings — what did they truly show?
Was this evidence thatJohnny Depp was violent to his partner...
Have you drunk this whole thing this morning?
0h, have you got this going?
You’ve got this going?
I just started it.
..orjust angry at being secretly filmed?
Another recording talked about a punch —
but not byJohnny Depp.
You can’t deck me.
And this wasJohnny Depp in hospital after his finger
was severed during another row.
The question is, who do you believe about how it happened?
Thank you.
Amber Heard said this was her moment to tell her truth.
It has been incredibly painful to relive the break—up
of my relationship, to have my motives and my truth
questioned, and the most traumatic and intimate details of my life
withJohnny shared in court and broadcast to the entire world.
Today’s judgment has decided there was truth in what she said,
leaving a shadow over the reputation ofJohnny Depp.
David Sillito, BBC News.
m:
We have had a statement from The Sun newspaper who the actor had taken it
newspaper who the actor had taken it to court and in that statement it
to court and in that statement it had said that domestic abuse victims
had said that domestic abuse victims must never be silenced. They also
must never be silenced. They also thanked the judge
must never be silenced. They also thanked thejudge and
must never be silenced. They also thanked the judge and also Amber
thanked the judge and also Amber Heard for her courage in giving
Heard for her courage in giving evidence to the court. The one
evidence to the court. The one person we have not heard from yet
person we have not heard from yet today following that
person we have not heard from yet today following thatjudgment is the
today following that judgment is the actor
today following thatjudgment is the actor himself, Johnny Depp. Who came
actor himself, johnny Depp. who came to court to try
actor himself, Johnny Depp. Who came to court to try and safeguard his
to court to try and safeguard his reputation, but he has now lost his
reputation, but he has now lost his use.
reputation, but he has now lost his case. Thank
reputation, but he has now lost his use. Thank you
reputation, but he has now lost his case. Thank you for that.
The Business Secretary, Alok Sharma, has this morning defended
the Government’s decision to implement a month—long
lockdown in England, telling business leaders and media
"the cost of inaction would be greater than the action".
BorisJohnson earlier cancelled plans to speak to UK
business leaders today, with his place at the annual
CBI conference being taken by Mr Sharma.
Our business correspondent, Vivienne Nunis, joins me now.
As
Asl
As I said, the Prime Minister would normally address the first day of
normally address the first day of the CBI conference. Not happening
the CBI conference. Not happening this morning. Did it delegates
this morning. Did it delegates regard this as a snob or is it
this morning. Did it delegates regard this as a snob or is itjust
regard this as a snob or is it just accepted that
regard this as a snob or is itjust accepted that he has a lot on his
accepted that he has a lot on his plate? |
accepted that he has a lot on his plate? Ithink
accepted that he has a lot on his plate? I think there was a sense of
plate? I think there was a sense of disappointment among the business
disappointment among the business community, do not forget this is
community, do not forget this is just the second time in all the
just the second time in all the years that the CBI has been hosting
years that the CBI has been hosting this annual conference that the
this annual conference that the Prime Minister of the date was not
Prime Minister of the date was not able to speak at the event. But
able to speak at the event. But really the focus this morning was
really the focus this morning was about how businesses are going to
about how businesses are going to cope with this news that only came a
cope with this news that only came a couple of days ago at this new
couple of days ago at this new national lockdown starting in
national lockdown starting in England on Thursday. The leader of
England on Thursday. The leader of the CBI said in some ways,
the CBI said in some ways, businesses are better placed than
businesses are better placed than they were before lockdown one. At
they were before lockdown one. At that time it was a real shock, they
that time it was a real shock, they managed to perhaps move their
managed to perhaps move their businesses to online and more of
businesses to online and more of them ran stay
businesses to online and more of them can stay open, but in other
them ran stay open, but in other ways,
them can stay open, but in other ways, businesses are really going to
ways, businesses are really going to stmggle. They
ways, businesses are really going to struggle. They are in a week of
stmggle. They are in a week of financial
struggle. They are in a week of financial position —— make a weaker
financial position -- make a weaker financial
financial position —— make a weaker financial position because there
financial position because there been dealing with the effects the
been dealing with the effects the pandemic for so long and the message
pandemic for so long and the message from the government was let’s
from the government was let’s minimise the economic damage was not
minimise the economic damage was not let’s listen to what Carolyn Fab and
let’s listen to what Carolyn Fab and had to say. --
let’s listen to what Carolyn Feb and had to say. —— Fairbairn.
We need to recognise the Covid safety of so many workplaces
and keep as much of the economy open as we ran.
Financial support — it needs to be there,
it needs to be strong, and it needs to be
there for the duration.
The trouble is, the furlough scheme ending in four weeks is tomorrow
for so many businesses.
We need more clarity on timing.
And more is going to be needed for some sectors.
I look at aviation — an enabler of our economy.
We are an open economy, we’re going to need to be able
to fly again for our trade — for our global trade —
for our recovery.
We cannot let our aviation sector die.
How did the Business Secretary respond to those calls?
ﬂ
I think rather predictably he talked a lot about what support government
a lot about what support government is offering. We saw the furlough
is offering. We saw the furlough scheme extended for another four
scheme extended for another four weeks from Thursday. However, he did
weeks from Thursday. However, he did say that there will be pain, it was
say that there will be pain, it was regrettable, that difficult
regrettable, that difficult decisions have to be made and he did
decisions have to be made and he did say that not every
decisions have to be made and he did say that not everyjob can be saved.
Let’s have a listen to what he said this morning. We have always had to
this morning. We have always had to have a balance between supporting
have a balance between supporting the economy and of course protecting
the economy and of course protecting the NHS. That is absolutely vital.
the NHS. That is absolutely vital. And we took a tiered approach, a
And we took a tiered approach, a regional report, and if you look at
regional report, and if you look at the World Health Organization, this
the World Health Organization, this was something people thought was
was something people thought was entirely reasonable. Countries
entirely reasonable. Countries across Europe have taken the same
across Europe have taken the same approach, but what we always said,
approach, but what we always said, and the Prime Minister always said,
and the Prime Minister always said, it was we would keep all of this
it was we would keep all of this under review and take further action
under review and take further action if we needed to and the reality is
if we needed to and the reality is that you have seen the R rate above
that you have seen the R rate above one, it has been increasing across
one, it has been increasing across the country and in the face of the
the country and in the face of the evidence, you have to act. Of
evidence, you have to act. Of course, it is regrettable that we
course, it is regrettable that we are having to take this particular
are having to take this particular action, but this is about
action, but this is about safeguarding the NHS and ultimately
safeguarding the NHS and ultimately making sure that we can come out of
making sure that we ran come out of this the
making sure that we can come out of this the other side. Business
this the other side. Business Secretary Alok Sharma there. Be one
Secretary Alok Sharma there. Be one of topic that was raised at this
of topic that was raised at this morning as Brexit. Business is
morning as Brexit. Business is grappling with the lockdown, but the
grappling with the lockdown, but the bigger picture, end of
grappling with the lockdown, but the bigger picture, end ofJanuary the
bigger picture, and of january the 1st...
bigger picture, and of january the 1st. . . ja nuary
bigger picture, end ofJanuary the 1st... January for the first
bigger picture, end ofJanuary the ist. .. January for the first is the
1st. . . january for the first is the end of the
ist. .. January for the first is the end of the transition period. The
end of the transition period. The CBI really as the government to
CBI really as the government to reach a deal to benefit businesses
reach a deal to benefit businesses because it would be very hard to
because it would be very hard to them to cope with the pandemic,
them to cope with the pandemic, lockdown and a no deal on Brexit.
lockdown and a no deal on Brexit. Thank you so much that.
Well, let’s get reaction from one restaurant owner in Bristol
who is facing closing his doors again to sit—down customers,
although he can do takeaways and deliveries.
Sujith D’almeida is the owner of Urban Tandoor Curry
House and joins me now.
Welcome to BBC News. Hello, thank you. I
Welcome to BBC News. Hello, thank you. Iwant
Welcome to BBC News. Hello, thank you. I want to know what went you
you. I want to know what went you through your mind on Saturday when
through your mind on Saturday when you heard news of the second
you heard news of the second lockdown? I mean, it would be
lockdown? I mean, it would be absolutely devastating for is not
absolutely devastating for is not the first thing that went to my mind
the first thing that went to my mind was is this the beginning of many
was is this the beginning of many more lockdowns to come? Do we have a
more lockdowns to come? Do we have a definite answer? Do we know where we
definite answer? Do we know where we stand? As business owners, we do not
stand? As business owners, we do not have a due
stand? As business owners, we do not have a clue and you just get three
have a due and you just get three or four days
have a clue and you just get three or four days notice to close and
or four days notice to dose and your
or four days notice to close and your restaurant, as we had to do
your restaurant, as we had to do last time, and lost a lot of stock.
last time, and lost a lot of stock. We put staff on furlough, so it is
We put staff on furlough, so it is not good for their mental
not good for their mental well—being. So it is tough. Lots of
well-being. So it is tough. Lots of things your
well—being. So it is tough. Lots of things your mind. As a rational
things your mind. As a rational owner. Because lots of stock goes
owner. Because lots of stock goes through its expiry date and then you
through its expiry date and then you have to transfer yourself to take
have to transfer yourself to take away more from the restaurant. Your
away more from the restaurant. Your outgoings may still be the same, but
outgoings may still be the same, but you have to take different measures
you have to take different measures to survive. You said it would be
to survive. You said it would be devastating. Tell me in what way
devastating. Tell me in what way exactly this time round, because you
exactly this time round, because you will be able to do take ways and
will be able to do take ways and deliveries. How most help? On an
deliveries. How most help? On an honest note, every businessman is
honest note, every businessman is looking forward to the period
looking forward to the period between Halloween and Christmas,
between Halloween and Christmas, that is where you make your main
that is where you make your main business, that is where you survive
business, that is where you survive and when you balance your acts for
and when you balance your acts for the rest of the year. That seems to
the rest of the year. That seems to be nonexistent. When it comes to
be nonexistent. when it comes to delivery and
be nonexistent. When it comes to delivery and takeaway, everybody
delivery and takeaway, everybody thinks the restaurant cannot shift
thinks the restaurant rannot shift the gears into
thinks the restaurant cannot shift the gears into takeaway mode, but
the gears into takeaway mode, but honestly speaking, there is such a
honestly speaking, there is such a big commission you need to pay for
big commission you need to pay for delivery and just eat. —— everybody
delivery and just eat. -- everybody thinks the
delivery and just eat. —— everybody thinks the restaurant can shift the
thinks the restaurant ran shift the gears. You
thinks the restaurant can shift the gears. You might say Buffalo and end
gears. You might say Buffalo and end “P
gears. You might say Buffalo and end up with a sheep, you are at the
up with a sheep, you are at the mercy of the big boys and you have
mercy of the big boys and you have to wait till the end of the month to
to wait till the end of the month to receive the money from them. It
receive the money from them. It helps to keep you afloat, but it
helps to keep you aﬂoat, but it does
helps to keep you afloat, but it does not help you to survive in the
does not help you to survive in the long mn. what
does not help you to survive in the long run. What do you need? What’s
long mn. what do you need? what’s more help
long run. What do you need? What’s more help would help? I mean, during
more help would help? I mean, during this time, kids wait for Santa Claus
this time, kids wait for Santa Claus and all the business owners are
and all the business owners are waiting for Rishi Sunak and his
waiting for Rishi Sunak and his package and how he is going to bail
package and how he is going to bail out businesses, because every time I
out businesses, because every time I lockdown put a dent on the business,
lockdown put a dent on the business, you have to start all over again. If
you have to start all over again. If the bailout deal is not as close as
the bailout deal is not as close as it was too much, or if not better, I
it was too much, or if not better, I think many businesses will not see
think many businesses will not see the dawn of 2021. Will yours? To
the dawn of 2021. will yours? To start with,
the dawn of 2021. Will yours? To start with, before the pandemic, we
start with, before the pandemic, we had three restaurants and now we
had three restaurants and now we only have two fully functioning. One
only have two fully functioning. One is closed and most likely I might
is closed and most likely I might lose another one as well. Really, I
lose another one as well. Really, I am sorry to hear that. The
am sorry to hear that. The politicians would argue that there
politicians would argue that there is no alternative and, you know, one
is no alternative and, you know, one death is one death too many. I do
death is one death too many. I do understand, all the citizens need to
understand, all the citizens need to be... We are not all in the same
be... We are not all in the same boat, but we are all in the same
boat, but we are all in the same stone, so we need to help each
stone, so we need to help each other, judge less and we need to
other, judge less and we need to look after the vulnerable. —— in the
look after the vulnerable. -- in the same storm.
look after the vulnerable. —— in the same storm. Businesses that do not
same storm. Businesses that do not need aid, they need to trade. We
need aid, they need to trade. We need to do it in such a way that it
need to do it in such a way that it does not hamper anything and
does not hamper anything and everybody comes out of it safe. I do
everybody comes out of it safe. I do understand it is a requirement from
understand it is a requirement from the scientist’s point of view, we do
the scientist’s point of view, we do not have a vaccine, I do understand
not have a vaccine, I do understand all of that, but I do not think
all of that, but I do not think dosing
all of that, but I do not think closing the economy or having a
closing the economy or having a national lockdown is the answer,
national lockdown is the answer, because if not the pandemic, it will
because if not the pandemic, it will kill us with other illnesses, mental
kill us with other illnesses, mental illnesses, they do not have an
illnesses, they do not have an answer of what the future holds.
answer of what the future holds. Good luck to you and really good to
Good luck to you and really good to talk to you, thank you for
Good luck to you and really good to talk to you, thank you forjoining
talk to you, thank you for joining us from
talk to you, thank you forjoining us from Bristol.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carole.
Hello again.
After quite a mild start to the day across central
and eastern parts of England, the temperature is going down,
as this weather front swoops down and clears the south—east.
And we’ve got another weather front coming in behind
which is going to enhance the showers, one look at the isobars
tells you it’s going to be another windy or blustery day,
depending on where you are.
In between all those showers, there will be some dry conditions,
some sunshine, the showers will merge across parts
of Northern Ireland, south—west Scotland,
north—west England and North Wales to give some longer spells of rain.
And these black circles indicate the strength of the wind gusts
we are expecting through the course of the afternoon.
Temperatures nine to about 1k degrees.
We started this morning between 15 and 18 in the south,
those temperatures dipping by quite a few degrees.
Overnight, a band of rain pushes north eastwards across Scotland
and northern England and we’ve got another one coming in
across southern counties.
That will clear to the east through Tuesday, and then
we are back into drier conditions with a few showers.
Hello, this is BBC News with Rebecca Jones.
The headlines:
BorisJohnson will urge MPs to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons later.
The PM is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease
restrictions after a month.
Scotland’s new five—tier system of restrictions comes into force —
with Edinburgh, Glasgow and the Central Belt facing
controls on alcohol sales and restaurant opening times.
And new restrictions for Wales — later today the First Minister
will set out his plans for when the country’s firebreak
lockdown ends next Monday.
As business in England faces more restrictions,
the CBI describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
ActorJohnny Depp has lost his High Court libel action
against The Sun newspaper over an article which labelled
him a "wife—beater".
Donald Trump and Joe Biden head to crucial swing states to campaign
as the US election campaign enters its final day.
Sport and for a full round up, from the BBC Sport Centre,
here’sjohn Watson.
Good morning.
Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer
said his side "didn’t turn up", after their 1—0 defeat
at home to Arsenal.
Paul Pogba gave away a penalty, with a needless tackle
on Hector Bellerin, and Pierre Emerik Aubameyang scored
from the spot to give Arsenal their first victory
at Old Trafford in the Premier League for M years.
United are yet to win at home in the league this season
and they’re sixth from bottom.
Former midfielder Roy Keane was watching in his role as a pundit
and he said, "I don’t see guys you want to be in the trenches
with, guys you can trust".
Solskjaer couldn’t argue.
These games against Arsenal was always fury and fears and tackles of
always fury and fears and tackles of lying. We did not have the tempo and
lying. We did not have the tempo and intensity today, I can agree with
intensity today, I ran agree with that
intensity today, I can agree with that absolutely. —— tackle slang. I
that absolutely. -- tackla slang. I was
that absolutely. —— tackle slang. I was disappointed with our first—half
was disappointed with our first-half performance,
was disappointed with our first—half performance, second hand I thought
performance, second hand Ithought we were
performance, second hand I thought we were better, but unfortunately,
we were better, but unfortunately, they got the penalty and we just
they got the penalty and we just could not produce a response. Yes, a
could not produce a response. Yes, a frustrating afternoon for him.
After Gareth Bale scored Tottenham’s winner in their 2—1
victory over Brighton, managerJose Mourinho said he’d be
checking the Real Madrid website to see if there was any comment.
Bale arrived back at Spurs on a season—long loan
from the Spanish side in September after he fell out of favour
with manager Zinedine Zidane and received heavy criticism
from the fans.
The Spurs fans will have enjoyed watching that one.
His first goal since he returned took Tottenham up
to second in the table.
Of course I’m very pleased with him and pleased especially for him
and pleased especially for him because he deserves a bat, he
because he deserves a bet, he deserves that. I’m going to, when I
deserves that. I’m going to, when I have five minutes, I’m going to look
have five minutes, I’m going to look at Madrid’s website to see what they
at Madrid’s website to see what they say.
Manchester City beat Everton 3—1 at Wembley,
to lift the Women’s FA Cup for the third time.
The pandemic forced last season’s competition to be
finished this season, with City coming out
on top at Wembley 3—1, thanks to goals from Georgia Stanway
and Janine Beckie in extra time, as they lifted the trophy
for the third time.
Manager Gareth Taylor wants to make that four by winning
the tournament again in this campaign.
Despite standing on the brink of a record—equalling
seventh world title, Lewis Hamilton says there’s "no
guarantee" he will race in Formula One next season.
With team prinicpal Toto Wolf expected to step back from the day
to day running at Mercedes, Hamilton said he understood wanting
to pullback a little bit and give more time to family.
Hamilton is out of contract next season but can equal
Michael Schumacher’s record at the next race in Turkey.
Yet more Super League matches have been cancelled,
putting the rest of the regular season in further doubt.
And it’s Castleford Tigers involved again.
Four more of their players have tested positive for Covid—19,
so their games against Leeds Rhinos on Friday and Salford Red Devils
next Monday are off.
The match scheduled for last Friday against Huddersfield was also
cancelled after 13 Castleford players were ruled
out with coronavirus.
They’ll have two more rounds of testing this week.
English golfer Callum Shinkwin said he was in shock
after winning his first title at the Cyprus Open.
It went to a play—off against Finland’s Kalle Samoya —
and Shinkwin birdied the first extra hole.
It will have eased the pain of losing in a play—off
for the Scottish Open three years ago.
And after some chilly conditions since the European tour resumed,
he was glad to be in Cyprus.
Playing in the cold got me a bit. I played four weeks in the cold and in
played four weeks in the cold and in the Scottish cold and I
played four weeks in the cold and in the Scottish cold and Ijust felt so
the Scottish cold and Ijust felt so cold, had a massive headache and had
cold, had a massive headache and had to get out of there quickly. Had to
to get out of there quickly. Had to protect myself more than anything, a
protect myself more than anything, a fan of a lovely bit of sunlight here
fan of a lovely bit of sunlight here and warm, I normally don’t like the
and warm, I normally don’t like the one either. I
and warm, I normally don’t like the one either. Ifelt
and warm, I normally don’t like the one either. I felt great all week,
one either. I felt great all week, just tmsted
one either. I felt great all week, just trusted what I was doing with
just tmsted what I was doing with my swing,
just trusted what I was doing with my swing, trusted myself on the
my swing, tmsted myself on the greens and
my swing, trusted myself on the greens and just felt great. Who
greens and just felt great. Who doesn’t play better in better
doesn’t play better in better conditions?
That’s all the sport for now.
I’ll have more for you in the next hour.
Speak
Speakfor
Speak for yourself, John.
Let’s return now to Hollywood star Johnny Depp, who has
lost his High Court libel action against The Sun newspaper over
an article which labelled him a "wife—beater" — claims he denies.
Our media correspondent David Silito explained the case.
We’ve got to go to what the allegations were.
There were 1A allegations in court and these were very serious.
This was Amber Heard, the former wife ofJohnny Depp,
saying that she was, at times, in fear of her life,
saying that she had facial bruising, a broken nose, black eyes,
repeated assaults against her.
And thejudge has said...
I will read it here.
"I have found that the great majority of alleged assaults
of Ms Heard by Mr Depp have been proved to the civil standard".
That is 12 of 1A allegations, he says, took place.
So the statement in The Sun, that headline thatJohnny Depp
is a "wife—beater," he says to be substantially true.
This is shattering for the reputation ofJohnny Depp
and vindication for Amber Heard.
A statement, of course...
She is also facing further legal action from Johnny Depp.
He is seeking to sue her in America and a statement from her council
and a statement from her counsel
said, "For those of us present at the High Court, the decision
and judgment are not a surprise.
Very soon we will be presenting even more voluminous evidence in the US.
We are committing to obtaining justice for Amber Heard".
Now that reference to voluminous evidence" is because, of course,
Amber Heard was not the person who was being sued here,
it was Newsgroup Newspapers.
She was not obliged to reveal all of the documentation about the
the documentation about the relationship.
A statment from The Sun newspaper: "The Sun has stood up and campaigned
for the victims of domestic abuse for over 20 years.
Domestic abuse victims must never be silenced and we thank the judge
for his careful consideration and thank Amber Heard
for her courage in giving evidence to the court".
And I think one thing that is also worth mentioning
is that Amber Heard has, since she got her divorce
from Johnny Depp, spoken up on behalf of other people who have
suffered domestic violence so she has been, essentially,
an ambassador in a MeToo movement, so to be questioned
about what she was saying, being told that it was all a hoax,
this is very, very important to her reputation, and also,
to be believed about what she said over the course
of their relationship.
And the judge said a recurring theme in Mr Depp’s evidence was that
Ms Heard had constructed a hoax and that she had done this
as an insurance policy.
He was not convinced by that argument.
Our media correspondent David Sillito.
Joining me now is Clare Walker, a domestic abuse consultant
who delivers training to organisations like the NHS,
local authorities, prison services and military.
Thank you so much for
Thank you so much forjoining us. I
Thank you so much for joining us. I wondered
Thank you so much forjoining us. I wondered what your reaction was when
wondered what your reaction was when you heard this ruling. I have to say
you heard this mling. I have to say most are
you heard this ruling. I have to say most are delighted and thank you for
most are delighted and thank you for the opportunity to comment on it
the opportunity to comment on it with yourself this morning. We do
with yourself this morning. We do have enough problems in the courts
have enough problems in the courts regarding cases of domestic violence
regarding rases of domestic violence going
regarding cases of domestic violence going through and whether there are
going through and whether there are things believed or not and we have
things believed or not and we have seen an increase in libel claims,
seen an increase in libel claims, which is only going to stand to
which is only going to stand to effect to silence the victim further
effect to silence the victim further and may be, perhaps, not to go
and may be, perhaps, not to go through the court process and all of
through the court process and all of the trauma of having to divulge all
the trauma of having to divulge all of the personal and private
of the personal and private experiences that they have had, so I
experiences that they have had, so I see this as a positive going forward
see this as a positive going forward for domestic violence cases. That is
for domestic violance cases. That is very
for domestic violence rases. That is very interesting
for domestic violence cases. That is very interesting what you say
very interesting what you say because as David Sillito was just
because as David Sillito was just telling us, sometimes it is almost
telling us, sometimes it is almost hard to remember that Amber Heard
hard to remember that Amber Heard was a note on trial here. It was not
was a note on trial here. It was not her who was being served, yet it was
her who was being served, yet it was she who stood up in the court and
she who stood up in the court and recounted her experiences. Are you
recounted her experiences. Are you concerned then that some women are
concerned then that some women are put off doing that or do you think
put off doing that or do you think that perhaps this might encourage
that perhaps this might encourage them to do so? I am hopeful that it
them to do so? I am hopeful that it would discourage false claims by a
would discourage false claims by a mling being
would discourage false claims by a ruling being made in one court arena
mling being made in one court arena and then
ruling being made in one court arena and then perpetrator putting in for
and then perpetrator putting in for a libel case. 50 it
and then perpetrator putting in for a libel case. 50 itjust, you know,
a libel use. So it just, you know, it deviates
a libel case. 50 itjust, you know, it deviates the legislation that has
it deviates the legislation that has already been applied. Hopefully, it
already been applied. Hopefully, it will have a two pronged approach and
will have a two pronged approach and that victims also will feel less
that victims also will feel lass perturbed
that victims also will feel less perturbed and that that might not
perturbed and that that might not necessarily be an option for them,
necessarily be an option for them, although every situation is
although every situation is case—by—case, obviously. There is a
ase-by-rase, obviously. There is a use
rase-by-rase, obviously. There is a rase seem
case—by—case, obviously. There is a case seem to hinge on whether,
use seem to hinge on whether, ultimately,
case seem to hinge on whether, ultimately, Amber Heard was telling
ultimately, Amber Heard was telling the truth. How often are women
the truth. How often are women disbelieved? Mostly, really. And
disbelieved? Mostly, really. And especially when there is not
especially when there is not actually any physical abuse. If it
actually any physical abuse. If it is predominantly based in coercive
is predominantly based in coercive control then it is incredibly
control then it is incredibly difficult, incredibly difficult and
difficult, incredibly difficult and it sits quite biased within family
it sits quite biased within family courts in particular where there are
courts in particular where there are additional challenges in getting
additional challanges in getting your voice
additional challenges in getting your voice heard and putting
your voice heard and putting protection in places, which is why
protection in places, which is why we are campaigning and campaigning
we are campaigning and campaigning some more to get those changes. Can
some more to get those changes. (“an you tell us a
some more to get those changes. Can you tell us a little bit more about
you tell us a little bit more about how women can get help? What is your
how women ran get help? what is your advice to
how women can get help? What is your advice to victims and, indeed, their
advice to victims and, indeed, their families? Well, I
advice to victims and, indeed, their families? Well, Iwould
advice to victims and, indeed, their families? Well, I would say that for
families? Well, I would say that for victim children, if there are any,
victim children, if there are any, and perpetrators, it is time to
and perpetrators, it is time to reach out and make changes to
reach out and make changes to circumstance and situation. And it
circumstance and situation. And it needs a different input for all of
needs a different input for all of those. We’re
needs a different input for all of those. We’rejust
needs a different input for all of those. We’re just going
needs a different input for all of those. We’rejust going into
those. We’rejust going into lockdown again, you know, we still
lockdown again, you know, we still have not caught up with all of the
have not caught up with all of the increased need in demand on our
increased need in demand on our services alone, but other services
services alone, but other services as well in this arena, from a March
as well in this arena, from a March and so, you know, we are not
and so, you know, we are not anticipating it is going to be a
anticipating it is going to be a walk in the Park a month ahead, so
walk in the Park a month ahead, so reach out, get on Google. They can
reach out, get on Googla. They ran also
reach out, get on Google. They can also contact our services, Claire
also contact our services, Claire Walker consultancy, and seek advice
Walker consultancy, and seek advice or support or guidance in whatever
or support or guidance in whatever way, but there are lots of other
way, but there are lots of other websites and agencies that will
websites and agencies that will still be running through lockdown so
still be mnning through lockdown so do it safely.
still be running through lockdown so do it safely. Thank you so much for
do it safely. Thank you so much for talking turns on BBC News, Claire
talking turns on BBC News, Claire Walker. Thank you very much for your
Walker. Thank you very much for your time.
More new on the month—long national coronavirus lockdown in England
starting on Thursday.
It’ll mean many small businesses will have to close.
Let’s speak to Keely Weir, who’s Managing Director of Clip ‘n
Climb — a climbing centre in Bicester which will have to
close under the new lockdown rules.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. What are
Thank you for joining us. what are your thoughts, I
Thank you forjoining us. What are your thoughts, I heard they did ask
your thoughts, I heard they did ask 7°“-
your thoughts, I heard they did ask you, at the prospect of having to
you, at the prospect of having to dose
you, at the prospect of having to close questioning obviously it is
dose questioning obviously it is very
close questioning obviously it is very disappointing. We were
very disappointing. We were delighted when we got to open at the
delighted when we got to open at the end of july.
delighted when we got to open at the end ofJuly. Having been close
end ofJuly. Having been close performance previously. We have been
performance previously. We have been operating at 50% capacity.
operating at 50% capacity. Thankfully people have come back,
Thankfuuy peopla have come back, enjoyed
Thankfully people have come back, enjoyed climbing. We have
Thankfully people have come back, enjoyed climbing. We havejust had
enjoyed climbing. We have just had half
enjoyed climbing. We havejust had half term and we were full at 50%
half term and we were full at 5096 capacity so
half term and we were full at 50% capacity so they thought of closing
capacity so they thought of dosing again is a
capacity so they thought of closing again is a really disappointing for
again is a really disappointing for ourselves as a business, but also
ourselves as a business, but also because it has been delightful to
because it has been delightful to see families enjoying family time
see families enjoying family time together so obviously knowing that
together so obviously knowing that is going to be taken away from
is going to be taken away from peopla as
is going to be taken away from people as well. I was going to ask
peopla as well. I was going to ask 7°“-
peopla as well. I was going to ask you, do you
people as well. I was going to ask you, do you understand why your
you, do you understand why your having to close? But perhaps I may
having to dose? But perhaps I may ask that any
having to close? But perhaps I may ask that any different way, have
ask that any different way, have 7°“-
ask that any different way, have you, as far as you’re aware, seen
you, as far as you’re aware, seen any rases of
you, as far as you’re aware, seen any cases of infection since you
any rases of infection since you reopened?
any cases of infection since you reopened? No. And I know other
reopened? No. And I know other places where staff have maybe had to
places where staff have maybe had to self—isolate and things. We’ve have
self-isolate and things. We’ve have no rases
self—isolate and things. We’ve have no cases with their star. Everyone
no cases with their star. Everyone has been delighted to hers, with the
has been delighted to hers, with the Covid measures be put in place. So
Covid measures be put in place. So for us, we have had no cases, no
for us, we have had no cases, no rases on
for us, we have had no rases, no rases on the
for us, we have had no cases, no cases on the track and trace app are
cases on the track and trace app are anything like that —— now
cases on the track and trace app are anything like that —— new cases with
anything like that -- now uses with our
anything like that -- now rases with our staff.
anything like that —— new cases with our staff. We have felt that we have
our staff. We have felt that we have done all that we can do to make sure
done all that we ran do to make sure we are safe
done all that we can do to make sure we are safe and our staff, our
we are safe and our staff, our customers are safe when they come to
customers are safe when they come to us. But obviously, it is a bigger
us. But obviously, it is a bigger picture than
us. But obviously, it is a bigger picture thanjust us,
us. But obviously, it is a bigger picture than just us, really.
picture than just us, really. Understood. I mean, I
picture than just us, really. Understood. I mean, Ithink the
picture than just us, really. Understood. I mean, I think the area
Understood. I mean, I think the area in which you are located is seeing a
in which you are located is seeing a 321 rases per
in which you are located is seeing a 321 cases per 100,000, which,
321 cases per 100,000, which, relatively speaking, is high. Yes.
relatively speaking, is high. Yes. But I understand what you’re saying
But I understand what you’re saying that you have not seen any cases at
that you have not seen any rases at your business.
that you have not seen any cases at your business. What do you need,
your business. what do you need, what
your business. What do you need, what would help in order to survive
what would help in order to survive at this latest lockdown? I think for
at this latest lockdown? I think for us, obviously, the first lockdown,
us, obviously, the first lockdown, there was the financial support and
there was the financial support and in place and we had reserves, but
in place and we had reserves, but those reserves are busily running
those reserves are busily mnning it. We
those reserves are busily running it. We cannot take ourselves online,
it. We cannot take ourselves online, this is an activity where people
this is an activity where peopla come
this is an activity where people come and do it.
1. II
If that lockdown does go on longer, that will make it harder and harder
that will make it harder and harder to open again because we have not
to open again because we have not got that income coming in because
got that income coming in because people cannot come under the
peopla cannot come under the activity.
people cannot come under the activity. What support do you need
activity. what support do you need from
activity. What support do you need from government? To help you
from government? To help you survive? There is the financial
survive? There is the financial support that is needed, but with
support that is needed, but with that you cannot, the government of
that you cannot, the government of this I cannot keep it giving out
this I cannot keep it giving out loans and bounce back once we both
loans and bounce back once we both also it needs to, I personally feel,
also it needs to, I personally feel, to be a more rounded approach, needs
to be a more rounded approach, needs to be coming from landlords, etc.
to be coming from landlords, etc. There needs to be support throughout
There needs to be support throughout the whole system. If we had not the
the whole system. If we had not the money in, we cannot send money out.
money in, we cannot send money out. I appreciate the government do not
I appreciate the government do not have an endless pot of money but I
have an endless pot of money but I think it needs to be drawing
think it needs to be drawing everybody together to support each
everybody together to support each other. When it comes to landlords,
other. when it comes to landlords, etc with
other. When it comes to landlords, etc with rents, etc the leisure
etc with rents, etc the leisure business and other businesses. We
business and other businesses. We must leave it there, but really good
must leave it there, but really good to talk to you and good luck. Thank
to talk to you and good luck. Thank you.
The headlines on BBC News...
BorisJohnson will urge MPs to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons later.
The PM is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease
restrictions after a month.
As business in England faces more restrictions the CBI describes
a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
ActorJohnny Depp has lost his High Court libel action
against The Sun newspaper over an article which labelled
him a "wife—beater".
More new on the month—long national coronavirus lockdown in England
starting on Thursday.
The government has made it clear that nurseries, schools,
colleges and universities will remain open.
But education unions are already concerned about the impact the virus
is continuing to have on attendance — both for pupils and staff.
Let’s speak to Julie McCulloch, who’s director of policy
at the Association of School and College Leaders
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us on BBC
Thank you for joining us on BBC News.
Thank you forjoining us on BBC News. First of all, do you agree
News. First of all, do you agree with keeping schools, colleges,
with keeping schools, colleges, nurseries, universities open? So we
nurseries, universities open? So we represent
nurseries, universities open? 50 we represent 20,000
nurseries, universities open? So we represent 20,000 school and college
represent 20,000 school and college leaders around the UK and our view
leaders around the UK and our view is that we do need to prioritise
is that we do need to prioritise keeping schools and colleges open as
keeping schools and colleges open as much as we possibly can. We know
much as we possibly ran. We know that the
much as we possibly can. We know that the consequences of closing
that the consequences of closing schools in the spring and summer
schools in the spring and summer term were dire, both in terms of
term were dire, both in terms of keeping education going but also in
keeping education going but also in terms of children’s welfare and
terms of children’s welfare and well-being.
terms of children’s welfare and well—being. Our
terms of children’s welfare and well—being. Ourview
terms of children’s welfare and well—being. Our view is that we
well-being. Our view is that we think the
well—being. Our view is that we think the government has right to
think the government has right to prioritise keeping schools open over
prioritise keeping schools open over other services as much as they can.
other services as much as they ran. But we
other services as much as they can. But we also need to be really
But we also need to be really mindful of the impact, obviously, on
mindful ofthe impact, obviously, on that of
mindful of the impact, obviously, on that of the spread of the virus and
that of the spread of the virus and the children and staff in our
the children and staff in our schools. There is also a difference,
schools. There is also a difference, isn’t there, between primary and
isn’t there, between primary and secondary schools? It does seem that
secondary schools? It does seem that there is less of a rate of spread,
there is less of a rate of spread, for want of a better word, in
for want of a better word, in primary schools. What about
primary schools. what about secondary
primary schools. What about secondary schools, should they carry
secondary schools, should they carry on? We think that is definitely an
on? We think that is definitely an argument for looking at possibly
argument for looking at possibly being on a rota system in a
being on a rota system in a secondary schools. The spread in
secondary schools. The spread in secondary schools seems to be much
secondary schools seems to be much greater than it is in primary. In
greater than it is in primary. In the government on potentially
the government on potentially planning, they’ve already said, have
planning, therve already said, have been saying
planning, they’ve already said, have been saying for several weeks now
been saying for several weeks now that if we get into a position where
that if we get into a position where the prevalence of the virus is
the prevalance of the virus is particularty
the prevalence of the virus is particularly high, secondary schools
particularty high, secondary schools could
particularly high, secondary schools could move to a rota, so possibly
could move to a rota, so possibly having half of their pupils in a at
having half of their pupils in a at night and then those peoples working
night and then those peoplas working from
night and then those peoples working from home and having the other half
from home and having the other half in it for the next fortnight —— in
in it for the next fortnight -- in for a fortnight.
in it for the next fortnight —— in for a fortnight. We think this is
for a fortnight. We think this is something the government should
something the government should seriously be looking at here and it
seriously be looking at here and it is not necessarily an all or nothing
is not necessarily an all or nothing situation, school is completely open
situation, school is completely open a close, we think there might be
a close, we think there might be some more nuance approaches that
some more nuance approaches that could be taken. Have you cemented
could be taken. Have you cemented that approach to government? And
that approach to government? And what sort of response have you had
what sort of response have you had if you have? --
what sort of response have you had if you have? —— submitted. We are in
if you have? -- submitted. We are in regular discussions
if you have? —— submitted. We are in regular discussions with the
regular discussions with the government and the announcement that
government and the announcement that name
government and the announcement that came out over the weekend was a
came out over the weekend was a surprise to many people. That was
surprise to many peopla. That was not quite
surprise to many people. That was not quite the time in the government
not quite the time in the government was anticipating. There is a little
was anticipating. There is a little bit of catch—up going on there, but
bit of catch-up going on there, but we have
bit of catch—up going on there, but we have certainly been in
we have certainly been in discussions with the Department for
discussions with the Department for Education this morning and are
Education this morning and are raising the comments and concerns we
raising the comments and concerns we are receiving from our members and
are receiving from our members and putting the suggestions to
putting the suggestions to government. You mention the comments
government. You mention the comments and concerns from your members. We
and concerns from your members. We have also heard concerns from the
have also heard concerns from the unions. They are perhaps, some
unions. They are perhaps, some anyway, a little more concerned
anyway, a little more concerned about attendance, the number of
about attendance, the number of secondary school pupils who are
secondary school pupils who are getting the virus, and the safety of
getting the virus, and the safety of staff as well. What do you say to
staff as well. what do you say to them? Yes,
staff as well. What do you say to them? Yes, he
staff as well. What do you say to them? Yes, be absolutely share those
them? Yes, be absolutely share those concerns. We are also representing
concerns. We are also representing school leaders so we have a
school leaders so we have a responsibility to represent our
responsibility to represent our members views as well and they, what
members views as well and they, what we’re hearing from them is that we
we’re hearing from them is that we need to get that balance right. We
need to get that balance right. We need to keep children in the School
need to keep children in the School if we possibly can, but we also need
if we possibly ran, but we also need to make
if we possibly can, but we also need to make sure that we have all of
to make sure that we have all of those safety measures in place and
those safety measures in place and are prepared to move to a different
are prepared to move to a different situation if we need to, like rotors
situation if we need to, like rotors for example. We also know that one
for example. We also know that one of the things that school leaders
of the things that school leaders are singularly clearly is that they
are singularty dearty is that they need
are singularly clearly is that they need more financial support to put
need more financial support to put those safety measures into their
those safety measures into their schools and colleges that they need
schools and colleges that they need and at the moment they’re not
and at the moment therre not getting it
and at the moment they’re not getting it from government so they
getting it from government so they are spending thousands of pounds to
are spending thousands of pounds to make sure they have got hand
make sure they have got hand sanitiser, all sorts of measures
sanitiser, all sorts of measures that they need to put in place,
that they need to put in place, spending a lot of money and supply
spending a lot of money and supply stuff at the moment, for example,
stuff at the moment, for example, where staff need to self—isolate, so
where staff need to self-isolate, so one of
where staff need to self—isolate, so one of the things were calling for a
one of the things were falling for a very strongly
one of the things were calling for a very strongly is a
one of the things were calling for a very strongly is 3 please let’s
one of the things were calling for a very strongly is a please let’s make
very strongly is a please let’s make sure that
very strongly is 3 please let’s make sure that we give our schools and
sure that we give our schools and colleges the money that they need in
colleges the money that they need in order to keep those premises as safe
order to keep those premises as safe as possible and keep schools open.
as possible and keep schools open. 0K, we must leave it there. Director
0K, we must leave it there. Director of policy at the Association of
of policy at the Association of school and college leaders, Julie
school and college leaders, Julie McCulloch, we are very grateful for
McCulloch, we are very grateful for your time, thank you.
The US presidential election enters its final day of campaigning,
with both President Trump and Joe Biden appealing to voters
in crucial battle ground states.
The scale of early voting has been unprecedented with more
than 93 million Americans having cast their ballots already.
Our correspondent Nomia Iqbal reports from Florida.
This is the most important election of our lifetime.
It is crunch time.
President Trump and Joe Biden have been making a push in the Midwestern
states and if those swing states are crucial, then
Florida is critical.
MUSIC PLAYS.
Donald Trump needs more than their love.
He needs their votes.
To become president it requires 270 points from the electoral college
system and Florida has 29 up for grabs.
Without this state, the path back to the White House
looks near impossible.
More than eight million residents here have already voted.
This is the last day of in—person early voting here in Florida
and at this polling station there are Donald Trump supporters
on one side and Joe Biden supporters on the other,
with no—one meeting in the middle.
And that sums up what it is like to be in a swing state.
People love the guy because they think he is like us, a regular
person and not a politician.
He is a liar.
He is a liar.
He wants his ego, power, that is it.
He does not care about the community.
And some say Donald Trump is trying to portray his rival, Joe Biden,
in a way that plays on the fears of many Latino voters.
The Trump administration needs something to grab
onto because their record is terrible.
So one of the biggest ways to scare Cubans and Venezuelans is by fear
mongering them into talking about communism and socialism.
My entire family is voting for Donald Trump.
My entire family.
I am one of the few in my family who is not voting for Trump,
who is voting forJoe Biden.
Florida has been problematic in delivering election results.
But officials tell us they are ready this time.
If that is true, then on election night Florida will give us an early
sense of which man is on track to become the next president.
Nomia Iqbal, BBC News, Florida.
You can join us tomorrow night from 11.30pm for our US election
special results programme on BBC One and the BBC News Channel and you can
follow all the expert analysis online as the results come
in at bbc.co.uk/news and on the BBC News app.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carole.
Hello again.
Some parts of the southeast and eastern England this morning
started off with temperatures between 15 and 18 degrees.
But as this cold front sinks south, the temperature will
actually go down behind it.
And you can see another weather front coming in from the west,
enhancing the showers.
And all those isobars are telling us that it’s
going to be another windy day.
Not as windy in the north as it was over the weekend,
but still windy in the west and also the south.
So, some dry weather today, some sunshine to look forward to.
But, equally, we’ve got quite a lot of showers and some of those
will merge to give some longer spells of rain at times.
These are the kind of wind gust strengths that we’re expecting —
so still gusty winds to watch out for.
Temperatures, nine in the north to about 1k in parts
of the southeast, so dropping for some by about
four degrees or so.
Now, through this evening and overnight, the rain
in the northwest pushes across Scotland.
We could see some wet snow in Argyll and Bute,
the South Highlands, for example.
And we’ve got another band coming in across southern Wales and also
central parts of England.
Behind that, on higher ground in Wales, in the moores,
in Wales, in the moors,
we could also see some wet snow — butjust on higher ground.
Now, that will bring rain into the southeast
and then it turns cooler.
A ridge of high pressure starts to build in and you can see all that
mild air indicated by the yellows and oranges pushed away
and we see a return to blue — indicating that cooler weather.
So for Tuesday, we eventually say goodbye to this weather front
as it drifts off into the North Sea — lot drier behind it.
There will still be some showers dotted around.
The winds will be a lot lighter, as well, than they have been
in the last few days, and are going to be
for some of us today.
And temperature—wise on Tuesday — well, roughly between nine
in Lerwick and 12 as we sweep down towards London.
Now, moving on from Tuesday night into Wednesday,
we start to see this ridge of high pressure build in.
That’s going to settle things down, but it’s also going to turn much
colder, so first thing Wednesday morning, we could be looking at some
frost and also some fog as we go through notjust Wednesday,
but the overnight period and the next couple of nights, as well.
So what can you expect?
Well, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, it will be drier.
There’ll still be one or two showers.
It’s not going to be as windy, but it’s going to be
cooler by day and night.
This is BBC News.
I’m Rebecca Jones.
The headlines:
BorisJohnson will urge MPs to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons later.
The PM is expected to stress the Government’s intention to ease
restrictions after a month.
Scotland’s new five—tier system of restrictions comes into force,
with Edinburgh, Glasgow and the Central Belt facing
controls on alcohol sales and restaurant opening times.
And new restrictions for Wales — later today the First Minister
will set out his plans for when the country’s firebreak
lockdown ends next Monday.
As business in England face more restrictions,
the CBI describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
ActorJohnny Depp has lost his High Court libel action
against The Sun newspaper over an article which labelled
him a "wife beater".
Donald Trump and Joe Biden head to crucial swing states to campaign,
as the US election campaign enters its final day.
Hello and welcome to BBC News.
BorisJohnson will urge MPs today to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England, when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons later.
He’s expected to stress the Government’s intention to ease
the new restrictions after a month.
The Prime Minister announced on Saturday that strict
measures will be imposed across England from Thursday.
People will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
Pubs, restaurants, gyms, nonessential shops and places
of worship will close.
And meeting indoors or in private gardens will not be allowed.
But you will be able to meet one other person from another household
outside in a public place.
Elsewhere, Scotland has moved into its new five—tier system
of restrictions this morning. Nowhere has yet been placed
into the most severe, Tier 4.
In the next few minutes, the First Minister of
Wales, Mark Dra keford,
will outline an exit plan from the country’s national
firebreak, which is due to end on the 9th November.
And as mentioned, we expect the Prime Minister to address MPs
this afternoon, to try to win over some Tories who are
threatening to vote against the lockdown in England.
And at the annual conference of the Confederation
of British Industry, the outgoing—director general
has criticised the way major announcements,
like the lockdown in England, have been handled.
Let’s speak to our political correspondent, Iain Watson.
A lot to die just that, but to let’s perhaps a deal first with Boris
perhaps a deal first with Boris johnson
perhaps a deal first with Boris Johnson and the challenge he faces.
johnson and the challenge he faces. Cut a lot
Johnson and the challenge he faces. Cut a lot to die just. Sometimes
Johnson and the challenge he faces. Cut a lot to diejust. Sometimes in
Cut a lot to die just. Sometimes in he has
Cut a lot to diejust. Sometimes in he has come as your enemies are
he has come as your enemies are behind you, but he will sadly be
behind you, but he will sadly be facing criticism from Sir Keir
facing criticism from Sir Keir Starmer in this delay in having this
Starmer in this delay in having this lockdown to coincide with the school
lockdown to coincide with the school half term holidays in England, but
half term holidays in England, but also Keir Starmer I think will make
also Keir Starmer I think will make the point that he believes there has
the point that he believes there has been a human cost to the delayed
been a human cost to the delayed bite Boris
been a human cost to the delayed bite BorisJohnson
been a human cost to the delayed bite Boris Johnson following the
bite Boris Johnson following the advice of some of his scientific
advice of some of his scientific advisors to go for it lockdown very
advisors to go for it lockdown very much earlier when they were advising
much eartier when they were advising him to do
much earlier when they were advising him to do so in late September. But
him to do so in late September. But from his own side, he will be facing
from his own side, he will be facing some very specific questions of
some very specific questions of whether he is really looking at this
whether he is really looking at this issue in the round. Is he looking at
issue in the round. Is he looking at the economic impact of a month—long
the economic impact of a month-long lockdown
the economic impact of a month—long lockdown in England? Could there be
lockdown in England? Could there be a formal assessment aboutYou will
a formal assessment aboutYou will also be questioned I think on some
also be questioned I think on some of the evidence he is relying on,
of the evidence he is relying on, some Conservative MPs have speaking
some Conservative MPs have speaking to this morning so they believe that
to this morning so they believe that Sage, the scientific advice has been
Sage, the scientific advice has been getting, has been out of date, and
getting, has been out of date, and in some parts of the country where
in some parts of the country where they have had these restrictive Tier
they have had these restrictive Tier 3 measures, such as the city of
3 measures, such as the city of Manchester itself, they actually
Manchester itself, they actually sing infections go down, so is he
sing infections go down, so is he losing his nerve. It is not whether
losing his nerve. It is not whether he ran get it
losing his nerve. It is not whether he can get it through the House of
he can get it through the House of Commons on Wednesday, but whether it
Commons on Wednesday, but whether it will be extended or whether there
will be extended or whether there will be some sunset clause on this.
will be some sunset clause on this. His reassurances will matter,
His reassurances will matter, because that will likely determine
because that will likely determine what he will face from his own
what he will face from his own backbenchers. Some may say we can
backbenchers. Some may say we ran put up with it
backbenchers. Some may say we can put up with it this time but never
put up with it this time but never again. Behind the scenes in Downing
again. Behind the scenes in Downing Street the Chancellor has been
Street the Chancellor has been arguing that as much of the economy
arguing that as much of the economy should be kept open for as much as
should be kept open for as much as possible, but today he made it very
possible, but today he made it very dear
possible, but today he made it very clear he stood with the Prime
clear he stood with the Prime Minister, because he felt that the
Minister, because he felt that the government now had no option to act,
government now had no option to act, given the growing pressure on the
given the growing pressure on the NHS.
There is a range of different models and different estimates and I agree
with the Prime Minister that we have to be humble in the face of nature.
We’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster
than we had anticipated or feared.
It’s the last thing we want to do, to bring in such
restrictive measures.
We strove very hard to avoid being in this situation.
Even the areas with currently low incidence now have some
of the highest rates of increase and because of the way
that the NHS is constructed in some of those areas,
actually the pressure on beds would manifest itself quite soon —
in a matter of weeks — and I think when we heard
all of that and saw all of that from all of our scientific medical
advisers, it was clear — very regrettably — that,
unless we took action now, and quite significant action,
we would be in an unacceptable situation in just a matter of weeks.
In fact, what the Prime Minister will be arguing that afternoon in
will be arguing that afternoon in the House of Commons is that we can
the House of Commons is that we ran see deaths
the House of Commons is that we can see deaths double the rate this
see deaths double the rate this winter than they did in the spring,
winter than they did in the spring, so there is a medical case for
so there is a medical case for intervention. But he will have to
intervention. But he will have to make that case pretty strongly to
make that use pretty strongly to some
make that case pretty strongly to some of his own sceptical
some of his own sceptical backbenchers. One of them he was in
backbenchers. One of them he was in fact the chair of the committee that
fact the chair of the committee that represents the backbench opinions,
represents the backbench opinions, Sir Graham Brady, was telling the
Sir Graham Brady, was telling the BBC that some of these measures ——
BBC that some of these measures -- macro if they had
BBC that some of these measures —— macro if they had been announced in
macro if they had been announced in a totalitarian state... One MP I
a totalitarian state... One MP I spoke to Ali this morning was
spoke to Ali this morning was suggesting that for example the
suggesting that for example the government’s track and trace system
government’s track and trace system was nothing short of a farce, as I
was nothing short of a farce, as I think to some extent, simply at this
think to some extent, simply at this stage, some of that criticism will
stage, some of that criticism will be muted this afternoon. Between now
be muted this afternoon. Between now and the debate on Wednesday, he will
and the debate on Wednesday, he will have to justify why his going into
have to justify why his going into lockdown and guarantee that it will
lockdown and guarantee that it will not extend in its current form past
not extend in its current form past December the 2nd. Thank you.
People in Scotland face new restrictions today,
as the country is split into a five—tiered system.
The new rules came into effect at six
o’clock this morning.
Glasgow, Edinburgh and Dundee are amongst the areas with strict
restrictions in Tier 3, although no area in Scotland
is currently in the highest tier.
Wales’s First Minister, Mark Drakeford, will set out
the new restrictions to be put in place when the country’s
firebreak lockdown ends a week today.
People in Wales have been told to stay at home except for exercise
and essential journeys.
Meetings between households are banned, and pubs,
restaurants and nonessential shops are shut.
And we are expecting to hear that briefing from the First Minister
of Wales, Mark Drakeford, very shortly and we will
bring that to you live here on the News Channel.
That they are preparing for that announcement.
Johnny Depp has lost his libel case against The Sun.
The Hollywood star sued the newspaper’s publisher
and its executive editor, Dan Wootton, over an article in 2018
which claimed he had assaulted his ex—wife Amber Heard,
which he denies.
Our correpsondent Helena Wilkinson gave this update from
the Royal Courts of Justice.
It was a highly anticipated ruling.
It has been about three and a half months since that dramatic hearing
here at the High Court, which saw both Amber Heard
and Johnny Depp both give evidence in the hearing where Amber Heard
said that there were more than 1A occasions where her former husband,
Johnny Depp, had assaulted her, been violent towards her.
She said at times she had feared for her life.
The judge, in the last hour, handed down hisjudgment,
MrJustice Nicol, and he had said in thatjudgment that the claimant,
that isJohnny Depp, had not succeeded in his libel
case against The Sun.
And what The Sun, the publisher of that article in 2018
which referred toJohnny Depp as a wife beater...
In the hearing, the burden of proof was on The Sun
to prove that what they had published was truthful.
And thejudge in his judgment had said
that the words that were published by the publisher
of The Sun, News Group Newspapers, were substantially true.
were substantially true.
So, The Sun newspaper had managed to prove that they were truthful
in what they had published.
But it was a trial here inJuly, just after lockdown,
which heard details, revelations, about the Hollywood
couple, the breakdown of their marriage and a difficult
marriage that it was.
Very serious allegations, as I say, that Amber Heard had made
against her former husband, Johnny Depp.
That was Helena Wilkinson with the latest from the Royal Courts of
latest from the Royal Courts of justice. In
latest from the Royal Courts of Justice. In the meantime, we have
justice. In the meantime, we have just received a
Justice. In the meantime, we have just received a statement from
just received a statement from johnny
just received a statement from Johnny Depp’s lawyer, which I am
johnny Depp’s lawyer, which I am going to be
Johnny Depp’s lawyer, which I am going to be dealt to you. I quote
going to be dealt to you. I quote here, this decision is as perverse
here, this decision is as perverse as it is bewildering. Most troubling
as it is bewildering. Most troubling is the judge’s reliance on the
is the judge’s reliance on the testimony of Amber Heard and
testimony of Amber Heard and corresponding disregard of the
corresponding disregard of the mountain of counter evidence from
mountain of counter evidence from police officers, medical
police officers, medical practitioners, her own former
practitioners, her own former assistant, other unchallenged
assistant, other unchallenged witnesses and an array of
witnesses and an array of documentary evidence which
documentary evidence which completely undermined the
completely undermined the allegations point by point. All of
allegations point by point. All of this was overlooked, says the
this was overlooked, says the statement from Johnny Depp’s lawyer.
statement from johnny Depp’s lawyer. The judgment
statement from Johnny Depp’s lawyer. Thejudgment is so
statement from Johnny Depp’s lawyer. The judgment is so flawed that it
The judgment is so ﬂawed that it would
The judgment is so flawed that it would be ridiculous that Mr Depp not
would be ridiculous that Mr Depp not to appeal this decision.
Joining me now is media law expert and consultant, David Banks.
Perhaps we will come onto that statement and the decision to appeal
statement and the decision to appeal in a moment, but first, what did you
in a moment, but first, what did you make of the ruling itself? I think
make of the mling itself? I think it was a fairty
make of the ruling itself? I think it was a fairly competitive
it was a fairly competitive indication of the actions of The Sun
indication of the actions of The Sun publishing and the testimony given
publishing and the testimony given by Amber Heard and others, which
by Amber Heard and others, which took the
by Amber Heard and others, which took thejudge’s it
by Amber Heard and others, which took the judge’s it mind to prove to
took the judge’s it mind to prove to the truth of the allegations. Truth
the truth of the allagations. Truth is a
the truth of the allegations. Truth is a difficult offence for
is a difficult offence for publishers, that the burden is on
publishers, that the burden is on the publisher to prove the truth as
the publisher to prove the truth as Helen just said. That means that the
Helan just said. That means that the starting point
Helen just said. That means that the starting point for the court is that
starting point for the court is that they do not believe, or they believe
they do not believe, or they believe that the allegations made were
that the allegations made were untrue, so publishers have got a
untrue, so publishers have got a mountain to climb. To the really
mountain to climb. To the really hard to defence, but The Sun have
hard to defence, but The Sun have managed to mount that defence
managed to mount that defence successfully. Bringing the evidence
successfully. Bringing the evidence which the judge says has been
which the judge says has been substantially proven. I take your
substantially proven. I take your point that actually it is a big
point that actually it is a big mountain to climb for the publisher.
mountain to climb for the publisher. But none the less, Johnny Depp must
But none the lass, johnny Depp must have
But none the less, Johnny Depp must have taken quite a risk here to try
have taken quite a risk here to try to prove that he wasn’t not a wife
to prove that he wasn’t not a wife beater. why
to prove that he wasn’t not a wife beater. Why would he take that risk,
beater. why would he take that risk, do you think? --
beater. Why would he take that risk, do you think? —— wasn’t not a wife
do you think? -- wasn’t not a wife beater.
do you think? —— wasn’t not a wife beater. What is it going through a
beater. what is it going through a closed
beater. What is it going through a closed mind is difficult to discern.
dosed mind is difficult to discern. He
closed mind is difficult to discern. He would have been advised with the
He would have been advised with the risks involved with going to High
risks involved with going to High Court with a libel action and we
Court with a libel action and we have seen countless libel actions
have seen countless libel actions like this where skeletons have come
like this where skelatons have come tumbling out
like this where skeletons have come tumbling out of the closet when
tumbling out of the closet when peopla give
tumbling out of the closet when people give evidence and stand up in
people give evidence and stand up in the High Court. 50 he will have been
the High Court. So he will have been aware and
the High Court. 50 he will have been aware and advised of this, but
aware and advised of this, but nevertheless has taken the decision
neverthelass has taken the decision to go to court.
nevertheless has taken the decision to go to court. We can only assume
to go to court. We ran only assume that he
to go to court. We can only assume that he felt the allegation made of
that he felt the allegation made of abuse, of wife—beating, was
abuse, of wife—beating, was sufficiently serious that he felt he
sufficiently serious that he felt he had to clear his name and to leave
had to clear his name and to leave it unchallenged would be more
it unchallanged would be more damaging. I
it unchallenged would be more damaging. I think,
it unchallenged would be more damaging. Ithink, as
it unchallenged would be more damaging. I think, as we have seen,
damaging. I think, as we have seen, in retrospect that might not have
in retrospect that might not have been the wisest decision, but
been the wisest decision, but dearty he
been the wisest decision, but clearly he was up for the fight, as
dearty he was up for the fight, as we see
clearly he was up for the fight, as we see from the statement that was
we see from the statement that was issued today. Absolutely. Talking to
issued today. Absolutely. Talking to David Banks, media law expert and
David Banks, media law expert and consultant about the news that
consultant about the news that johnny
consultant about the news that Johnny Depp has lost his libel case
johnny Depp has lost his libel use against The
Johnny Depp has lost his libel case against The Sun. The Hollywood star
against The Sun. The Hollywood star had sued the newspaper’s publisher
had sued the newspaper publisher and
had sued the newspaper’s publisher and executive editor, Dan Wootton,
and executive editor, Dan Wootbon, if at an
and executive editor, Dan Wootton, if at an article that claimed he had
if at an artida that claimed he had Xs
if at an article that claimed he had Xs assaulted his ex—wife Amber
Xs assaulted his ex-wife Amber Heard.
Xs assaulted his ex—wife Amber Heard. You’re watching BBC News.
Heard. You’re watching BBC News. Thanks for staying with us. I do
Thanks for staying with us. I do want asking about the news that has
want asking about the news that has come into us the BBC, that statement
come into us the BBC, that statement from johnny
come into us the BBC, that statement from Johnny Depp’s lawyer, that he
from johnny Depp’s lawyer, that he intends...
from Johnny Depp’s lawyer, that he intends... Well, I’m saying he
intends... Well, I’m saying he attends to appeal, the statement
attends to appeal, the statement said the
attends to appeal, the statement said thejudgment is
attends to appeal, the statement said the judgment is so flawed that
said the judgment is so ﬂawed that it would
said the judgment is so flawed that it would be ridiculous for Mr Depp
it would be ridiculous for Mr Depp not to appeal this decision. Has
not to appeal this decision. Has apprised would you be if he did or
apprised would you be if he did or did not indeed? —— how surprised
did not indeed? -- how surprised would you be? If
did not indeed? —— how surprised would you be? If a claimant once to
would you be? If a claimant once to spend money on an appeal and they
spend money on an appeal and they feel that they have grounds, they
feel that they have grounds, they ran do
feel that they have grounds, they can do that. I think that the
ran do that. I think that the judgment is
can do that. I think that the judgment is fairly comprehensive and
judgment is fairty comprehensive and if you look at
judgment is fairly comprehensive and if you look at the number of
if you look at the number of accounts that Mr
if you look at the number of accounts that MrJustice Nicholl
accounts that Mr justice Nicholl refers to,
accounts that MrJustice Nicholl refers to, 12 of the 1A counts being
refers to, 12 of the 14 counts being brought
refers to, 12 of the 1A counts being brought saying that they have been
brought saying that they have been proven. You have to wonder at the
proven. You have to wonder at the wisdom, but clearly Mr Depp and his
wisdom, but dearty Mr Depp and his legal team feel
wisdom, but clearly Mr Depp and his legal team feel that the counter
legal team feel that the counter evidence that they brought is
evidence that they brought is sufficient to outweigh that and go
sufficient to outweigh that and go to appeal. You’re talking about
to appeal. You’re talking about massive investment in legal fees
massive investment in legal fees again in any appeal here and so it
again in any appeal here and so it is a very substantial step to take.
is a very substantial step to take. Sometimes announcements are made
Sometimes announcements are made with intent to appeal in cases which
with intent to appeal in cases which in the fullness of time, once a
in the fullness of time, once a careful consideration has been given
careful consideration has been given and judgment,
careful consideration has been given andjudgment, do
careful consideration has been given and judgment, do not come to pass,
and judgment, do not come to pass, so it may well be that things might
so it may well be that things might change in due course, but we can
change in due course, but we ran only look
change in due course, but we can only look forward to the appeal
only look forward to the appeal hearing and more evidence or a
hearing and more evidence or a recounting of the evidence before
recounting of the evidence before the judges in the Appeal Court.
the judges in the Appeal Court. Really good to hear your thoughts
Really good to hear your thoughts and insights, thank you for
Really good to hear your thoughts and insights, thank you forjoining
and insights, thank you for joining us on
and insights, thank you forjoining us on BBC News.
The headlines on BBC News...
BorisJohnson will urge MPs to back his plan for a second
national lockdown in England when he makes a statement
in the House of Commons later.
The PM is expected to stress the Government’s intention to ease
restrictions after a month.
As business in England face more restrictions the CBI describes
a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
ActorJohnny Depp has lost his High Court libel action
against The Sun newspaper over an article which labelled
him a "wife beater".
The Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has criticised what he called
the government’s ‘catalogue of mistakes’ over the
coronavirus crisis which he said have cost lives.
L111:
But first, let’s go and listen to Mark Drakeford. I said it would
Mark Drakeford. I said it would report back with the discussions we
report back with the discussions we had over the weekend about the new
had over the weekend about the new set of national measures which would
set of national measures which would be put in place here in Wales when
be put in place here in Wales when the firebreak comes to an end a week
the firebreak comes to an end a week from today, next Monday. Ministers
from today, next Monday. Ministers have been meeting throughout the
have been meeting throughout the weekend to consider the final
weekend to consider the final details of these measures. And White
details of these measures. And white plans and our
details of these measures. And White plans and our discussions have had
plans and our discussions have had to adapt to a the and its rated
to adapt to a the and its rated announcement by the Prime Minister
announcement by the Prime Minister that England will start a month long
that England will start a month long lockdown on Thursday for —— our
lockdown on Thursday for -- our plans. I
lockdown on Thursday for -- our plans. Iwant
lockdown on Thursday for -- our plans. I want to
lockdown on Thursday for —— our plans. I want to be absolutely clear
plans. I want to be absolutely clear that our firebreak will end as
that our firebreak will end as planned and as promised on Monday
planned and as promised on Monday the 9th of November. But we do now
the 9th of November. But we do now have to consider the impact the
have to consider the impact the English lockdown will have on the
English lockdown will have on the next steps we take in Wales. We need
next steps we take in Wales. We need to do this because we share a long
to do this because we share a long and porous border between Wales and
and porous border between Wales and England. Every day, on a
England. Every day, on a non—lockdown day, almost 150,000
non-lockdown day, almost 150,000 peopla criss
non—lockdown day, almost 150,000 people criss cross this border to
peopla criss cross this border to work, to
people criss cross this border to work, to visit family, shop, do
work, to visit family, shop, do business and to travel. And everyday
business and to travel. And everyday a huge volume of goods and services
a huge volume of goods and services ﬂow through
a huge volume of goods and services flow through Wales to England and
ﬂow through Walas to England and vice
flow through Wales to England and vice versa. The English lockdown
vice versa. The English lockdovvn inevitably
vice versa. The English lockdown inevitably has an impact on people
inevitably has an impact on peopla who live
inevitably has an impact on people who live in Wales but work in
who live in Walas but work in England. On
who live in Wales but work in England. On companies operating in
England. On companies operating in both England and Wales and on
both England and Wales and on businesses trading along the border.
businesses trading along the border. We will be coming out of our
We will be coming out of our firebreak
We will be coming out of our firebreakjust as England begins its
firebreakjust as England begins its months long lockdown. And it is
months long lockdown. And it is really important that as we open up,
really important that as we open up, Wales does not become an escape for
Walas does not become an escape for peopla seeking
Wales does not become an escape for people seeking to circumvent the new
people seeking to circumvent the new tighter restrictions imposed by the
tighter restrictions imposed by the Prime Minister. We want to keep
Prime Minister. We want to keep Wales safe and we we nt to
Prime Minister. We want to keep Wales safe and we want to keep the
Wales safe and we want to keep the United Kingdom safe as well. Now,
United Kingdom safe as well. Now, when the firebreak ends next Monday,
when the firebreak ends next Monday, there will be a new set of national
there will be a new set of national measures which will replace the
measures which will replace the previous local restrictions. But
previous [oral restrictions. But more
previous local restrictions. But more important than any rules,
more important than any mles, guidance or
more important than any rules, guidance or regulations which we put
guidance or regulations which we put in place will be at the parts which
in place will be at the parts which each one of us plays in responding
each one of us plays in responding to the ongoing public health
to the ongoing public health emergency we face in Wales. We can
emergency we face in Wales. We can introduce new laws, but these will
introduce new laws, but these will only be successful if we all do
only be successful if we all do everything we can to reduce our
everything we ran to reduce our exposure to
everything we can to reduce our exposure to the virus, by keeping
exposure to the virus, by keeping the contacts we have with other
the contacts we have with other people to a minimum, at home, in
peopla to a minimum, at home, in work and
people to a minimum, at home, in work and when we go out. We need to
work and when we go out. We need to do the minimum. Not the maximum,
do the minimum. Not the maximum, which the rules allow. Our real
which the mles allow. Our real strength lies,
which the rules allow. Our real strength lies, as it has been
strength lies, as it has been throughout the pandemic, in the
throughout the pandemic, in the choices we make and the actions
choices we make and the actions which we take together. Now, when we
which we take together. Now, when we fame
which we take together. Now, when we came out of lockdown in the spring
came out of lockdown in the spring we took a cautious approach,
we took a cautious approach, relaxing restrictions gradually to
relaxing restrictions gradually to make sure that we did not lose all
make sure that we did not lose all the gains we had worked so hard to
the gains we had worked so hard to achieve. We will once again take
achieve. We will once again take that approach. For the first two
that approach. For the first two weeks after the firebreak ends, the
weeks after the firebreak ends, the national measures will be designed
national measures will be designed to maximise the impact of everything
to maximise the impact of everything that we have done together during
that we have done together during the firebreak period, to control the
the firebreak period, to control the spread of the virus. And we will
spread of the vims. And we will review
spread of the virus. And we will review the situation in a
review the situation in a fortnight’s time to see whether we
fortnight’s time to see whether we ran
fortnight’s time to see whether we can make
fortnight’s time to see whether we ran make any
fortnight’s time to see whether we can make any further changes. Turn
ran make any further changes. Turn now to
can make any further changes. Turn now to what all this means in
now to what all this means in practice. During the firebreak, it
practice. During the firebreak, it has only been possible to see the
has only been possible to see the people you live with within your own
peopla you live with within your own home. Now,
people you live with within your own home. Now, as a result of the
home. Now, as a result of the firebreak and all we have done it,
firebreak and all we have done it, we ran do
firebreak and all we have done it, we can do more. We all want our
we ran do more. We all want our homes to
we can do more. We all want our homes to be welcoming places, but we
homes to be welcoming places, but we also want them to be safe places.
also want them to be safe places. One of the most common
One of the most common misconceptions about coronavirus is
misconceptions about coronavirus is that we catch it from people that we
that we catch it from peopla that we do not
that we catch it from people that we do not know. In fact, we are more
do not know. In fact, we are more likely to catch it from and pass it
likely to catch it from and pass it on to the people we are in closest
on to the peopla we are in closest contact
on to the people we are in closest contact with every day. These are
contact with every day. These are our families or loved ones and the
our families or loved ones and the people we left with. —— we live
people we left with. -- we live with. To
people we left with. —— we live with. To households in Wales will be
with. To households in Walas will be able to join
with. To households in Wales will be able to join together to form a
able to join together to form a bubble or extended household for ——
bubble or extended household for -- two
bubble or extended household for —— two households. To help keep
two households. To help keep everybody as safe as possible at
everybody as safe as possible at home, only people from your own
home, only people from your own household or extended household will
household or extended household will be able to meet in your own home.
be able to meet in your own home. Now, the rules around meeting people
Now, the mles around meeting people are perhaps the
Now, the rules around meeting people are perhaps the most difficult that
are perhaps the most difficult that we have to consider and that is why
we have to consider and that is why we asked people to think about what
we asked people to think about what they should do, rather than simply
they should do, rather than simply what they ran
they should do, rather than simply what they can do. And we know that
what they ran do. And we know that changing the
what they can do. And we know that changing the rules to allow two
changing the rules to allow two households to join together and to
households to join together and to meet at home, which will be very
meet at home, which will be very valuable for many, many households
valuabla for many, many households in Walas,
valuable for many, many households in Wales, does not reflect the
in Wales, does not reﬂect the family
in Wales, does not reflect the family dynamics of many people and
family dynamis of many peopla and it does
family dynamics of many people and it does not enable friends and young
it does not enabla friends and young peopla to
it does not enable friends and young people to meet. Beyond November the
people to meet. Beyond November the 9th, there will be new arrangements
9th, there will be new arrangements to meet indoors in other settings
to meet indoors in other settings such as pubs, bars, cafes and
such as pubs, bars, cafes and restaurants. But because all these
restaurants. But berause all these places will
restaurants. But because all these places will now be closed in
places will now be closed in England, we are having to think
England, we are having to think further about how the hospitality
further about how the hospitality sector in Wales can operate in these
sector in Wales ran operate in these new
sector in Wales can operate in these new circumstances. And that
new circumstances. And that consideration will continue into
consideration will continue into this afternoon. In relation to
this afternoon. In relation to organised activity, up to 15 people
organised activity, up to 15 peopla will be
organised activity, up to 15 people will be able to meet together to
will be able to meet together to take part in an indoors activity and
take part in an indoors activity and “P
take part in an indoors activity and up to 30 in outdoors activities
up to 30 in outdoors activities provided of course, as ever, that
provided of course, as ever, that all social distancing, hand hygiene
all social distancing, hand hygiene and other Covid safety measures are
and other Covid safety measures are followed. As from the 9th of
followed. As from the 9th of November, schools will reopen in
November, schools will reopen in full, working from home will become
full, working from home will become even more important. And all that
even more important. And all that business premises which have been
business premises which have been shut since the 23rd of October will
shut since the 23rd of October will be able to reopen again on Monday of
be able to reopen again on Monday of next week. Local authority services
next week. Local authority services will resume, reflecting local
will resume, reflecting local circumstances and places of worship
circumstances and places of worship will be able to reopen. There will
will be able to reopen. There will be no travel restrictions inside
be no travel restrictions inside Wales, but during the month long
Wales, but during the month long lockdown in England, travel will not
lockdown in England, travel will not be permitted outside Wales without a
be permitted outside Wales without a reasonable excuse. Now, as I
reasonabla excuse. Now, as I explained on
reasonable excuse. Now, as I explained on Friday, we continue to
explained on Friday, we continue to see large numbers of people falling
see large numbers of peopla falling ill with
see large numbers of people falling ill with coronavirus in Wales. We
ill with coronavirus in Walas. We have over
ill with coronavirus in Wales. We have over 1000 hospital beds
have over 1000 hospital beds occupied by people with coronavirus
occupied by peopla with coronavirus -related
occupied by people with coronavirus —related conditions and very sadly,
-related conditions and very sadly, again over this
—related conditions and very sadly, again over this weekend, we had to
again over this weekend, we had to report more families losing loved
report more families losing loved ones to this awful virus. We still
ones to this awful vims. We still have a
ones to this awful virus. We still have a week left of the firebreak
have a week left of the firebreak period. It week to make a real
period. It week to make a real difference to the course of this
difference to the course of this virus, to prevent our NHS from being
virus, to prevent our NHS from being overwhelmed and to save lives. As
overwhelmed and to save lives. As ever, I
overwhelmed and to save lives. As ever, Ivvant
overwhelmed and to save lives. As ever, I want to thank everyone for
ever, I want to thank everyone for everything that you have done so
everything that you have done so far. Together we continue to keep
far. Together we continue to keep Wales safe. And as they tend to take
Walas safe. And as they tend to take questions from
Wales safe. And as they tend to take questions from journalists, all the
questions from journalists, all the answers, as you know, will be
answers, as you know, will be broadcast live on our own social
broadcast live on our own social media channels. First, over
broadcast live on our own social media channels. First, overto
broadcast live on our own social media channels. First, over to Dan
media channels. First, over to Dan from BBC Wales. Thank you, I would
from BBC Walas. Thank you, Iwould be really
from BBC Wales. Thank you, I would be really grateful if you could
be really grateful if you could answer these in Welsh. You said
answer these in Welsh. You said people would only do what is it
peopla would only do what is it really
people would only do what is it really necessary, but you’re
really necessary, but you’re permitting people to do what is
permitting peopla to do what is perhaps
permitting people to do what is perhaps not necessary after the
perhaps not necessary after the firebreak, to go out to a pub for a
firebreak, to go out to a pub for a meal. If you think people should
meal. If you think peopla should only
meal. If you think people should only leave their homes when it is
only leave their homes when it is genuinely necessary, then society is
genuinely necessary, then society is basically being asked to impose its
basically being asked to impose its own lockdown. What I’m saying to
own lockdown. what I’m saying to peopla in
own lockdown. What I’m saying to people in Wales as this, we will
peopla in Walas as this, we will have
people in Wales as this, we will have this new simple set of national
have this new simple set of national mles beyond
have this new simple set of national rules beyond the firebreak period,
mles beyond the firebreak period, but if people
rules beyond the firebreak period, but if people approach that period
but if peopla approach that period by asking
but if people approach that period by asking themselves what is the
by asking themselves what is the maximum I can do? How many things
maximum I ran do? How many things ran I now
maximum I can do? How many things can I now take part in? How many
ran I now take part in? How many peopla ran I
can I now take part in? How many people can I meet? How far will I
people ran I meet? How far will I travel?
people can I meet? How far will I travel? That will lead us all back
travel? That will lead us all back into the difficulties we have faced
into the difficulties we have faced in this awesome. So what we have to
in this awesome. So what we have to have is a set of national rules
have is a set of national mles together
have is a set of national rules together with the ongoing
together with the ongoing determination of people in Wales to
determination of peopla in Walas to do
determination of people in Wales to do the right thing, for every one of
do the right thing, for every one of us to ask ourselves that question,
us to ask ourselves that question, what contribution can we make to
what contribution ran we make to keeping
what contribution can we make to keeping ourselves and others say?
keeping ourselves and others say? And that does not mean trying to
And that does not mean trying to stretch the rules to do even more.
stretch the mles to do even more. It means taking
stretch the rules to do even more. It means taking that responsibility
It means taking that responsibility in our own lives to do the things
in our own lives to do the things that keep us all safe. That is the
that keep us all safe. That is the message I was trying to convey this
message I was trying to convey this morning as I want to convey it again
morning as I want to convey it again now. People in Wales have made the
now. People in Wales have made the most enormous effort. When the
most enormous effort. When the firebreak is over, I do not want
firebreak is over, I do not want that to be a signal to people that
that to be a signal to peopla that those
that to be a signal to people that those efforts can come to an end. If
those efforts ran come to an end. If we are to get the
those efforts can come to an end. If we are to get the benefits of a
we are to get the benefits of a firebreak period, we all need to
firebreak period, we all need to behave in the weeks that follow by
behave in the weeks that follow by asking us not what can I do, but
asking us not what ran I do, but what
asking us not what can I do, but what should I do? And in that way,
what should I do? And in that way, we will go on together helping to
we will go on together helping to bring the coronavirus under control
bring the coronavirus under control and to give a through to Christmas
and to give a through to Christmas and beyond.
HE SPEAKS IN WELSH
HE SPEAKS IN WELSH . So, we have been listening to a
. So, we have been listening to a briefing from the First Minister of
briefing from the First Minister of Wales, Mark Drakeford, where he has
Wales, Mark Drakeford, where he has announced a new nationwide measures
announced a new nationwide measures which will take effect after the
which will take effect after the Welsh firebreak lockdown ends next
Welsh firebreak lockdown ends next week. Let’s
Welsh firebreak lockdown ends next week. Let’sjust run
Welsh firebreak lockdown ends next week. Let’s just run you through
week. Let’s just mn you through some of
week. Let’s just run you through some of them. He said that from next
some of them. He said that from next Monday, two households in Wales
Monday, two households in Walas would
Monday, two households in Wales would be able to join together to
would be able to join together to form a bubble or an extended
form a bubble or an extended household, but only people in that
household, but only peopla in that bubble
household, but only people in that bubble or extended household can
bubble or extended household ran meet
bubble or extended household can meet people inside their own home.
meet people inside their own home. Plans for reopening hospitality, it
Plans for reopening hospitality, it sounded as if they have been put on
sounded as if they have been put on hold or at least are subject to
hold or at least are subject to further discussion, that of course
further discussion, that of course is in the light of the announcement
is in the light of the announcement that England will face a second
that England will face a second lockdown for a month from Thursday.
lockdown for a month from Thursday. But in Walas, up
lockdown for a month from Thursday. But in Wales, up to 15 people will
But in Walas, up to 15 peopla will be able
But in Wales, up to 15 people will be able to meet indoors for
be able to meet indoors for activities, sports for example, and
activities, sports for example, and 30 outdoors, provided they abide by
30 outdoors, provided they abide by social distancing rules. Let’s
social distancing mles. Let’s listen
social distancing rules. Let’s listen back into that conference.
listen back into that conference. Summer may think that that insurance
Summer may think that that insurance policy is not working and Wales
policy is not working and Walas would
policy is not working and Wales would be better off, its response to
would be better off, its response to Covid would be better, if it was an
Covid would be better, if it was an independent nation.
1. II
If we were not part of the United Kingdom, we would not be having a
Kingdom, we would not be having a discussion about for at all the
discussion about for at all the millions and millions of pounds that
millions and millions of pounds that have been spent on supporting people
have been spent on supporting people who are unable to work during
who are unable to work during coronavirus would be here for us to
coronavirus would be here for us to use -- furlough. So
coronavirus would be here for us to use —— furlough. So of course, I
use -- furlough. So of course, I think it
use —— furlough. So of course, I think it strikes me and will strike
think it strikes me and will strike peopla in
think it strikes me and will strike people in Wales as unfair that when
peopla in Walas as unfair that when we
people in Wales as unfair that when we asked for flexibility, we were
we asked for ﬂexibility, we were told
we asked for flexibility, we were told that none was possible. And
told that none was possible. And when the UK Government decided to
when the UK Government decided to move for England, suddenly that
move for England, suddenly that ﬂexibility
move for England, suddenly that flexibility was found. At the
ﬂexibility was found. At the Treasury is
flexibility was found. At the Treasury is the Treasury for the
Treasury is the Treasury for the whole of the United Kingdom, not
whola of the United Kingdom, not just
whole of the United Kingdom, not just one part of it. But without
the UK Treasury and without being part of that great insurance policy,
part of that great insurance policy, we would not be debating whether or
we would not be debating whether or not we were getting furlough unfair
not we were getting furlough unfair terms because we would not be
terms because we would not be getting help with furlough at all.
getting help with furlough at all. And when independence is concerned,
And when independence is concerned, we have already an independent
we have already an independent Senedd here that are able to make
Senedd here that are able to make decisions here for Wales and
decisions here for Wales and throughout the coronavirus period I
throughout the coronavirus period I have used independently the powers
have used independently the powers we have is a Welsh Government to
we have is a Welsh Government to make decisions that are right for
make decisions that are right for Walas.
make decisions that are right for Wales. 50 I sometimes think the
Wales. So I sometimes think the debate, a
Wales. 50 I sometimes think the debate, a sort of polarising debate
debate, a sort of polarising debate between independence and what we
between independence and what we have got, misses the point, really.
have got, misses the point, really. We have independent scope to act and
We have independent scope to act and use it all the time, but we do it
use it all the time, but we do it under the umbrella that the United
under the umbrella that the United Kingdom provides to us and one which
Kingdom provides to us and one which we have
drawn on the strength of that throughout this crisis. Over to
throughout this crisis. Over to Adrian Masters of ITV Wales. He said
Adrian Masters of ITV Walas. He said that
Adrian Masters of ITV Wales. He said that discussions continue this
that discussions continue this afternoon about the hospitality
afternoon about the hospitality sector. You had promised all sectors
sector. You had promised all sectors that they would get a week’s notice
that they would get a week’s notice to be able to
that they would get a weak’s notice to be able to prepare. Can you tell
to be able to prepare. (“an you tell them that they
to be able to prepare. Can you tell them that they will get that
them that they will get that decision today and can you confirm
decision today and ran you confirm what sort
decision today and can you confirm what sort of things you’re looking
what sort of things you’re looking at - is at
what sort of things you’re looking at — is at keeping pubs and
at — is at keeping pubs and restaurants close altogether or
restaurants close altogether or different rules in border areas? I
different mles in border areas? I do not
different rules in border areas? I do not want to keep those places
do not want to keep those places dose,
do not want to keep those places close, I want to see them reopen in
close, I want to see them reopen in Wales. But any prime minister’s
Walas. But any prime minister’s decision
Wales. But any prime minister’s decision over the weekend is
decision over the weekend is inevitably create a different
inevitably create a different context dash might be Prime
context dash might be Prime Minister’s decision. If pubs are
Minister’s decision. If pubs are close along the border in England,
dose along the border in England, there is
close along the border in England, there is bound to be a risk that
there is bound to be a risk that peopla will
there is bound to be a risk that people will try to break the law,
people will try to break the law, because the law in England will say
because the law in England will say to them that they should not travel
to them that they should not travel into Wales because pubs here will be
into Wales because pubs here will be open and serving alcohol. So I do
open and sewing alcohol. So I do not want
open and serving alcohol. So I do not want our police forces to be
not want our police forces to be diverted into having to police the
diverted into having to police the border because we have a situation
border because we have a situation that we had not anticipated and we
that we had not anticipated and we have not had a chance to think
have not had a chance to think through. Had that not happen, I
through. Had that not happen, I would simply have been announcing
would simply have been announcing today that everything would reopen
today that everything would reopen on the same terms as they would have
on the same terms as they would have operated on the 22nd of October. But
operated on the 22nd of October. But the context has changed, it is
the context has changed, it is important that we talk to the
important that we talk to the sector. That we get a set of
sector. That we get a set of arrangements that work for them and
arrangements that work for them and that prevent unintended consequences
that prevent unintended consequences from causing us difficulties beyond
from causing us difficulties beyond that sector and I want to get those
that sector and I want to get those decisions as quickly as possible,
decisions as quickly as possible, but more than getting them quickly,
but more than getting them quickly, want to get them right and that
want to get them right and that means being prepared to talk to
means being prepared to talk to people, hear
means being prepared to talk to people, heartheir
means being prepared to talk to people, hear their views, and then
peopla, hear their views, and then come to
people, hear their views, and then come to the decisions that will need
come to the decisions that will need to make. Thank you. And could you
to make. Thank you. And could you also tell me what your thinking is
also tell me what your thinking is on to care homes. It is something
on to rare homes. It is something that is
on to care homes. It is something that is important for the mental
that is important for the mental well-being of
that is important for the mental well—being of residents as residents
well-being of residents as residents as well
well—being of residents as residents as well as families. Will visits be
as well as families. will visits be allowed
as well as families. Will visits be allowed to take place cut care homes
allowed to take place cut rare homes are a
allowed to take place cut care homes are a constant cause of concern to
are a constant cause of concern to us all. Because one the virus gets
us all. Because one the virus gets into a rare
us all. Because one the virus gets into a care home, we now have fast
into a rare home, we now have fast it ran spread
into a care home, we now have fast it can spread among the very
it can spread among the very vulnerable population and we know
vulnerable population and we know the devastation that can follow. We
the devastation that ran follow. We have
the devastation that can follow. We have tried our best to learn the
have tried our best to learn the lessons from the earlier part of the
lessons from the eartier part of the year. I
lessons from the eartier part of the year. lam rare
lessons from the earlier part of the year. I am care home visits are
year. I am rare home visits are still happening
year. I am care home visits are still happening in Wales —— care
still happening in Walas -- rare home
still happening in Wales —— care home visits. While I do not want to
home visits. whila I do not want to 55V
home visits. whila I do not want to say this in the
home visits. While I do not want to say this in the sense of offering
say this in the sense of offering false hope to people, one of the
false hope to people, one of the things that we do have some optimism
things that we do have some optimism that things will develop over the
that things will develop over the weeks ahead is that he new
weeks ahead is that he new generation of tests may become
generation of tests may become available where people will be able
available where peopla will be able to
available where people will be able to administer themselves and be able
to administer themselves and be able to get the answer is very quickly
to get the answer is very quickly within, let us say, half an hour, so
within, let us say, half an hour, so I have asked our officials here to
I have asked our officials here to work with the care home sector to
work with the rare home sector to see, as does
work with the care home sector to see, as does test become available,
see, as does test become availabla, whether
see, as does test become available, whether used for care home visiting
whether used for rare home visiting would be
whether used for care home visiting would be a priority, one of the top
would be a priority, one of the top things that we would use those tests
things that we would use those tests for as they become available to us
for as they become available to us in Walas.
for as they become available to us in Wales. Because if that were the
in Wales. Because if that were the use,
in Wales. Because if that were the case, someone could come to a care
rase, someone could come to a rare home,
case, someone could come to a care home, administer the tests
home, administer the tests themselves, while they were waiting
themselves, while they were waiting in the far,
themselves, while they were waiting in the car, and within half an hour,
in the far, and within half an hour, they would now
in the car, and within half an hour, they would now that they had a test
they would now that they had a test was positive and negative and if it
was positive and negative and if it was positive, you could not visit
was positive, you could not visit it, but if it was negative 3 the
it, but if it was negative a the visit
it, but if it was negative 3 the visit could
it, but if it was negative a the visit could go ahead. That does
visit could go ahead. That does offer us a different path through
offer us a different path through this a very difficult dilemma where
this a very difficult dilamma where we want
this a very difficult dilemma where we want to
this a very difficult dilemma where we we nt to protect
this a very difficult dilemma where we want to protect people who live
we want to protect people who live in rare
we want to protect people who live in care homes, but of course, we
in rare homes, but of course, we want peopla to
in care homes, but of course, we want people to be able to have the
want peopla to be able to have the comfort
want people to be able to have the comfort of knowing they can be seen
comfort of knowing they ran be seen by their loved
comfort of knowing they can be seen by their loved ones as well. If
by their loved ones as well. If those tests do come on stream, and
those tests do come on stream, and it is some optimism that they will,
it is some optimism that they will, then rare
it is some optimism that they will, then care home visiting is at the
then rare home visiting is at the top of the list
then care home visiting is at the top of the list of things that we
top of the list of things that we would want to explore for putting
would want to explore for putting them to work here in Wales. Ageing,
them to work here in Wales. Ageing, thank you. Over to Andy Davies at
thank you. Over to Andy Davies at Channel 4. Thank you. You said there
Channel 4. Thank you. You said there will be no travel permitted outside
will be no travel permitted outside Wales without a reasonable excuse.
Walas without a reasonabla excuse. What
Wales without a reasonable excuse. What does that mean in terms of
what does that mean in terms of peopla
What does that mean in terms of people visiting Wales from England?
peopla visiting Walas from England? will
people visiting Wales from England? Will Welsh regulations prohibit
will Welsh regulations prohibit that,
Will Welsh regulations prohibit that, regardless of what the English
that, regardless of what the English regulations say? No, it will be the
regulations say? No, it will be the same broad system on both sides of
same broad system on both sides of the border. People who live in
the border. People who live in Wales, but work in England will have
Walas, but work in England will have a
Wales, but work in England will have a reasonable reason for travelling
a reasonabla reason for travelling to work
a reasonable reason for travelling to work and people who live in
to work and peopla who live in England and
to work and people who live in England and work in Wales will
England and work in Walas will likely have
England and work in Wales will likely have a reasonable excuse for
likely have a reasonabla excuse for coming across
likely have a reasonable excuse for coming across the border to work
coming across the border to work here. It will be a restricted list
here. It will be a restricted list of essential purposes, rather than
of essential purposes, rather than the normal toing and froing across
the normal hing and froing across the
the normal toing and froing across the border that you would have seen
the border that you would have seen in a less fraught and difficult
in a lass fraught and difficult times.
in a less fraught and difficult times. And what would your message
times. And what would your message he to those people in England who
be to those peopla in England who might be
be to those people in England who might be considering coming to Wales
might be considering coming to Walas to visit a pub or
might be considering coming to Wales to visit a pub or restaurant during
to visit a pub or restaurant during the lock in period and include? My
the lock in period and include? My message to them is that they must
message to them is that they must obey the law in England. And at the
obey the law in England. And at the law in England will not allow that
law in England will not allow that to happen. It will not allow that to
to happen. It will not allow that to happen for a very good reasons. The
happen for a very good reasons. The measures that have been put in place
measures that have been put in place in England are designed to turn back
in England are designed to turn back the stale
in England are designed to turn back the scale of challenge that
the scale of challenge that coronavirus has now caused to our
coronavirus has now caused to our friends and neighbours across the
friends and neighbours across the border. Those rules will have been
border. Those mles will have been put in place by
border. Those rules will have been put in place by the Prime Minister
put in place by the Prime Minister for very good reasons. And people in
for very good reasons. And peopla in England
for very good reasons. And people in England need to follow them just as
England need to follow them just as I always ask people in Wales to
I always ask peopla in Walas to follow
I always ask people in Wales to follow the rules that we put in
follow the mles that we put in place for
follow the rules that we put in place for people here. Andy, thank
place for people here. Andy, thank you. To will
place for people here. Andy, thank you. To Will Hayward at Wales
you. To will Hayward at Walas online.
you. To Will Hayward at Wales online. Thank you, First Minister.
online. Thank you, First Minister. England are seeing more cases and
England are seeing more rases and deaths
England are seeing more cases and deaths than the reasonable worst
deaths than the reasonahla worst case
deaths than the reasonable worst case scenario model predicted also
rase scenario model predicted also as
case scenario model predicted also as Wales also permits projections
as Walas also permits projections and
as Wales also permits projections and does that mean there is likely
and does that mean there is likely to be more deaths than the 6300 that
to be more deaths than the 6300 that were previously feared? Can you talk
were previously feared? (“an you talk a study most
were previously feared? Can you talk a study most up—to—date reasonable
a study most up-to-date reasonabla worst
a study most up—to—date reasonable worst case scenario modelling for
worst rase scenario modelling for Wales,
worst case scenario modelling for Wales, please question mark thank
Wales, please question mark thank you. Before we took the decision to
you. Before we took the decision to institute a fabric here in Wales, we
institute a fabric here in Wales, we were tracking --
institute a fabric here in Wales, we were tracking —— firebreak. We were
were tracking -- firebreak. We were tracking, but not
were tracking —— firebreak. We were tracking, but not exceeding it. We
tracking, but not exceeding it. We were going along the pathway that
were going along the pathway that the Swansea modelling suggested
the Swansea modelling suggested would be the worst case. That is why
would be the worst rase. That is why we
would be the worst case. That is why we instituted the firebreak. We have
we instituted the firebreak. We have asked Swansea to the modelling again
asked Swansea to the modelling again for us to take into account the
for us to take into account the impact of a fire break period and we
impact of a fire break period and we will have the results of that, I’m
will have the results of that, I’m sure, shortly. But we were not
sure, shortly. But we were not exceeding it as they have reported
exceeding it as they have reported in England, but we were tracking it.
in England, but we were tracking it. And that was a strong signal to us
And that was a strong signal to us of a need to act and act early here
of a need to act and act earty here in Wales.
of a need to act and act early here in Wales. Thank you. Can you also
in Walas. Thank you. (“an you also talk
in Wales. Thank you. Can you also talk because really plan for local
talk because really plan for local nocturnes now. If there is a local
nocturnes now. If there is a [oral outbreak,
nocturnes now. If there is a local outbreak, will you follow a similar
outbreak, will you follow a similar model with the figure of 50 cases
model with the figure of 50 cases per 100,000 as a benchmark and were
per 100,000 as a benchmark and were restrictions imposed by the same as
restrictions imposed by the same as before? And could ask for the
before? And could ask for the confirmation, can you confirm people
confirmation, ran you confirm peopla in Walas
confirmation, can you confirm people in Wales are now able to book
in Walas are now able to book holidays in
in Wales are now able to book holidays in Wales such as in
holidays in Wales such as in Bluestone after the firebrick? Yes,
Bluestone after the firebrick? Yes, on the final point I can confirm
on the final point I ran confirm that peopla
on the final point I can confirm that people will be able to travel
that peopla will be able to travel within
that people will be able to travel within the wheels. They will not be
within the wheels. They will not be confined to the local authority area
confined to the [oral authority area as was
confined to the local authority area as was the case —— Wales. We are
as was the rase -- Wales. We are going to leave
as was the case —— Wales. We are going to leave that briefing note
going to leave that briefing note from the First Minister of Wales,
from the First Minister of Walas, Mark
from the First Minister of Wales, Mark Drakeford there in Cardiff.
Mark Drakeford there in Cardiff. Announcing a new nationwide measures
Announcing a new nationwide measures that will take effect after the
that will take effect after the Welsh firebrick lockdown ends next
Welsh firebrick lockdown ends next week. It has work reiterating that
week. It has work reiterating that these measures will not come into
these measures will not come into effect until next Monday. The
effect until next Monday. The headlines, schools will reopen,
headlines, schools will reopen, businesses that have been shut since
businesses that have been shut since October 23 will be able to reopen as
October 23 will be able to reopen as of next week, hospitality venues,
of next week, hospitality venues, discussions are ongoing as to
discussions are ongoing as to whether they will be able to reopen
whether they will be able to reopen in the light of the announcement
in the light of the announcement from the Prime Minister Boris
from the Prime Minister Boris johnson
from the Prime Minister Boris Johnson that England will be locked
johnson that England will be locked down
Johnson that England will be locked down for a month from Thursday.
down for a month from Thursday. There will be no travel restrictions
There will be no travel restrictions from next Monday inside Wales, but
from next Monday inside Wales, but travel will not be permitted outside
travel will not be permitted outside Wales without a reasonable excuse.
Walas without a reasonabla excuse. So Mark
Wales without a reasonable excuse. 50 Mark Drakeford they’re announcing
So Mark Drakeford therre announcing there
50 Mark Drakeford they’re announcing there was a new nationwide measures
there was a new nationwide measures that will take effect from next
that will take effect from next Monday.
The Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has criticised
what he called the government’s "catalogue of mistakes" over
the coronavirus crisis, which he said "have cost lives
and livelihoods".
He was speaking to business leaders at the annual CBI conference,
which is being held online.
Earlier, at the same event, the Business Secretary, Alok Sharma,
defended the government’s decision to implement a month—long
lockdown in England, telling business leaders and media
"the cost of inaction would be greater than the action".
Our business correspondent Vivienne Nunis is here.
This was interesting, he differentiate the relationship with
differentiate the relationship with the business community from what it
the business community from what it was under Corbyn. Saying the party
was under Corbyn. Saying the party wanted to build a new relationship,
wanted to build a new relationship, new partnership with the business
new partnership with the business community and that they really value
community and that they really value the contribution business makes to
the contribution business makes to society, but as you said, he also
society, but as you said, he also took the opportunity to really
took the opportunity to really heavily criticise the government and
heavily criticise the government and its management so far of the
its management so far of the coronavirus pandemic. He talked
coronavirus pandemic. He talked about the Chancellor Rishi Sunak
about the Chancellor Rishi Sunak having three economic plans and
having three economic plans and about four weeks. Let’s have a
about four weeks. Let’s have a listen to what Sir Keir Starmer had
listen to what Sir Keir Starmer had to say that conference this morning.
The central lesson of the first ways
The central lasson of the first ways scratch
The central lesson of the first ways scratch make was ignored that if you
scratch make was ignored that if you are to control this virus, you have
are to control this virus, you have to act earty and
are to control this virus, you have to act early and decisively. And
to act earty and decisively. And that if you
to act early and decisively. And that if you don’t, the cost to
that if you don’t, the cost to people’s health and at the health of
people’s health and at the health of the economy is much, much worse. One
the economy is much, much worse. One of the things I’ve learned from this
of the things I’ve learned from this crisis is that it take exposes
crisis is that it take exposes leadership like nothing else. ——
leadership like nothing else. -- exposes
leadership like nothing else. —— exposes leadership. On that count,
exposes leadership. On that count, the Prime Minister and have failed.
The Leader of the Opposition addressing the conference this
addressing the conference this morning. We would normally be
morning. We would normally be hearing from the Prime Minister on
hearing from the Prime Minister on at the opening morning of the CBI
at the opening morning of the CBI conference, wouldn’t we? He was not
conference, wouldn’t we? He was not there. How did that go down with
there. How did that go down with delagates?
there. How did that go down with delegates? That they regarded as a
delegates? That they regarded as a bit of a snob or was it well, he has
bit of a snob or was it well, he has always got a lot on his plate? I
always got a lot on his plate? I think there was a sense of
think there was a sense of disappointment that the Prime
disappointment that the Prime Minister could not be there this
Minister could not be there this morning. I remember, it is
Minister could not be there this morning. I remember, it isjust the
morning. I remember, it is just the second
morning. I remember, it isjust the second time in all the years that
second time in all the years that the CBI has been hosting this annual
the CBI has been hosting this annual event that the prime minister of the
event that the prime minister of the day could not make an appearance.
day could not make an appearance. Boris johnson,
day could not make an appearance. Borisjohnson, of course, is going
Boris johnson, of course, is going to be speaking
Borisjohnson, of course, is going to be speaking in the Commons later
to be speaking in the Commons later today about the new lockdown coming
today about the new lockdown coming on in England on Thursday. I really,
on in England on Thursday. I really, that new lockdown was at the bigger
that new lockdown was at the bigger focus of this morning’s discussions,
focus of this morning’s discussions, our business is going to cope with a
our business is going to cope with a second lap time? He quite severe
second lap time? He quite severe locked in. Dame Caroline for
locked in. Dame Caroline for revenge, the director—general of the
revenge, the director-general of the CBI said
revenge, the director—general of the CBI said businesses are better
CBI said businesses are better prepared than they were the first
prepared than they were the first time around —— Fairbench. Businesses
time around -- Fairbench. Businesses may have been
time around —— Fairbench. Businesses may have been able to adapt. But in
may have been able to adapt. But in other ways businesses are worse off,
other ways businesses are worse off, they would any much healthier
they would any much healthier position financially at the
position financially at the beginning of the year because they
beginning of the year because they have now been dealing with the
have now been dealing with the financial impact of a pandemic for
financial impact of a pandemic for several months. Hear what Dame
several months. Hear what Dame Caroline Fairbairn had to say this
Caroline Fairbairn had to say this morning.
We need to recognise the Covid safety of so many workplaces
and keep as much of the economy open as we ran.
Financial support — it needs to be there,
it needs to be strong, and it needs to be
there for the duration.
The trouble is, the furlough scheme ending in four weeks is tomorrow
for so many businesses.
We need more clarity on timing.
And more is going to be needed for some sectors.
I look at aviation — an enabler of our economy.
We are an open economy, we’re going to need to be able
to fly again for our trade — for our global trade —
for our recovery.
We cannot let our aviation sector die.
Dame Caroline Fairbairn there. The other big topic was a Brexit. The
other big topic was a Brexit. The transition period ends on the ist of
transition period ends on the 1st of january. She
transition period ends on the ist of January. She urged government to
january. She urged government to come up with a
January. She urged government to come up with a deal soon. Sir Keir
come up with a deal soon. Sir Keir Starmer also urged the committee
Starmer also urged the committee come up with the deal. Dame Caroline
come up with the deal. Dame Caroline Fairbairn said it would be
Fairbairn said it would be unconscionable to unleash a no—deal
unconscionable to unleash a no-deal Brexit on
unconscionable to unleash a no—deal Brexit on the UK and Europe are now
Brexit on the UK and Europe are now dealing with the second wave of the
dealing with the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Thank you very
coronavirus pandemic. Thank you very much. Our business corresponded,
much. Our business corresponded, Vivian.
As that briefing was taking place in Wales,
so Nicola Sturgeon was also giving one to the people of Scotland.
Today Scotland has been placed under a new tier system
across its council areas, restricting certain areas to harsher
lockdown measures than others.
But, she says the country has a decision to face,
as the UK government’s furlough scheme funding is only available
during the month that England is in lockdown.
The position, as it has in so many countries across the world, remains
countries across the world, remains very fragile and we remain very
very fragile and we remain very concerned about the rise in hospital
concerned about the rise in hospital and intensive care commissions. We
and intensive rare commissions. We still
and intensive care commissions. We still there’s a lot of uncertainty
still there’s a lot of uncertainty as lots of countries do. That is why
as lots of countries do. That is why it clear last week that when I set
it clear last week that when I set out the levels that would apply
out the levels that would apply initially that we might yet have to
initially that we might yet have to go further and that we cannot rule
go further and that we cannot mla out a
go further and that we cannot rule out a move to level four for all the
out a move to level four for all the parts of the country. While that
parts of the country. While that decision would never be easy, there
decision would never be easy, there is no doubt that the availability of
is no doubt that the availability of a more extensive unfurlough scheme
a more extensive unfurlough scheme of the kind that the Prime Minister
of the kind that the Prime Minister announced on Saturday would make it
announced on Saturday would make it slightly lass
announced on Saturday would make it slightly less difficult —— furlough
slightly less difficult —— furlough scheme. It would make it light
scheme. It would make it light slightly less difficult because
slightly less difficult because workers would have more of their
workers would have more of their wages paid. What we have to be up
wages paid. what we have to be up and coming
wages paid. What we have to be up and coming days as there is, should
and coming days as there is, should we take the opportunity of more
we take the opportunity of more generous financial support to step
generous financial support to step harder on the brakes now to try to
harder on the brakes now to try to drive infection rates down faster
drive infection rates down faster and more firmly? The potential
and more firmly? The potential benefit of that would be suppressing
benefit of that would be suppressing the bite is a further and faster at
the bite is a further and faster at a time when financial support is
a time when financial support is available. —— suppressing the virus.
available. -- suppressing the vims. But possibly
available. —— suppressing the virus. But possibly opening up a bit more
But possibly opening up a bit more breathing space over the Christmas
breathing space over the Christmas period. Ideally, we would assess the
period. Ideally, we would assess the impact of the current restrictions
impact of the current restrictions for a bit longer before making that
for a bit longer before making that decision and, at the very least,
decision and, at the very least, wait until our next scheduled review
wait until our next scheduled review point which is during lectures, a
point which is during lectures, a week tomorrow. But he has a dilemma
week tomorrow. But he has a dilemma we face and it is important I am
we face and it is important I am open with you about it. At this
open with you about it. At this stage, the indication is that the
stage, the indication is that the more generous unfurlough scheme is
more generous unfurlough scheme is only going to be available for the
only going to be available for the month --
only going to be available for the month —— furlough’s scheme during
month -- furlough’s scheme during the period of
month —— furlough’s scheme during the period of England’s lockdown. It
the period of England’s lockdown. It should be available to devolved
should be available to devolved administrations whenever it is
administrations whenever it is needed and most reasonable people
needed and most reasonable people would think that has the fair
would think that has the fair possession and I, with colleagues in
possession and I, with colleagues in the Welsh and Northern Irish
the Welsh and Northern Irish governments have pressed that point
governments have pressed that point "TY
governments have pressed that point very firmly at the Cobra meeting
very firmly at the Cobra meeting which has just concluded.
very firmly at the Cobra meeting which hasjust concluded. But
very firmly at the Cobra meeting which has just concluded. But we
which has just concluded. But we cannot put of vital decisions while
cannot put of vital decisions whila we have
cannot put of vital decisions while we have a debate with the Treasury
we have a debate with the Treasury because at the virus does not stop
because at the virus does not stop spreading while we do that. That is
spreading whila we do that. That is why I
spreading while we do that. That is why I hope we get absolute clarity
why I hope we get absolute clarity on that point from the Treasury
on that point from the Treasury today. Because it matters to our
today. Because it matters to our decision—making here in Scotland.
Nicola Sturgeon.
The US presidential election enters its final day of campaigning,
with both President Trump and Joe Biden appealing to voters
in crucial battleground states.
The scale of early voting has been unprecedented with more
than 93 million Americans having cast their ballots already.
Our correspondent Nomia Iqbal reports from Florida.
This is the most important election of our lifetime.
It is crunch time.
President Trump and Joe Biden have been making a push in the Midwestern
states and if those swing states are crucial, then
Florida is critical.
MUSIC PLAYS.
Donald Trump needs more than their love.
He needs their votes.
To become president it requires 270 points from the electoral college
system and Florida has 29 up for grabs.
Without this state, Mr Trump’s path back to the White House
looks near impossible.
More than eight million residents here have already voted.
This is the last day of in—person early voting here in Florida
and at this polling station there are Donald Trump supporters
on one side and Joe Biden supporters on the other,
with no—one meeting in the middle.
And that sums up what it is like to be in a swing state.
People love the guy because they think he is like us, a regular
person and not a politician.
He is a liar, he is a liar.
He wants his ego, power, that is it.
He does not care about the communities.
And some say Donald Trump is trying to portray his rival, Joe Biden,
in a way that plays on the fears of many Latino voters.
The Trump administration needs something to grab onto
because their record is terrible.
So one of the biggest ways to scare Cubans and Venezuelans is by fear
mongering them into talking about communism and socialism.
My entire family is voting for Donald Trump.
My entire family.
I am one of the few in my family who is not voting for Trump,
who is voting forJoe Biden.
Florida has been problematic in delivering election results.
But officials tell us they are ready this time.
If that is true, then on election night Florida will give us an early
sense of which man is on track to become the next president.
Nomia Iqbal, BBC News, Florida.
You can join us tomorrow night from 11.30pm for our US
election special results programme on BBC One and the BBC News Channel
and you can follow all the expert analysis online as the results come
in at bbc.co.uk/news and on the BBC News app.
BorisJohnson is due to address MPs later this afternoon
about his plan for a new four—week lockdown across England
from Thursday.
He’s expected to warn that Covid—19 deaths could be twice as high over
the winter as they were in the first wave of the pandemic without action,
citing models from his scientific advisers.
But some other scientists insist there is still a better
way to beat the virus.
I’ve been speaking to Dr Tom Jefferson, an epidemiologist
at Oxford University, who says there is no modelling
on the impact of a lockdown.
As we explained several times, the data which is referred to as black
data which is referred to as black and white is anything but black and
and white is anything but black and white. We do not really understand
white. We do not really understand how cases are calculated and
how cases are ralmlated and projections
how cases are calculated and projections we have seen, are
projections we have seen, are forecast we have seen of cases and
forecast we have seen of rases and deaths
forecast we have seen of cases and deaths are actually really quite
deaths are actually really quite exaggerated. We have shown that in
exaggerated. We have shown that in our trackers, and our website, and
our trackers, and our website, and anybody ran go
our trackers, and our website, and anybody can go on and check
anybody ran go on and check predictions
anybody can go on and check predictions versus the actual
predictions versus the actual evidence that is coming out. I must
evidence that is coming out. I must say, however, that this is very,
say, however, that this is very, very difficult to untangle because
very difficult to untangle because there is quite a number of different
there is quite a number of different surveys and data sources. Which give
surveys and data sources. which give different
surveys and data sources. Which give different estimates and no report
different estimates and no report methods and most often do not report
methods and most often do not report the assumptions that are behind
the assumptions that are behind these models. Isn’t one thing
these models. Isn’t one thing certain, though, that a lockdown
certain, though, that a lockdown does definitely reduce the spread of
does definitely reduce the spread of infections and, therefore, the
infections and, therefore, the number of deaths? Well, the
number of deaths? Well, the unfortunately, the patchwork of
unfortunately, the patchwork of restrictions that have been applied
restrictions that have been applied throughout Europe actually make that
throughout Europe actually make that statement very problematic to check,
statement very problematic to check, to assess. Because what you would
to assess. Because what you would have to do is you would have to have
haveto do is you would haveto have a
have to do is you would have to have a state or nation or an area with
a state or nation or an area with some kind of restrictions and one
some kind of restrictions and one without restrictions and then
without restrictions and then compare them. Well, this has not
compare them. Well, this has not happened and the increasing number
happened and the increasing number of restrictions, all patchwork, all
of restrictions, all patchwork, all doubUng
of restrictions, all patchwork, all doubling and sometimes very unclear
doubling and sometimes very unclear and progressive, makes that kind of
and progressive, makes that kind of interpretation very difficult. What
interpretation very difficult. what is
interpretation very difficult. What is certain is that restrictions have
is certain is that restrictions have an impact, human toll and they have
an impact, human toll and they have an economic toll. A societal toll.
an economic toll. A societal toll. And that toll is never modelled. The
And that toll is never modelled. The forecasts that we see and that we
forecasts that we see and that we are shown in now that the projected
are shown in now that the projected benefits on restrictions, but none
benefits on restrictions, but none of the harms. You may have heard the
of the harms. You may have heard the Chancellor lashes a neck saying that
Chancellor lashes a neck saying that nonetheless, we must be handling the
nonetheless, we must be handling the face of nature —— Rishi Sunak. There
face of nature -- Rishi Sunak. There may be some
face of nature —— Rishi Sunak. There may be some people who are lessening
may be some peopla who are lessening jose US
may be some people who are lessening Jose US eventually putting
Jose US eventually putting livelihoods ahead of lives, ——
livelihoods ahead of lives, -- essentially
livelihoods ahead of lives, —— essentially saying that you are
essentially saying that you are putting livelihoods ahead of lives.
putting livelihoods ahead of lives. All deaths are regrettable.
All deaths are regrettable. Unfortunately, we are allowed to die
Unfortunately, we are allowed to die at the end of our life. The question
at the end of our life. The question becomes wider, if you want to wed in
becomes wider, if you want to wed in the question and it becomes as
the question and it becomes as follows -
the question and it becomes as follows — are we going to use
follows — are we going to use restrictions every winter? If we
restrictions every winter? If we have a very bad acute respiratory
have a very bad acute respiratory infection season, are we going to
infection season, are we going to start using restrictions there?
start using restrictions there? Because this is the logic that is
Because this is the logic that is behind applying restrictions and
behind applying restrictions and progressive restrictions. Why
behind applying restrictions and progressive restrictions. Whyjust
progressive restrictions. why just for
progressive restrictions. Whyjust for Covid? Why not for the other
for Covid? why not for the other bugs? which
for Covid? Why not for the other bugs? Which are going to start
bugs? which are going to start moving
bugs? Which are going to start moving around very soon? If they
moving around very soon? If they have not already done so. Doctor
have not already done so. Doctor jefferson, I
have not already done so. Doctor Jefferson, I want to go right back
jefferson, I want to go right back to the
Jefferson, I want to go right back to the beginning of our
to the beginning of our conversation. You said you have
conversation. You said you have explained your position several
explained your position several times. I know you have presented a
times. I know you have presented a plan to the Prime Minister. What is
plan to the Prime Minister. what is your reaction
plan to the Prime Minister. What is your reaction been from him? What
your reaction been from him? what are you hearing
your reaction been from him? What are you hearing from government to
are you hearing from government to the ideas and arguments that you’re
the ideas and arguments that you’re putting forward? Nothing. Nothing at
putting forward? Nothing. Nothing at all? Nothing at all. Why do you
all? Nothing at all. why do you think
all? Nothing at all. Why do you think that I think that is a
think that I think that is a question of government will stop I
question of government will stop I do not think that... There does not
do not think that... There does not appear that they’re open for debate.
appear that therre open for debate. My
appear that they’re open for debate. Any governments are open to debate.
Any governments are open to debate. And this is, I think regrettable. I
And this is, I think regrettable. I personally think it is regrettable,
personally think it is regrettable, simply because of the measures that
simply because of the measures that are taking impact on everybody.
are taking impact on everybody. Doctor Tom Jefferson.
are taking impact on everybody. DoctorTom Jefferson. Simon
are taking impact on everybody. Doctor Tom Jefferson. Simon McCoy
Doctor Tom jefferson. Simon McCoy will be
Doctor Tom Jefferson. Simon McCoy will be here with the news that 1pm.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Helen.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Helen.
Behind it a chilly west wind. Equally quite a number of showers as
Equally quite a number of showers as well. It is looking pretty placid
well. It is looking pretty placid out there, particularly for England
out there, particularty for England and Walas,
out there, particularly for England and Wales, driving in the showers. A
and Wales, driving in the showers. A rather wet weather highlighted for
rather wet weather highlighted for NatWest in England where we could
NatWest in England where we could see another A0 or 50 millimetres of
see another 40 or 50 millimetres of rain throughout
see another A0 or 50 millimetres of rain throughout the rest of today.
rain throughout the rest of today. Potential further flooding and a
Potential further flooding and a hazard on the roads. It looks quite
hazard on the roads. It looks quite wet to end the day for parts of
wet to end the day for parts of Northern Ireland and that will all
Northern Ireland and that will all move northwards as well. Either side
move northwards as well. Either side of that, showers. Moving northwards
of that, showers. Moving northwards into Scotland overnight, possibly a
into Scotland overnight, possibly a smattering of snow for Argyll and
smattering of snow for Argyll and the islands and a band of rain
the islands and a band of rain potentially running and across the
potentially running and across the southern half of England and Wales
southern half of England and Walas and
southern half of England and Wales and could have a smattering of sleet
and could have a smattering of sleet over the Welsh mountains and moors.
over the Welsh mountains and moors. It will be significantly chillier
It will be significantly chillier tonight compared with the Welsh
tonight compared with the Welsh mountains and moors. It will be
mountains and moors. It will be significantly chillier tonight
significantly chillier tonight compared with teenagers gone. That
compared with teenagers gone. That is really a theme for the coming
is really a theme for the coming week. Rain is with is eastern
week. Rain is with is eastern England for the first half of the
England for the first half of the day and clears away, sunny spells
day and clears away, sunny spells and scattered showers follow. Mostly
and scattered showers follow. Mostly in the north and west. They could be
in the north and west. They could be heavy here with some hail and
heavy here with some hail and thunder and temperature is about
thunder and temperature is about time to where they should be for
time to where they should be for this time of year, but clearly today
this time of year, but dearty today it has
this time of year, but clearly today it has felt chillier because they
it has felt chillier because they went, the wind is a notch down
went, the wind is a notch down tomorrow. That wind continues to
tomorrow. That wind continues to ease through Wednesday as
ease through Wednesday as high—pressure dressing of the
high-pressure dressing of the Atlantic,
high—pressure dressing of the Atlantic, but it will meander its
Atlantic, but it will meander its “Y
Atlantic, but it will meander its way eastward so that by the weekend
way eastward so that by the weekend it will be starting to have a way
it will be starting to have a way once again. For two or three days,
once again. For two or three days, the weather doesn’t look a little
the weather doesn’t look a little quieter. There will still be a few
quieter. There will still be a few showers around Wednesday and a bit
showers around Wednesday and a bit of a breeze, but gradually that
of a breeze, but gradually that peace eases off and when events
peace eases off and when events become confined to the north. After
become confined to the north. After a frosty site, temperatures get back
a frosty site, temperatures get back to where they should be for this
to where they should be for this time of year between ten and 11
time of year between ten and 11 Celsius stop into Thursday, we are
Celsius stop into Thursday, we are going to have some potential
Celsius stop into Thursday, we are going to have some potentialfault
going to have some potential fault problams.
going to have some potentialfault problems. They are stagnating at
problams. They are stagnating at this
problems. They are stagnating at this time of year it takes a while
this time of year it takes a whila for that fog to
this time of year it takes a while for that fog to clear away. Once it
for that fog to clear away. Once it does so, again some sand and coming
does so, again some sand and coming through, but probably some low cloud
through, but probably some low cloud too. That is something we will
too. That is something we will inherit later this week as well is
inherit later this week as well is early morning fog and frost, but at
earty morning fog and frost, but at least they
early morning fog and frost, but at least they wind and rain for a time
least they wind and rain for a time is eating away, but as I say, it is
is eating away, but as I say, it is just a ﬂeeting
is eating away, but as I say, it is just a fleeting glimpse of
just a fleeting glimpse of high—pressure for two or three days
high-pressure for two or three days before it gets
high—pressure for two or three days before it gets away and low pressure
before it gets away and low pressure once again returns. Warnings on the
once again returns. Warnings on the website.
BorisJohnson prepares to ask MPs to support his plan for a month—long
national coronavirus lockdown in England.
There’ll be a Commons vote on the move on Wednesday.
The new restrictions are due to come into force the day after
We’ll be getting the latest from Westminster, where some Tory
MPs say they will vote against the Government.
Also this lunchtime:
Facing another lockdown — businesses across England say
the potential damage is immense.
We’re nervous, we don’t know where it’s going to end, and I think
that’s our biggest problem.
His Hollywood reputation in tatters: Johnny Depp loses his libel action
against The Sun newspaper over an article which labelled
him a "wife—beater".
The Presidential candidates spend the last day of campaigning
crisscrossing the key battle ground states.
Prince William had Covid at the same time as his father
and the Prime Minister, but kept it quiet to avoid
alarming the nation.
And coming up on BBC News:
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer counts the cost of Paul Pogba’s stupid mistake,
as Manchester United lose to Arsenal for the first time
at Old Trafford in M years.
Good afternoon.
Welcome to the BBC News at One.
The Prime Minister
is preparing to ask MPs to support a new national lockdown
in England to last four weeks.
In the Commons later this afternoon he’s expected to warn that Covid—19
deaths could be twice as high over the winter as they were in the first
wave of the pandemic.
He will say there is no alternative
to the measure which is due to start on Thursday and to end
on the 2nd of December.
He is expected to stress that he intends to ease restrictions
after a month.
From Thursday, people will be told to stay at home
except for specific reasons.
Pubs, restaurants, gyms and nonessential
shops will close.
But takeaways will be permitted.
And meeting indoors or in private
gardens will not be allowed.
But you will be able to meet one other person from another household
outside in a public place.
Labour is supporting the move, but have criticised
the delay in bringing it in.
Meanwhile some Conservative MPs say they’ll oppose it.
Our political correspondent Chris Mason reports.
ii
It was always feared the turning of the seasons, autumn then winter,
the seasons, autumn then winter, could see a surge in coronavirus
could see a surge in coronavirus cases. It was that blunt reality
cases. It was that blunt reality that forced the Prime Minister and
that forced the Prime Minister and his scientific advisers to tell us
his scientific advisers to tell us from Downing Street at the weekend
from Downing Street at the weekend that another lockdown for England
that another lockdown for England was coming. Hello. How things
was coming. Hello. How things change. Back in the summer, the
change. Back in the summer, the Chancellor was serving up discounts
Chancellor was sewing up discounts to lure us
Chancellor was serving up discounts to lure us back to restaurants. Now
to lure us back to restaurants. Now alongside pubs, cafes and other
alongside pubs, cafes and other shops regarded as nonessential, he
shops regarded as nonessential, he is saying they will have to shut. We
is saying they will have to shut. We have to be humble in the face of
have to be humble in the face of nature. We are dealing with a virus
nature. We are dealing with a virus that has dearty
nature. We are dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace
that has dearty moved at a pace faster
that has clearly moved at a pace faster than we had anticipated or
faster than we had anticipated or feared. It is the last thing that we
feared. It is the last thing that we want to do, to bring in such
want to do, to bring in such restrictive measures. We strove very
restrictive measures. We strove very hard to avoid being in this
hard to avoid being in this situation. Those around the Prime
situation. Those around the Prime Minister say he sees a moral and
Minister say he sees a moral and medical responsibility to act. In
medical responsibility to act. In the Commons this afternoon, Boris
the Commons this afternoon, Boris johnson will
the Commons this afternoon, Boris Johnson will say that the scientific
johnson will say that the scientific projections
Johnson will say that the scientific projections he has been shown are
projections he has been shown are all bleak, and the consequences of
all bleak, and the consequences of doing nothing would be grim. But he
doing nothing would be grim. But he will face sharp questions from
will face sharp questions from opposite him, from Labour and
opposite him, from labour and others, but
opposite him, from Labour and others, but also from behind him.
others, but also from behind him. Take a listen to this from one of
Take a listen to this from one of his most senior backbenchers,
his most senior backbenchers, talking to the Westminster hour on
talking to the Westminster hour on radio four. It is these kind of
radio four. It is these kind of measures —— Mac if these kind of
measures -- Mac if these kind of measures
measures —— Mac if these kind of measures were being taken in any
measures were being taken in any kind of totalitarian country around
kind of totalitarian country around the world, we would regard it as a
the world, we would regard it as a removal of fundamental liberties
removal of fundamental liberties going almost without comment. But
going almost without comment. But addressing the Confederation of
addressing the Confederation of British industry this morning, the
British industry this morning, the labour
British industry this morning, the Labour leader repeated that the
Labour leader repeated that the Government should have locked
Government should have locked England down sooner, and he sought
England down sooner, and he sought to blame Rishi Sunak. The
to blame Rishi Sunak. The Chancellor’s name is all over this.
Chancellor’s name is all over this. His decision to block a circuit
His decision to block a circuit breaker, to dismiss it as a blunt
breaker, to dismiss it as a blunt instrument, and to pretend that you
instrument, and to pretend that you ran protect the
instrument, and to pretend that you can protect the economy without
can protect the economy without controlling the virus will now mean
controlling the virus will now mean that businesses have to close for
that businesses have to dose for longer.
that businesses have to close for longer. Attention now turns

Ciation: BBC News, 10:00 02/11/2020, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/1743B57AX?bcast=133149984 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)