fine and around the world.
full time school for all children in england in september — ear every child will be to we hear every child will be expected to be back in the classroom and they taught the full range of will be taught the full range of subjects with year groups grouped her into bubbles meaning that someone displays signs of the us a whole year group could have to go home.
a local lockdown to deal with a surge in coronavirus in leicester cases will see schools close today to all but children of key workers.
china demands that britain "immediately stop interfering" in the affairs of hong kong, after the denounced beijing’s new security law in the territory which led to mass protests.
: hong kong affairs are china’s foreign affairs and there is no place forforeign interference.
just a political hoax — president trump dismisses reports that russia paid the taliban to kill american troops — and says secret services didn’t even tell him about the intelligence.
could we see an extension of the countries britons can travel to?
dozens more could be exempt from the ’s quarantine rules to allow people to go on a foreign holiday.
f5 over the council on the hill a star studded list, featuring the likes of sheeran, sir paul mccartney and annie lennox call on the government to do more to protect live music venues.
hello and welcome if you’re watching in the or around the world 7 and stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here and across the globe.
i’m annita mcveigh and you can get in touch with me on twitter about the stories we are covering.
in the last few minutes the government has released its —awaited guidance for schools in england, with for all children return by september.
they have told to stagger break times, up children into bubbles and focus core subjects in some cases they turn to the classroom in september.
the government is cted to confirm safety plans ased on reducing contact rather social distancing.
schools and eges are to deliver their full rriculum ahead of exams next mer and plans also in place to prevent the spread of the virus yone in the school tests positive.
those plans will be ally set out by the education secretary later today.
but let’s go our correspondent dan nson now to our correspondent dan johnson who is at a school to discuss that rmation released in the last few minutes.
so, some more details about government envisages children in england will actually be get back to school, how aff will manage that.
take us rough that, dan.
yes, those tails just erging in last details just emerging in the last half an hour giving teachers, head ers, some idea of exactly what lassrooms will look like in tember because the ambition is to these places full of children gain.
at the moment it is only tricted year groups that are ing allowed in, some of them not time, taking different days of he week to and keep people ced out.
and the impossible ule that teachers and the government were trying to solve was get a classroom full again whilst maintaining social distancing that naturally limits the number of children you can have on a ssroom then requires more classroom which then requires more space if you are going to get every back into school.
it also child back into school.
it also requires more teachers because one has got to look after them.
message of this guidance is that distancing will be encouraged not enforced.
and particularly with younger dren, i think there is an appreciation here that it ’t realistic to expect that all he time, so we expect it to be ctively abandoned at primary chool and reduced to one metre in a ondary school like this.
we will able to get a few thoughts from a ondary and primary school head eacher who are here with me this ning.
but let me bring a morning.
but let me just bring you a bit more of the detail of this uncement.
the department for education has said that it wants ols to provide the full range of he curriculum next year.
there was gestion that to help children up and to manage the estricted staffing levels that re would be a focus on core jects, just english, maths and cience, perhaps, to make sure that ildren can catch up but the all children ran catch up but the department for education emphasises the full range of the it wants the full range of the curriculum to be taught, although it nises that in some cases it may recognises that in some rases it may need to focus with some children on core subjects because of how much learning has been lost.
there is detail about bigger bubbles.
so at the minute classrooms have been to something like ten or 15 limited to something like ten or 15 children only.
now that more dren will be in class, that children will be in class, that means that a bubble could become the a classroom, or it could be a whola year group, and in a ondary school like this that ould mean about 150 or 180 children eing part of the same bubble.
all being part of the same bubbla.
now, what that means if there is an reak case within that bubble, outbreak use within that bubbla, that’s the sort of detail that we ust getting because the epartment for education is saying if there are two cases in a that if there are two cases in a fortnight, then that means action be taken on a biggest bail might mean a whole year group ving to go and self—isolate having to go home and self-isolate -- bigot salt.
that puts pupils in in the position they are mostly at he minute, trying to learn rom home.
a lot to absorb and a lot etail but this is the thing achers had been calling out for.
et’s to mike, the boss at the secondary school, tim is here as from the primary down the well from the primaryjust down the road.
do you think this will solve ort of conundrum you have been facing and ble you to get classrooms back full again?
i think hat i’ve heard you say so far, from what i’ve heard you say so far, it sounds quite impractical.
we are about offering a broad and balanced curriculum to have ybody in.
that means students be in six lessons every day.
oes hat mean they will move within ear groups?
are they allowed to across the building?
are we to segregate them?
it is very ifficult to do science experiments are stuck in a maths room, if you are stuck in a maths room, and all those practical limitations.
en’t got stairs that would we haven’t got stairs that would rater for a one—way system.
even if down to one metre social you are down to one metre social distancing?
no.
still difficult in like the stairs?
how do we regiment things like the toilets?
we can’t identify a particular toilet for a year group or a class, and practical considerations such as time.
we have seven year oups and if every year group has an hour, that’s three and a hours of lunchtime.
some udents won’t get fed until half an before they go home.
what will it take to this and get every hild back in september?
to get son.
that even realistic?
don’t think it is realistic.
—— to ery child ack.
we have been get every child back.
we have been told, from what you have said and i’ve heard so far, if you an.
welcome if the rest of society been old one metre plus, or two metres, and whatever it might be and metre plus you have to if at one metre plus you have to have perspex screens and people wear but we are just being told, give it a and see if you can do but actually can’t, don’t it, but actually if you can’t, don’t worry about it, as long as they are part of the school or one in one part of the school or one classroom it will be all i’d like to hat kind of science has driven he decision, because i’m completely re about that.
i think it is unsure about that.
i think it is impractical to think yes we will best in terms of making sure do our best in terms of making sure the curriculum is maintained and is ad and balanced as possible and that include some kind of me learning in all likelihood.
ause it looks like it is going to practically impossible to do it he degree that the government uggesting and that parents are ing to expect from today’s nnouncement.
let’s bring in ten who he primary school down the road that feeds kids in here.
there to be an acceptance here for ounger children from the government social distancing is not as ealistic with younger kids.
do you ome that?
i welcome the removal of social distancing in primary ols if primary schools are to function normally.
i’m also pleased that we are not to hear that we are not just focusing on the maths, the english ience, and we are looking at his all—round curriculum, this stic urriculum, because if hildren are going to return, they want to experience school ormally and that whole curriculum, music, art, the , that’s the music, the art, the , that’s what they really enjoy.
and just to hat point, one thing i’m not eally hearing at the moment is this focus on children coming back and filling the gaps in the riculum.
for my part, for the hildren in my school, i want them ome back and feel happy, and at happiness may take a period of me.
only about 20% of my school are in at oment, therefore we will have to work with them, we will ensure that there is nurture programmes.
but gradually, if dren are happy, if they are ngaging with their friends again that sense of normality, we re far more likely start then ching and learning and for ldren to fill those gaps which ill be quite important in the next do you think it is realistic to get your school full again and every child back?
the government says it will enforce that policy of fining parents again if kids are not in school.
we have to accept the coronavirus is out there, but the scientists demonstrated that children in imary, or of primary age, are tistically lower.
and therefore for that reason they are encouraging all children in primary to come back in september, schools to come back in september, and i think that’s right, but there a risk and we must accept that risk.
i empathise with those lies who are concerned about this.
which draws me to the point the about the fines for parents, which i really struggle with.
can you see what will happen if there is outbreak?
the government is ing if you get two cases in a rtnight then you will have to ear whatever you have defined as a ble and send those pupils home.
“an you accept at level of dismption can you accept that level of disruption again if that is what is d?
i think so.
these different needed?
i think so.
these different scenarios, this flexibility will be reflected and i think in need to be reﬂacted and i think in school supposed to be local risk ssments.
how does that work for “- ou, mike, if a whole year group is be sent me if there is a case?
to be sent home if there is a use?
that part of the school would have closed down and cleaned.
the ther impact is if we haven’t do the ad and balanced curriculum and we to use those rooms, it may well hat for that part of the day at part of the school is being by one year group and used by other year group in another part the day so that builds in issues cross contamination at what ppens then?
is it about one - happens then?
is it just about one year group, or do we say there has a use case and we are going to been a use and we are going to dose the whole school for a day or days and pletely clean it and then bring back some and those who been tested have to wait until hey have had their test result.
you for your reaction to these etails coming on in the last half our.
lots more to consider about racticalities and tip apartment education recognises this will to be dealt with differently cording to the age of the kids and size of the school of design of school.
for instance, this art assroom, there is an ambition that will sit in rows facing the ront but these desks are not igned for that so lots of work schools to do in implement in guidance.
we have had some action from school and college ders, saying it will be mediately apparent to anyone ding this guidance that it’s ormously challenging to implement.
logistics of keeping apart many fferent bubbles of children in a school including whole year oups comprising hundreds of pupils nd—boggling.
so some cautious action this guidance.
certainly questions about whether the level of is actually there to make this work.
k, dan, thank you very much.
let’s our assistant political editor orman smith at westminster now.
to you, norman.
challenging, as dan saying, in that reaction was reading out to the department ducation for their plans to get ildren back to school in england.
head acher spoke to an earlier said we have five lunchtimes, a gistical nightmare.
and lots of ad teachers saying they simply will not parents in september think it is not safe to send eir children back.
so the overnment has a lot of work to do his still, doesn’t it?
they do.
i think reading these guidelines have reached the conclusion at there is no way schools can go ack with rrent social distancing force, so that has had to be atically reduced.
it is now much ore permissive than prescriptive, will have to encourage heads will have to encourage adequate social distancing rather than enforce it.
but the big hope, i think, is that what they have set sort of a fast—track trigger or testing and osing classes, osing potentially whole year - oups, even closing entire schools, a very low hold for and a very low threshold for triggering that.
two cases in two mean public health weeks will mean public health england will send in a mobile ing unit and they will begin esting, initially, the class, and seems wider spread than the class they will go to the year group on and leave open the option that entire schools could be shut .
now, clearly, iguess ope down.
now, dearty, i guess the hope is that that will offer some surance that coronavirus isn’t to get out of hand if it starts in schools at all.
in other s, the public health england move in very quickly.
but that a much bigger question about ether test and tracing is fast and fective, whether we can turn round quickly.
that’s a much igger question which the government to get on top of beyond has got to get on top of beyond simply how they make it operate in schools.
the other thing which i think is striking is the degree to it seems to me the government have basically passed the buck back ools, heads and local councils to sort out individual arrangements in their own localities.
50 individual schools will have to how they want to structure the chool day, do they want to gger arrival times, times, stagger arrival times, break times, lunchtimes, departure times?
though work out, do they want to have to work out, do they want to use and in what circumstances want to use , what sort of eaning regimes they put in, the gree of social distancing they t, the level of face—to—face ontact me they will deem cceptable.
50 an awful lot is acceptabla.
so an awful lot is basically passed back to the head hers.
at one level you could say is a good thing because all chools are different and will have own circumstances.
it does ose a huge amount of responsibility ads who are already having to grapple with a monumentally icult situation.
50 an awful lot difficult situation.
so an awful lot more work for individual head hers.
0k, norman, thank you very h.
china has demanded that britain "immediately stop interfering" in the affairs of hong kong, after the denounced beijing’s boris borisjohnson accused beijing of a dear and serious breach of its eaty with britain by imposing a conian national security law on territory.
while speaking at a onference in beijing, chinese ernment spokesman warned against at he called foreign interference.
: the hong kong compatriots, including those he ers are all chinese citizens.
fore hong kong’s return to china british signed to clearly the british signed to dearty promise that they would not grant dence permit to the holders.
the , in total disregard to was my position, obstinately hanged this policy and introduced a oute for residence permits and itizenship in great violation of own promise, international law international relations.
china condemns that and reserves the right to make further reactions.
consequences shall be borne all the consequences shall be borne by the side.
china reiterates hong kong public affairs are na’s internal affairs and there no place for eign is no place forforeign interference.
the chinese government determined in upholding is firmly determined in upholding national sovereignty, security and opment interests.
our china correspondent stephen mcdonnelljoins us now from beijing.
if: he was in that briefing listening to it.
the is not the only country about taking action over at’s happening in china hong kong, is getting involved, australia is getting involved.
so tell us more about what the response that briefing.
it was was in that briefing.
it was interesting because the language was but still no indication of what beijing actually plans to do in response to britain’s new policy.
wejust heard the kesperson saying these people are inese citizens and they are cusing britain of breaking its mise not to offer them residency, aying that china reserves the right hese unspecified ountermeasures and that rather nously the side will be the bearing the consequences.
urally, i asked m, when going naturally, iasked him, when i going to know what these consequences are, ill it take for you to what will it take for you to announce china’s response.
and he is not the time for us to eveal this.
you have to be patient.
knows, we ust ave to wait so who knows, we just have to wait and see what they intend to do.
but restingly, if you did write down nto this, threat was the potential response, even we are for a response, not even we are going to respond, we reserve the right to.
so really, who knows?
we did also ask about the australian rnment’s announcement that it will be offering some sort of option kong people to be able to for hong kong peopla to be able to live there and migrate to australia.
details are yet to be those details are yet to be revealed.
again he told australia to out of hong kong’s affairs.
he had some very strong uage for the secretary of ate mike pompeo, also accusing the meddling there.
he said that now that this new law is in place it would actually restrict this meddling in hong kong.
the chinese nment has long accused foreign forces, as it caused them, of erminding the whole protest ovement.
so there we are.
a lot of sion but no concrete announcement erms of what patient wasn’t ponse to britain will be yet.
rong language, and pretty robust on on the streets of hong kong well in reaction to those otests against the official troduction of that new law.
were surprised that there were those mmediate arrests?
some of those ests were for carrying a flag, or example.
i think many expected the chinese kind of expected the chinese authorities to take it easy for a and sort of ease hong kong into this new arrangement, given that the secret until it came into effect.
but it sort of comes into at 11 o’clock at night and by the next morning arrests were being nside that first 2a hours and ten peopla re arrested under this state security law.
yes, it is things like carrying a flag, not even waving it ome cases, someone had a flag in their bag ocating dependence and somebody lse had a sort of handmade placard, kong independence" written on "hong kong independence" written on it.
that’s enough to have you sted under the new state security law.
worryingly it also ntially means serious jail time or these types of challenges, as are seen.
even just an individual person on streets, the sters there don’t even know if hey ran sing hat protest and the more if it is going to be nterpreted in this way.
every time ain chanting went up yesterday those protests happened, the olice would hold up their new ner warning "you are potentially reach of the state security laws w.
" more than 300 arrests were yesterday, i should add, but at was more for your standard egal gathering type crimes.
much ore serious these crimes of ssion, sedition, which are ssociated with the new law which een passed.
thank you, stephen cdonell, our china correspondent in ing.
america’s top infectious disease expert has warned that the risks an even greater coronavirus outbreak unless it can bring the latest surge in cases under control.
doctor anthony fauci said the current spike — of more than 52,000 new cases in the past 2a hours — was caused by people in some states failing to follow basic rules as the economy re—opened.
when you look at what happened in some of the states, all you have to do is take a look at the news at night and you see people congregating at bars without masks, congregating in different types of groups that are well beyond the recommended number of people.
what happens when you do that and you don’t wear a mask?
you get the kind of outbreaks we are seeing.
secret services about reports that russia paid afghanistan’s taliban militants to kill american soldiers.
in an interview with fox business network, trump said that many of the intelligence people didn’t think it was something that even happened.
and he claimed that the whole story was a hoax put forward by his democratic rivals.
the ’s north america correspondent, david willis has more.
the white house continues to insist that that piece of intelligence termination was unverified then and is unverified his is about a bounty being now.
this is about a bounty being placed on soldiers by russia.
and d, the president himself has the point that this is all a x.
but didn’t he know if it contained in the written efing?
not the oral briefing that ven to him by a member of the .
but the sort of written iefing, intelligence briefing, has been presented to the that has been presented to the president of the united states ever since the days of harry tmman.
it doesn’t look particularly good way.
id he know about either way.
did he not know about this, or did he know about it and re it?
and as you can imagine, he resumptive democratic residential rival biden has been having a eld day with all is.
he accused president trump of iction of duty and made the dereliction of duty and made the point that when he was vice sident both he and barack obama ad the written classified briefing cover to cover.
kayleigh from cover to cover.
rayleigh mcenany, the white house press eswoman, was asked if options ere being prepared for the esident regarding retaliation, if this piece of intelligence formation proved true, and she she didn’t want to get ahead of formation that she insisted was ill unverified.
nonetheless, the speaker nancy pelosi, who is course a democrat, is already ing for sanctions on russia ecause of all this.
avid willis there.
a new york court has lifted the temporary restraining order against the publication of a book by president trump niece, according to the washington post, new york times and associated press.
the book is due for publication on the 20th of july but a restraining on seems to be still in order on her seems to be still in place on her, opening up the ibility she could be sued if it oes ahead.
according to the new times, mary trump is still york times, mary is still bound by an agreement she signed in fter an argument about family 2001 after an argument about family inheritance.
< government sources have indicated that dozens of countries will be from its travel quarantine rom monday.
currently most people riving into the anywhere arriving into the from anywhere apart from the republic of ireland self—isolate for two weeks.
last eekend the government said it relax its advice on travel abroad and would rate countries as green, amber or red depending the prevalence of the virus.
ports from nmar say at least 100 peopla have been killed in a dslide at a jade mine.
deadly dslides and other accidents are mmon in the poorly regulated mines hich ist in parts of the country.
his latest incident happened in the when workers who were ollecting stones in the jade rich a of the state were trapped under fuse, according to the ire service department.
a rescue ration, we are told, is ngoing.
russian election officials say that with more than 90% of ballots ted voters have overwhelmingly pproved constitutional changes are expected to cement president putin’s hold on power 6 more years.
package of reforms were put to people in a -long eferendum, as sarah rainsford reports from moscow.
in russia, everything and nothing has just changed.
that amir putin one what he often promised he’d never do, and rewritten the titution to extend his stay in ower.
he could now run for resident more and point to the resounding win at this ballot roved he has the people’s has proved he has the people’s support for that.
his critics med the process as project putin or ever and a sham vote.
: voting is a fake but become an open statement about hat is happening in the country.
dimir putin, together with a roup of his corrupt friends and lleagues egally seized power colleagues illegally seized power and wants to be the ruler of russia life.
for life.
the key reform on his presidential was buried amidst a giant terms was buried amidst a giant package of constitutional dments.
there was everything rom patriotic puff to social fare promises, even animal ghts.
campaigning against the nges was banned.
so, whilst unger voters at polling stations us they were fed up of the same in the kremlin, this result was really in doubt.
sarah never really in doubt.
sarah rainsford, news, moscow.
some of ggest names in pop including sir paul mccartney, sheeran and nie nox have signed an open etter urging the government to protect live music venues from effects of coronavirus.
they an extension to the furlough heme for those working in the dustry and the removal of for when shows eventually tickets when shows eventually restart.
here is our entertainment correspondent colin paterson.
sheeran and coldplay, both british hat can fill stadiums around the and today they are trying help those who work at some of ’s smallest venues.
they are ongst the 1500 acts who have ned the letter calling for the overnment to give the live music tor financial support.
arguing the lack of shows this summer has left tens of thousands of at risk.
jools lland has been gging ince the 19705.
it filters own through every level because the ler the venue the harder it is oing to be for them.
the smaller band, in their stature, the rder it is going to be for them.
as a knock—on effect to erybody.
everybody.
kaiser chiefs was supposed to be ing this summer.
they think it uld be a devastating year for ose who work behind the scenes.
u’ve got people doing jobs that hey do for e, for the love of usic and of community in their munity.
and if those people a disappear because they have to cause they can’t afford to hang und, then you lose those people are hard to replace, impossible to replace.
for three des, and banks has put on concerts for the likes of kylie gue and katy perry.
she is worried that many of the ’s grass music venues will simply never eopen.
it’s so, so disturbing.
once isn’t paid on that venue any more, who is to say that it n’t get bought up and knocked down and becomes another block of , or an out—of—town shopping centre, or atever it is?
it is so rd.
the government say are already viding unprecedented financial istance to organisations and tists such as loans and job ention scheme, and they are ooking at additional support the ustry.
as for how much this industry.
as for just how much this issue has brought the british music together, the open letter has een signed by both liam and noel lagher, the first time for years ing brothers have been willing sign the same thing.
colin erson, news.
hello, this is news with annita mcveigh.
the headlines: full class sizes and year group bubbles — the government’s just released guidance on how all pupils in england will return in september.
a local lockdown to deal with a surge in coronavirus in leicester.
cases will see schools close today to all but children of key workers.
china demands that britain "immediately stop interfering" in the affairs of hong kong, after the denounced beijing’s new security law in the territory which led to mass protests.
just a political hoax president trump dismisses reports that russia paid the taliban to kill american troops and says secret services didn’t even tell him about the intelligence.
could we see an extension of the countries brits can travel to?
dozens more could be exempt from the ’s quarantine rules, to allow people to go on a foreign holiday.
a star studded list, featuring the likes of sheeran, sir paul mccartney and annie lennox, call on the government to do more to protect live music venues.
guidelines on how more than eight million pupils in england will be able to return to full—time education in september have been released this morning.
they include plans to group children into bubbles and to stagger start times.
john maguire visited one school in weston—super—mare to see how teachers and parents there are preparing for the new term.
when these children return, the number will swell from a0 to 900.
clearly, the social distancing rules in place now will need to change.
but change has been a constant, of late, and staff are confident they can cope with more.
our strategy is that we are hoping for and anticipating and looking forward to having all of our children back with us, in front of us, in september.
we are ready and geared up for the children to come back in.
we know that we can manage and we know that we can navigate a way through because we have just done it.
and where parents can decide whether or not to send children to school now, in the autumn, attendance will once again become compulsory.
so, anxious families will need to be persuaded.
we have been making well over 600 phone calls each week to ourfamilies, to touch base and check that they are .
and those relationships have now become strong and that is a positive from this experience.
we will be leaning on those relationships to support them and their children.
so, what do parents think?
on the health side of things, as long as there is guidance for the classes to be safe i would be happy to send them back.
my daughter is already back two hours a week at secondary school and is finding that fine.
obviously, they are all spaced apart.
for children of different abilities and some are getting on with their work and some are not.
my concern is doing back in september that everyone will be at a different level and if they are considering putting people into a bubble, as i have heard, i don’t know how that will affect how everyone works.
curriculum, creative curriculum and it notjust be monday to friday of core, which i know is valuable but the student’s opinion matters and i would like the day, is it going to be full—time, monday to friday, will they be staggering start and finish times?
just getting a benchmark of where the kids are at, knowing that they have sufficient time to put the content in for the gcses between now and may would be good, providing exams are not going to be pushed back.
that would be the biggest things, just to see the kids are still on track.
the usual september concerns about school uniform, kit or new subjects will take a back—seat.
the priorities will be safety, reassurance and hopefully a guarantee that pupils will be able to catch up.
the back—to—school check list will be like never before.
earlier, i spoke to kevin courtney, joint general secretary of the national education union, leah, a parent of four children who is concerned about the safety of pupils returning and jane girt 7 who is the head of carlton bolling academy in bradford.
she told me how her school is attempting to prepare for september.
i think it’s been very, very difficult.
what we’ve done is we’ve for eptember, assuming all planned for september, assuming all the children would be back without distancing, because it’s the only way we could start with a plan.
e’ve done that, we can tweak once we’ve done that, we ran tweak it when we get he details today.
i think what is frustrating for us is have a fortnight left of we only have a fortnight left of school this term and the changes we ing to have to make will have to be quite noticeable to what we ally do in september.
so we are fortunate, we are a that fortunate, we are a school that doesn’t have buses, we are a unity school so our pupils all live in the locality.
in terms of children, 120 staff, 84 1500 children, 120 staff, 84 teaching spaces, we have planned for a normal curriculum.
the hought of trying to change that so ren can stay in their bubbles, children ran stay in their bubbles, our bubble is a 250, 300 in the year p- we will be able to do it but the more time we have, the better.
ith the experience that children have would be very erent to what they normally would have in september.
three lunch to get through 1500 children.
times to get through 1500 children.
it looks with a new system we will five lunch times, unless we say will only give school lunches to certain free school meals.
all hese decisions are up in the air at moment and as soon as we get me clear advice from the overnment, the easier it will be head teachers like myself to tart to put in place all the stems and processes that will have there.
the logistics of five chool school lunches, that i alone i imagine is a bit of a logistical tmare.
i will come back to you a second.
kevin courtney on the ional education union, how much idence does need to be at this tage and how much more detail do eed or warrant quickly from the overnment, backed up by things like and trace and so on, of course, be able to confidently back ldren going back to school in ptember in england?
i think you to start with huge sympathy for and every head teacher in jane and every other head teacher in this country because that head hers tell me that to plan a etable in a big secondary school, that ran seven solid weeks.
with the fantastic computer grammes you have to aid that at moment.
so the idea with ust two the moment.
50 the idea withjust two weeks to go, you can work out of nning that do all of the planning that will do all of the staggered starts, staggered breaks times, there is a real practical difficulty to that.
i think what you asked is what back—up eed?
we need these plans to do we need?
we need these plans to be out and in public and then we need scientists.
public ealth england and sage to say they confirm that these are safe.
we would want children to be back in ember and with a fair wind, may be across than eight weeks between september the virus level rops even more people feel safer.
re is obviously risk that unless are in bradford, where the rus level is higher than average, at that might not be the case but need we need scientists to confirm.
we need sage, they looked at the tion of schools are reopening in apers that were released in e.
they were orried about transmission orks within schools and the idea hat we have these big bubbles with ocial distancing, so classes of or 30 plus sometimes, and then xing those classes.
the question if the virus is circulating, how you ran irculate in that sort of big bubble is issue that we need sage to say they have oked at this, not the words on the per of a government plan but how actual reality will be that they that will be safe in terms of ransmission networks.
the second is we need safety for some ndividuals to be confirmed.
so we that children, by and large, huge majority, do not suffer is disease badly.
but adults can oster rents and staff who are orking.
if you are in a class of 30 ldren effectively with no social istancing and with no , quite classrooms have poor entilation, for their scientists to s, it’s absolutely safe to be or relatively safe to be in that is thing that the government needs give us.
sorry to know that ldren, by and large, the huge jority, do not suffer this disease ly.
but adults can foster parents aff who are working.
if you re in a class of 30 children fectively with no social stancing and with no , quite classrooms have poor entilation, for their scientists to s, it’s absolutely safe to be or relatively safe to be in that is thing that the government needs give us.
sorry to go at the hool and anyone else they might me into contact with.
let me bring leah and her son ob.
are you xcited to on this morning?
h!
jacob is .
50 due to start yeah!
jacob is 11.
so due to start secondary school in september, b?
yes.
you have four jacob?
yes.
so you have four children, you could have sent two of ack to school, leah, already but you decided not to, is that?
or safety easons, really.
obviously, we said, jacob would gone ack to school and my have gone back to school and my other son in year one but i didn’t ?
the school has done a feel 7 the school has done a fantastic job, providing 7 they have a antastic providing them done a fantastic job providing them with work.
they have had ample unts things to do and ijust elt that with the bubbles that they dn’t make the children say.
or, equally, the adults.
i do feel that with the going back in september, i just don’t feel that safety is taken rd.
lots of head teachers have been saying today they simply dn’t be fining parents if they ecided not to send their children but if push came to shove, back but if push fame to shove, would you pay a fine rather than your children back if you dn’t feel it was confident for them to do that safely?
100%.
my husband is black and i would never ive myself if something happened, if the children brought hing back to the home.
it’s ike a miniature operation when we the house.
i only go to the permarket but i wear gloves, 3 ask, i disinfect everything that back into the house, just ecause i literally would never give myself if something happened to my family.
of course.
jacob, i guess you are really excited and you can start secondary hoping you ran start secondary school in september?
yes, because new school.
i’ve been at it’s a new school.
i’ve been at primary school for a long time so to a new school would be fun, activities, teachers and nds.
my thanks to all those uests involved in the discussion und returning to schools in ptember in england.
there have now been almost 2.
7 million confirmed cases of coronavirus in the united states.
it is by far the worst affected country in the world and many are questioning how and why.
speaking exclusively to the ’s today programme, doctor anthony fauci, the united state’s top infectious disease expert, and director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases, explained that the number of cases in the has not been reduced to baseline because of the way lockdown was approached.
m: we got hit very badly, worse than any country, with regard to the of cases and the number of ases and the number of deaths.
roblem we are facing now is that an intent to so—called or reopen government and open or reopen the government and give -- get it back to some form of ality, we are eing disturbing pikes in different individual tes in the united states, articularly most recently florida, zona, xas and california, some which are really big states with opulace.
so what we have seen ver the last several days is a in cases that are well beyond spikes that we’ve seen.
hat is not good news.
we have to that under control or we risk an greater outbreak in the united tates.
when you look at the fact we ever got things down to eline, where so many countries in urope and the and the other tries did, they close down to the tune of about 9796 lockdown.
in the nited states, even in the most ict lockdown, only about 50% of he country down.
that the country locked down.
that allowed the perpetuation of the reak that we never did get under good control.
doctor anthony fauci.
northern ireland deputy first minister said criticism of her ndance at a former member ere unfair.
the understands 120 mourners attended the neral.
earlier, the first minister lene ster called for her to ariana foster rallad for her to apologise.
but she said her actions line with social distancing.
an update coming into us from german investigating the police investigating the disappearance of madeleine mccann in tugal.
they last night that portugal.
they said last night that they had received more than 800 tips he public in the month from the public in the month following a televised appeal for rmation.
prosecutors believe, will be aware from a few weeks go when they announced these new ails about the case, believe the oddler killed by a convicted erman paedophile.
our berlin respondent reports detectives pealed again last night to the b“: lic to help them identify a rtuguese number, which they say he led from his mobile phone in the ening that deleine disappeared.
re than 800 tips from the public the month following that levised appeal for information by man olice.
new zealand’s health minister, david clark, has resigned after criticism over recent slip ups in the government’s largely successful response to the coronavirus.
clark had already been demoted after breaking rules to take his family to the beach.
new zealand’s prime minister, jacinda ardern, said it was right for clerk to resign.
anything that acts as a distraction or anything that takes away from our effort and energy from our response to covid—19, we just as a can’t ford.
that was a country can’t afford.
that was a very frank conversation the minister penly had last week.
he then ame to the very firm view that his oing role in is portfolio is ongoing rola in this portfolio is going to get in the way of that onse.
now hundreds of elephants have died mysteriously in botswana.
the cluster of deaths was first reported in early may this year, in the north of botswana, around the okavango delta.
by mid—june, the number had more than doubled.
let’s get more on this from niall mccann, director of conservation at the charity national park rescue which advances animal welfare by preventing poaching in national parks in africa.
thank you for joining us.
first of all, how many elephants have died so the moment we know it is a far?
at the moment we know it is a minimum of 360, there or reabouts, and we expect it to be of 400 because spotting upwards of 400 because spotting elaphant carcasses from the air is redibly difficult.
when the rvey as conducted, multiple live unwell elephants were also seen.
absolutely tragic to hear of he deaths of so many of these derful animals.
you have any wonderful animals.
do you have any idea what is causing this?
at the we really don’t and that’s he problem.
we don’t know whether a pathogen or a toxin, 3 a poison.
we don’t know if it could over into the human population only confined to elephants and need to find this out.
what are doing to establish the fuse cause and hopefully stop more hants in the population being ffected by it?
really, we are loring the botswana government to low a team of independent experts come into the country, and then roughly sample the area.
they to sample multiple carcasses, d, liver, spleen, they need soil samples and water samples.
they need a reputable laboratory so to go to a reputabla laboratory so they ran be tested and we can find what his is.
what is the out what this is.
what is the government response in botswana so those appeals?
up until now, hey have not responded to most ers of help when you know they now just a sample a lab have nowjust sent a sampla to a lab but we don’t know the provenance of ample in the storage and there that sample in the storage and there is also issues with chain of ody.
what we need is a team to come in, to ample thoroughly and go do the themselves.
the eluctance to allow experts to her the data?
my suspicion is at it is two fold.
there is an der standard reticence of anyone their neighbours if they n’t have the capacity, especially time when they are stretched covid—19.
secondly, the current swana dministration has gone to reat to and emphasise ural populations in the country hat they n’t put the lives of ephants before the lives of ple, which was a common cusation for the previous dministration foster my guess is don’t want to be seen to be ying to respond to what they think onservation problem when they re already dealing with covid—19.
i want to and emphasise to the government is this isn’t a conservation issue, it has the ntial to be a public health isis and because ecotourism is so in botswana, it has the tential to be an economic crisis well.
weitz migrates very eresting, as we look at transmission of diseases from als to humans to hear you bring that thought.
in terms of the -being of ese elephants and well-being of these elephants and the wider population, how nificant is the loss of the sort numbers you are talking about, 400 so far?
incredibly nificant.
400 elephants is 1000th he remainder of savanna lephants.
botswana has one third of lephants left in africa, about 150,000.
this area of botswana has 15,000.
50 if this does not about 15,000.
so if this does not contain, there is the prospect of potentially one tenth of the argest population of elephants left rth.
and have you seen anything pproaching this before, in terms of oss of such a huge number of the loss of such a huge number of animals?
can you still hear me?
you back never seen anything are back now.
never seen anything this before?
no, this is totally ecedented.
in times of drought you expect a significant number of ants dying.
but outside of the drought season, like this, it is unprecedented.
i wish you ood luck with your efforts to get to the bottom of this and ope that you can save more of these imals the same fate as the animals from the same fate as the several hundred that have already niall mccann, director of onservation at national park cue, thank you very much.
thanks having me.
the number of fires the mazon rainforest has hit a year high for the month of une according to government data.
eforestation levels are also higher ear compared to last.
this year compared to last.
conservationists are gravely erned about the future of the ecosystem there.
as our respondent reports.
slow and destructive burn.
the azon inforest is riddled with fires.
an ecological disaster psed by the coronavirus pandemic.
brazil has now recorded han 60,000 deaths linked to vid-19 nd, at the same time, is tnessing despread loss of one of he world’s most important osystems.
: eforestation in 2020 is going to be than it was in 2019.
larger than it was in 2019.
according to data from brazil’s rnment funded space agency, there were 22a8 fires in the amazon june.
that 20% rise this june.
that is a 2096 rise compared to he same time last year.
or the first five months of 020, deforestation is up 34%.
: the clearing of land lready it represents a serious problem.
if we had land health problem.
if we had land clearing and covid—19 together, this bring atastrophic could bring catastrophic consequences for the residents of gion.
the season will soon be upon the amazon.
fires will ease, the smoke will get worse.
heightens the threat to some of zil’s poorest communities, whose velihoods rely on the health of rainforest.
thousands of indian and bengali restaurants in the could be lost due to the covid pandemic, industry groups warn, as the lockdown put owners under intense financial strain.
many family owned restaurants say they will struggle to reopen.
the 5 asia editor rebecca reports.
this is the first time abdul has been back to his family run restaurant since the lockdown began three months ago.
my stomach churned, you know?
when i see it shuttered down.
this supported so many people.
this was part of the community.
but it’s mind blowing, when you come and sit down and think about it, how quickly the world has changed.
you would have struggled to get a table here on the weekend, despite there being over 30 curry restaurants in just this one street.
but when the lockdown was put in place, they were not ready to move to take away, so their doors have been shut and many say they will struggle to reopen.
i mean, for the last three months, brick lane has been like a ghost town.
you will see the majority of the restaurants will not even bother opening at all, maybe, and have to give up, which is very sad.
i mean, as we know, brick lane is famous for its curry and to see some of the curry houses go, it’s going to be like a kick in the stomach, to be honest.
the british bengali community opened restaurants here in the 19805 use rent was low but the area has been rapidly gentrified.
over ars, their rent rate has the years, their rent rate has quadmpled around here.
people are gling.
quadrupled around here.
people are struggling.
some of the businesses huge debts and this was the ail on the coffin, i think.
tside of london, others are trying tay aﬂoat float by switching to to stay afloat by switching to takeaway.
hen you have no oice to keep the staurant open, all the guys ome you have to sell the takeaway.
ran survive but 30% of our so we ran survive but 3096 of our industry will isappear from the street.
he is calling on the vernment to reduce the consumption is far now relying on loyal customers coming to pick up their y.
prawn curry, chicken tikka asala ?
i’m very keen to make sure he end of this crisis we are going through that the places i love ing are still here.
it’s very mportant for me to support it.
the thing i have to say every time make sure they put the mango ney with my papa dons!
the south asian community in the has been cted severely by the impacted severely by the coronavirus.
now there are fears it lso suffer disproportionate economic damage.
finally, the benefits of a traditional mud bath are known to and the ancient spa treatment eems to have worked a treat on this rhino.
this young male was potted having a splash in one of nesia’s national parks.
having a erful time by the looks of it!
are watching news.
martine croxall will be with you ext but first, the weather with taylor.
llo, like for some of you today, some sunshine over the few days but he will all have prepare for some wetter weather.
me of the rain across parts of rth—west england, west and wales be rticularly heavy and elentless through friday and saturday.
us are set to see saturday.
all of us are set to see the wind picking up again.
today, not too strong but we have seen some heavy rain in northern england.
pushing its way southwards.
that will allow things to brighten t, many places in the north up a bit, many places in the north this afternoon but midlands, anglia, south—east england, avy and hundery dampers could evelop.
quite a bit of rain in a space of time that either side of it, more sunshine through the rnoon.
county down, the rampians and shetland also seeing wet weather with the shetlands ing windier later.
across parts cotland and eastern england it remain cool today, especially pennines are near the coast.
the sunnier moments between the pours, bringing highs of 21.
howers and thunderstorms decaying through the night.
most laces becoming for a time and persistent rain arrives of the ntic into northern ireland in estern scotland to take us into orrow morning.
with the wind south esterly, all of us going south westerty, all of us having a mild night, 10—14 by and e.
it will be start and a large.
it will be a wet start and a wet day for many in western tland.
rain across scotland cept shetland and orkney.
some casional rain in northern ireland he rain in cumbria, north but the rain in cumbria, north lincolnshire, parts of wales will ome re persistent through the become more persistent through the day as the winds pick up.
staying ely with some breaks in the oud and that some sunshine towards anglia and the south—east.
perature 1, but feeling cool temperature is 21, but feeling cool with wind and rain further north.
ain remains coming and going roughout is going into the eekend.
weather trailing one after the her and we will see some rong winds as well.
saturday, the ngest of the winds across england and wales.
lots of cloud und.
in to begin with the around.
rain to begin with the northern ireland and parts of land and cumbria and west wales.
hat will elop further, pushing northwards through saturday, wing something brighter to evelop in the south and east of the where temperatures could quite widely into the low 205.
enough in the sunshine, tempered a bit by the breeze but the icks up further on sunday, wind picks up further on sunday, galas and places.
also some rain in rning and some sunny the morning and some sunny conditions into the afternoon.
and around the world.
full class sizes and year group bubbles.
the government has just sed guidance on how all pupils released guidance on how all pupils in england will return in september.
demands that britain china demands that britain immediately stop interfering in the affairs of hong kong, after the denounced beijing’s new security law territory, which led to mass protests.
in an hong kong affairs are china’s internal affairs ere is no place for eign and there is no place forforeign interference.
reports that russia paid the taliban to and it says the secret ices didn’t even tell him about the intelligence.
could we see an extension of the countries brits travel to?
dozens more could could travel to?
dozens more could be exempt from the ’s quarantine to allow people to go on a mlos to allow peoplo to go on a foreign holiday.
mystery of the of 300 elephants in botswana.
cientists described the incident mpletely unprecedented.
has completely unprecedented.
star—studded list featuring the paul mccartney and annie likes of paul mtﬂrtney and annie lennox called on the government ore to protect live music to do more to protect live music venues.
stay there with us for the latest news and analysis here and across lobe.
the government has announced that schools in england will return full—time, and at full capacity, in september.
the plans are based on keeping whole year groups separate, rather than limiting the number of pupils within classes.
the so—called ‘bubbles’ will keep full year groups apart as much as possible during the school day, with different break and lunchtimes.
the government will encourage social distancing where possible.
and to further reduce contact, staggered start and end times will be maintained.
plans will be put in place to prevent the spread of virus, including deploying a mobile testing unit to a school if an outbreak is confirmed.
schools and colleges will deliver their full curriculum ahead of exams next summer, and parents could be fined if their children do not attend school.
our correspondent, dan johnson, is at a secondary hool in callie.
he spoke to the head as well of spoke to the head teacher as well of a nearby primary school to get their ion to the announcement.
he had teacher at saint wilfrid said he had of concerns.
it sounds a number of concerns.
it sounds quite practical.
we are talking a coronavirus curriculum to have everybody end.
that means ents will be in every day.
does hat mean they will be able to move oss the year groups or around the uilding?
are we going to segregate ?
it is very difficult to do ience experiment if you are stuck a matter and all those practical mitations.
we haven’t got stares provide for a one—way system.
if you are to one metre ocial distancing?
no.
we haven’t toilets, so how can we regiment hat, we can’t ntify a particular toilet block for a class.
and there is lunch time.
we have seven year groups, if every gay up has half an hour, that is ree and a half hours of lunchtime will have to some students won’t get sad until they go what you need them?
what will take to olve this and get every back?
is that even realistic?
don’t think it is realistic.
what talking bout is if you have got social distancing, we are being rom what you have said and told from what you have said and what i have heard so far, it is you ran.
the rest of society is eing told one etre plus, and if at at distance you have to have stic screens and devises, but we just been told oh, it a it a try, see if you can do it, but tually if you t, don’t worry actually if you can’t, don’t worry about it.
as long as they are in one s, it will be all right.
exactly what kind of science has given that ion, i am completely unsure, decision, i am completely unsure, but it is impractical to think that will do our best in terms of yes, we will do our best in terms of making sure the curriculum is tained and is broadly balanced possibla that will include ome kind of home learning in all elihood because it looks like it ould be —— it is going to be ractically possible to do it to he degree that the government has sted and parents are going to expect from today’s announcement.
’s bring in , who runs a let’s bring in ten, who runs a primary school down the road.
ger children, there seems to be acceptance on the government here social distancing is not as alistic with those younger kids.
we welcome that?
yes, absolutely i welcome the removal of social ancing in primary schools if rimary schools are to function mally.
i am also pleased to hear we are not focusing the mass, on the glish and science, are looking at this all—round, listic urriculum because if ildren are going to return, they want to experience normally and whole curriculum, the music, and is what they really njoy.
but to take that point, one i am not really hearing at the ment there is this real ocus on children ing back and filling ’p5 aps in the curriculum.
for the dren in my school, i want them come back and feel happy and that ness may take a period of time.
about 20% of my school are in the ent and so we are going to ave to work with them and make sure re are nature programmes, but adually if children are happy, if are engaging with their friends in and they feel that sense of ormality, they are far more likely then learning and for to start then learning and for children to fill those gaps is going to be quite important the next year.
do you think it is listic to get your school full gain and have every child back?
ernment is saying it will enforce hat with a policy of fining parents are not at school.
what we have to accept that coronavirus still out there, but the entists have demonstrated that hildren in primary age are atistically lower and therefore it or that reason that they are couraging all children in primary ols to come back in september and i think that is right.
but there a risk and we have to is still a risk and we have to accept that risk and i really do and hise with those families who are concerned about this, which me to the point about the draws me to the point about the fines for parents, which i really ggle with.
can you foresee what struggle with.
“an you foresee what will happen if here is an outbreak?
overnment is saying if you get cases within a fortnight, you have to clear whatever you will have to clear whatever you define as a bubble and send those home.
can you accept that people home.
“an you accept that level of isruption again if that is at is eded?
i think so, and what is needed?
i think so, and these different scenarios, this bility, ill need to be looked at with local risk assessments.
how that for you, if a whole does that work for you, if a whola year group has to be sent home if is a case?
that part of the there is a use?
that part of the school will have to be closed down, have to be cleaned and the would have to be cleaned and the other impact is if during the course ing to do this broad and of having to do this broad and balanced curriculum we need to use rooms, it might well be for of the day that school is being by a new group, and by another group in ther part of the day, so that builds on issues of contamination and what happens en?
is it ust about a year group do we say has been a case, or do we say there has been a use, we are going to close the whole ool or two days and completely lean it and that made everybody and test it until we had a ositive result.
some initial ctions to those guidelines for schools in england.
with us now as our assistant political editor, an smith.
quite a few teachers to be straight scratching their as to how they will make this rk.
an awful lot of this has been left to head teachers to make re it will work, so they will have enforce the social distancing les that they regard as ppropriate and will have to to construct bubblas within their - , so they will have to think out staggeringly start to the hool day or staggering break mes, lunchtimes and that sort of ing and they will have to think what sort of face—to—face ontact achers and pupils can ve.
they will have to think about anliness in school, hand washing.
awful lot that has been frankly to teachers to sort out.
the big thoughts that come through this are the government had learly concluded that they cannot open hools with the existing social distancing regime.
that is ing to be possible, so they have gone for these mega bubbles of roups.
the other thing i think is interesting, and i think this be from the government’s point view, designed to reassure ols and parents, is they do seem be offering or hoping to offer a y, very quick testing and if essary closing of classes all groups or even whole schools.
hey are ying that if ust to so they are saying that ifjust to pupils in an entire school in a night test positive, then public alth england will be able to send eir mobile testing laboratory and test all the other children and teachers, those individuals who came ontact with and then tested he class and the year group and if ssary the whole school, and they ill close down accordingly.
that ikes me as quite a low threshold, clearly i think what they want to say is, look, ere is the to say is, look, if there is the slightest hint of an outbreak we be on it.
that, of course, depends on having a really, quote, beating test entry system up and mnning world beating test entry system up and running and that is, as we have throughout whole covid—19 seen throughout this whola covid-19 crisis, absolutely critical.
you be able to test very, very have to be able to test very, very quickly and get the results back in 48 hours and that is a within 48 hours and that is a broader problem than just schools.
ty, if you can’t do that or clearty, if you can’t do that or there are doubts about that, then it to me that even with all the additional resources and helping to schools, parents are offered to schools, parents are probably going to be uneasy about ing their children back unless sending their children hack unless they are sure that really is a d—class test scheme available.
orman, ank you very much from estminster there.
an 18—year—old man has been charged with murdering two sisters in a park in london.
danyal hussein will appear at westminster magistrates’ court later today the bodies of nicole smallman and bibaa henry were found in fryent gardens in wembley after a birthday party last month.
china has said it will retaliate, if the goes ahead with its offer to give three million hong kong residents the right to settle here.
borisjohnson has accused beijing of a "clear and serious breach" of its treaty with britain by imposing a draconian national security law on the territory.
speaking at a news conference in beijing, 3 chinese government spokesman, zhao lijian, warned against what he called ‘foreign interference’.
holders, are all chinese citizens.
before hong kong’s return to china the british signed to clearly promise that they would not grant residence permits to the holders.
now the , in total disregard over china’s position, obstinately changed this policy and introduced a new route for residence permits and citizenship in great violation of its own promise, the international law and basic norms governing international relations.
china strongly condemns that and reserves the right to make further reactions.
all the consequences shall be borne by the side.
china reiterates that hong kong affairs are china’s internal affairs and there is no place forforeign interference.
the chinese government is firmly determined in upholding national sovereignty, security and development interests.
our correspondent is following developments in beijing.
the uage was tough, but still no dication of what beijing actually to do in response to britain’s new piano policy.
with that official there hat these people are saying there that these people are all chinese citizens.
they are sing britain of breaking its romises not to offer them sidency, saying that china has the right to these unspecified countermeasures and that ominously the side will be one bearing the consequences.
turally, i asked , when re we naturally, iasked him, when are we going to know what these sequences are?
what would it take or you to nounce china’s response?
and he said, now is not a for us to reveal this, you have be patient.
50 who knows?
we will ust have to wait what they just have to wait and see what they intend to do, but interestingly the was today, i mean, if you did down into this, the potential response, even hat we are for a response, not even that we are going to respond, we reserve the to.
i mean really, who knows?
also asked about the australian ernment’s announcement that it ould be offering some sort of ion for hong kong people to be to ave there and migrate to stralia.
those details are yet to vealed, but again he toured stralia also to but out of hong g’s assets.
he had some very ong language for the secretary tate, mike pompeo, also accusing he of meddling there.
he said now this new law was in place it would actually restrict this meddling in hong kong because the ese government has long accused oreign forces, as it calls them, of masterminding the whole protest ement.
so there we are, a of tension, but no concrete ouncement in terms of what beijing’s response for britain is to be yet.
stephen mcdonell in eijing.
government sources in britain have indicated that as many as 75 countries will be exempted from quarantine rules from next week, so people returning to the country don’t have to self—isolate.
the government plans to establish a traffic light system to rate which countries are the safest, with some places, such as the united states, likely to be categorised as red and subject to the quarantine rules.
the scottish government has expressed concern about plans to relax the quarantine.
the headlines on news full class sizes and year group bubbles — the government’s just released guidance on how all pupils in england will return in september.
china demands that britain "immediately stop interfering" in the affairs of hong kong, after the denounced beijing’s new security law in the territory which led to mass protests.
just a political hoax — president trump dismisses reports that russia paid the taliban to kill american troops — and says secret services didn’t even tell him about the intelligence.
the number of new coronavirus infections in the united states has a record high, causing some tates to oll back their strictions.
more than 50,000 pla tested positive in the on ednesday.
that brings the total ber of confirmed infections to ver 2.
6 million and over 128,000 hs, the highest number of deaths, the highest number of fatalities globally.
a research team hopkins university has said the two eath toll could be 28% igher.
the indoor restaurant have been closed again there.
north ina, tennessee, georgia and texas have all reached new highs and iana’s infection rates are still continuing to go up.
now the’s fectious disease expert has warned that the whisks an even ter oronavirus outbreak, unless ran bring the atest surge in ses ases under control.
doctor anthony i said that the current rise was caused by some states failing to basic rules, as the economy reopened.
when you look at what happened in some of the states, all you have to do is take a look at the news at night and you see people congregating at bars without masks, congregating in different types of groups that are well beyond the recommended number of people.
what happens when you do that and you don’t wear a mask?
you get the kind of outbreaks we are seeing.
doctor anthony fauci there.
president trump has insisted that he was never told by the security services about reports that a paid at dennistoun’s taliban militants to kill ican soldiers.
in an interview with fox business ork, mrtrump id some network, said some intelligence officials didn’t eve the claim and said the story as a hoax put forward by his mocratic rivals.
our north erican correspondence or sports.
white house continues to insist at that ece of intelligent nformation was unverified than and erified now.
this is about a bounty being placed on soldiers sia.
indeed, the president imself has made the point that this is all a hoax, but didn’t he know if it was contained in the ten briefing?
not the oral briefing that is given to him by a member of the .
but the sort of written briefing, intelligence briefing, that has been presented to the president of the united states ever since the days of harry truman.
it doesn’t look particularly good either way.
did he not know about this, or did he know about it and ignore it?
and as you can imagine, the presumptive democratic presidential rivaljoe biden has been having afield day with all this.
he accused president trump of dereliction of duty and made the point that when he was vice president both he and barack obama read the written classified briefing from cover to cover.
kayleigh mcenany, the white house press spokeswoman, was asked if options were being prepared for the president regarding retaliation, if indeed this piece of intelligence information proved true, and she said she didn’t want to get ahead of information that she insisted was still unverified.
nonetheless, the house speaker nancy pelosi, who is of course a democrat, is already calling for sanctions on russia because of all this.
final results in russia’s week—long referendum showed that nearly 78% of ters constitutional changes voters backed constitutional changes that could keep vladimir putin in longer than any soviet—era leader.
espite having once pledged to change the constitution to ay in office, president putin now serve until 2036.
leading ssident called the result is a lie.
ah raynsford reports huge lie.
sarah raynsford reports from moscow.
in russia, everything thing has ust changed.
and nothing hasjust changed.
vladimir putin has just done what he ten promised he would never do rewritten the constitution to end his stay in power.
he could run for president twice more oints to a unding win at this points to a resounding win at this ballot is proof he has support for .
his critics have slammed the hola that.
his critis have slammed the whole process is project putin for has slammed the vote.
ever and has slammed the vote.
: boating is a fake, but become an open state in a it has become an open state in a statement of what is happening in ountry.
-- ting.
illegally the country.
-- voting.
illagally seizing power, he wants to be the of russia for life.
on his rular of russia for life.
on his presidential terms it was very a iant ackage of against a giant package of constitutional amendments.
social re promises, even animal welfare promises, even animal rights.
campaigning against the ges was banned.
so whilst younger voters at polling stations they were set up of the same ace in the kremlin, this result was really in doubt.
sarah raynsford, news, moscow.
a number of fires in brazil’s amazon orest has hit a 13 year high for the month of e, according to government data.
deforestation were lost.
they are levels were lost.
they are greatly concerned about the future ecosystem.
be slow and estructive ban.
the amazon forest is riddled with fires.
cological aster eclipsed by the oronavirus pandemic.
brazil has now rded more than 60,000 deaths inked to covid—19 and at the same it is itnessing widespread oss of one of the world’s most ortant ecosystems.
: orestation in 2020 is going to be arge and that was in 2019.
cording to data from brazil’s government funded space agency, , there were 22a8 fires in the zon is june.
that is a 20% amazon this june.
that is a 2096 rise, compared the same time last .
and for the first five months 2020, deforestation is up 34%.
: the clearing of land lready represents a serious problem.
if we have land clearing covid—19 together, this could atastrophic consequences for the residents of the region.
the will soon be upon the amazon.
fires will increase, the smoke will rse.
it heightens the threat some of brazil’s poorest unities, whose livelihoods rely the health of the rainforest.
ree cole, news.
hundreds of phants have died mysteriously in swana.
the cluster of gas was irst reported in early may this in the of botswana around year in the north of botswana around this area.
byjune, the number had than oubled.
the director of conservation at the charity national escue has told the he park rescue has told the he believes more than 400 elephants have died and the cause of eath needs to be ascertained as as possible.
we are imploring botswana government to allow a am of independent experts to come to the country into the region and thoroughly sample the area.
need to sample multiple arcasses, blood, liver , ssue, stomach ntents, soil samples and ater mples and then there is need be taken to a reputable boratory where they can be tested we find out what that is.
and we ran find out what that is.
there is a reticence from many ons to help its neighbour, specially at a time when they are essed with covid—19 as it is.
condly, current botswana dministration has gone to great to to emphasise to rural populations in untry that they populations in the country that they don’t put the lives of elephants re the lives of people, which was a common accusation of the ious administration and my guess they don’t want to be seen to ing to respond to what they think a consolation problem, when they only eady dealing with are only already dealing with covid—19.
what i chat want to to sise to he government is this emphasise to the government is this has the potential to be a public crisis, it is not a health crisis, it is notjust a conservation issue and because it is cond largest and therefore otswana it has the potential to be conomic crisis as well.
the kish court is due to rule in the turkish court is due to ml; in the next few weeks on a controversial to convert the hajj are severe nto a mosque.
it would orm muslim worship at a place hat once stood at the heart of the and thailand or at ottoman mpires.
an architectural wonder has enjoyed through the ages.
he hagia sophia outlasted the zantine pire and the ottoman iran.
since 1935, it has been a um.
a symbol of secular turkey.
for how much longer?
step inside many tourists have.
beneath he soaring golden dome and see ics of the virgin mary alongside slamic ligraphy.
after 900 years a cathedral, it was conquered by tomans and converted to a the ottomans and converted to a mosque.
the turkish president has owing to conquer it anew.
: they changed hagia hia from a new to a mosque along time ago, says the president e, and god willing we will hange it back.
—— president and a .
some ran ardly bear to wait.
his gun.
some can hardly bear to wait.
this islamic grassroots organisation praying outside once a has been praying outside once a year.
its leader told us hagia should be back in the same nds.
: iwant place to be a osque.
all muslims it.
look at the structure.
ask anyone in the ld.
what does it ook like you?
there is only one swer.
this is a mosque.
that is not how christian leaders see it.
at the church of the 12 apostles in nbul this week, a gathering of reek orthodox.
the faithful came to a east day and here, a warning from a patriarch, who leads the odox church worldwide.
he said gia sophia belonged not to turkey, but manity.
the turkey, but to humanity.
the conversion of hagia sophia will ppoint millions of christians ound the world.
also, at a time they are afflicted and have ffered due to the deadly pandemic the new coronavirus, we are in eed of unity common orientation.
this is a towering ment to faith, but critics say hat is ppening here is about far ore than religion.
they say sident everyone is using the sue to bolster support and they it makes a great distraction the damaged turkish economy by vid-19.
distractions don’t come come much bigger than this.
the opposes any move to convert hagia sophia from a museum to a mosque.
it 5575 this remarkable building should says this remarkabla building should remain as a much—needed bridge een ifferent faiths.
news, stanbul.
it is feared that ousands of indian and bengali aurants in the could be lost due to the pandemic, as the lockdown is under intense financial pits and is under intense financial strain.
many family owned restaurant will struggle to be open, spite of easing measures.
the ’s asian editor reports.
this is the time this man has been to his family run restaurant ince the down began three since the lockdown began three months ago.
my stomach turns, you ?
when i see a hut wn, know?
when i see a shut down, disappointed so many people.
this is of the mmunity.
it is mind part of the community.
it is mind blowing, when you sit down and think it, how quickly the world has changed.
he would have struggled to able here on the weekend tom, spite there being over 30 curry taurants just this once street.
when the lockdown was put in ace, they were not ready to move ake away, so their doors have shut and many say they will ruggle to reopen.
for the last ree months, this lane has been you see the majority of the restaurants will not even bother at old navy and will have to robably get up, which is very sad.
know, brick lane is famous for curry and to see of the its curry and to see some of the curry houses go, it is going to be a in the stomach, to be honest.
the british bengali community opened urants here in the 19805 restaurants here in the 19805 because rents were low.
the area has apidly gentrified.
over the 79575- been rapidly gentrified.
over the years, the rental rate has drupled around here.
people were truggling, of the businesses is making huge debts.
and this was ail in the coffin, i think.
the nail in the coffin, i think.
outside of london, others are trying aﬂoat float by switching to to stay afloat by switching to takeaway.
when you have no choice, the restaurant open, keep on he we have to sell takeaway, so an survive, 30% of our we ran survive, but 3096 of our industry will isappear from the street.
he is calling on the vernment to reduce the consumption least for now, relying on loyal customers coming to pick up curries.
a prawn curry, their curries.
a prawn curry, chicken tikka masala but i am keen to make sure that at the end of this crisis we the places i love to visit are still here, so it portant for me to support it.
only thing i have to say is to sure they put the mango chutney ith my poppadoms.
the south asian munity in the has been impacted severely by the onavirus.
now there are fears hey will also suffer sproportionate economic damage.
news, london.
hello, this is news, the headlines full class sizes and year group bubbles the government’s just released guidance on how all pupils in england will return in september.
a local lockdown to deal with a surge in coronavirus in leicester cases will see schools close today to all but china demands that britain "immediately stop interfering" in the affairs of hong kong, after the denounced beijing’s new security law in the territory which led to mass protests.
just a political hoax president trump dismisses reports that russia paid the taliban to kill american troops and says secret services didn’t even tell him about the intelligence.
could we see an extension of the countries brits can travel to?
dozens more could be exempt from the ’s quarantine rules to allow people to go on a foreign holiday.
the mystery of the deaths of at least 350 elephants in botswana, ntists describing the incident as completely unprecedented.
a star studded list, featuring the likes of sheeran, sir paul mccartney and annie lennox call on the government to do more to protect live music venues.
the education secretary, gavin williamson, is about to make a statement on plans for schools in england in september — m: we will go over to the house of commons as soon as we see him begin.
guidelines on how more than eight million pupils in england will be able to return to full—time education in september have been released this morning.
they include plans to group children into bubbles and to stagger start times.
john maguire visited one school in weston—super—mare to see how teachers and parents there are preparing for the new term.
when these children return, the number will swell from a0 to 900.
clearly the social distancing rules in place now will need to change.
but change has been a constant of late, and staff are confident they can cope with more.
our strategy is that we are hoping for and anticipating and looking forward to having all of our children back with us in front of us in september.
we are ready and geared up for the children to come back in.
we know that we can manage and we know that we can navigate a way through because we have just done it.
and where parents can decide whether or not to send children to school now, in autumn, attendance will once again become compulsory.
so anxious families will need to be persuaded.
we have been making well over 600 phone calls each week to our families, to touch base and check that they are .
and those relationships have now become strong and that is a positive from this experience.
we will be leaning on those relationships to support them and their children.
so what do parents think?
on the health side of things, as long as there is guidance for the classes to be safe, i would be happy to send them back.
my daughter is already back two hours a week at secondary school and is finding that fine.
obviously they are all spaced apart.
for children of different abilities and some are getting on with their work and some are not in my concern is doing back in september that everyone will be at a different level and if they are considering putting people into a bubble, as i have heard, i don’t know how that will affect how everyone works.
i would like to know whether or not if we can still have a curriculum, creative curriculum and it notjust be monday to friday of core, which i know is valuable but the students’ opinion matters and i would like the day, is it going to be full—time, monday to friday, will they be staggering start and finish?
just getting a benchmark of where the kids are at, knowing that they have sufficient time to put between now and may would be good, providing exams are not going to be pushed back.
that would be the biggest things, just to see the kids are still on track.
the usual september concerns about school uniform, kit or new subjects will take a back—seat.
the priorities will be safety, reassurance and hopefully a guarantee that pupils will be able to catch up.
the back to school check list will be like never before.
there have now been almost 2.
7 million confirmed cases of coronavirus in the united states.
has it been so badly affected?
speaking exclusively today, doctor ny, the top infectious disease xpert and the director of institute ergy and infectious diseases of allergy and infectious diseases explained the number of cases in the own to the way lockdown was was down to the way lockdown was approached.
m: we got hit very badly, or worse than anywhere else when you look at the numbers of deaths.
the roblem we are cing now is the ntent to open the government and back to some form of normality.
we are seeing various urbing spikes in different dividual states in the united tes, particularly most recently lorida, zona, texas and florida, arizona, texas and california.
some of which are really ates with high population, so big states with high population, so what we have seen over the last ral days is a spike in places hat are well beyond the worst kes that we have seen.
that is good news.
we have to get that der control or we risk an even eater outbreak in the united ates.
when you look at the fact we ever got things down to eline where so many countries in urope and the and other ntries did, they closed down to the tune of about 9796 lockdown.
in the nited states, even in the most ict lockdown, only about 50% of he country down.
that allowed the country lockdown.
that allowed the perpetuation of the outbreak we never did get under a very control.
new zealand’s health minister, david clark, has resigned after criticism over recent slip ups in the government’s largely successful response to the coronavirus.
clark had already been demoted after breaking rules to take his family to the beach.
new zealand’s prime minister, jacinda ardern, said it was right for clerk to resign.
anything that acts as a distraction or anything that takes away from our time, effort and energy from our response to covid—19, we just as a country can’t afford.
that was a very frank conversation the minister and i openly had last week.
he then came to the very firm view that his ongoing role in this portfolio is going to get in the way of that response.
the ’s first sculpture to celebrate emergency workers has been to reflect the current adapted to reﬂect the current crisis.
then 999 cenotaph monument eature a medic wearing full will feature a medic wearing full .
it is due to be revealed in , provided that £3 million cost ran be raised.
there are statues that are admired.
leaders that changed so much.
heroes whose bravery was marked.
aigners who brought significant ifts politically, and footballers at the face of the game.
add to at list a jamaican nurse, who 2016 came the first named black man to be remembered this way tside thomas’s hospital in ndon.
she cared for british diers during the crimean war.
now view her as an example of to get a statue right.
any uture plans or development or any orials in london or any major ity needs to have considerations, engages with the public.
how tells the whole story of that ument and it has to be inclusive.
me, if we do not have those three criteria, then the danger we have with memorials and statues they esent the past and not is they represent the past and not reﬂect the future of britain.
and is model of a planned statue could be re timely.
the memorial to mergency service workers called a enotaph.
there will be a police officer, a firefighter, a guard, a earch and rescue worker their dog, a aramedic, and adding in recent weeks, a doctor or wearing personal protective equipment.
two of the figures are n, won an asian paramedic and he other a black doctor or nurse.
we are aiming for is accuracy, ecause it is a historical marker milestone that once put down, ople will look at in 200 years’ ime say, s, that was accurate for that period.
usually statues are paid for by private onations.
for mergency donations.
for the emergency services memorial, lockdown meant the fundraising plans had be put on hold.
there is now a ewed push to raise a thriller llion pound needed to get the tue belt.
that monument will be a tional symbol of the sacrifice, oism and remembrance of the llions of men and women who have rved and the more than 7000 rgency services personnel who ave tragically lost their lives in of duty to keep us all safe.
the aim is for the new statue its place amongst some of he ’s most loved monuments.
people come to laugh, to where peopla come to laugh, to reﬂect or to remember.
if all the is money is raised, there will be a onal emergency services memorial by 2023.
including sir paul mccartney, sheeran and annie lennox have gned an open letter urging the government to help protect live venues from the effect of oronavirus.
they want an extension furlough scheme for those working in the industry and the val of a from tickets when shows restart.
so to uss that it shows restart.
so to discuss that later, we are joined by simone from primal scream.
thank you for joining us.
what is the impact been on cians like you and those people a who ork directly and indirectly in usic industry?
first of all, hanks for having me.
as part of campaign, we wanted to bring areness to this, not only sending etter to the secretary of state arts and digital media and lture, it has been devastating for rybody in the live music industry.
we have to remember this just about ands losing is not just about bands losing shows.
this is the entire rastructure of live music of live music industry under threat.
if festivals, endent of festivals and music independent of festivals and music venues cannot get through the end of ar, we are looking at around : of hose going under next year, 9096 of those going under next year, and we just annot let that happen.
re acing ass unemployment, and this is a sector, an industry sector contributed 4.
9 million pounds to the economy in 2019 and was onsible for around 210,000 jobs, we are facing mass unemployment, ulturally it is incredibly ignificant.
that is not to say all ustries are affected, but if we not implement some kind of sidy now or go on to make financial changes in terms of the of on ticket sales or lack of on ticket sales or increasing the furlough scheme, then oing to be a very serious it is going to be a very serious situation for hundreds of thousands pla.
-- billion.
should of peopla.
-- billion.
should this particular industry get special ment?
should it be treated an ception when there are ousands and thousands of people osing their other sectors losing theirjobs in other sectors as well and there is no prospect for help for them?
i am not saying at it should take any special erarchy over other industries, but really we have to look at how much it contributes to the economy, even for that reason alone.
usic helps people in such ncredible ways, it helps their e.
we need it for our mental alth.
even today online i saw an nurse who was on the front line ghting this virus saying how ortant it is for her when she is inished her days work, just the ught of being able to have live in her life.
we are fortunate nough to be able to have bands like lling stones or radiohead to gather and support, and i think we a good situation in that sense where bands can generate a lot support, the money is more support, but the money is there, the government have made it to open up football and pubs.
viabla to open up football and pubs.
what we don’t want is getting to with hose things when this is peace with those things when this is very culturally significant, and on sis of facing mass the basis of facing mass unemployment as well, because there so much of the music industry who depends on freelance workers, not be able to transfer the who may not be able to transfer the skill set onto something else.
what successful musicians who have made a lot of money themselves he music industry and from the music industry and performing live, what are they g?
are they putting their hands in their pockets to support these venues at risk of going under?
i think it is really down to the rnment to support the entire frastructure of the live music industry and the surrounding industry and all of the surrounding industries.
we are not just talking about music venues and festivals.
we are talking about bloggers, burgers, ers, lighting technicians, ound engineers, agents.
this is a industry and a massive ector.
who knows what will happen of monetary or financial support?
who ows where that is ing to come outside of the government help?
but in terms of a societal and cultural pressure, i think we need to put it on the rnment to do that.
how can you nvisage live venues reopening safely at some point?
it is very to picture now.
i did see the ive step plan that was released and it very unrealistic.
the music enues cannot open at 30% capacity the way that etail sector ran.
they stand to lose much more than if stay close.
for xample, they are going to make a of £5 million this year due to the pandemic and coronavirus.
if they were to open at 30% capacity, would to make a lot of 11 they would stand to make a lot of 11 million.
right now, we cannot ally distance at a festival, we annot ocially distance at a gig, ich obviously would happen with 30% capacity.
there does not to plan in action.
clearly seem to be a plan in action.
cleariy we need to tackle the virus first oremost and then put an and foremost and then put an infrastructure into businesses that being ouraged to open it to are being encouraged to open it to be able to do it safely, so the plan ins to be seen, it really does.
right now i feel like we need to eate the support, we need to eate the funding so that we have a music industry next year.
mone butler primal scream, thank you very ch.
we will wait see what response the government to your letter.
thank you very uch for joining us join the much for joining us.
let us join the education secretary who is making a ment on schools opening in september.
he is in the house of ons.
i know these past three onths have been some of the most llenging that schools, parents and of all children have a face.
what schools have achieved it sure that children and young peopla are ept safe and can ontinue to learn during this period arkable, and i think in this house we are deeply grateful for efforts.
but we all know the mpact that last time in education have our children’s outcomes.
child and person in the every child and young person in the country has experienced recedented disruption to their learning as a of coronavirus.
whether ose from the most ulnerable and disadvantaged kgrounds amongst the hardest hit.
ith those.
education recovery is ritical for is generation of choolchildren.
returning to normal ational routines as quickly as possibla is ritical to our national very as well.
that is we ave been working to ensure that all will be able to go back to pupils will be able to go back to schools and colleges full—time in mber, ith covid—19 secure measures in place so they have the rtunity to thrive and fulfil their full potential.
today, overnment has published detailed for nursery schools and colleges that are set out what is needed to plan for a full return.
as well as reassuring parents and about what to expect for the hildren.
the guidance has been eloped with medical experts from “: lic health england and follows egular engagement throughout the reak between the government and ducation sector.
we continue to ork closely with the country’s best ntific and medical experts to sure that both children and staff lways as safe as possible.
chools will continue minimising between children, including three gripping children together in and encouraging children to bubbles and encouraging children to distance.
at a minimum, this will ude eeping your groups separate.
this is in addition to protective measures that we are so important for infection ntrol such as regular cleaning and ashing.
we are also ensuring sting is readily available so that ents, teachers and students can eturn confidence.
all staff, upils and their families will tinue to have access to testing they develop covid—19 symptoms.
start the autumn term, we by the start of the autumn term, we will provide all schools and eges with a small number of home sting kits.
these will be taken by children or staff who develop while on site but uld struggle to access a who would struggle to access a testing centre.
this is so that they a test quickly and they can ran have a test quickly and they ran get the results back quickly.
all ols will have access to direct support and advice from their local b“: health england health public health england health protection team to deal with any that may occur.
they will be dvised what steps need to be ken.
speaker, in these allenging times, we are committed suring the nation’s children not just a education but also an xcellent one.
from ptember, we are asking schools and eges to return to a broad and lanced curriculum so that all ils continue to be taught in a ide range of subjects, maintaining choices for further study and mployment.
we expect exams to go ahead in the summer of 2021.
we understand the additional pressures ching staff to deliver such high standards of education in this cult period.
as such, as ofsted nspectors are preparing to visit ools in the autumn, to discuss they are managing to return to education of all of their ils.
the insight that inspectors ather will also be aggregated ionally to share learning with whole sector.
the government and ider public as well.
it is our ntention for inspections to turn from january.
we are also oviding ignificant financial upport to help pupils catch up on learning.
as i announced in une, we will providing a £1 billion vid—19 catch up package, cluding a 0 million catch up premium for state funded primary, dary and special schools, and a secondary and special schools, and a £350 million national tutoring ramme for the most disadvantaged ils.
evidence shows that 6—12 eeks jittering for disadvantaged ople ran esult in five of catch p.
schools held accountable for the tcomes they achieve through eir funding, cluding through fsted spections, and the covid—19 up unding will be no exception to this.
-- tutoring.
we need to ensure no child loses more in education, and that from ptember, all children that can be school at school.
schools and olleges will need to work with ilies to secure regular attendance from the start of a new emic year with the academic year with the reintroduction of mandatory ndance.
our intention is that ose with education, health and plans or pecial educational rare plans or a special educational needs will also be back in school or in september.
since may, as esult of the pandemic, it has necessary to modify the duty on oral authorities and health mmissioners so that they could use reasonable endeavours to secure arrange for provision of plans.
we are committed to removing ﬂex lex abilities as soon as these ﬂex abilities as soon as possible so children and young pla ran receive the support they eed to return to school.
as such, ess the evidence changes, i will be issuing further national tices to modify the duties.
ill however consider whether any ﬂex flex abilities may be required orally to espond to outbreaks in different parts of the country.
in addition, i am pleased to announce we continue on the road to that as we continue on the road to recovery, and infection rates inue to fall, from the 20th of y, nurseries, dminders and july, nurseries, childminders and other childcare providers will no be required to place limits the group size of children who play and can play and learn together.
speaker, i would like to take this rtunity to thank those parts of the sector who have already opened doors to more children and who are doing a phenomenal to help children and our young people ack into their usual settle back into their usual routines.
since schools and eries began to open more widely the 1st of ne, we have seen the umber of hildren attending school dily rise, with over 1.
6 million pupils already back in schools.
i am speaker, iwill joined sure, speaker, i will be joined by the house as i express my thanks of the childcare, school and rther education staff who have above and beyond since march he will continue to do so as we epare to welcome all of our hildren and young people back to hool school and college in september.
i commend this statement to the house.
elcome the new shadow “an i welcome the new shadow secretary of tate for education, kate green.
thank you very much, speaker, and i think the secretary for his statement and an dvanced copy of it, and may i also thank him for his all last night.
i look look forward to working with him.
speaker, every child must be safely back in school in september.
by then, many children will have rienced nearly six months gap in their ucation.
some have been able aintain their learning during hat period, but there has been a gap in learning for others, especially the most disadvantaged.
a senior official in the secretary of ’s own department has warned he attainment gap could widen by as as 75% as a result of the much as 7596 as a result of the crisis.
todars announcement finally nises the crisis.
today’s announcement finally recognises the desperate pleas of , staff and governors for formation and certainty about ans for the next academic year.
too long the government has been leep at the wheel.
the nnouncement today comes just three before the end of term, and an mense amount needs to be done to epare.
speaker, staff have been king ﬂat out since february half erm, and i want to thank teachers, ool leaders and everyone who in our education settings for exceptional efforts during these unprecedented times.
over the summer, they will need a break.
as they prepare plans for a return, will also need the active they will also need the active support of the department.
this be left to heads to struggle through on their own.
50 have a umber of uestion for the right nourable gentleman.
what sultation has been undertaken in paring this guidance with heads, chers and school staff, governors ions who have made a very and unions who have made a very sensible and practical suggestions udents’s return?
the government needs to learn from its ous mistakes.
that is abour suggested a task force of ool eavers which could have eant we could have brought children to school sooner.
can a back to school sooner.
“an a secretary of tate guarantee every will have full access to school will have full access to testing and tracing, all the and resources they need to open safely?
the government’s track has not been impressive so r, and we cannot allow any further ailure to these safety failure to supply these safety essentials to prevent children?
rn.
i support the secretary of ate in reintroducing compulsory ndance.
but fining or parents will not serve the best interests of children.
chip parents need reassurance their children will be especially in communities including ethnic minority unities, where the prevalence of communities, where the prevalance of covid-19 is higher.
many will have this unsettling and dramatic.
found this unsettling and dramatic.
what is needed is a trauma informed ach to chools and families.
approach to schools and families.
staggered starts may present icult challenges for parents.
difficult challanges for parents.
“an a ecretary of state say more wrap around care for families transport gements for and transport arrangements for children to travel to school?
can confirm hildren are you confirm all children are expected to be in school in tember?
will there be a delay in ncoming eception children starting ol?
in relation to early years, school?
in relation to earty years, what financial support will be lable for parents or for child are roviders to protect their ability if ldren cannot attend if they are forced to closed?
gnise the needs of those with pecial needs and disabilities and surances on health and care plans.
“an the retary of state uarantee to he house the needs of ose children will be met in full.
the curriculum, does he agree me that a broad curriculum, cluding arts and humanities, pports children’s attainment in ore subjects as well.
what iscussions with effie providers taken place about how they will rovide the quote fill in the cation envisaged?
this is the new shadow secretary of state for education, kate green, her appearance at the house first appearance at the house opposite the education secretary williamson, who has been gavin williamson, who has just been setting out some of the guidance for all pupils back to school in england in september, when ndance will be mandatory.
kate reen has been saying that she ports compulsory attendance, but to find parents if they are too ncerned about the safety aspects children back.
let’s carry listening.
does he share my ncern that requiring schools to ntribute 25% of the cost of the ional tutoring programme vantages the better off schools?
ave 16 students been excluded from up from catch up funding support?
on tuesday, it was reported that the 000 laptops that had been 230,000 laptops that had been promised for children lacking full access have not been digital access have not been delivered in full, as promised by of une.
when will they the end of june.
when will they arrive?
and finally, a six week long holiday always widens the summer holiday always widens the attainment gap and this year that be exacerbated by the time will be exacerbated by the time already spent out of school.
what vities and support are being put lace for the summer break?
the ing for pupils on free school meals is welcome, but what if dren become eligible for free chool als during the summer oliday?
“an the secretary of state antee holiday?
can the secretary of state guarantee that no eligible child will miss out.
secretary of state.
i would very much like to congratulate nourable lady on her new role i very much looking forward to king with her in terms of some of great challenges that our nation over the coming months.
as we cus on the recovery for our ducation sector after this demic.
i want to assure her in erms of the curriculum about the ortance it has to be a full, broad and balanced curriculum and ncludes the arts and that includes the arts and humanities.
it include sports, it des so much because we includes so much because we recognise that to give children the pportunities to succeed in ife, they have to have that breadth rriculum and we should not be seen to be dumbing down or reducing have to give children it.
we have to give children choices.
that is good for their re attainment, their future life ances, but also for their mental alth as well.
of having that adth it is so vital for them to ucceed.
she is right, absolutely to highlight the importance of hose children with special cational needs and how we need to supporting them and helping them.
seen some brilliant examples, especially in some other schools, who have gone far and above in terms of helping, not for children, but also for arents at this most difficult and llanging ime.
but as all schools urn, and this is it is absolutely vital, it has got to be that educational and health are plans properly adhered to by oral authorities.
this is we to by local authorities.
this is we have got to have this proper and return of those obligations that local authorities have to be to.
assure her that it is new money for covid—19 catch up und, we are oking forward to haring more details with schools on and will be looking forward to orking with schools, as we have also with the education owment foundation, to make sure at that money is properly hannelled into the areas that are ing to a real difference to children.
it is right and everyone house recognises the in this house recognises the challenges and the significant loss hildren have suffered as a result of not being in school.
that we have got to bring all is we have got to bring all children back into school at the tiest ossible opportunity.
equally, is making sure that re is £1 billion is properly ent.
that £350 million of hat is being specially ring fenced sure it is going to the to make sure it is going to the children from the most disadvantaged rounds and it is going to be ocused on the evidence based ions that we know will make a fference to those children.
erms of consultation, have and will continue to consult in the we have established a chool stakeholder group with trade congress and other unions.
ongress and other unions.
more importantly, we have had much dialogue with people, not wider dialogue with peopla, not just trade unions, but also many of the eholders and most importantly, hose who are delivering education ground.
this is something hat we have continuously been doing ince the moment that we had to ever since the moment that we had to dose to the first place.
we will ntinue to do as we move forward.
vin williamson, the education retary, there, just speaking bout plans to get all children back chools in september and saying there needs to be a full curriculum lude sports and creative subjects as well.
viewers in the ran can continue watching on the parliament channel.
we can speak now his doctor, eneral to this doctor, the general secretary of the teaching union.
or, thank you for ning us.
doctor, thank you for joining us.
you were listening to the education tary there.
how adequate are secretary there.
how adequate are these guidelines?
the guidelines een published this morning.
they will have to be studied fully.
it is quite clear that he government has listened to some concerns that we have been aising around health and safety and mportance of schools properly risk ssessing their arrangements ringing more children and young peopla back nto schools.
but ether the guidance goes far ough, we have got some concerns that, but we have also got oncerns about the absence, really, of a clear national plan from government secure public confidence and to the safe return of all ensure the safe return of all children to all schools from ember and that is something we till need to be talking to the ernment further about.
what is concern, en?
where is the the concern, then?
where is the pub“: confidence missing and why?
ll, i think the reasons public idence is missing is perhaps ecause of mixed messaging from ernment in relation to coded ety -- ovid—19 safety in the wider population and in workplaces.
vernment is predicated on its plans for reopening schools fully in mber on the assumption that of september on the assumption that of course virus transmission rates will nue to fall and let’s hope that is the use, of course, you w, in ow, in recent days we have seen dence of a spike, a second wave, ich has led to the lockdown of the ity of cester and we have seen within that, of course, evidence of transmission amongst and virus transmission amongst and 18-year-olds and of course that is to cause ome very serious going to cause some very serious concerns for many parents, but also achers and the workforce in schools more generally.
about her the government’s measures on reopening are adequate in the rcumstances.
the shadow education etary, kate green, making her first appearance in the commons y.
she pointed to a 75% increase today.
she pointed to a 7596 increase in the ttainment gap in this atively short period of time that hildren have been away from school.
you close that gap, then, thout getting everybody back to hool in september, even if there concern about the rest?
yes, ell, it is absolutely clear that ldren’s education is best pported, best delivered with ldren being in schools.
we have got no argument with that and i don’t think anyone would have any ment with that.
but it is vitally important that children, and their teachers, can return to school safely, important school safely, so it is important that important lessons are learned sult of this current virus isis, and indeed the spikes that re seeing around the country, could further disrupt education provision, it is vitally tant that we have an offer of important that we have an offer of education in school, but also that are supported to deliver hat remote learning offer that ldren and young people, who might ind that schooling is find that their schooling is disrupted.
so we do need certainly re investment and support for much more investment and support for teachers, more investment and ort for schools to ensure that they ran cope the event that ucation continues to be disrupted, only -- not for the rest of this term, but as move forward to the new academic year.
doctor, the teachers union, thank you joining us.
a top secret ommunications agency and iconic, chable crime figures have been arrested for the system and entire dismantled after officers oded messages on the at service.
the says 77 earms, more than two tonnes of and £54 firearms, more than two tonnes of drugs and £54 million and suspect have been seized, following the igoted by gnificant law enforcement operation carried out in the .
our respondent reports.
it is earty in the morning.
the tropolitan police are making the against a suspected gang involved in drugs and guns.
the are what a cool distraction devices, designed to prevent a ile response.
another early morning raid, time in birmingham.
police!
police!
there ver been a national policing peration like this.
every force in ountry has been involved.
ozens of raids over months.
reds of the rest.
this is an mazing moment, ithink, policing and enforcement.
thanks to rtners in the national crime agency and internationally, we have ble to hit the most senior evels of organised crime.
all this ssible because a secret riminal slow network has been into by a french intelligence agency, the has been told.
so this is what operation are frenetic, ggest operation against rganised crime in britain is about.
oks like a normal android phone, but these phones sell for een £800 and £3000 because they between £800 and 5000 because they have some added functionality that criminals to do what they do.
john is going to us.
i will put that you ran ake it away.
if you this on the street he would no idea there was anything else on the phone.
but there is?
there if you the power button is, and if you put the power button in another fashion, it looks like hone is restarting and the phone is just restarting and then the process starts again, so it up, but this time it will go nto a secure operating system that the applications.
and what are those applications criminals to do?
so these plications allow someone who had device like to talk to eone else who has a similar device.
this messaging rvice app has become a trusted and equired tools or 10,000 top criminals, but now their messages een read.
word got out, so olice sped up their investigations aids before going public today.
ourse, organised crime is about king vast amounts of money and is astonishing is the amount of at which has been seized by the ice investing investigation.
this is 50,000.
that is £2 million.
he met has seized £40 million over months.
nationally, £54 illion has been seized, along with and drugs.
those arrested were escribed as being suspected and of the underworld.
many of hem are older, many of them are pla we have known something about rrested or put in prison before.
is is their total way of life and me of them will appear very espectable.
this will be a surprise eir ighbours, that they are to their neighbours, that they are top end organised criminals, whose , if you ke, whose impact work, ifyou like, whose impact plays out on the streets of london.
arrested after this raid has the man arrested after this raid has been released while more inquiries de.
this suspect in birmingham as been charged with firearms and offences.
more investigations trials will follow.
an 18—year—old man has been charged with murdering two sisters in a park in london.
danyal hussein will appear at westminster magistrates’ court later today the bodies of nicole smallman and bibaa henry were found in fryent gardens in wembley after a birthday party last month.
speaking at a news conference in beijing, a chinese government spokesman, lijian zhao, warned against what he called "foreign interference".
holders, are all chinese citizens.
before hong kong’s return to china the british signed to clearly promise that they would not grant residence permits to the holders.
the british side neglects china’s a solamn stance and insists on ging ing the policy to provide a ath for most people to stay and get tizenship in , which citizenship in the , which seriously violates their promise and international law and basic orms of international relations.
hinese side strongly condemns this and reserves the right to make responses.
all consequences further responses.
all consequences will be borne by the british side.
our correspondent, stephen mcdonell, is following developments in beijing.
the language was tough, but still no indication of what beijing actually plans to do in response to britain’s new policy.
we just heard zhao lijian saying there that these people are all chinese citizens.
they are accusing britain of breaking its promise not to offer them residency, saying that china reserves the right for these unspecified countermeasures and that, rather ominously, the side will be the one bearing the consequences.
naturally, iasked him, when are we going to know what these consequences are?
what would it take for you to announce china’s response?
and he said, "oh, now is not the time for us to reveal this, "you have to be patient.
" so who knows?
we willjust have to wait and see what they intend to do, but interestingly the threat was, today, i mean, if you dig right down into this, the potential fora response, not even, "we are going to respond.
" "we reserve the right to.
" i mean really, who knows?
we also asked about the australian government’s announcement that it will be offering some sort of option for hong kong people to be able to leave there and migrate to australia.
those details are yet to be revealed, but again he told australia also to butt out of hong kong’s affairs.
he had some very strong language for the secretary of state, mike pompeo, also accusing the of meddling there.
he said that now this new law was in place it would actually restrict this meddling in hong kong because the chinese government has long accused foreign forces, as it calls them, of sort of masterminding the whole protest movement.
so there we are, a lot of tension, but no concrete announcement in terms of what beijing’s response for britain is going to be yet.
stephen mcdonell in beijing.
government sources in britain have ated that as many as 75 countries will be exempt from quarantine rules for next week, so people eturning to the country don’t have lf—isolate.
the government ans to stablish a traffic light ystem to rate which countries are safest, with some places such as united states likely to be egorised as red and subject to arantine rules.
they have expressed cerns about plans to elax the quarantine.
the number of new coronavirus infections in the united states has reached a record high — causing some states to roll back their plans to reopen.
this more than 50,000 people tested positive for the coronavirus on wednesday — according johns hopkins university, which tracks global virus data.
that brings the total number of confirmed infections to over 2.
6 million and more than 128 thousand deaths, the highest number of fatalities globally.
could be underestimating the true death toll by as much as 28%.
california alone recorded nearly ten thousand new cases on tuesday.
bars, theatres and indoor restaurants have been closed there again.
north carolina, tennessee, georgia and texas have all reached new highs, and louisiana 5 infection rates are still contining to rise.
america’s top infectious disease expert has warned that the risks an even greater coronavirus outbreak unless it can bring the latest surge in cases under control.
doctor anthony fauci said the current spike was caused by people in some states failing to follow basic rules as the economy re—opened.
when you look at what happened in some of the states, all you have to do is take a look at the news at night and you see people congregating at bars without masks, congregating in different types of groups that are well beyond the recommended number of people.
what happens when you do that and you don’t wear a mask?
you get the kind of outbreaks we are seeing.
doctor anthony fauci.
to the arts and a prize has been announced.
the prize was abandoned they a coronavirus pandemic.
let’s find out more about that from rector of tate britain and chair of the turner prize.
thank you for oining us.
tell us so much for joining us.
tell us about a range of artists who are to be receiving this money.
ange is the right word.
it is a wide ranging list of artists.
work in all kinds of mediums, ceramics to performance to lm, to culpture.
they range from ifferent parts of the country, tland, wales, london of course.
the other ranging in terms of their identities and backgrounds.
as is their work, but maybe there is a a common thread, i feel, mnning bit of a common thread, i feel, running through it and there was a used by jury a fair bit, word used by the jury a fair bit, which is a commitment to the idea of rare of neself, care of one rare, rare of oneself, rare of one community and need for a care at time.
long ago, though, where some of these works of art n?
i am imagining will have began?
i am imagining they will have predated the lockdown and the emic hitting britain?
well, t’s right because the turner rize jury, xpected course to be selecting an exhibition, you a normal turner prize, if you ike.
they actually had pretty much ull year to consider and so they were putting together this rtlist, it reflected the usual turner criteria of artists eing nominated for a certain ibition.
we, in a way, didn’t tipulate that, that because they been thinking along those lines ough the year, it because essentially the art world in general for most of the year they were considering, it is in many ways shutdown ist.
reflecting all a pre-shutdown list.
reﬂacting all kinds of fantastic exhibitions that ccurred in that time.
so is it erhaps, then, the ges who have brought that end, that nterpretation, that prism of care their ections, rather than the to their selections, rather than the artists in the first instance?
well, asn’t evident to me from the discussion, but it came up as a town as they were talking about ifferent artists and may be seeing kind of continuity running some kind of continuity mnning through what otherwise i think are very different practices and it seems like a leitmotif for our s, i must say.
ithink an times, i must say.
i think we ran all agree to that in terms of the ersal experience in the last few months.
it has to be said, though, nding out these one—off bursaries, of them at £10,000, at is a lot more prize—money than turner ize would normally fer.
how would you manage to do at?
has somebody somewhere been erous?
absolutely, it is made irely by three really generous nefactors, who are fantastic lanthropists of the arts, friends he tate.
so it is thanks to them you know, in a way your question ects the twofold purpose of hese these bursaries, which is both to gnise what each airy feel, what ppears feel are outstanding tices, contributions to new directions in art, but it is also a gnition that artists, as of nstitutions and organisations and ectors of the economy at the oment, require financial pport themselves, he amount of money s, ithink, we ink, significant contribution to the hardships that face at this time.
we look orward to hearing much more about recipients.
director of the britain thank you very much for ing us.
back to the dispute etween the and china over ocracy in hong kong.
we are ined by the conservative , chair he house of commons foreign ffairs committee and welcome.
how , realistically, at the 3 many, realistically, at the 3 million hong kong residents who have ffered the chance to settle here are really going to take that up?
well, iwouldn’t offer up?
well, i wouldn’t have thought a huge number.
as you may , the large hong kong populated ities around the world are really couver, melbourne, sydney, ngapore and other places.
in the gion, completely and surprisingly, people want to go to taiwan, 3 more peopla want to go to taiwan, a chinese speaking jurisdiction, then come to london, but that oesn’t mean we’re not right to ognise we owe a duty to british ationals, whether they are at home erseas.
how likely is it that hat author will be extended to some younger people who have been aught in these protests, been on the streets and perhaps feel are at risk?
that doesn’t clude exclude the possibility of tical asylum as a separate im, so even if an individual n’t a british national overseas, ure many nations will be offer ffering asylum to those who feel atened.
indeed, i know that the ited states, australia and japan ther countries are already king at different forms of the ifeboat scheme, effectively, that has offered.
do you feel, ough, that is is an appropriate course of action for the government?
that the conservative general lection manifesto immigration said that overall numbers hould come down?
these are british nals.
but you have also dated the past against what was known he dubs amendment, where they hould have been guaranteed rights naccompanied child refugees and voted against it with a heavy art, i admit.
debs amendment, ught to put into law something at the government is already g, which is there was no oint in supporting it because ually the government is ready prioritising young people unaccompanied or vulnerable.
that is literally the government’s policy and has been for many years, so the debs many, many years, so the debs amendment didn’t change anything, is it was symbolic, rather han a simpla, than a simple, which by the way i welcome, that symbolic, rather than ical, so this again doesn’t ave any application in the rcumstance.
staying with this, if ere, ijust have to say goodbye to our viewers on one.
thank you tching.
so let’s continue.
the government in beijing is accusing britain of interference great britain of interference threatening retaliation.
how erned are you and what form those countermeasures take?
fraid you will have to ask somebody from the chinese government to answer those questions.
i wouldn’t know.
but i hope very much here isn’t a retaliation on the grounds that there is nothing to iate for.
all the has done is moderately change the immigration for people who are already british tionals.
i think it would very strange if the were to tten retaliation that was omething to do with chinese gration for chinese citizens and china already controls the ternal immigration of its opulation, people are not allowed move cities or move between ities unless they have internal migration documents and the doesn’t raise any issues about them, are a matter for the chinese vernment.
in a post brexit world, it is looking for trade deals tside the european union.
how rilous will talks with china be britain taking this approach to kong?
well, ithink it important at the does build up ade with countries around the rld.
japan, iwan are important countries.
really deep in our rading relationship with them and korea is another one that we have really seen grow from and i hope that this will demonstrate are options in the 56 market, there should be from and japan.
you look at ntries like if you look at countries like indonesia, which is a hugely lous nation that is growing normously due to economic ﬂuence, enormously due to economic influence, and of course most ortantly rhaps, india, who have been extremely important in standing recently, but also have a up to recently, but also have a living bridge with the due to the populations that link us, so i hope very much hat we’ll see is a pening with trade with countries the world and yes, with china, but without actually making lves dependent on one single ourselves dependent on one single nation.
even if it means standing up man rights at the expense of trade?
i don’t think it needs to be expense of trade.
that is a ecision of the chinese government.
ain is standing up for human ights and that is a moral ligation that we should do, nding up or the fact that there is 1.
5 million we news muslims being ted and detained for ouija muslims other and when there is no on to persecute them.
something has been widely reported and at is something that all countries stand up for, and i see no eason a country should wish to aliate against that, unless what are actually doing is intending chieve world domination and thnic cleansing of all countries, ’m sure china would not argue at and would not say that they to retaliate standing up for nese citizens.
i’m sure the hinese government would say that would like to stand up for nese citizens as well, whether hey are ouija muslims or istians.
i’m sure they were ndemning these people have been nducting torture in the name of chinese communist party.
thank very much for us.
let’s you very much for joining us.
let’s go straight to scotland, where the minister, nicola sturgeon, is etting her daily, coronavirus athing.
no thank you for joining us.
i have an awful lot of information to get oday, so please bear with me cause i’m going to take a little longer in my opening remarks, i will start with the usual update on statistics.
an additional ositive ases work in five positive cases work in yesterday, which takes the total to 4, a total of 785 patients are 18,264, a total of 785 patients are currently in hospital with the s, either confirmed or virus, either confirmed or suspected.
that is no change at the rom yesterday, but it does include a eduction of seven in the ber of confirmed cases.
a total nine peopla night were in ntensive care with confirmed or pected id—19 and that is eight suspected covid-19 and that is eight fewer than yesterday.
since the 5th ch, a total of a080 patients of march, a total of 4080 patients who had tested positive and required tal treatment have now been able to leave hospital and in the 24 a hours when death was registered a patient confirmed a test is having the virus, and at takes the total number and that asurement to 2487.
i want once ain today to send my deepest ndolences to everyone who has lost ved one through illness and my go as always to everyone rking hard to help us through this ess.
-- crisis.
several of the phase two changes announced last week have now ened.
on monday, most shops were to open along with many workplaces.
from the evidence i have people have responded to that esponsibly, so thank you to all of for that.
today i am able to nfirm the further changes that take place tomorrow and next onday.
that decision is informed by urrent estimate of the hour number which remains below a one in of not .
6 to 0.
6 —— 0.
8.
our stimate of the rrently infectious ople and capable of transmitting hers.
as of friday, we estimate at number had fallen to 1500.
the tinued low prevalence of the virus ans we can proceed with hanges anned for tomorrow.
that eans outdoor hospitality such as ement cafe is and beer gardens reopen rom monday sixth july.
though errorism will not open until the 15th of y, uly, self—contained iday accommodation, for example holiday ges, lodges or caravans with no hared facilities can reopen from orrow.
we will also from morrow, with one important eption that i will come unto hortly, left the guidance advising not to travel more than five peopla not to travel more than five milas for aisure purposes was up i know at many of you will beacon me are keen to travel further and looking other parts of our autiful country, but when doing at please behave responsibly and llow all of the public health gorously.
be sensitive to those ving in mral and island living in rural and island communities and remember this, if not take appropriate care, you do not take appropriate rare, you risk taking the virus to other es.
please do not do that.
let me turn out to the exception that i referred to a moment ago.
you will that yesterday we reported on an outbreak of the virus in annan retna.
professor leach will say a bit more about that shortly.
so far, ten possible cases have been tified and a significant number ontacts are being traced and ested.
as a precaution, staff at workplaces with connections, ositive connections are also tested and mobile testing units have been deployed.
-- two.
we are hopeful this outbreak will be ained and i should stress there is no evidence at this stage to est otherwise.
until contact racing and testing has been leted, we cannot be absolutely complated, we cannot be absolutely sure about that, and that means we act on a precautionary basis.
a result, the advice and guidance ple in the areas of annan, to people in the areas of arman, gretna, dumfries, lockerbie and is to continue to follow the ive mile vel restriction over the weekend until the testing and act tracing process has been ompleted and we are able to assess he outbreak has indeed been ontained.
we have published a ticular post codes this guidance ﬁes lies to on social media later and will provide a further update on day for stop if you have plans to vel into these areas over the ekend to visit or stay, you should the travel advice while you there.
if you run a business in hese area, luding at the gretna gateway outlet village, be extra lant about hygiene and physical distancing.
in addition, care homes ese eas will unfortunately in these areas will unfortunately not be able to welcome visitors over eekend.
generally, to people in these areas, until we conclude anagement of this outbreak, lease assume there is a higher risk fection right now.
take particular care to follow all public dvice and remember, and i am sorry about this, but the five mile means you should not travel to south of the border over this ekend.
i know that this will not welcome news for people in these eas and i am genuinely sorry about at, but this outbreak is sharply inding us how ighly reminding usjust how highly infectious covid—19 is and how vital hat proceed with real care it is that we proceed with real rare and caution.
let me turn to the next of a physical distancing and whether we can in some circumstances the metre rule.
we are relax the two metre rule.
we are publishing today at the advice on a cal distancing that the physical distancing that the government has received from our ntific advisory group.
this advice makes clear that the science sical distancing has not on physical distancing has not changed.
as the distance between decreases, the risk of transmitting covid-19 increases.
to quote the advice directly, there is ased risk somewhere between two a ten fold in reducing from two res to one metre.
however, the ice notes that as the number of nfected individuals false, there is chance of any of us coming into ontact someone who has the irus and so absolute risk is lower.
so notes that risk can be it also notes that risk ran be mitigated through other measures.
ll, the advisory group overall, the advisory group concludes that, and i am quoting, it imately a matter of policy as what physical distance is erated in different environments.
king all of this into account, the tish government has reached the ollowing conclusions.
firstly, our ral dvice will remain general advice will remain unchanged.
we will continue to that as far as possible, you should remain two metres away from in other households.
second, two metres will remain the benchmark test and protect system.
that means by saying at least two away from other people, you not just uce your chance of getting ovid—19 and transmitting also educe your chance of eing traced as someone’s close tact being asked to elf—isolate.
in addition, this tancing is ticularly important distancing is particularty important as a guideline in anyone in a -risk group, for example over 70 with an derlying health condition.
all of that will not ge.
however, we do recognise hat there are different harms here we must to balance as best ran.
sticking two metres has ear lear benefits, it also has a rious conomic implications, and dverse economic impact we know an in turn an effect on it ran in turn have an effect on people’s health and well—being.
for reasons when we enter a phase three of the route map which i hope be the end of next week, we will be the end of next week, we will allow exemptions for specific where agreed mitigations ust be put in place.
the exemptions allow premises and relevant ectors if they so choose to operate in a one metre distance on the ondition that agreed mitigations mplement it.
to be clear, this be -- hese will be exceptions.
general mle in law will be that businesses and services must take asonable measures to ensure hat two metres is maintained.
ahead ase three, we will work with sectors.
initially, hospitality, public transport to agree he mitigations required and alise detailed guidance, and we also work very closely with rade unions.
the guidance will be rent for different sectors, earty the different for different sectors, clearly the mitigations for a aurant or bar will be different those for a hairdresser.
for strative purposes and to allow businesses to start to plan, we are shing today the kinds of publishing today the kinds of mitigations that might be required sector.
however, in general erms, these might include improved ilation is, perfect screens, gulation of customer flow and eating that reduce seating plans that reduce transmission risk.
—— perspex.
gation will so include the mitigation will also include the collection of names and addresses of mers to help with contact racing when also necessary.
we will nsist on clear customer also insist on clear customer information to help inform the ments that we all make as judgments that we all make as individuals about the risks we are red to take, so if a business ecides to operate at a less than metres, they should provide ear assignments, ignage informing they are entering a one zone.
we hope to have most of he guidance agreed ahead of phase and ahead of the opening of ospitality on the 15th of ly.
in the antime, the current rules pply.
in my view, this esents a balanced and represents a balanced and proportionate approach to what is a lee -- enuinely difficult genuine lee —— genuinely difficult issue.
we allow businesses to cater our ustomers, and that is the difference between staying in ness or closing.
however, it inimises risk, which for some ividuals and with no exaggeration uld be the difference between life eath.
obviously if infection evels were to rise again, we erve the right to re—impose a rict to etre rule either strict to metre mle either nationally or locally and to take her lic health measures necessary to keep as safe.
if we inue to make progress, we may be able to consider a more general xation in later phases.
the sue of a physical distancing is evant to the next issue i want to alk about, which is face coverings.
been recommending the use of we have been recommending the use of a face coverings for some time now is already mandatory on pub“: transport.
i can confirm day that the expected start of phase three which is the 10th of next eek, wearing face july next week, wearing face coverings will also be mandatory in .
as with public transport, there will be some exemptions for dren under and eople with children under five and people with certain medical conditions, but yone else, face coverings will be mandatory.
let me be very clear.
is not a ision we have taken this is not a decision we have taken lightly.
it has taken us some time ach this decision, but as we start to interact more, it is that we take all reasonable to educe risk, and we know hat face coverings can help reduce risks ransmission indoors.
the risks of transmission indoors.
also, in shops as on public nsport, contact tracing is more ifficult, because we usually do not the people that we have been in ntact with.
face covering provides dditional layer of protection.
is therefore for all of these ons that face coverings in shops be compulsory from the end of ext week.
please do not wait until get into the habit of wearing hem now.
it is an important way for of us to help protect each other to display that a sense of olidarity that has served the so well over these past few months.
the final issue i want to about today relates to children to young people.
in a few oments, chief medical officer will provide some important rmation for some of the children who are currently shielding, and i want to say directly to any of you re watching, i know how difficult, even more difficult for this last period has been for °“- ou, and i want to thank you for patience and for complying with these rules.
the advice i am all of these mles.
the advice i am about to give up does not apply to dren who are shielding, but the hief medical officers will say more oment.
it does apply to other ildren and young people.
we want help ildren enjoy these a summer holiday is a bit more.
we also know that the clinical risks of -19, articularly for younger covid-19, particularty for younger children, appeared to be relatively lthough we will never be low, although we will never be complacent about that.
as long as are restrictions on the number of households we can meet, families find difficult to balance the social needs of children and ts.
understandably you do not to see the same people every y.
bearing that in mind, i am announcing ay to further changes our rules to allow for more eraction between young people, these changes will both a flight morrow.
for children who are 11 years old, we -- or ger, we are removing the to physically stance when outdoors that you can lay more ally with your friends play more normally with your friends which i hope you will enjoy.
i am this move will be appreciated by your arents and carers.
other will emain the same for the ext wee while.
you should continue in groups of eight or less meet no more than two hassles at ime.
adults who are with you continue to observe the sical distancing from each other, and physical distancing even for children is advised indoors.
our ance is different for those aged 2—17.
we are not relaxing this role you, but now that you do not want to be limited by your parents eet.
want to have your own ives and eet your own friends.
50 when you meet people, we are still asking you to do that outdoors should still stick to a limit of eight people from no more ree households at any one than three households at any one time.
however we will lift the —— the limit on the number of meetings you ran ave in any one .
that means you can meet day.
that means you ran meet different groups of friends at erent times of the day and also mportantly means you will not be vented from reading your friends because your parents or carers brother or sister happens to be ting their ends.
i said, we meeting their friends.
as i said, we are asking all their children to two metres distant from other ouseholds, even outdoors.
the published today suggests this is less important for young people, we do hope will change in so we do hope this will change in the weeks to come, but initially and safety, we want for your safety, we want to act cautiously.
these changes are careful but important step that i hope will make life a little bit easy and more fun for children young people.
i hope next week out more changes, not just for ildren but for adults as well, how households can meet, interact play, and i also hope to confirm that stage the organised outdoor ntact sports for children can ume from the 13th of y.
i hope these changes allow you as hildren and young people a bit more dom in meeting up with your iends and i hope they allow you to a bit more of your summer holiday, even if it is raining for of the time, as it is the case much of the time, as it is the rase in scotland will stop lastly i hope more clarity next week about when places of worship might be able pen for communal prayer and congregational services.
i had a constructive discussion very constructive discussion yesterday with scotland’s main faith and we will be engaging with groups and we will be engaging with them more in the days ahead.
i know ommitted they all are to the safety of the congregations and i hope to give an assurance of the tish government desire to see ple of faith able to gather ether for prayer and worship ain as soon as possible.
as is vious, particularly from that inal ction of my update, some les ules from now on are going to come more targeted as we move of lockdown.
that therefore unfortunately that they will ecome more, get it.
if you’re in doubt of the changes i have nfirmed, and i have given a lot of formation there in a short space time, please go to the scottish vernment website.
our route map out dearty what changes apply and when and we are publishing an today relative to the announcement i have made.
although fic mles rules and guidance are specific rules and guidance are changing, iwant to end by stressing a very basic principle still this, a very basic principla still appﬁes and becomes more important these are the rules change.
it is because so of us have only because so many of us have stuck to the rules so far that we able take these steps out of ockdown and only if we continue to to the rules will be be able drive virus down further and live less restrictive lives in the and months ahead.
four more businesses to reopen, for public ices to be back to normal, for more of us to be able to meet oors, for children to go back to chool full—time, august, all of ollective benefits depend on the decisions we make as individuals in the days and weeks to now and in the days and weeks to come.
so please take advantage of act that some of these rules re changing.
and about a are changing.
get out and about a bit more if you can and please port oral businesses if you can well.
they eed your support at time.
but always be aware, as are seeing in dumfries and loway right now, that this virus not gone away.
it is highly fectious, it is highly dangerous, cases are still being and new rases are still being reported every day.
so please at all remember our key guidance, the facts.
face coverings should be worn losed spaces, they are already andatory in public transport and will be mandatory in shops from week.
avoid crowded areas, even hey are outdoors.
clean your ands regularly and thoroughly and ean any services that you ouch.
clean any hard services that you touch.
two metres distancing remains ear overall advice.
the sale the clear overall advice.
the sale of isolate and book a test ediately if you have of ovid-19, there are a ough, fever or or change in he sense of taste or smell.
you can ok test he inform website or all.
please do not wait to do t.
as soon as you experience any these symptoms, air on the side caution and book a test.
if we follow this advice rigorously stick to it to the letter, we stay safe, we will help to tect others and we will save es, so my thanks for your operation so far and for the peration i know you will continue isplay in the days, weeks and to come.
i am going to ask professor leach to just few more words about the situation around an end and gretna the chief medical officer is going to say a word or two about dren who are shielding, and then we will take the questions we have journalists.
n.
just to from journalists.
-- and n.
just to add to some of the things she said, deal very quickly first of all with the outbreak and cluster we ssed yesterday.
you will discussed yesterday.
you will remember there were two contractors tested positive for antibody tests using a private company.
we have retested them using antigen and they are both negative.
hat cluster is closed down and late.
there is no risk beyond complete.
there is no risk beyond the national risk around that area.
er, the same cannot be said of the dumfries and galloway cluster.
cident management team met ast night at four o’clock whether directors of public health from ies and galloway and the director of public health from ria in their local authority hether the contact tracing team, a obiologist and everybody would xpect to be on there, including the executive of dumfries and lloway health board.
we had ttish government representation, cluding me unusually because this mplex outbreak and the first have had in this removal of some in the rich map.
as the first ister said, we have presently, this could change, we have sently had ten positive cases and have high—risk workplaces involved this cluster, and we to be as upfront but as lanced as we can about that.
the tial case, and may not initial first use, and it may not be the index case, it is too early ay, but the case we were to say, but the first use we were aware of is a health care worker the rlisle hospital, and that from the “artisla hospital, and that may be onnected to an outbreak at carlisle hospital, but we that “artisla hospital, but we cannot sure until we do genomic ology at a much slower rate.
the ther two high—risk workplaces that touched on our two factories in dumfries and galloway, and we have obile testing units to them today to test all of the workers in .
there will be another incident anagement team today at four lock who will continue to meet the weekend.
the deputy first ister chaired a scottish esilience meeting this morning with partners which i was also oral partners of which i was also present to give an update.
again, border with the public health leads from cumbria.
that discussed der implications and the the wider implications and the partners were very supportive of the rtionate response to the first minister has outlined following our e.
it underlines the rules.
advice.
it undertines the mles.
this is really difficult, ticularly on a day when we are discussing easing some of the les ules for children and it is a peful ay for many families who ill be able to do more tomorrow the weekend and into next week.
clusters of this size, when is history is written, suggests guidelines may not have been rictly adhered to.
i do not know at for sure in this cluster, but that is usually what happens.
so i really implore you to obey the elines as best you can.
if you guidelines as best you ran.
if you follow you do not, your risk is higher.
it is as simple as that.
you can see quickly thin a matter of days how quickly within a matter of days we ran have ten positive cases, and increasing mber of contacts ever increasing number of contacts get harder to trace, and we need to steps already to make dumfries galloway look a little different the rest of the country and we not want to do do that.
the other ng, and finally i want to ggest, is if you do not follow the guidance, you tie up resources.
in the last three days we have used protection teams, lots of ontact tracers, 48 contact tracers mfries and galloway.
chief executive of a health board who be re—immobilising his health vice along ith everybody else.
cottish government resources and our mobile testing units.
i understand it is no 1—person’s fault do not want blame and i do and we do not want blame and i do not want you to look for people to me, but you disobey the guidelines, that what happens.
we have to redirect resources in order age that outbreak.
my final thought is if you have symptoms, icularty not exclusively if are in his area of dumfries and loway, please, please come rward for testing.
we have tiple areas where you can now be tested in area.
we really want get to the end of the virus smission of this outbreak and hen we can advise the first nister that dumfries and galloway ave the same restrictions as he rest the country.
thank you.
i hand to their chief lastly i hand over to their chief medical officer.
thank you.
i want vide you oday with an update to provide you today with an update about shielding, at the beginning of ndemic, the four chief the pandemic, the four chief medical officers published a list of oups where people could be considered to be extremely high risk reme illness should they of extreme illness should they contract covid—19.
these groups were in pecific conditions.
this was irrespective of age and efore included children and oung people, all of whom were ised to shield in order to minimise their chance of catching ms.
rus.
for people who are the vims.
for peopla who are shielding, we are especially aware he restrictions on everyday life we have asked them to follow xtremely difficult.
they impact significantly on their quality of the increased social olation.
for children and young pla, these restrictions are articularly tough.
this has been a worrying difficult time for those who are shielding, and i want tribute to everyone for following the shielding guidance.
we are now in the fourth month of the lding period and there is new idence and guidance that becomes lable, so it is important to the availabla, so it is important to the approach is reviewed, and only those red to shield are advised to do so.
we recently announced changes to vice for people who are the advice for people who are shielding, to say that we believe it appropriate for them to is now appropriate for them to exercise outside, to meet with other holds or a group of up to eight opla, to take part in noncontact ivities or that we will continue every aspect of our advice people who are shielding under view.
findings from the evidence esearch now allows us to reconsider an updated advice on children are at the highest sk.
the royal college of aediatrics and child health works rtnership with a wide range of paediatric clinical expert groups to new evidence and have review new evidence and have produced updated guidance.
this ests that many children and oung people currently advised to ield ould no longer do so, as he risk is significantly less than iginally umed.
this new originally assumed.
this new guidance which is supported across nations indicates that many children and young people with itions such as asthma or conditions such as asthma or diabetes, epilepsy and kidney ase, they may no longer need to tinue to shield.
this means there a lot of children who will be to enjoy what we all hope is a sunny and warm summer period.
it also means that for some children, ill be able to return to they will be able to return to school once they start to reopen in t.
it is important to stress august.
it is important to stress however that the guidance is just , it is guidance.
what we will llow is or clinicians to review dividual cases, and let us the daily iefing there from dinburgh, just tell you that later we will be answering your uestions on the back to school plan blished by government this morning.
that is obviously for dren at schools and colleges in ngland.
that is at 2:30pm.
get in using the hashtag your uestions or text us or you can mail our estions.
the weather now with ick.
hello, apart from one or two ers, much of scotland and rthern ireland have a fine ernoon is sunny spells by the end afternoon for wales and uth—east england.
a good deal of round, but heavy and possibly ndery showers in the midlands, ast anglia and south—east england.
ntial for getting caught in a heavy downpour, just gradually as we go on through the evening.
for a time overnight, ad down like rain heading into northern ireland and scotland by the ng, north—west england as well morning, north-west england as well stop temperatures up overnight, so us into double figures by the time we start the day tomorrow.
ill make for a milder start to be had this morning, and into rrow, looking wet across western tland.
20—30 millimetres of otland rain.
some possibility is struction.
outbreaks of rain for northern ireland, wales and of gland.
an increasingly windy day as well.
that is your her.
a major police operation dismantles riminal networks smuggling drugs guns.
ice!
in one of the and guns.
police!
in one of the biggest police operations of its , a secret communications system lied on by organised inals has relied on by organised criminals has been hacked.
this is an amazing nt, i think, for policing and law enforcement.
we’ll have all test details.
also this nchtime.
after months of empty assrooms, the government produces safety plans for schools in gland from september, saying year should keep separate.
some achers say that will be mplicated.
in these challenging mes, we are committed to ensuring ation’s children have not ust a safe ducation but also an cellent one.
practical onsiderations as lunchtime, we have year groups.
if every year oup has half an hour, that’s three half hours of lunchtime.
and a half hours of lunchtime.
dozens of countries may be on a new rnment list of places we can travel to hout quarantine.
people ross wales will soon be able to isit pubs and is with outdoor space, but indoor areas stay closed w.
-- afes.
and honouring for now.
-- cafes.
and honouring front line workers like medics and efighters.
ear about plans firefighters.
we hear about plans for a national monument in the wake of coronavirus.
and coming up on news, 12 different buyers interested an now ccording to in wigan now according to administrators.
the championship re struggling due to the coronavirus pandemic.
hello, good afternoon and welcome to the news at one.
in one of the est police operations of its kind a 3 secret communication system on by rganised riminals to relied on by organised criminals to trade drugs and firearms has been by the ’s national crime agency.
more than 700 people have arrested and entire networks smantled.
our home affairs, spondent tom symonds has the ails.
strike.
it’s early in the morning.
the metropolitan police are making a move against a suspected gang involved in guns and drugs.
the bangs are what they call distraction devices, designed to prevent a hostile response.
another early morning raid, this time in birmingham.
police!
there has never been a national police operation like this.
every force in the country has been involved.
dozens of raids over months, hundreds of arrests.
law enforcement.
thanks to our partners in the national crime agency and internationally, we have been able to hit the most senior levels of organised crime.
all because french intelligence has broken into a secret criminal phone network.
it looks like a normal android phone but these phones sell for between £800—£3,000 because they have some added functionality which allow criminals to do what they do.
john is going to show us.
i’ll put it there, john, and you can take it away.
so, if you found this on the street you would have no idea there was anything else within the phone.
but there is?
then if you put the power button in another fashion it looks like the phone is just restarting.
and then the process starts again.
so it boots up but this time it’s going to go into a secured operating system which hides the applications.
and what do those applications allow criminals to do?
these applications allow someone who has an device like this to talk to someone else who has a similar device.
encrochat has become a trusted and required tool for 10,000 top criminals.
top—level criminals.
but now their messages have been read.
word got out, so police sped up their investigations and raids, before going public today.
of course, organised crime is about making vast amounts of money.
and what’s astonishing is the amount of it which has been seized by the police in this investigation.
this is £50,000.
that is £2 million.
the met has seized £14 million over recent months.
nationally, 5a million has been seized along with guns and drugs.
arrested are described