some dense fog may be slow to clear,
showers migrating northwards from England and Wales into Scotland,
fading into the afternoon to leave some quite dry weather around,
a few sunny spells, but then comes the next area of rain
from that frontal system we saw earlier, with a strengthening wind,
towards southern England and South Wales to end the day.
Double—figure temperatures here, mostly elsewhere — single figures.
This spell of rain may not be as heavy as those we’ve seen recently
but it will be falling on saturated ground, bringing a risk
of more disruption and flooding going into Sunday morning,
and then the rain will be gradually clearing on Sunday
away from eastern England. There could be some fog across parts of
northern Britain to start Sunday,
with a touch of frost in places.
This is Sunday’s weather pattern.
That’s the rain—bearing system pulling into the North Sea,
with a band of showers heading into western areas later in the day
as the breeze starts to freshen here.
Dull and damp through eastern parts of England. The rain clearing,
brightening up again a bit later.
Some sunny spells elsewhere once any fog clears away,
and these showers then heading into the west. A few of those could be on
the heavy side. Just clinging on to double figures South Wales,
southern England. For most of us, temperatures are close to average
for the time of year. The pattern for Monday — a little bit breezy,
bright and breezy, cos there will be some sunny spells,
a few showers, more especially western Scotland.
We could well again towards the end of the day see another spell of rain
pushing into parts of southern England, especially into the
Channel Islands as well. This frontal system — some uncertainty
about how far north that’ll bring the rain, so we’ll keep an eye
on that. On through Christmas Eve, that clears away
and again, it’s bright, it’s fairly breezy,
there are sunny spells around, some showers, more especially in the west
and those in Scotland may produce a bit of pre—Christmas snow
into the higher hills and mountains.
These are your Christmas Eve temperatures.
It takes us on to the big day, and at the moment, it is looking
mainly dry for Christmas Day. There could be some fog around
to start the day, slow to clear in places, with light winds,
frosty in places too,
but then a lot of dry and fairly sunny weather — good news if you’re
travelling but, of course, it means we’re not likely to see
any Christmas snow, and temperatures will have come down a few degrees.
It looks reasonably quiet into Boxing Day as well,
because look at this bump in the jet stream.
This is the ridge of high pressure which will have moved in in time
for Christmas Day to settle things down, but as we go deeper
into next week and the following weekend, then the jet stream
takes charge once again. What does that mean?
It’s likely to bring areas of low pressure back towards us from the
Atlantic, the winds freshen, some rain at times,
temperatures edge up a few degrees.
This is how your Christmas week is shaping up -
a showery start, drierfor a time, Christmas Day, Boxing Day,
though it could be foggy with a touch of frost in places,
but then, after that,
the weather turns more active, with rain coming back into the forecast.
A lot of interest, of course, in the Christmas weather,
and we’ll keep you updated here on Weather For The Week Ahead.
Welcome to my Big Show!
Robbie Williams!
# Let me, let me... #
If I’d have known you were ringing, I wouldn’t have answered!
LAUGHTER
She’s not happy. She’s just annoyed with me.
She says I’m too nosey. She said that?
No, no, I read it in her diary.
his home. One of the first things we
bought, perhaps he actually came home with us was the FurBo, which
home with us was the FurBo, which found him all the time, tells you
found him all the time, tells you when he is barking, waning, and if
when he is barking, waning, and if you want to give him a bit of a
you wantto give him a bit ofa treat, you ran
you want to give him a bit of a treat, you can click the treat
treat, you ran click the treat release
treat, you can click the treat release button and he gets lots of
release button and he gets lots of treats sent to him. Wants to test
treats sent to him. Wants to test some gadgets? I take it that is a
some gadgets? I take it that is a yes. Today, he is my furry glamorous
yes. Today, he is my furry glamorous assistant, getting his teeth into
assistant, getting his teeth into testing tech. The rechargeable
testing tech. The rechargeable wicked ball moves vibrates and
wicked ball moves vibrates and changes colour according to activity
changes colour according to activity level while playing. Is developed to
level while playing. Is developed to encourage attraction and response. I
encourage attraction and response. I do worry about when he picks it up
do worry about when he picks it up in his teeth and it is vibrating his
in his teeth and it is vibrating his teeth. GPS trackers for dogs have
teeth. GPS trackers for dogs have been around for a while, but they
been around for a while, but they are getting smaller and later. This
are getting smaller and later. This is water resistant and does better
is water resistant and does better on battery life that some of its
on battery life that some of its competitors, and also has a function
competitors, and also has a function where you ran
competitors, and also has a function where you can get an alert if your
where you ran get an alart if your pet foods goes
where you can get an alert if your pet foods goes further than it
pet foods goes further than it should, but how useful did Camilla
should, but how useful did Camilla find it? It’s great, it’s a GPS
find it? It’s great, it’s a GPS tractor, very small, but it is just
tractor, very small, but it is just a GPS tracker, and I would have
a GPS tracker, and I would have loved to have some activity tracker
loved to have some activity tracker with it, but it is very accurate and
with it, but it is very accurate and seems to have been correct every
seems to have been correct every time I have checked. I would not
time I have checked. Iwould not find it overty
time I have checked. I would not find it overly useful because I know
find it overty useful because I know where he
find it overly useful because I know where he is most of the time. In the
where he is most of the time. In the use of your dog
where he is most of the time. In the case of your dog getting stolen and
use of your dog getting stolen and they are
case of your dog getting stolen and they are wearing it, that would be
they are wearing it, that would be extremely useful. Being able to
extremely useful. Being able to track our animals has stepped up a
track our animals has stepped up a lavel. Now, you
track our animals has stepped up a level. Now, you can also track their
lavel. Now, you ran also track their behaviour
level. Now, you can also track their behaviour as well as their activity,
behaviour as well as their activity, so you ran see
behaviour as well as their activity, so you can see how the two things,
so you ran see how the two things, later.
so you can see how the two things, later. Beautifully behaved of
later. Beautifully behaved of course, aren’t you? The pet activity
course, aren’t you? The pet activity and behaviour tracker logs a doggy’s
and behaviour tracker logs a doggrs step count
and behaviour tracker logs a doggy’s step count and sleep as well as
step count and sleep as well as alerting its own as too much
alerting its own as too much barking, shaking or scratching is
barking, shaking or scratching is going on. OK,
barking, shaking or scratching is going on. 0K, 3
barking, shaking or scratching is going on. 0K, a calm moment, but
going on. OK, a calm moment, but that
going on. 0K, a calm moment, but that doesn’t seem to be any lack of
that doesn’t seem to be any lack of activity today, although you do need
activity today, although you do need to collect at least a week’s worth
to collact at least a week’s worth of data
to collect at least a week’s worth of data to start to see anything
of data to start to see anything meaningful. The negatives though are
meaningful. The negatives though are you have to keep it on at night
you have to keep it on at night time, and I personally don’t like
time, and I personally don’t like keeping a collar on Rusty at no
keeping a collar on Rusty at no time, I
keeping a collar on Rusty at no time, Idon’t
keeping a collar on Rusty at no time, I don’t think it is
time, I don’t think it is particularly safe. So
time, I don’t think it is particularly safe. 50 depending on a
particularty safe. So depending on a dog and its
particularly safe. 50 depending on a dog and its owner’s lifestyles, it
dog and its owner’s lifestyles, it seems that different gadgets would
seems that different gadgets would be used. But one thing that is for
be used. But one thing that is for certain is that before I felt
certain is that before I felt anything like this again, I think I
anything like this again, I think I need a spot of human training... I
need a spot of human training... I will play with this with you if you
will play with this with you if you let me hold onto it. That was Lara
let me hold onto it. That was [are with the dogs, I
let me hold onto it. That was Lara with the dogs, I guess the only
with the dogs, I guess the only thing you need to be thankful for is
thing you need to be thankful for is it wasn’t cat. Maybe next year?
it wasn’t cat. Maybe next year? Christmas is all about getting get a
Christmas is all about getting get a beer with friends and family, I
beer with friends and family, I don’t know how you feel about family
don’t know how you feel about family by now, we have known each other an
by now, we have known each other an awful long time. We are
awful long time. We are dysfunctional, we bicker, but we
dysfunctional, we bicker, but we have seen each other through some
have seen each other through some “P5
have seen each other through some ups and downs, good times and bad
ups and downs, good times and bad times, and a few months ago, one
times, and a few months ago, one member of Click got some bad news
member of (lick got some bad news to. I got
member of Click got some bad news to. I got diagnosed with breast
to. I got diagnosed with breast fencer a
to. I got diagnosed with breast cancer a few months back, and
cancer a few months back, and chemotherapy has some surprising
chemotherapy has some surprising bits of technology involved, and I
bits of technology involved, and I thought why not demystify it and
thought why not demystify it and give people a chance to see what
give peopla a chance to see what actually
give people a chance to see what actually happens. I’ve got tea, and
actually happens. I’ve got tea, and iPad, colouring pencils, charging
iPad, colouring pencils, charging tabla.
iPad, colouring pencils, charging cable. Two kinds of drinks,
cable. Two kinds of drinks, headphones, I think it is most
headphones, I think it is most things. This is my eighth
things. This is my eighth chemotherapy treatment out of ten, I
chemotherapy treatment out of ten, I am ready to rock now. Everything
am ready to rock now. Everything starts with tablets, Lorazepam is to
starts with tablats, Lorazepam is to help to deal
starts with tablets, Lorazepam is to help to deal with the pain of the
help to deal with the pain of the treatment because it is very very
treatment because it is very very cold. Lunch menu... Today I will
cold. Lunch menu... Today I will have what I always have, this is
have what I always have, this is where my port has been implanted.
where my port has been implanted. It’s a fast track tube under my skin
It’s a fast track tube under my skin that connects directly to my heart,
that connects directly to my heart, allowing nurses to administer drugs
allowing nurses to administer dmgs really easily.
allowing nurses to administer drugs really easily. Like plugging in a
really easily. Like plugging in a phone charger. As a piano player, I
phone charger. As a piano player, I didn’t want to have any catheters in
didn’t want to have any catheters in my hands or in my arms, because the
my hands or in my arms, because the chemo treatment is quite toxic,
chemo treatment is quite toxic, because when I found out you could
because when I found out you could get a port fitted and anything goes
get a port fitted and anything goes on here, I don’t have to hunt around
on here, I don’t have to hunt around for a vein, it is massively
for a vein, it is massively beneficial. I didn’t feel a thing!
beneficial. I didn’t feel a thing! Now this is in, that is, everything
Now this is in, that is, everything goes in and out of the port of.
goes in and out of the port of. Before I started chemo, I was really
Before I started chemo, I was really scared, and I was also uninformed
scared, and I was also uninformed about the actual practicalities of
about the actual practicalities of it, the ins and outs, what to
it, the ins and outs, what to expect. Like wearing a cold. Chemo
expect. Like wearing a cold. Chemo kills any rapidly dividing cells,
kills any rapidly dividing cells, including hair, so lowering blood
including hair, so lowering blood circulation to my scalp can keep my
circulation to my scalp ran keep my hair on. Imagine
circulation to my scalp can keep my hair on. Imagine eating the coldest
hair on. Imagine eating the coldest ice cream in the world for about an
ice cream in the world for about an hour and a half,
ice cream in the world for about an hourand a half, and
ice cream in the world for about an hour and a half, and that gives you
hour and a half, and that gives you a good idea. Off comes the Uighur. —
a good idea. Off comes the Uighur. - wig. There we go,
a good idea. Off comes the Uighur. — wig. There we go, owner L, although
wig. There we go, owner L, although with quite a lot of make—up. Some
with quite a lot of make-up. Some patients keep
with quite a lot of make—up. Some patients keep than others, I though
patients keep than others, I though I have been quite lucky. Tepid water
I have been quite lucky. Tepid water is applied, and if you are having
is applied, and if you are having one treatment without the cap on,
one treatment without the rap on, you rannot do
one treatment without the cap on, you cannot do it, and you have come
you cannot do it, and you have come out of. It has to fit very snugly. I
out of. It has to fit very snugly. I always had a theory that wearing a
always had a theory that wearing a cold word make my brain really fast,
cold word make my brain really fast, like superconducting, but it is the
like superconducting, but it is the complete opposite of. I am unable to
complete opposite of. I am unabla to do much
complete opposite of. I am unable to do much concentrating. Bring on the
do much concentrating. Bring on the winter! This is the painful pitstop
winter! This is the painful pitstop if I ran get
winter! This is the painful pitstop if I can get through this, then we
if I ran get through this, then we are all good. So
if I can get through this, then we are all good. Sol have
if I can get through this, then we are all good. So I have various
are all good. So I have various things to keep me busy, things that
things to keep me busy, things that I
things to keep me busy, things that Ifind really
things to keep me busy, things that I find really enjoyable are watching
I find really enjoyable are watching mindless TV, and is doing slight
mindless TV, and is doing slight stimulating practice. I have always
stimulating practice. I have always wanted to learn to fly a plane, so
wanted to learn to ﬂy a plane, so why not do it
wanted to learn to fly a plane, so why not do it now? Bring the nose
why not do it now? Bring the nose up. There we go. This is really
up. There we go. This is really taxing with the cap on, I can do it
taxing with the rap on, I ran do it with no problem
taxing with the cap on, I can do it with no problem without the cap on.
with no problem without the rap on. I rannot
with no problem without the cap on. I cannot actually [and the
with no problem without the cap on. I cannot actually land the plane
I rannot actually land the plane while I
I cannot actually land the plane while I have the treatment. I have
while I have the treatment. I have crashed every time. I am slightly
crashed every time. I am slightly impaired at this point, but
impaired at this point, but colouring in clouds, that I can do.
colouring in clouds, that I ran do. I have been
colouring in clouds, that I can do. I have been using apps like this
I have been using apps like this one, procreate, masterclass, and the
one, procreate, masterclass, and the explained theme during the treatment
explained theme during the treatment but I have also been recording my
but I have also been recording my data to show oncologists what my
data to show oncologists what my body has been up to. I am record
body has been up to. I am record what the data shows like blood
what the data shows like blood pressure, and collect data myself
pressure, and collect data myself like my resting heart rate and body
like my resting heart rate and body temperature. Three days after
temperature. Three days after treatment I go up a few degrees of.
treatment I go up a few degrees of. It’s really use. You can then go to
It’s really use. You ran then go to the doctor
It’s really use. You can then go to the doctor and show them physical
the doctor and show them physical evidence of what my body has been
evidence of what my body has been doing. It’s completely frozen solid
doing. It’s completely frozen solid now. Sometimes there is ice in
now. Sometimes there is ice in there. I can’t remember anything
there. I can’t remember anything anymore. After a few hours of IV and
anymore. After a few hours of IV and a cold head, I
anymore. After a few hours of IV and a cold head, lam
anymore. After a few hours of IV and a cold head, I am nearly done for
a cold head, lam hearty done for another
a cold head, I am nearly done for another week. Thank you so much. Is
another week. Thank you so much. Is about it, that’s chemo treatment in
about it, that’s chemo treatment in a nutshell. Lots of different IV
a nutshell. Lots of different IV drugs, all
a nutshell. Lots of different IV drugs, call port and now
a nutshell. Lots of different IV drugs, call port and new hospital
drugs, all port and now hospital lunch.
drugs, call port and new hospital lunch. That was absolutely
lunch. That was absolutely fascinating. Really brave, thank
fascinating. Really brave, thank you. I had no idea about what goes
you. I had no idea about what goes on. This is exactly why I did it
on. This is exactly why I did it because it feels like an opportunity
because it feels like an opportunity to just lift the lid on a single
to just lift the lid on a singla word
to just lift the lid on a single word and just maybe give people who
word and just maybe give peopla who are
word and just maybe give people who are about to
word and just maybe give peopla who are about to go
word and just maybe give people who are about to go through this the
are about to go through this the chance to understand a bit more
chance to understand a bit more before going into it and then it is
before going into it and then it is not a whole lot of surreal
not a whola lot of surreal surprises,
not a whole lot of surreal surprises, one after another, which
surprises, one after another, which is what I was like for me. Trustee
is what I was like for me. Tmstee to find all
is what I was like for me. Trustee to find all the tech you could
to find all the tech you could duﬂng
to find all the tech you could during the procedure. Give me
during the procedure. Give me everything. You really know your way
everything. You really know your way around social media and I wonder
around social media and I wonder whether media has been a help,
whether media has been a help, hindrance, whether it has
hindrance, whether it has contributed at all to your
contributed at all to your experience. I considered for such a
experience. I considered for such a long time, do I share this online,
long time, do I share this online, or do I not? And I decided to share
or do I not? And I decided to share it because I’m not the only person
it because I’m not the only person going through this, so many people
going through this, so many peopla are. The
going through this, so many people are. The response I had was
are. The response I had was overwhelmingly good, so many people
overwhelmingly good, so many people shared their stories with me, and it
shared their stories with me, and it feels like together, we are
feels like together, we are stronger. I am
feels like together, we are stronger. lam really
feels like together, we are stronger. I am really glad I shared.
stronger. lam really glad Ishared. , gosh, thanks!
stronger. I am really glad I shared. , gosh, thanks! All right Lara, last
, gosh, thanks! All right Lara, last chance at this. I hope there is a
chance at this. I hope there is a good joke inside!
chance at this. I hope there is a goodjoke inside! I
chance at this. I hope there is a good joke inside! I believe this is
good joke inside! I believe this is a due
good joke inside! I believe this is a clue about what you have filmed
a clue about what you have filmed for the Christmas show, but it looks
for the Christmas show, but it looks a bit small, quite compact? It is
a bit small, quite compact? It is more, but it is very clever. This is
more, but it is very clever. This is a scale model of the Robo car, and
a scale model of the Robo far, and its makers say it
a scale model of the Robo car, and its makers say it is the fastest
its makers say it is the fastest thing on four wheels with no driver.
thing on four wheels with no driver. That’s why there’s no driver ‘s seat
That’s why there’s no driver ‘s seat in there, but I’ll be looking at a
in there, but I’ll be looking at a future of racing cars with no
future of racing cars with no drivers? Are we stuffed turkey?!
drivers? Are we stuffed turkey?! It’s like autonomous this and
It’s like autonomous this and autonomous that and before you know
autonomous that and before you know it we will not be driving our own
it we will not be driving our own rars, we
it we will not be driving our own cars, we have robots taking people
tars, we have robots taking peopla ‘s jobs, I have
cars, we have robots taking people ‘sjobs, I have had just about
‘s jobs, I have had just about enough.
‘sjobs, I have had just about enough. Somebody told me that there
enough. Somebody told me that there was this Robo car that could race a
was this Robo far that could race a human
was this Robo car that could race a human and be quicker. Let’s take you
human and be quicker. Let’s take you to the home of British motorsport.
to the home of British motorsport. It’s time to make a point. Robo car
It’s time to make a point. Robo far is not your
It’s time to make a point. Robo car is not your average automated car
is not your average automated rar project. The
is not your average automated car project. The cabin this car is not
project. The cabin this car is not interested in traffic lights or
interested in traffic lights or junctions, it’s built with one thing
junctions, it’s built with one thing in mind. Speed. Like a standard
in mind. Speed. Like a standard autonomous car, Robo car uses
autonomous far, Robo rar uses various
autonomous car, Robo car uses various sensors, including lidar,
various sensors, including lidar, radar, and image recognition
radar, and image recognition software to drive at racist speeds,
software to drive at racist speeds, and by measuring lateral G forces,
and by measuring lateral G forces, grip levels, it is learning how to
grip levels, it is learning how to go faster all the time. Now to
go faster all the time. Now to fairty raise
go faster all the time. Now to fairly raise the Robo car, human
fairty raise the Robo far, human versus
fairly raise the Robo car, human versus machine is tricky, given
versus machine is tricky, given there is nowhere for me to set a. To
there is nowhere for me to set a. To decide whether human or AI is the
decide whether human or AI is the faster driver, we’re to raise the
faster driver, we’re to raise the models that does have a cockpit,
models that does have a cockpit, which the developers used to test
which the developers used to test the software. Suitably called
the software. Suitably called Devbot. They didn’t say what
Devbot. They didn’t say what happened to Devbot one. After a
happened to Devbot one. After a fairty sloppy
happened to Devbot one. After a fairly sloppy open lab, 3
happened to Devbot one. After a fairly sloppy open lab, a lineup in
fairty sloppy open lab, a lineup in pola
fairty sloppy open lab, a lineup in polo position,
fairly sloppy open lab, a lineup in pole position, hoping to set a
pole position, hoping to set a respectable naptime for team Human.
respectabla naptime for team Human. Let’s see
respectable naptime for team Human. Let’s see how we get on here. For
Let’s see how we get on here. For safety reasons, the car has been
safety reasons, the far has been limited
safety reasons, the car has been limited to 100 kilometres per hour,
limited to 100 kilometres per hour, both my drive and the AI, but the
both my drive and the AI, but the acceleration is blistering, and
accelaration is blistering, and sitting five
acceleration is blistering, and sitting five centimetres of the
sitting five centimetres of the tarmac, it seems fast enough. Just
tarmac, it seems fast enough. just missed
tarmac, it seems fast enough. Just missed that apex, going over the
missed that apex, going over the curb! Let’s get the speed down! With
curb! Let’s get the speed down! with my full on
curb! Let’s get the speed down! With my full on speed but wider line
my full on speed but wider line around the last corner be my
around the last corner be my undoing, or my masterstroke? Time
undoing, or my masterstroke? Time for the rar
undoing, or my masterstroke? Time for the car to take the wheel.
And we are off! 0h,
And we are off! Oh, my God! That was quick on the brakes there, left that
quick on the brakes there, left that to the last minute. The car was
to the last minute. The far was harder on
to the last minute. The car was harder on brakes and more sudden
harder on brakes and more sudden with the steering. Did not care
with the steering. Did not rare about my
with the steering. Did not care about my comfort. But was it
about my comfort. But was it quicker? 31.68. You did that in 128.
quicker? 31.68. You did that in 128. I heated by three seconds into a
I heated by three seconds into a bank wow! Man wins over machine!
bank wow! Man wins over machine! Brilliant. Thank you. Ladies and
Brilliant. Thank you. ladies and gentlemen,
Brilliant. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Dan Simmons beating
gentlemen, Dan Simmons beating artificial intelligence. That must
artificial intelligence. That must have made your year. Yes. Merry
have made your year. Yes. Merry Christmas, Dan. Love, AI. I
have made your year. Yes. Merry Christmas, Dan. Love, AI. Itell you
Christmas, Dan. Love, AI. Itell you what, 2019 has been an amazing year
what, 2019 has been an amazing year for space nuts everywhere. The 50th
for space nuts everywhere. The 50th anniversary of the first moon
anniversary of the first moon landings, our
anniversary of the first moon landings, ourvisit
anniversary of the first moon landings, our visit to NASA, marks
landings, our visit to NASA, marks visit to the world’s first
visit to the world’s first commercial Spaceport and I had a
commercial Spaceport and I had a chance to review it all with a
chance to review it all with a proper space not as in a nut who has
proper space not as in a nut who has properly
proper space not as in a nut who has property been to
proper space not as in a nut who has properly been to space. Tim peak!
property been to space. Tim peak! Eadier
properly been to space. Tim peak! Earlier this year we went to NASA to
Eartier this year we went to NASA to their hero
Earlier this year we went to NASA to their hero project looking at how to
their hero project looking at how to get the right mix of people for long
get the right mix of people for long space missions and they made the
space missions and they made the point that it is not
space missions and they made the point that it is notjust one type
point that it is not just one type of person you
point that it is notjust one type of person you need. If you had a
of person you need. If you had a spaceship full of one type of person
spaceship full of one type of person that won’t work. Do you have any
that won’t work. Do you have any views on the type of mix you need to
views on the type of mix you need to have on board? You need a mix of
have on board? You need a mix of different types of people on board
different types of people on board with a mixture of different skills.
with a mixture of different skills. And this is going to be so much more
And this is going to be so much more important for a longer duration
important for a longer duration mission to the moon and the Mars
mission to the moon and the Mars purely because you will want a
purely because you will want a medical doctor as part of that crew,
medical doctor as part of that crew, I am sure, and you will probably
I am sure, and you will probably want to geologist as well. You will
want to geologist as well. You will want somebody who is an expert with
want somebody who is an expert with piloting skills but also in terms of
piloting skills but also in terms of personality and character as well. I
personality and character as well. I think you need to have people who
think you need to have peopla who are
think you need to have people who are flexible. Somebody needs to be
are ﬂexible. Somebody needs to be the
are flexible. Somebody needs to be the leader and everybody needs to
the leader and everybody needs to accept that. And if you are all
accept that. And if you are all extremely strong personalities who
extremely strong personalities who do not accept the subordinate
do not accept the subordinate position very well, that is not
position very well, that is not going to work. Which one where you?
going to work. which one where you? A mix. And I
going to work. Which one where you? A mix. And I think my classmates
A mix. And I think my classmates were as well. People who can take on
were as well. People who ran take on a leadership role
were as well. People who can take on a leadership role in step up to the
a leadership role in step up to the plate when needed and also people
plate when needed and also people who ran
plate when needed and also people who can instantly fall into a
who can instantly fall into a supporting role, come up with
supporting role, come up with solutions and the ability to switch
solutions and the ability to switch between the two is very important.
between the two is very important. Have you brought any of the
Have you brought any of the astronaut back with you? Do you deal
astronaut back with you? Do you deal with life differently now to how you
with life differently now to how you did before? I have always been quite
did before? I have always been quite calm.
did before? I have always been quite ﬁlm. I
did before? I have always been quite calm. I think I am even more so
ﬁlm. I think I am even more so having ﬂown in
calm. I think I am even more so having flown in space. And sometimes
having ﬂown in space. And sometimes I thought to
having flown in space. And sometimes I thought to myself, you know, you
I thought to myself, you know, you did a space walk I’m sure you can do
did a space walk I’m sure you ran do this. I have
did a space walk I’m sure you can do this. I have had to give myself a
this. I have had to give myself a bit of a talking to and so yes, you
bit of a talking to and so yes, you are right I ran do
bit of a talking to and so yes, you are right I can do this. 2020 could
are right I ran do this. 2020 could possibly be
are right I can do this. 2020 could possibly be the year when space
possibly be the year when space tourists begin to take their first
tourists begin to take their first ﬂights, that
tourists begin to take their first flights, that is what we have been
ﬂights, that is what we have been told in
flights, that is what we have been told in the last 12 months. I wonder
told in the last 12 months. I wonder if you think space is a place for
if you think space is a place for tourists? We need to be careful
tourists? We need to be careful about who we send into what
about who we send into what environment with what level of
environment with what level of environment —— training and was
environment -- training and was looking after
environment —— training and was looking after them. It is like
looking after them. It is like scuba—diving, it is OK to go
scuba-diving, it is OK to go scuba-diving
scuba—diving, it is OK to go scuba—diving as a novice if you are
scuba-diving as a novice if you are with an
scuba—diving as a novice if you are with an instructor who knows what
with an instmctor who knows what they are doing
with an instructor who knows what they are doing and can get you out
they are doing and ran get you out of a
they are doing and can get you out of a situation. Same with space
of a situation. Same with space ﬂight. It is OK
of a situation. Same with space flight. It is OK to go into space if
ﬂight. It is OK to go into space if you are a
flight. It is OK to go into space if you are a tourist if you are with
you are a tourist if you are with professional astronauts who know
professional astronauts who know what they are doing. We don’t ask
what they are doing. We don’t ask them to do space walks or to
them to do space walks or to rapture a rargo
them to do space walks or to rapture a cargo vehida
them to do space walks or to capture a cargo vehicle with a robotic arm,
a cargo vehida with a robotic arm, we don’t
a cargo vehicle with a robotic arm, we don’t ask them to handle
we don’t ask them to handle technical problems that might occur.
technical problams that might occur. We are asking
technical problems that might occur. We are asking them to know how to
We are asking them to know how to look after themselves in an
look after themselves in an emergency on how to understand the
emergency on how to understand the spacesuit and the basic life support
spacesuit and the basic life support systems. So much reduced training
systems. So much reduced training package. If you working of the world
package. If you working of the world you had to face the realities of,
you had to face the realities of, you know, business making money and
you know, business making money and poorer nations becoming richer
poorer nations becoming richer nations, how would you curtail what
nations, how would you curtail what we are doing to the environment?
we are doing to the environment? Going green does not mean not making
Going green does not mean not making money and it does not mean stopping
money and it does not mean stopping countries that are poor from
countries that are poor from improving the quality of life. We
improving the quality of life. We just need to make the decision to do
just need to make the decision to do it. If we invest in technology, then
it. If we invest in technology, then the cost comes down and the
the cost comes down and the efficiency goes up. For example,
efficiency goes up. For example, what doing with small satellite is
what doing with small satellite is because the satellites are reducing
because the satellites are reducing in size, the solar panels are
in size, the solar panels are reducing in size and the efficiency
reducing in size and the efficiency is going up in the space one of
is going up in the space one of those environments that is forcing
those environments that is forcing industry to improve the efficiency
industry to improve the efficiency of solar panels. Then you end up
of solar panels. Then you end up with efficient cheap solar panels
with efficient cheap solar panels and then suddenly solar panels on
and then suddenly solar panels on roofs become acceptable and the norm
roofs become acceptable and the norm and generate far more electricity.
and generate far more electricity. There are so many applications for
There are so many applications for this. It is a case of changing minds
this. It is a use of changing minds and making
this. It is a case of changing minds and making that initial step, that
and making that initial step, that initial decision to do something.
initial decision to do something. Tim, it has been a pleasure. Thank
Tim, it has been a pleasure. Thank you so much. The amazing Tim peak
you so much. The amazing Tim peak there and the equally amazing Mark
there and the equally amazing Mark here is pacing me at Street Fighter
here is pacing me at Street Fighter and what are we playing this on? It
and what are we playing this on? It is an arcade stick, 16 list classic
is an arcade stick, 16 list classic retro arcade games and one giant
retro arcade games and one giant controller. The beauty of this is
controllar. The beauty of this is that the
controller. The beauty of this is that the controller is almost
that the controller is almost exactly the same as the kind of
exactly the same as the kind of thing you would find on an arcade
thing you would find on an arcade cabinet so you can have the same
cabinet so you ran have the same experience
cabinet so you can have the same experience that you had in the
experience that you had in the 19805, except you do it not in a
19805, except you do it not in a dirty arcade and you do not need to
dirty arcade and you do not need to use hundreds and hundreds of coins.
use hundreds and hundreds of coins. A good year for
use hundreds and hundreds of coins. A good yearfor gaming
use hundreds and hundreds of coins. A good year for gaming would you
A good year for gaming would you say? An interesting year. Google
say? An interesting year. Google tried to persuade us that we would
tried to persuade us that we would lose our consoles and get into
lose our consoles and get into videogame streaming with their
videogame streaming with their service, stadium, which is great if
service, stadium, which is great if you have an amazing Internet
you have an amazing Internet connection. If you don’t, then it
connection. If you don’t, then it doesn’t work. And we have said that
doesn’t work. And we have said that for many years now and they are
for many years now and they are still not there with it stop a few
still not there with it stop a few companies have been trying to
companies have been trying to videogame stream for quite some time
videogame stream for quite some time and yet the infrastructure is not
and yet the infrastmcture is not there. Omar,
and yet the infrastructure is not there. Omar, over
and yet the infrastructure is not there. Omar, overto you. Here you
there. Omar, over to you. Here you go. Thank you for
there. Omar, overto you. Here you go. Thank you for thinking of me.
go. Thank you for thinking of me. That is just here eating chocolate.
That is just here eating chocolate. (“an I open
That is just here eating chocolate. Can I open this? 0h! A Furby! Thank
(“an I open this? 0h! A Furby! Thank you. It is a blast
Can I open this? 0h! A Furby! Thank you. It is a blast from the past. No
you. It is a blast from the past. No cutting-edge
you. It is a blast from the past. No cutting—edge gadget that we’re used
cutting-edge gadget that we’re used to seeing on
cutting—edge gadget that we’re used to seeing on the show I did go CAU
to seeing on the show I did go CAU tuber that is bringing a new use of
tuber that is bringing a new use of life into old ones. Wake up
life into old ones. Wake up sleepyhead... This is Sam battle,
sleepyhead... This is Sam battle, otherwise known on YouTube is look
otherwise known on YouTube is look mum, no computer. With over 240,000
mum, no computer. with over 240,000 subscribers
mum, no computer. With over 240,000 subscribers on the platform, he
subscribers on the platform, he showcases musical instruments and
showcases musical instmments and other
showcases musical instruments and other weird inventions that he has
other weird inventions that he has created using old tech and only old
created using old tech and only old tech. Be it a Lego Star Wars
tech. Be it a Lego Star Wars orchestra. A flame throwing Henry
orchestra. A ﬂame throwing Henry Hoover.
orchestra. A flame throwing Henry Hoover. Or even a choir of these
Hoover. Or even a choir of these cute little terrors. That sounds
cute little terrors. That sounds daemonic. It is daemonic. What else
daemonic. It is daemonic. what else does he
daemonic. It is daemonic. What else does he have in his studio? This is
does he have in his studio? This is basically 48 Game boys that sounds
basically 48 Game boys that sounds like an orchestra. For instance...
like an orchestra. For instance... But after a quick modification it
But after a quick modification it does not just
But after a quick modification it does notjust play game boys
does not just play game boys anymore.
does notjust play game boys anymore. That was very close there.
anymore. That was very close there. Hurray! I get it! That is awesome.
Hurray! I get it! That is awesome. Is your hair 0K? He also has a bike
Is your hair 0K? He also has a bike that when paddled powers a
that when paddled powers a synthesiser. Oops. Let’s give that
synthesiser. Oops. Let’s give that another go. I am
synthesiser. Oops. Let’s give that another go. lam making music. This
another go. lam making music. This is the most musical I’ve ever been.
is the most musical I’ve ever been. Hold onto me, Sam! That’s it. So
Hold onto me, Sam! That’s it. So what is it about old tech that
what is it about old tech that fascinates him so much? It
what is it about old tech that fascinates him so much? Itjust
fascinates him so much? It just looks so
fascinates him so much? Itjust looks so much better and it is easy
looks so much better and it is easy to modify and happen model things.
to modify and happen model things. The problem with modern pieces of
The problem with modern pieces of equipment is that it is usually made
equipment is that it is usually made to be small and compact and is
to be small and compact and is easily habitable nor easily fixable.
easily habitable nor easily fixable. I found a
easily habitable nor easily fixable. Ifound a problem! Sam mainly uses
Ifound a problem! Sam mainly uses eBay to purchase this old tech for
eBay to purchase this old tech for as cheap as possible. But it is not
as cheap as possible. But it is not only about cost. This is a piece of
only about cost. This is a piece of history. For instance this wall is
history. For instance this wall is pieces of technical University
pieces of technical University acquired from universities. These
acquired from universities. These are from the 1950s and it is
are from the 19505 and it is beautiful and you can buy them for
beautiful and you ran buy them for 20 quid. There
beautiful and you can buy them for 20 quid. There is also recycling and
20 quid. There is also recycling and reusing things that instead of going
reusing things that instead of going into the landfill and, I don’t know,
into the landfill and, I don’t know, something about classic design and
something about classic design and engineering is very attractive. And
engineering is very attractive. And it also looked like a ton of fun. It
it also looked like a ton offun. It was the
it also looked like a ton of fun. It was the best issued I had all year.
was the best issued I had all year. Omar and look
was the best issued I had all year. Omarand look mum,
was the best issued I had all year. Omar and look mum, no computer
Omar and look mum, no computer finishing off this Clickmas special.
finishing off this (lickmas special. I hope you
finishing off this Clickmas special. I hope you have enjoyed being here
I hope you have enjoyed being here as much as we enjoyed making it for
as much as we enjoyed making it for you. Next week you can see
you. Next week you ran see highlights
you. Next week you can see highlights of Click Life which we
highlights of Click Life which we filmed last month in Scotland. Don’t
filmed last month in Scotland. Don’t forget you ran
filmed last month in Scotland. Don’t forget you can always contact us on
forget you ran always contact us on Facebook,
forget you can always contact us on Facebook, Instagram or Twitter on
Facebook, Instagram or Twitter on BBC click. Who’s watching it over
BBC click. Who’s watching it over Christmas? Luck with that. Thanks
Christmas? Luck with that. Thanks for watching and Mary Clickmas!
Good morning.
What a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us,
with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
In fact, Friday afternoon, these were fairly typical
Weather Watcher pictures across parts of central and southern
England in particular.
In fact, by close of play on Friday, there were over 90 flood warnings
in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend,
well, do go to the BBC weather website for the latest updates
on the flood warnings and also any Met Office warnings as well.
Over the next few hours we’ve got this miniature weather front
which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy,
with hail and thunder.
Windy conditions following on behind, before another weather
front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on Saturday.
Saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp
showers still remaining.
But they are easing away.
The best of the sunshine perhaps on Saturday,
likely to be for the far north of Scotland.
Slowly brightening up as well across parts of England and Wales
for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push
into the south—west by the end of the day.
A cooler feeling in Scotland, five or six degrees.
Double digits quite widely further south.
That rain will continue to drift its way steadily east,
but it is going to clear off into the near Continent
through the early hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning.
Then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start
in sheltered eastern areas of Scotland, maybe a touch
of light frost.
Too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
And still some bits and pieces of rain first thing
on Sunday morning.
Sunday will be quieter for many.
A case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers.
Still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south.
40—50 mile an hour gusts of wind not out of the question.
Cooler again in Scotland, five or six, higher values of nine
or ten further south.
It looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time.
Showers will ease away on Monday and by Tuesday,
Christmas Eve, it will be drier and quieter.
What on earth is happening, you may ask?
It looks as though Father Christmas might be granting us our wish
and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment,
with high pressure building on Christmas Eve into Christmas Day,
which will quieten things down quite nicely.
It means the chance of a white Christmas is very remote indeed.
But it does mean a good deal of dry weather in the forecast.
So our Christmas week looks like this.
A showery start, drying up nicely on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
The potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
Take care.
undoing, or my masterstroke? Time for the car to take the wheel.
Welcome to BBC News, I’m Maryam Moshiri.
Our top stories:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia
for Saturday in three parts of New South Wales,
with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
At least six people die in northern India
during another day of big protests against the country’s
new citizenship law.
Britian is on course to exit the European Union as parliament
votes in favour of Prime Minister Johnson’s Brexit Bill.
And stuck in orbit — why Boeing’s mission
to the International Space Station didn’t quite go as planned.
to the International Space Station didn’t quite go as planned.
Firefighters in the Australian state of New South Wales were bracing
for what are being termed catastrophic fire conditions.
Temperatures well above A0 degrees, are set to fuel almost a hundred
fires burning across the state.
In South Australia, one person has died overnight in a blaze
east of Adelaide.
The Prime Minister Scott Morrison — widely criticised for being
on holiday during the crisis — is expected back in Australia
over the weekend.
Phil Mercerjoins me now from Sydney.
Before we talk about anything else, update me on the latest in terms of
update me on the latest in terms of the bushfires. We have a
the bushfires. We have a catastrophic fire warning for three
catastrophic fire warning for three large areas here in New South Wales,
large areas here in New South Wales, more than 100 fires are burning
more than 100 fires are burning across Australia’s most populous
across Australia’s most populous state. Roads have been closed, rail
state. Roads have been closed, rail services have been disrupted, and
services have been disrupted, and what with just a few days left until
what with just a few days left until Christmas, summer holidaymakers are
Christmas, summer holidaymakers are hoping to go north, south and west
hoping to go north, south and west of Sydney have been urged to stay at
of Sydney have been urged to stay at home today, and delete their trip
home today, and delete their trip until tomorrow,
home today, and delete their trip untiltomorrow, because
home today, and delete their trip until tomorrow, because conditions
until tomorrow, because conditions are very very dangerous, as you say,
are very very dangerous, as you say, very hot temperatures in parts of
very hot temperatures in parts of New South Wales, we also have a
New South Wales, we also have a prediction of very strong winds
prediction of very strong winds later, so that is a real menace for
later, so that is a real menace for firefighters, hot temperatures, very
firefighters, hot temperatures, very dry conditions underfoot, and those
dry conditions underfoot, and those winds will make those fires
winds will make those fires increasingly unpredictable. Fires
increasingly unpredictabla. Fires burning as
increasingly unpredictable. Fires burning as well in the state of
burning as well in the state of Victoria, also in South Australia,
Victoria, also in South Australia, and on the other side of the
and on the other side of the continent in Western Australia, fire
continent in Western Australia, fire crews battling blazes there as well,
crews battling blazes there as well, so it is another brutal day in
so it is another brutal day in Australia’s summer. Amid all this
Australia’s summer. Amid all this the Prime Minister Scott Morrison
the Prime Minister Scott Morrison criticised for going on holiday to
criticised for going on holiday to Hawaii, is on his way back now. He
Hawaii, is on his way back now. He is, and one would imagine that he
is, and one would imagine that he will get quite a reception when he
will get quite a reception when he gets home. Many Australians very
gets home. Many Australians very angry that their Prime Minister
angry that their Prime Minister decided to take a holiday to Hawaii
decided to take a holiday to Hawaii as a time of crisis. Mr Morrison has
as a time of crisis. Mr Morrison has issued a statement saying that he
issued a statement saying that he deeply regrets any offence caused to
deeply regrets any offence caused to those Australians affected by the
those Australians affected by the bushfires, and it is not
those Australians affected by the bushfires, and it is notjust the
bushfires, and it is not just the fact that
bushfires, and it is notjust the fact that Mr Morrison has gone on
fact that Mr Morrison has gone on holiday during this emergency, many
holiday during this emergency, many Australians wondering about his
Australians wondering about his attitude to climate change and the
attitude to climate change and the rola
attitude to climate change and the role that that they are playing in
role that that they are playing in Australia’s bushfire crisis Mr
Australia’s bushfire crisis Mr Morrison has acknowledged that
Morrison has acknowledged that global warming is a factor in
global warming is a factor in Australia’s emergency, so safe to
Australia’s emergency, so safe to 55V
Australia’s emergency, so safe to say when Mr Morrison lands today
say when Mr Morrison lands today here in Australia, his handling of
here in Australia, his handling of this emergency will come under
this emergency will come under immense scrutiny. And of course they
immense scmtiny. And of course they have been
immense scrutiny. And of course they have been doubts as well, including
have been doubts as well, including a couple of volunteer firefighters?
a couple of volunteer firefighters? We were down yesterday near the town
We were down yesterday near the town of Buxton, where these two
of Buxton, where these two firefighters died, a tree had a fire
firefighters died, a tree had a fire engine, causing the vehicle to roll
engine, causing the vehicle to roll over. Those two volunteer
over. Those two volunteer firefighters were men in their 305,
firefighters were men in their 305, and once again, it does underscore
and once again, it does underscore the dangers facing firefighters,
the dangers facing firefighters, many of them are volunteers here in
many of them are volunteers here in New South Wales, backed up by
New South Wales, backed up by professional crews as well. We were
professional crews as well. We were quite close to a dam, a lake near
quite close to a dam, a lake near the town of Bargo, when this
the town of Bargo, when this enormous helicopter, a water bombing
enormous helicopter, a water bombing aircraft came down with a giant
aircraft came down with a giant hose, sucking up water, before going
hose, sucking up water, before going off to fight the fires, so in many
off to fight the fires, so in many “75
off to fight the fires, so in many ways it is a military style
ways it is a military style operation, boots on the ground
operation, boots on the ground supported by those squadrons of
supported by those squadrons of water bombing aircraft, tragically,
water bombing aircraft, tragically, the deaths of those two firefighters
the deaths of those two firefighters does illustrate the dangers on the
does illustrate the dangers on the frontline. And of course feel, this
fronﬂine. And of course feel, this is the fire
frontline. And of course feel, this is the fire season. Why is it that
is the fire season. why is it that the fires
is the fire season. Why is it that the fires this year have been so bad
the fires this year have been so bad - Phil?
the fires this year have been so bad — Phil? Scientists are telling us
- Phil? Scientists are telling us that this
— Phil? Scientists are telling us that this annual fire season is not
that this annual fire season is not only starting earlier, it is likely
only starting eartier, it is likely to last
only starting earlier, it is likely to last longer, and is more intense,
to last longer, and is more intense, so bushfires have always been part
so bushfires have always been part of the Australian story, long before
of the Australian story, long before the Europeans arrived. Bushfires are
the Europeans arrived. Bushfires are a fact of life in this country, but
a fact of life in this country, but what worries many scientists and
what worries many scientists and other people is that they seem to be
other people is that they seem to be starting eartier
other people is that they seem to be starting earlier and they are far
starting eartier and they are far more
starting earlier and they are far more intense. Scientists cannot say
more intense. Scientists cannot say that that particular bushfire west
that that particular bushfire west of Sydney or a fire in Western
of Sydney or a fire in Western Australia is directly caused by
Australia is directly caused by climate change, what what they can
climate change, what what they ran 55V
climate change, what what they ran say is that
climate change, what what they can say is that global warming is making
say is that global warming is making the conditions here dryer, and that
the conditions here dryer, and that is a massive factor in these
is a massive factor in these bushfires here in eastern Australia
bushfires here in eastern Australia for example, we have had a very long
for example, we have had a very long drought, so what you have our
drought, so what you have our conditions of dry conditions, no
conditions of dry conditions, no rain, strong winds and hot
rain, strong winds and hot temperatures, and those conditions
temperatures, and those conditions do conspire to heighten the fire
do conspire to heighten the fire danger as we say here in New South
danger as we say here in New South Wales, three major areas facing
Wales, three major areas facing catastrophic conditions, and that is
catastrophic conditions, and that is bad as it gets. There are various
bad as it gets. There are various levels of threat in this country,
levels of threat in this country, and catastrophic is right at the
and catastrophic is right at the very top. 0K, thank you very much.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The International Criminal Court’s chief prosecutor says she believes
war crimes have been committed in the Israeli—occupied Palestinian
Territories.
Fatou Bensouda says she wants to launch an investigation but needs
the court to establish first if they have authority
over these areas.
Officials in Russia say they’ve established the identity
of the gunman who opened fire at the headquarters of the country’s
main security agency, the FSB.
One FSB officer was killed on Thursday, while a second has died
from his wounds in the last few hours.
Another four people were wounded.
The motive for the attack remains unclear.
Poland’s Parliament has passed a law that makes it easier
for the government to fire judges, despite a plea
from the European Commission to wait.
Under the new legislation, judges can be dismissed,
fined or demoted for dissent, including questioning the legitimacy
of newjudges chosen by a government controlled body.
A pioneer of international development who founded the world’s
largest NGO has died.
Sir Fazle Hasan Abed was 83.
He founded the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee,
also known as BRAC, in 1972.
Now operating in eleven Asian and African countries,
BRAC is said to have lifted 150 million people out of poverty.
There have been more mass protests in India today over a controversial
new citizenship law.
At least six people have been killed in the demonstrations.
Critics say the legislation discriminates against the country’s
200 million strong Muslim population, with many fearing
they could become stateless.
But the move by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is popular
with his Hindu supporters.
From Delhi, here’s Rajini Vaidyanathan.
Is this a moment of reckoning for the world’s largest democracy,
as anger over a controversial citizenship law intensifies?
Scenes of defiance, protesters ignoring curfews,
police accused of heavy—handed tactics.
Hundreds of thousands across this vast and diverse nation have taken
to the streets to oppose a law they say discriminates against
Muslims.
It offers fast—track citizenship for illegal immigrants from three
neighbouring countries, except Muslims.
The government says it is to protect religious
minorities fleeing persecution.
India prides itself on its secular principles, the right to equality
for all faiths.
But many fear that, by making religion a condition of citizenship,
that core fundamental principle is now at stake.
Muslims say they are living in fear.
The government is planning to publish a nationwide register
of citizens, in which everyone would have to prove they are Indian.
Those who can’t would be considered illegal immigrants,
with only non—Muslims afforded protection under
the new citizenship law.
"I don’t trust the government," she tells me.
"If they don’t accept my documents, which prove I’m Indian,
then what will I do?"
Pressure is mounting on India’s Prime Minister,
Narendra Modi, but he still has huge support for his
Hindu nationalist agenda.
Tonight in Delhi, 3 group of his supporters came out to defend
the citizenship act.
A lot of people are saying that it is against Muslims,
but it is not against Muslims.
It is only against — only for.
It is not against anyone.
It is for minorities in three neighbouring countries,
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, where Islam
is a state religion.
This week’s large—scale protest represents the first real dissent
against Mr Modi’s government.
Some fear the country is inching closer to becoming a Hindu state,
and worry that India’s secular soul is at stake.
More new on the story from Poland.
Poland’s parliament has adopted a law which will see major
reform of the country’s judiciary, making it easier for the government
to fire, fine or discipline judges.
Rich Preston reports.
The bill has been hugely controversial, as it was being
controversial, as it was being debated, people took to the streets
debated, people took to the streets outside parliament in support of the
outside partiament in support of the judges, and
outside parliament in support of the judges, and judicial independence.
judges, and judicial independence. The changes give the government the
The changes give the government the power to discipline judges for what
power to discipline judges for what it falls
power to discipline judges for what it calls political activity.
it calls political activity. Including questioning the new
it calls political activity. Including questioning the newjudges
Including questioning the new judges that
Including questioning the newjudges that the government appoints. In a
that the government appoints. In a marathon debate, the ruling party
marathon debate, the mling party argued the
marathon debate, the ruling party argued the changes are necessary to
argued the changes are necessary to prevent chaos in the judicial
prevent chaos in the judicial system. TRANSLATION: What we can see
system. TRANSLATION: what we ran see is the mle
system. TRANSLATION: What we can see is the rule of more most is the
is the mic of more most is the mutation
is the rule of more most is the mutation that is the date of ignores
mutation that is the date of ignores the principle of national
the principle of national sovereignty that ignores the
sovereignty that ignores the authority of the nation. The state
authority of the nation. The state of the judges is the state in which
of the judges is the state in which the judges
of the judges is the state in which thejudges decide what
of the judges is the state in which the judges decide what is law and
the judges decide what is law and what is not. Opposition lawmakers
what is not. Opposition lawmakers 55V
what is not. Opposition lawmakers say an attempt to gag judges.
say an attempt to gag judges. TRANSLATION: The bill bill subject
TRANSLATION: The bill bill subject polish court and the Polish judges
polish court and the Polish judges to political control by the
to political control by the legislative and exacting bodies and
legislative and exacting bodies and reduce the level of
legislative and exacting bodies and reduce the level ofjudicial
reduce the level ofjudicial protection of individual rights.
protection of individual rights. There are concerns such sweeping
There are concerns such sweeping changes to pollen’s
There are concerns such sweeping changes to pollen’s industry could
changes to pollen’s industry could contradict European law and force
contradict European law and force pollen out of the EU. TRANSLATION:
pollen out of the EU. TRANSLATION: You are lying to the polls, claiming
You are lying to the polls, claiming that these are European solutions,
that these are European solutions, while the European Commission says
whila the European Commission says dearty,
while the European Commission says clearly, please stop working on this
clearly, please stop working on this shameful project. The bill will now
shameful project. The bill will now be sent to pollen’s Senate which can
be sent to pollen’s Senate which ran delay the new
be sent to pollen’s Senate which can delay the new law, but not block it.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
We meet the Italian engineer who makes sure
that less well off children don’t miss out on toys.
The world of news has been paying tribute to George Michael who has
tribute to George Michael who has died of suspected heart failure at
died of suspected heart failure at the age of 55.
died of suspected heart failure at the age of 53. He sold well over 100
the age of 55. He sold well over 100 million
the age of 53. He sold well over 100 million albums in a career spanning
million albums in a career spanning more than three decades stop with
more than three decades stop with United States troops have been
United States troops have been trying to overthrow the dictatorship
trying to overthrow the dictatorship of Manuel, and the Pentagon has says
of Manuel, and the Pentagon has says it has failed in its objective to
it has failed in its objective to rapture him
it has failed in its objective to capture him and taken to the United
rapture him and taken to the United States.
capture him and taken to the United States. The hammer and sickle was
States. The hammer and sickla was taken away, in
States. The hammer and sickle was taken away, in its place, the
taken away, in its place, the Russian ﬂag
taken away, in its place, the Russian flag was hoisted over what
Russian ﬂag was hoisted over what is now
Russian flag was hoisted over what is new low longer the
Russian flag was hoisted over what is now low longer the Soviet Union
is now low longer the Soviet Union but the Commonwealth of Independent
but the Commonwealth of Independent States. Day broke slowly over
States. Day broke slowly over Lockerbie, over the cockpit of Pan
Lockerbie, over the cockpit of Pan Am made of the Seas, nosedown in the
Am made of the Seas, nosedown in the soft earth. You could see what
soft earth. You could see what happens when a plane eight stories
happens when a plane eight stories high, a football pitch wide, falls
high, a football pitch wide, falls from 30,000 feet. Christmas has
from 30,000 feet. Christmas has returned to Albania after a
returned to Albania after a communist band lasting more than 20
communist band lasting more than 20 years. Thousands went to midnight
years. Thousands went to midnight Mass in this town where they were
Mass in this town where they were anti—Communist riots ten days ago.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia for Saturday
in three parts of New South Wales, with temperatures set to hit
the mid—405 celsius.
Three and a half years after the UK voted to leave the European Union,
MPs have resoundingly voted in favour of the government’s Brexit
Bill.
The legislation now paves the way for Boris Johnson
to deliver his promise, that the country will no longer be
a member state of the EU, by the end of next month.
The Prime Minister won the vote easily with six Labour MPs
backing the government.
Here’s our deputy political editor, John Pienaar.
We’re leaving — we’re through the looking glass.
Everything looks the same, but nothing will be the same again.
The last, lonely protester was there, fighting a cause that
today became officially lost.
The eyes to the right — 358.
The noes to the left — 234.
CHEERING.
A thumping victory for BorisJohnson’s EU divorce deal.
But from the start, today, his big win was guaranteed.
He came with an appeal for unity, on his terms, to seek reconciliation
in tones of triumph.
This is the time when we move on, and discard the old labels
of leave and remain.
In fact, the very words seem tired to me.
And so now is the moment to come together and write
a new and exciting chapter in our national story,
to forge a new partnership with our European friends,
to stand tall in the world, to begin the healing.
This moment in history was his.
3.5 years after the referendum, the new PM felt strong enough
to declare Britain after Brexit would set its own rules
and standards, not follow the EU’s.
The very essence of the opportunity of Brexit is that we will no longer
outsource these decisions.
With renewed national self—confidence, we will
take them ourselves.
And that is what worried his beaten rival.
We warned before the general election the Prime Minister’s Brexit
deal was a terrible dealfor our country,
and we still believe it’s a terrible deal today.
This deal will be used as a battering ram to drive us down
the path of yet more deregulation, and towards a toxic deal
with Donald Trump, and...
What is new in the Withdrawal Agreement Bill?
The pledge to match EU workers’ rights, like other earlier
compromises, has gone.
Ministers now say a new UK law will guarantee those rights.
On child migrants, no EU obligation now to take in unaccompanied minors
with British relatives, but the PM says the UK will go
on taking them in.
And no extended Brexit transition.
The law will require the UK is clear of EU rules by December 2020,
with or without a deal.
So the PM winning the Brexit war doesn’t mean peace.
The SNP sees Brexit as a spur to independence.
The people of Scotland must have their say over their future,
rather than the broken Brexit Britain that he wishes
to impose upon us.
The election and Brexit has left a bitter legacy,
wounded Brexiteers feeling vindicated, remainers defiant
on their pro—European values.
Those values are now under threat from this Trumpian,
populist Government, from right—wing populism,
and bigots everywhere.
We’re told we were fascists, we were Nazis, we’re extremists.
And what did we want?
All we wanted was to honour the referendum.
Brexiteer MinisterJacob Rees—Mogg kept a low profile
during the election.
Not today.
At last, we’ve got the result that we need.
We will now get Brexit, a majority of 124, and the sun
is metaphorically shining.
And look at this at the bottom of your screen —
the UK’s celebrity PM signing autographs for Tory MPs.
So reason for celebration in Government tonight.
We will leave the EU by 31 January at the latest.
But defining and negotiating Britain’s future relationship
with the EU, and the world, could be tougher and take longer
than Boris Johnson predicts.
No doubt who is in charge now, or whosejob it is to make
Brexit work.
Prosecutors in the UK have charged the wife of a US diplomat
with causing the death by dangerous driving of a teenage motorcyclist
in a road crash.
After Harry Dunn died, Anne Sacoolas flew back
to the United States under diplomatic immunity.
Extradition proceedings are now under way but Mrs Sacoolas says
she will not return voluntarily to the UK.
Duncan Kennedy reports.
0h, Ijust hope and hope that it’s going to be the right choice today.
Harry’s parents, Charlotte and Tim, travelled to London not knowing
what today would bring.
But, at the CPS headquarters, they were told the main suspect
was being charged with dangerous driving.
Harry’s family have spent four months waiting to see if charges
would be brought in his case.
We really do feel it’s one huge step towards that promise to Harry,
and that in itself is one hell of an achievement,
as a family, to have.
And, as parents, we can’t be any more satisfied with ourselves.
Harry’s dad, Tim, was also moved by today’s events.
Bit speechless at the minute.
I’m still in shock from the meeting, and, uh...
I’m sorry.
No, it’s alright.
Anne Sacoolas, here on her wedding day, has been interviewed
by British police.
She has been staying at a house outside Washington.
Although there was no—one in today, her lawyers said...
Today’s decision to charge Anne Sacoolas comes nearly four
months after Harry died here on this road in Northamptonshire.
In statements through her lawyers, she has already admitted driving
L111:
But they say she will not return voluntarily to face a jail sentence
voluntarily to face a jail sentence for what was a terrible and
for what was a terrible and unintentional accident.
Now, Harry’s family say it is time for her to return to Britain.
It was near this American air base the accident happened.
Harry was killed last August.
Two weeks later, Anne Sacoolas left the UK,
claiming diplomatic immunity.
Last month, the family launched legal action
against the Foreign Office for its handling of the case.
They were so upset, they went to Washington to plead
for Anne Sacoolas to return.
Dominic Raab today called on the American woman to return and legal
American woman to return and legal experts say the chances of
experts say the chances of extradition were good. It is
extradition were good. It is extremely positive because as far as
extremely positive because as far as I ran see every
extremely positive because as far as I can see every request that has
I ran see every request that has been
I can see every request that has been sent
I ran see every request that has been sent by
I can see every request that has been sent by the UK to the US has
been sent by the UK to the US has been successful. Harry Dunn’s family
been successful. Harry Dunn’s family and their supporters have fought
and their supporters have fought this case together and have been
this use together and have been told the
this case together and have been told the Home Office will launch
told the Home Office will launch proceedings in the next week. His
proceedings in the next week. His parents say they will now put up a
parents say they will now put up a Christmas tree for the sun they
Christmas tree for the sun they refused to give up on.
The Duke of Edinburgh — husband of Queen Elizabeth —
is spending the night in a London hospital.
Royal officials say the Duke, who is 98, has been taken
there as a precautionary measure for a pre—existing condition.
The Queen is at her Sandringham estate in the east of England
where she arrived on Friday morning.
Nasa hopes the Boeing Starliner could be used to ferry passengers
to and from the International Space Station — but a test flight
in Florida failed to go as planned.
Jonathan Amos reports.
And lift off for the Starliner, a new era in human space flight.
A new era perhaps, but notjust yet.
Boeing launched its Starliner capsule on time from Cape Canaveral
in Florida, but the automated ship then failed to carry
out its commands properly.
When it came off the top of the rocket, it was supposed
to fire its engines to increase its height.
It did, but at the wrong time and for too long.
The Starliner put itself in the wrong part of the sky.
It can no longer reach the space station and will have to come home.
The American space agency has been overseeing the development
of the capsule.
Nasa has provided milestone payments to help Boeing bring
the vehicle into operation.
And despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
If we would’ve had crew in there, number one,
they would have been safe.
To be very clear, our crew would have been safe.
And in fact, had they been in there, we very well may have been orbiting
or docking with the International Space Station tomorrow had they been
in the spacecraft.
So a lot of things went right today, and I want to be really clear,
a lot of things went right and this is why we test
and because we are now in orbit and because in fact
elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data
and a lot more information in the coming days.
So this is all very positive.
Nasa has not been able to launch its own astronauts
to orbit for nearly nine years.
When it retired the shuttles in 2011, it ceased to
operate space vehicles.
And it bought seats to the space station in Russian capsules instead.
Nasa would rather spend its money handling rides on American—built
space taxi services.
Another enterprise, the California Space—X company,
has already completed a test flight of its astronaut capsule.
The Dragon Craft made a flawless trip to the orbiting lab in March.
Space—X looks set to start flying astronauts for real
in the next few months.
Quite how far behind today’s events put Boeing is unclear.
Engineers will need to inspect the Starliner when they get it
back on Earth.
Nasa is determined that it should have a choice of capsules
in the future.
Boeing is certain to try again.
Jonathan Amos, BBC News.
Christmas is coming — ready or not.
All around the world millions of children will be hoping
for a visit from Santa.
Some less well off youngsters may miss out on getting a toy.
But a retired engineerfrom Rome is determined to do something
about that — as the BBC’s Tim Allman explains.
But a retired engineerfrom Rome is determined to do something
about that — as the BBC’s Tim Allman explains.
His name is Guido but it may as well be Geppetto.
A former engineer with an Italian airline, he now devotes himself
to repairing and restoring toys.
Lots and lots of toys.
Anything up to 70 a day, in fact, and it is all in a good cause.
TRANSLATION: Take this one for example.
Some toy shops give us the faulty toys that they cannot sell.
This one, I have repaired it and it works now.
And these new toys we send to hospitals.
Notjust hospitals.
This charity also provides playthings to the children
of refugees or kids whose parents have lost their jobs.
Any youngster who wants a moment ofjoy and a toy of their own.
TRANSLATION: We call these objects reloved since they are loved twice.
First by the parents of the children who donated them and then
they are loved by the children who receive them.
So we reuse objects and avoid wasting plastic.
They distribute around 20,000 toys — cars, action figures,
teddies, toys, dolls, Guido tinkers away at them all.
His greatest reward, he says, are the smiles
on the children’s faces.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @BBCMaryam.
Good morning.
What a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us,
with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
In fact, Friday afternoon, these were fairly typical
Weather Watcher pictures across parts of central and southern
England in particular.
In fact, by close of play on Friday, there were over 90 flood warnings
in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend,
well, do go to the BBC weather website for the latest updates
on the flood warnings and also any Met Office warnings as well.
Over the next few hours we’ve got this miniature weather front
which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy,
with hail and thunder.
Windy conditions following on behind, before another weather
front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on Saturday.
Saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp
showers still remaining.
But they are easing away.
The best of the sunshine perhaps on Saturday,
likely to be for the far north of Scotland.
Slowly brightening up as well across parts of England and Wales
for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push
into the south—west by the end of the day.
A cooler feeling in Scotland, five or six degrees.
Double digits quite widely further south.
That rain will continue to drift its way steadily east,
but it is going to clear off into the near Continent
through the early hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning.
Then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start
in sheltered eastern areas of Scotland, maybe a touch
of light frost.
Too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
And still some bits and pieces of rain first thing
on Sunday morning.
Sunday will be quieter for many.
A case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers.
Still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south.
40—50 mile an hour gusts of wind not out of the question.
Cooler again in Scotland, five or six, higher values of nine
or ten further south.
It looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time.
Showers will ease away on Monday and by Tuesday,
Christmas Eve, it will be drier and quieter.
What on earth is happening, you may ask?
It looks as though Father Christmas might be granting us our wish
and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment,
with high pressure building on Christmas Eve into Christmas Day,
which will quieten things down quite nicely.
It means the chance of a white Christmas is very remote indeed.
But it does mean a good deal of dry weather in the forecast.
So our Christmas week looks like this.
A showery start, drying up nicely on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
The potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
Take care.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia for Saturday
in three parts of New South Wales, with temperatures set to hit
the mid—405 Celsius.
The Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has apologised
for going on a family holiday to Hawaii while his country
was dealing with the bushfire emergency.
At least six people have been killed in India,
as police tried to contain a further day of protests
about a new citizenship law.
Police used tear gas and batons but denied firing on demonstrators.
The law allows fast—track citizenship for religious refugees
from neighbouring countries but excludes Muslims.
The British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has won the support
of the House of Commons for a second reading of his Brexit Bill.
The vote brings Britain nearer to departing from the EU
at the end of January.
Parliament, now dominated by the Conservatives,
passed the bill with a large majority.
A funeral and a memorial service have taken place for the two victims
of last month’s terror attack near London Bridge.
Jack Merritt and Saskia Jones, were stabbed to death by convicted
terrorist Usman Khan, while attending a conference
in a building next to the bridge.
Our home affairs correspondent, Daniel Sandford has more.
At the Cambridge University church of St Mary the Great,
Jack Merritt’s mother and father and girlfriend,
Leanne O’Brien.
His body in a wicker coffin, in keeping with the ethical life
he’d tried to lead.
Jack Merritt was 25 years old and had a Masters
in criminology from Cambridge.
In the service, his friends and family recalled a compassionate
young man who felt compelled to help people, and whose politics
was love, not hate.
It is a tragedy, Jack’s death, but his life, as his father said
in the service, his life was a triumph, and we have to hold
onto that and Jack’s legacy of commitment to those
on whom society is all too happy to turn its back.
Jack passionately believed in others, and so should we.
In Stratford—upon—Avon, at the Holy Trinity Church,
where William Shakespeare is buried, the family and friends
of Saskia Jones were gathering to remember her.
She died in the same attack as Jack Merritt,
and also had a Masters in criminology from Cambridge.
She’d planned tojoin the police to work with victims of crime.
She was with Jack Merritt at a prisoner education conference
near London Bridge three weeks ago when one of the participants,
who had recently been released from a long sentence for terrorism
offences, stabbed them both to death.
The Cambridge University Vice—Chancellor said that the way
they died should not eclipse their lives and the way
they had helped others.
Daniel Sandford, BBC News.
Now on BBC News, it’s Climate Defenders.
We meet the people looking for solutions to climate change,
and follow the work of those striving to tackle
this global threat.
I’m
I’mJuston Roald
I’m Juston Roald Dahl,
I’mJuston Roald Dahl, in the northern Ethiopian city of Michaela
northern Ethiopian city of Michaela A. just take a
northern Ethiopian city of Michaela A. Just take a look at it. It is
A. just take a look at it. It is absolutely
A. Just take a look at it. It is absolutely stunning. It is up on the
absolutely stunning. It is up on the high
absolutely shinning. It is up on the high plains of
absolutely stunning. It is up on the high plains of the country. As you
high plains of the country. As you ran see, it is
high plains of the country. As you can see, it is hot and it is dry and
ran see, it is hot and it is dry and according to the
can see, it is hot and it is dry and according to the UN this whole
according to the UN this whola region is
according to the UN this whole region is among the most vulnerable
region is among the most vulnerable to climate change in the world. But
to climate change in the world. But the people here have been building
the people here have been building defences against the risks of a
defences against the risks of a changing climate for years. And that
changing climate for years. And that is what this programme is about.
is what this programme is about. Some of the inspiring stories of
Some of the inspiring stories of amazing people around the world who
amazing peopla around the world who have
amazing people around the world who have been successfully battling
have been successfully battling climate change. Meet the Climate
climate change. Meet the Climate Defenders. We will meet the
Defenders. We will meet the environmental lawyer who may have
environmental lawyer who may have saved the world half a degree of
saved the world half a degree of warming by banishing a dangerous
warming by banishing a dangerous greenhouse gas. The boss of an
greenhouse gas. The boss of an Indian company cleaning up one of
Indian company cleaning up one of the world’s most climate hostile
the world’s most climate hostile industries. Here in Ethiopia we will
industries. Here in Ethiopia we will meet a woman who nurtures tree
meet a woman who nurtures tree seedlings who has now held regrading
seedlings who has now held regrading 1.5 million hectares of barren,
1.5 million hectares of barren, degraded land. And a man who has
degraded land. And a man who has turned his design brilliance into
turned his design brilliance into clean power that’s starting to
clean power that’s starting to undercut fossil fuels.
The market here in Mek’ele is full of that fresh, local produce. Just
of that fresh, [oral produce. just look at
of that fresh, local produce. Just look at these tomatoes. Absolutely
look at these tomatoes. Absolutely delicious. But I’m not here to shop.
delicious. But I’m not here to shop. I’m here to pose you a riddle. How
I’m here to pose you a riddle. How ran something
I’m here to pose you a riddle. How can something designed to cool us
ran something designed to cool us down he
can something designed to cool us down he warming us up? I would be
down he warming us up? I would be amazed if you’ve got the answer,
amazed if you’ve got the answer, because it lies deep within these,
because it lies deep within these, within air—conditioning units.
within air—conditioning units. Air—conditioning is everywhere in
Air-conditioning is everywhere in hot
Air—conditioning is everywhere in hot countries these days. But
hot countries these days. But air—conditioning units contain
air—conditioning units contain chemicals called HFC ‘s, which are
chemicals called HFC ‘s, which are thousands of times more potent
thousands of times more potent greenhouse gases than carbon
greenhouse gases than carbon dioxide. So what if we could
dioxide. So what if we could persuade
dioxide. 50 what if we could persuade the people
dioxide. So what if we could persuade the people who make
persuade the people who make air—conditioning units to use
air-conditioning units to use something
air—conditioning units to use something safer and, in the process,
something safer and, in the process, reduce temperature rise by half a
reduce temperature rise by half a degree centigrade? That would be,
degree centigrade? That would be, well, pretty cool, wouldn’t it?
well, pretty cool, wouldn’t it? Hannah Lloyd Higgins in the United
Hannah ond Higgins in the United States
Hannah Lloyd Higgins in the United States has been to meet a man who
States has been to meet a man who has done just that. For this
States has been to meet a man who has donejust that. For this man,
has done just that. For this man, solving the
has donejust that. For this man, solving the problem of climate
solving the problem of climate change isn’t a matter of
solving the problem of climate change isn’t a matter ofjust
change isn’t a matter ofjust tackling one issue. If we don’t
tackling one issue. If we don’t solve this problem we won’t be able
solve this problem we won’t be able to solve the other problems of
to solve the other problams of poverty.
to solve the other problems of poverty, of peace. This is going to
poverty, of peace. This is going to overwhelm everything. But what will
overwhelm everything. But what will it take to move the planet away from
it take to move the planet away from the brink was yellow so we have to
the brink was yellow so we have to prioritise what will give us the
prioritise what will give us the fastest way to avoid warning. This
fastest way to avoid warning. This has to become a new metric, the
has to become a new metric, the metric of speed. And his idea for
metric of speed. And his idea for speeding things up, your
speeding things up, your air—conditioning unit. We are able
air-conditioning unit. We are able to avoid up to
air—conditioning unit. We are able to avoid up to half a degree Celsius
to avoid up to half a degree Celsius of future warming and we can double
offuture warming and we ran double that by making
of future warming and we can double that by making cooling equipment
that by making cooling equipment superefficient. They grew up in the
superefficient. They grew up in the ‘605. why was
superefficient. They grew up in the ‘605. Why was that Berkely as an
‘605. Why was that Berkely as an undergraduate, protesting, and they
undergraduate, protesting, and they learnt that students and people have
learnt that students and peopla have power. At my
learnt that students and people have power. At my age I can continue to
power. At my age I ran continue to contribute.
power. At my age I can continue to contribute. But I want to help the
contribute. But I want to help the next generation. It is astounding
next generation. It is astounding how we have things and throw them
how we have things and throw them away. Two of his granddaughters work
away. Two of his granddaughters work with him. And Hannah very much sees
with him. And Hannah very much sees herself as the next one up to the
herself as the next one up to the task. You guys have been working on
task. You guys have been working on this for 30 years. It’s time for us
this for 30 years. It’s time for us to take over. It’s time for new
to take over. It’s time for new people, new perspective of, and
people, new perspective of, and change. The amendment and decisions
change. The amendment and decisions are adopted. Three years ago he was
are adopted. Three years ago he was instrumental in getting 197 parties
instrumental in getting 197 parties to adopt a climate treating in
to adopt a climate treating in Kigali, Rwanda. The so—called Kigali
Kigali, Rwanda. The so—called Kigali amendment intends to face down
amendment intends to face down powerful greenhouse gases called
powerful greenhouse gases called hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs. The HFC
hydroﬂuororarbons, or HFCs. The HFC refrigerant scan,
hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs. The HFC refrigerant scan, alone, give us a
refrigerant scan, alone, give us a voided warming of about half a
voided warming of about half a degree Celsius —— refrigerants can.
degree Celsius -- refrigerants ran. That may not
degree Celsius —— refrigerants can. That may not sound like much. But
That may not sound like much. But room we have on the planet one
room we have on the planet one Celsius so far, with pretty bad
Celsius so far, with pretty bad consequences. This half a degree of
consequences. This half a degree of warming saved became a big rallying
warming saved became a big rallying cry among world leaders. But let’s
cry among world leaders. But let’s get back to the start, when we said
get back to the start, when we said your air—conditioning unit was
your air-conditioning unit was important.
your air—conditioning unit was important. As the world warms, we
important. As the world warms, we need more air—conditioners and
need more air-conditioners and refrigeration
need more air—conditioners and refrigeration and other cooling
refrigeration and other cooling equipment to keep the world safe.
equipment to keep the world safe. But when you do that you have to
But when you do that you have to have more electricity to power the
have more electricity to power the air—conditioners. In the next ten
air-conditioners. In the next ten years 1 billion
air—conditioners. In the next ten years1 billion more AC
air—conditioners. In the next ten years 1 billion more AC units will
years 1 billion more AC units will be installed globally. The other
be installed globally. The other piece is the refrigerant themselves.
piece is the refrigerant themselves. And right now the main refrigerant
And right now the main refrigerant is something called and HFC,
is something called and HFC, hydrofluorocarbons. We can squeeze
hydroﬂuororarbons. We ran squeeze out a
hydrofluorocarbons. We can squeeze out a tremendous amount of climate
out a tremendous amount of climate mitigation. That is where the Kigali
mitigation. That is where the Kigali amendment is key. It means that on
amendment is key. It means that on factory ﬂoors,
amendment is key. It means that on factory floors, like this when here
factory ﬂoors, like this when here in
factory floors, like this when here in Wisconsin, 3
factory floors, like this when here in Wisconsin, a newly developed an
in Wisconsin, a newly developed an environmentally friendly refrigerant
environmentally friendly refrigerant will be placed into air—conditioning
will be placed into air-conditioning units.
will be placed into air—conditioning units. Honeywell is one of the
units. Honeywell is one of the companies designing these new
companies designing these new refrigerants. Global
companies designing these new refrigerants. Globaladoption
companies designing these new refrigerants. Global adoption of our
refrigerants. Global adoption of our products today has reduced the
products today has reduced the amount of C02
products today has reduced the amount of CO2 emissions in the buy
amount of C02 emissions in the buy 141
amount of CO2 emissions in the buy 1M million metric tons. That is the
141 million metric tons. That is the equivalent of
1M million metric tons. That is the equivalent of removing 30 million
equivalent of removing 30 million cars from the road today. And this
cars from the road today. And this is happening without support from
is happening without support from the White House. The Kigali
the White House. The Kigali amendment has not been ratified by
amendment has not been ratified by the Tmmp
amendment has not been ratified by the Trump Administration. Back in
the Tmmp Administration. Back in Washington,
the Trump Administration. Back in Washington, DC, Dellwood is working
Washington, DC, Dellwood is working on more solutions that can stop this
on more solutions that ran stop this mnaway
on more solutions that ran stop this runaway train as
on more solutions that can stop this runaway train as fast as possible.
runaway train as fast as possible. If we don’t speed up we will find it
If we don’t speed up we will find it harder and harder to protect the
harder and harder to protect the planet. So
harder and harder to protect the planet. 50 really it is how to get
planet. So really it is how to get the message
planet. 50 really it is how to get the message across that speed is
the message across that speed is essential. That was how not long
essential. That was how not long Higgins reporting from the US. I
Higgins reporting from the US. I have taken a sneaky break to have a
have taken a sneaky break to have a traditional Ethiopian drink. Look at
traditional Ethiopian drink. Look at this. Different types of fruit
this. Different types of fmit juices all
this. Different types of fruit juices all laid up. Let me try stop
juices all laid up. Let me try stop oh. That is delicious. But this
oh. That is delicious. But this fmit bar,
oh. That is delicious. But this fruit bar, like so much else in all
fmit bar, like so much else in all our lives
fruit bar, like so much else in all our lives could not exist without...
our lives could not exist without... Electricity. And most electricity is
Electricity. And most electricity is still produced from coal. It
still produced from coal. It accounts for 40% of World carbon
accounts for 4096 of World carbon dioxide
accounts for 40% of World carbon dioxide emissions and its why coal
dioxide emissions and its why coal mining is still such a huge industry
mining is still such a huge industry around the world. It employs about 6
around the world. It employs about 6 million peopla
around the world. It employs about 6 million people and is the lifeblood
million peopla and is the lifeblood of many
million people and is the lifeblood of many communities. So if we want
of many communities. So if we want to cut coal
of many communities. 50 if we want to cut coal use we have to find
to cut coal use we have to find alternative livelihoods for those
alternative livelihoods for those miners, which is exactly what one
miners, which is exactly what one woman has been trying to do through
woman has been trying to do through a process she calls just transition.
a process she falls just transition. Maryam
a process she calls just transition. Maryam Moshiri has been to meet her
Maryam Moshiri has been to meet her in northern Spain. Cheers.
in northern Spain. Cheers. The sun is setting on Spain’s coal
The sun is setting on Spain’s coal mining industry. For years the
mining industry. For years the industry has been economically
industry has been economically unviable and now the demands of
unviable and now the demands of climate change are finishing it off
climate change are finishing it off altogether. But as one door closes,
altogether. But as one door doses, could
altogether. But as one door closes, could more open? Sharon Burrow is
could more open? Sharon Burrow is the head of the International Trade
the head of the International Trade Union Confederation. A union boss
Union Confederation. A union boss with a difference. One who wants to
with a difference. One who wants to defend the climate as well as
defend the climate as well as workers. We want to see this region
workers. We want to see this region live. At the end of last year, Spain
live. At the end of last year, Spain reached an agreement with unions and
reached an agreement with unions and the companies involved to shut
reached an agreement with unions and the companies involved to shutdown
the companies involved to shut down all its
the companies involved to shutdown all its remaining coal mines. The
all its remaining coal mines. The fourth generation. A deal was voiced
fourth generation. A deal was voiced which promised 204 enduros to help
which promised 204 enduros to help miners like these retire early or
miners like these retire earty or retrain --
miners like these retire early or retrain —— euros. They call it a
retrain -- euros. They all it a just transition
retrain —— euros. They call it a just transition and believe it is a
just transition and believe it is a model for the rest of the world.
model for the rest of the world. Sharon is here to tell miners there
Sharon is here to tell miners there is help for them, but the Spanish
is help for them, but the Spanish coal mining industry is done. What
coal mining industry is done. what we need
coal mining industry is done. What we need to do is say to them we
we need to do is say to them we won’t leave you behind and we will
won’t leave you behind and we will fight to see governments don’t leave
fight to see governments don’t leave you behind all that corporations.
you behind all that corporations. But some of the miners remain
But some of the miners remain unconvinced.
She is visiting me recently shut down mine in Bastille. One of many
down mine in Bastille. One of many she has visited around the world to
she has visited around the world to reassure workers about their future.
reassure workers about their future. Coal burning is responsible for
Coal burning is responsible for around one third of the rise in
around one third of the rise in global temperatures. The biggest
global temperatures. The biggest singla
global temperatures. The biggest single source. It looks very rich,
singla source. It looks very rich, guys. Globally
single source. It looks very rich, guys. Globally around 6 million
guys. Globally around 6 million peoplo are
guys. Globally around 6 million people are employed in coal mining
peopla are employed in coal mining and in
people are employed in coal mining and in some parts of the world,
and in some parts of the world, mostly in Asia, coal—fired power
mostly in Asia, coal-fired power stations
mostly in Asia, coal—fired power stations are still being built.
stations are still being built. Round here, though, things are very
Round here, though, things are very different. Mines like this one is to
different. Mines like this one is to be the lifeblood of this area, but
be the lifeblood of this area, but over the past decade over 30,000
over the past decade over 30,000 jobs have been lost in the coal
jobs have been lost in the coal mining industry in this region
mining industry in this region alone. In the nearby city of Leon,
alone. In the nearby city of Leon, Sharan’s visit is
alone. In the nearby city of Leon, Sharan’s visit is generating a lot
Sharan’s visit is generating a lot of
Sharan’s visit is generating a lot of interest. Just Transition was
of interest. just Transition was under way in
of interest. Just Transition was under way in several countries and
under way in several countries and industry sectors and her message is
industry sectors and her message is blunt. We recognise there are no
blunt. We recognise there are no jobs on a dead planet. But there is
jobs on a dead planet. But there is a sharp reminder of the scale of the
a sharp reminder of the scale of the challenges she faces. The money
challenges she faces. The money these men were promised to help them
these men were promised to help them retrain hasn’t filtered through,
retrain hasn’t filtered through, because of continued political
because of continued political uncertainty in Spain. We need to
uncertainty in Spain. We need to build living jobs on a sustainable
build living jobs on a sustainable planet. And if the planet is to live
planet. And if the planet is to live we need dramatic ambition. The
we need dramatic ambition. The transition to a zero carbon society
transition to a zero carbon society is essential, but it goes
is essential, but it goes hand—in—hand with helping those
hand-in-hand with helping those whose jobs
hand—in—hand with helping those whose jobs will be displaced. 43
whose jobs will be displaced. 43 it’s very much a work in progress.
it’s very much a work in progress. She is well aware that some cases
She is well aware that some rases the reality
She is well aware that some cases the reality does not yet match the
the reality does not yet match the aspiration --
the reality does not yet match the aspiration —— Sharan. Let’s turn our
aspiration -- Sharan. Let’s turn our attention to
aspiration —— Sharan. Let’s turn our attention to something you may not
attention to something you may not even associate with climate change.
even associate with climate change. No, not the vehicles down the
No, not the vehicles down the street, or even the energy used by
street, or even the energy used by the buildings here in downtown
the buildings here in downtown Mek’ele. What we’re talking about is
Mek’ela. what we’re talking about is the stuff
Mek’ele. What we’re talking about is the stuff the buildings are actually
the stuff the buildings are actually talking about. We are talking about
talking about. We are talking about cement stop as countries develop
cement stop as countries develop they start to build and builds and
they start to build and builds and builds. All this building uses
builds. All this building uses millions and millions of tons of,
millions and millions of tons of, yes, cement. And cement produces
yes, cement. And cement produces huge amounts of carbon dioxide. 8%
huge amounts of carbon dioxide. 896 of the
huge amounts of carbon dioxide. 8% of the world total. 50
huge amounts of carbon dioxide. 8% of the world total. So here’s the
of the world total. So here’s the question- ran
of the world total. So here’s the question— can we make cement less
question- ran we make cement less damaging?
question— can we make cement less damaging? Well the boss of one
damaging? Well the boss of one Indian cement company says yes, we
Indian cement company says yes, we ran. The
Indian cement company says yes, we can. The claims we have already cut
ran. The claims we have already cut emissions
can. The claims we have already cut emissions from his factories by 40%
emissions from his factories by 4096 of the
emissions from his factories by 40% of the world average and he says he
of the world average and he says he is going to make his factories
is going to make his factories carbon neutral by 2014. Virginia
carbon neutral by 2014. Virginia jeannesson
carbon neutral by 2014. Virginia Jeannesson has been to see him in
jeannesson has been to see him in Tamil
Jeannesson has been to see him in Tamil Nadu.
As India grows, so too does it use of cement, now only second to China.
of cement, now only second to China. Concrete buildings are changing the
Concrete buildings are changing the landscape here that emissions
landscape here that emissions involved in cement production are
involved in cement production are also pushing up global temperatures.
also pushing up global temperatures. The small town in India’s South is
The small town in India’s South is nicknamed cement city because it is
nicknamed cement city because it is home to some of the industry’s big
home to some of the industrrs big players. And it
home to some of the industry’s big players. And it is also here that
players. And it is also here that one company leading the world with a
one company leading the world with a bold vision. To make cement carbon
bold vision. To make cement carbon negative by 2040. But is that really
negative by 2040. But is that really credible? Mahendra, the CEO of the
credible? Mahendra, the CEO of the Delamere company think so. He is at
Delamere company think so. He is at the forefront of using climate
the forefront of using climate friendly ways to make cement. The
friendly ways to make cement. The challenge which we took was is it
challenge which we took was is it possible to bring down C02
challenge which we took was is it possible to bring down CO2 emissions
possibla to bring down C02 emissions from
possible to bring down CO2 emissions from cement and to create an example
from cement and to create an example that cement can be greener also.
that cement ran be greener also. Today, we
that cement can be greener also. Today, we have the lowest carbon
Today, we have the lowest carbon footprint in the world. It has not
footprint in the world. It has not been easy. Emissions from the cement
been easy. Emissions from the cement industry contribute to global
industry contribute to global warming three or four times
industry contribute to global warming three orfour times more
warming three or four times more than
warming three orfour times more than aviation does. And becoming
than aviation does. And becoming carbon negative requires a huge
carbon negative requires a huge investment in cutting—edge
investment in cutting—edge technology to remove the may
technology to remove the may remaining carbon dioxide. So why is
remaining carbon dioxide. So why is cement so dangerous for the planet?
cement so dangerous for the planet? It is all in the way it is produced.
It is all in the way it is produced. Limestone and other materials are
Limestone and other materials are heated to temperatures of 1400dC in
heated to temperatures of 14001“: in that process
heated to temperatures of 1400dC in that process in itself emits carbon
that process in itself emits carbon dioxide. As does the burning of the
dioxide. As does the burning of the fuel to heat the kiln. Dalmia aims
fuel to heat the kiln. Dalmia aims to reduce those levels first by
to reduce those levels first by using renewable fuels to heat the
using renewable fuels to heat the furnaces. Here, bamboo is being used
furnaces. Here, bamboo is being used as a replacement for coal. Bamboo
as a replacement for coal. Bamboo grows rapidly on wasteland that
grows rapidly on wasteland that can’t be used for much else.
can’t be used for much else. Different types of waste are also
Different types of waste are also being used as fuel and waste
being used as fuel and waste material from
being used as fuel and waste materialfrom power
being used as fuel and waste material from power stations
being used as fuel and waste materialfrom power stations is
material from power stations is added
materialfrom power stations is added to the mix of ingredients,
added to the mix of ingredients, reducing the need for limestone. For
reducing the need for limestone. For Mr Singh, the mission is personal.
Mr Singh, the mission is personal. First we had to convince ourselves
First we had to convince ourselves and our Pete pulled that it is good
and our Pete pulled that it is good for them that make people that it is
for them that make peopla that it is good for
for them that make people that it is good for them. Good for society,
good for them. Good for society, good for the future. That may be so,
good for the future. That may be so, but why not just useless
good for the future. That may be so, but why notjust useless cement? The
but why not just useless cement? The question --
but why notjust useless cement? The question —— problem is that it is
question -- problem is that it is difficult
question —— problem is that it is difficult to replace. In the years
difficult to replace. In the years to come, India will rely more on
to come, India will rely more on cements but the notion has to
cements but the notion has to change. I don’t think it is
change. I don’t think it is practical but in the long run we can
practical but in the long mn we ran do it. We
practical but in the long run we can do it. We cannot eliminate the
do it. We cannot eliminate the cement completely, but we can find
cement completely, but we ran find many more
cement completely, but we can find many more alternate materials.
many more alternate materials. Cement has now become one of the
Cement has now become one of the most consumer materials. But many
most consumer materials. But many peopla are still
most consumer materials. But many people are still unaware of the
people are still unaware of the damage it does to the climate. It is
damage it does to the climate. It is still a big polluter. This plant in
still a big polluter. This plant in a small corner of India may be
a small corner of India may be showing the way to reduce and one
showing the way to reduce and one day eliminate its damage. Now come
day eliminate its damage. Now come with me because I’m going somewhere
with me because I’m going somewhere rather special.
with me because I’m going somewhere ratherspecial. Up
with me because I’m going somewhere rather special. Up to the top of
rather special. Up to the top of this hill on the outskirts of the
this hill on the outskirts of the city. I
this hill on the outskirts of the city. Iwant
this hill on the outskirts of the city. I want to be out in the wind
city. I want to be out in the wind because if you want to feel
because if you want to feel optimistic about our climate future,
optimistic about our climate future, just look at the price of
just look at the price of electricity generated by offshore
electricity generated by offshore wind. It has fallen by one third in
wind. It has fallen by one third in the last few years and is now so
the last few years and is now so cheap it could put fossil fuels out
cheap it could put fossil fuels out of this mess. And that is thanks, in
of this mess. And that is thanks, in Part-
of this mess. And that is thanks, in part, to the work of a Danish
part, to the work of a Danish inventor. He has been called the
inventor. He has been called the father of the wind industry and
father of the wind industry and Freya has been to see him. Wind. The
Freya has been to see him. wind. The invisible
Freya has been to see him. Wind. The invisible source of energy which now
invisible source of energy which now has the potential to change the
has the potential to change the world. The question used to be we
world. The question used to be we like it but can we afford it? Now
like it but ran we afford it? Now the question
like it but can we afford it? Now the question is how can we afford
the question is how ran we afford not to?
the question is how can we afford not to? From a young
from a young age he knew that a lot more could be done to use this
more could be done to use this natural and free source of
natural and free source of elactricity.
natural and free source of electricity. Henrik created his
electricity. Henrik created his first wind turbine at the age of 16,
first wind turbine at the age of 16, in 1991 he opened the world’s first
in 1991 he opened the world’s first offshore wind farm and his design
offshore wind farm and his design for the modern wind turbine earned
for the modern wind turbine earned the title of the Danish concept and
the title of the Danish concept and that concept has shaped the wind
that concept has shaped the wind industry for what it is today. And
industry for what it is today. And its efficiency, which is Henrik’s ‘s
its efficiency, which is Henrik’s ‘s motivation. One of the biggest
motivation. One of the biggest blades that he has help design is 94
blades that he has help design is 94 metres long, the blade is one
metres long, the blade is one seamless piece of fibreglass with no
seamless piece of fibreglass with no joins. while
seamless piece of fibreglass with no joins. While the blades have grown
joins. whila the blades have grown in
joins. while the blades have grown in size, the
joins. While the blades have grown in size, the costs are shrinking.
in size, the costs are shrinking. According to a new study by the
According to a new study by the Paris—based International energy
Paris-based International energy agency, the
Paris—based International energy agency, the cost to a further 60% by
agency, the cost to a further 6096 by 2040. Every
agency, the cost to a further 60% by 2040. Every time these blades make a
2040. Every time these blades make a full rotation this turbine generates
full rotation this turbine generates enough power
full rotation this turbine generates enough powerfor the
full rotation this turbine generates enough power for the average
enough power for the average European household for a day. So
European household for a day. So there is no denying the strength in
there is no denying the strength in wind energy. But for this energy to
wind energy. But for this energy to make a meaningful impact worldwide,
make a meaningful impact worldwide, there are still challenges to
there are still challenges to overcome. Around the world, the
overcome. Around the world, the untapped potential of offshore wind
untapped potential of offshore wind is fast, especially when you move
is fast, especially when you move further from shore into deeper
further from shore into deeper water. The answer is floating wind
water. The answer is ﬂoating wind turbines,
water. The answer is floating wind turbines, according to the
turbines, according to the International energy agency,
International energy agency, pleading turbines could unlock
pleading turbines could unlock enough potential to meet the world’s
enough potential to meet the world’s total electricity demand 11 times
total electricity demand 11 times over by 2040. Henrik is inventing a
over by 2040. Henrik is inventing a ﬂoating wind
over by 2040. Henrik is inventing a floating wind turbine which he says
ﬂoating wind turbine which he says could
floating wind turbine which he says could be mass produced at a factory.
could be mass produced at a factory. He says it is a key to driving down
He says it is a key to driving down costs to make it cheaper than fossil
costs to make it cheaper than fossil fuel competitors. So with a real
fuel competitors. So with a real trick of this is getting our
trick of this is getting our products industrialised. Next hurdle
products industrialised. Next hurdla for
products industrialised. Next hurdle for the industry is to capture all
for the industry is to rapture all of the
for the industry is to capture all of the electricity so it does not go
of the electricity so it does not go to waste when wind drops and to work
to waste when wind drops and to work out the best way to feed it back to
out the best way to feed it back to the grid. I am putting
out the best way to feed it back to the grid. lam putting in
out the best way to feed it back to the grid. I am putting in a lot of
the grid. I am putting in a lot of effort on developing storage systems
effort on developing storage systems both for day—to—day storage and also
both for day-to-day storage and also for
both for day—to—day storage and also for seasonal storage so we can store
for seasonal storage so we ran store energy made
for seasonal storage so we can store energy made when we have a lot of
energy made when we have a lot of wind in the wintertime to be used in
wind in the wintertime to be used in the summertime. Henrik is
the summertime. Henrik is optimistic. He has watched the
optimistic. He has watched the industry develop from the impossible
industry develop from the impossible to the possible, to a future
to the possible, to a future reaching even greater heights. Freya
reaching even greater heights. Freya Cole reporting and now we come to
Cole reporting and now we come to the story of how the people here in
the story of how the people here in northern Ethiopian have been working
northern Ethiopian have been working for years to make their country more
for years to make their country more resilient to the effect of our
resilient to the effect of our changing climate. This whole
changing climate. This whole semiarid region south of the Sahara
semiarid region south of the Sahara is expected to suffer some of the
is expected to suffer some of the worst effect of climate change and,
worst effect of climate change and, look around me. Virtually all the
look around me. Virtually all the trees have been cut down leaving
trees have been cut down leaving just this rough scrub. That makes
just this rough scrub. That makes the soil much more vulnerable to
the soil much more vulnerable to erosion and the land
the soil much more vulnerable to erosion and the [and much
the soil much more vulnerable to erosion and the land much less
erosion and the land much less fertile. It
erosion and the [and much less fertile. It Ethiopian has been
fertile. It Ethiopian has been fighting to take that vicious cycle.
fighting to take that vicious cyda. It has
fighting to take that vicious cycle. It has restored one and a half
It has restored one and a half million hectares. One half million
million hectares. One half million hectares of graded land. 50 how has
hectares of graded land. So how has Ethiopian
hectares of graded land. 50 how has Ethiopian done this and what can the
Ethiopian done this and what ran the rest of
Ethiopian done this and what can the rest of the world learn from its
rest of the world learn from its exampla?
rest of the world learn from its example? 100 years ago, trees
exampla? 100 years ago, trees covered
example? 100 years ago, trees covered one third of Ethiopian. Now
covered one third of Ethiopian. Now it is lass
covered one third of Ethiopian. Now it is less than 5%. And without
it is lass than 596. And without trees,
it is less than 5%. And without trees, there is nothing to protect
trees, there is nothing to protect the soil from drought,
trees, there is nothing to protect the soilfrom drought, wind and
the soil from drought, wind and burst of
the soilfrom drought, wind and burst of rain which all become more
burst of rain which all become more intense with climate change. When
intense with climate change. when the soil goes,
intense with climate change. When the soil goes, very little grows.
the soil goes, very little grows. But people are breaking this vicious
But peopla are breaking this vicious cirda.
But people are breaking this vicious circle. This one is the African
cirda. This one is the African olive.
circle. This one is the African olive. Does it bear
circle. This one is the African olive. Does it bearfruit? Yes, it
olive. Does it bear fruit? Yes, it does grow
olive. Does it bearfruit? Yes, it does grow olives. Sarah is an expert
does grow olives. Sarah is an expert at restoring degraded land. This is
at restoring degraded land. This is her tree nursery at Mek’ele
her tree nursery at Mek’ele University in northern Ethiopian.
University in northern Ethiopian. Some 30 or A0 years ago data shows
Some 30 or 40 years ago data shows that droughts
Some 30 or A0 years ago data shows that droughts were occurring every
that droughts were occurring every ten years. Now they are every five
ten years. Now they are every five years. So we need to prepare, as a
years. So we need to prepare, as a community, as a society to be able
community, as a society to be able to function in drought years and one
to function in drought years and one of the best ways to do that is to
of the best ways to do that is to restore the environments and restore
restore the environments and restore the environments we can capture
the environments we ran rapture every little
the environments we can capture every little drop of rain that
every little drop of rain that comes. Here is how it works. People
comes. Here is how it works. People and animals are kept out to allow
and animals are kept out to allow natural regrowth. The trees help
natural regrowth. The trees help keep moisture in the soil,
keep moisture in the soil, recharging rivers and springs. It
recharging rivers and springs. It may seem trivial to people who live
may seem trivial to people who live in wet environments that spring has
in wet environments that spring has come back. But for people who live
come back. But for peopla who live in a dry
come back. But for people who live in a dry environment, a spring that
in a dry environment, a spring that was around 100 years ago or 200
was around 100 years ago or 200 years ago is now coming back and
years ago is now coming back and giving water. It is highly
giving water. It is highly significant. And this re— greening
significant. And this re- greening is happening
significant. And this re— greening is happening on a vast scale. In
is happening on a vast salt. In this one
is happening on a vast scale. In this one province in northern
this one province in northern Ethiopian, they have reforested
Ethiopian, they have reforested 15,000 square kilometres. Trees are
15,000 square kilometres. Trees are also a source of cash. Local people
also a source of rash. Local peopla get paid for
also a source of cash. Local people get paid for every unit of carbon
get paid for every unit of carbon stored here. Last year, the
stored here. Last year, the community was paid 33,000 euros from
community was paid 33,000 euros from an international carbon offset
an international carbon offset scheme. That money goes on community
scheme. That money goes on community projects like water conservation and
projects like water conservation and a new school. Worldwide, we are
a new school. Worldwide, we are still losing an area of forest the
still losing an area of forest the size of the UK every single year.
size of the UK every single year. But the re— greening effort here in
But the re- greening effort here in Ethiopian is a
But the re— greening effort here in Ethiopian is a lesson in what can be
Ethiopian is a lasson in what ran be done.
Ethiopian is a lesson in what can be done. Evidence that, when people
done. Evidence that, when peopla work
done. Evidence that, when people work together, we can build
work together, we can build resilience to our changing climate.
resilience to our changing climate. MY
resilience to our changing climate. My time in Ethiopian has come to an
My time in Ethiopian has come to an end. We are all packed up and ready
end. We are all packed up and ready to go. That have been so impressed
to go. That have been so impressed by all the work that people on this
by all the work that peopla on this programme
by all the work that people on this programme have been doing to combat
programme have been doing to combat climate change. It is so reassuring
climate change. It is so reassuring to know that an army of climate
to know that an army of climate defenders already exist. But it is
defenders already exist. But it is also clear that we have a long and
also clear that we have a long and difficult
also clear that we have a long and difficultjourney
also clear that we have a long and difficult journey ahead
also clear that we have a long and difficultjourney ahead and we all
difficult journey ahead and we all need to
difficultjourney ahead and we all need to be on board. And I hope that
need to be on board. And I hope that you have been inspired to
need to be on board. And I hope that you have been inspired tojoin the
you have been inspired tojoin the climate defenders. Time to go.
Good morning.
What a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us,
with some relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
In fact, Friday afternoon, these were fairly typical
Weather Watcher pictures across parts of central and southern
England in particular.
In fact, by close of play on Friday, there were over 90 flood warnings
in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend,
well, do go to the BBC weather website for the latest updates
on the flood warnings and also any Met Office warnings as well.
Over the next few hours we’ve got this miniature weather front
which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy,
with hail and thunder.
Windy conditions following on behind, before another weather
front makes its presence felt by the end of the day on Saturday.
Saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp
showers still remaining.
But they are easing away.
The best of the sunshine perhaps on Saturday,
likely to be for the far north of Scotland.
Slowly brightening up as well across parts of England and Wales
for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push
into the south—west by the end of the day.
A cooler feeling in Scotland, five or six degrees.
Double digits quite widely further south.
That rain will continue to drift its way steadily east,
but it is going to clear off into the near Continent
through the early hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning.
Then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start
in sheltered eastern areas of Scotland, maybe a touch
of light frost.
Too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
And still some bits and pieces of rain first thing
on Sunday morning.
Sunday will be quieter for many.
A case of sunny spells and a few isolated showers.
Still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south.
40—50 mile an hour gusts of wind not out of the question.
Cooler again in Scotland, five or six, higher values of nine
or ten further south.
It looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time.
Showers will ease away on Monday and by Tuesday,
Christmas Eve, it will be drier and quieter.
What on earth is happening, you may ask?
It looks as though Father Christmas might be granting us our wish
and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment,
with high pressure building on Christmas Eve into Christmas Day,
which will quieten things down quite nicely.
It means the chance of a white Christmas is very remote indeed.
But it does mean a good deal of dry weather in the forecast.
So our Christmas week looks like this.
A showery start, drying up nicely on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
The potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
Take care.
Welcome to BBC News.
I’m Maryam Moshiri.
Our top stories:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia for Saturday
in three parts of New South Wales, with temperatures set to hit
the mid—405 Celsius.
At least six people die in northern India —
during another day of big protests against the country’s
new citizenship law.
The UN warns millions of Syrians are at risk of dying of hunger
or disease as Russia and China veto humanitarian aid into northern
Syria.
And stuck in orbit.
Why Boeing’s mission to the International Space Station
didn’t quite go as planned.
Firefighters in the Australian state of New South Wales were bracing
for what are being termed "catastrophic" fire conditions.
Temperatures well above A0 degrees, are set to fuel more than a hundred
fires burning across the state.
In South Australia, one person has died overnight in a blaze
east of Adelaide.
The Prime Minister Scott Morrison, widely criticised for being
on holiday during the crisis, is expected back in Australia
over the weekend.
I got the latest from our reporter Phil Mercer.
m:
We have, as you say, We have, as you say, a catastrophic fire warning for three large areas
fire warning for three large areas here in New South Wales. More than
here in New South Wales. More than 100 fires are burning across
100 fires are burning across Australia’s most populous state.
Australia’s most populous state. Roads have been closed, rail
Roads have been closed, rail services have been disrupt third,
services have been disrupt third, and what with just a few days left
and what with just a few days left until Christmas, summer
until Christmas, summer holidaymakers hoping to go north,
holidaymakers hoping to go north, south, and west of Sydney have been
south, and west of Sydney have been urged to stay at home today and to
urged to stay at home today and to delay their trip until tomorrow,
delay their trip until tomorrow, because conditions are very, very
because conditions are very, very dangerous, as you say, very hot
dangerous, as you say, very hot temperatures in parts of New South
temperatures in parts of New South Walas.
temperatures in parts of New South Wales. We also have a prediction of
Walas. We also have a prediction of very
Wales. We also have a prediction of very strong winds later. So that is
very strong winds later. So that is a real menace for firefighters.
very strong winds later. So that is a real menace forfirefighters. Hot
a real menace for firefighters. Hot temperatures,
a real menace forfirefighters. Hot temperatures, very dry conditions
temperatures, very dry conditions underfoot, and those wins will make
underfoot, and those wins will make those fires increasingly
those fires increasingly unpredictable. Fires burning to any
unpredictabla. Fires burning to any of Victoria,
unpredictable. Fires burning to any of Victoria, also in South Australia
of Victoria, also in South Australia and on the other side of the
and on the other side of the continent in Western Australia fire
continent in Western Australia fire crews battling blazes there too. So
crews battling blazes there too. So was another brutal day in
was another brutal day in Australia’s summer. Amid all this
Australia’s summer. Amid all this the Prime Minister, Scott Morrison,
the Prime Minister, Scott Morrison, criticised for going on holiday to
criticised for going on holiday to Hawaii, is on his way back now. He
Hawaii, is on his way back now. He is. And one would imagine he will
is. And one would imagine he will get quite a reception when he gets
get quite a reception when he gets home. Many Australians very angry
home. Many Australians very angry that their Prime Minister decided to
that their Prime Minister decided to take a holiday to Hawaii at a time
take a holiday to Hawaii at a time of crisis. Mr Morrison has issued a
of crisis. Mr Morrison has issued a statement saying that he deeply
statement saying that he deeply regrets any offence caused to those
regrets any offence caused to those Australians affected by the
Australians affected by the bushfires. And it’s not
Australians affected by the bushfires. And it’s notjust the
bushfires. And it’s not just the fact that
bushfires. And it’s notjust the fact that Mr Morrison has gone on
fact that Mr Morrison has gone on holiday during this emergency. Many
holiday during this emergency. Many Australians wondering about his
Australians wondering about his attitude to climate change and the
attitude to climate change and the rola
attitude to climate change and the role that they are playing in
role that they are playing in Australia’s bushfire crisis. Mr
Australia’s bushfire crisis. Mr Morrison has acknowledged that
Morrison has acknowledged that global warming is a factor in
global warming is a factor in Australia’s emergency. Safe to say
Australia’s emergency. Safe to say when Mr Morrison lands today, here
when Mr Morrison lands today, here in Australia, his handling of this
in Australia, his handling of this emergency will come under immense
emergency will come under immense scmtiny. And of
emergency will come under immense scrutiny. And of course there have
scmtiny. And of course there have been deaths,
scrutiny. And of course there have been deaths, as well, happened
been deaths, as well, happened there, including a couple of
there, including a couple of volunteer firefighters. We were down
volunteer firefighters. We were down yesterday near the town of Boston,
yesterday near the town of Boston, where these two firefighters died. A
where these two firefighters died. A tree hit their fire engine,
where these two firefighters died. A tree hit theirfire engine, causing
tree hit their fire engine, causing the
tree hit theirfire engine, causing the vehicle to roll over. Those two
the vehicle to roll over. Those two volunteer firefighters were men
the vehicle to roll over. Those two volunteerfirefighters were men in
volunteer firefighters were men in their
volunteerfirefighters were men in their 305. And, once
volunteerfirefighters were men in their305. And, once again, it does
their 305. And, once again, it does underscore
their305. And, once again, it does underscore the dangers facing
underscore the dangers facing firefighters, many of them are
firefighters, many of them are volunteers here in New South Wales,
volunteers here in New South Wales, backed up by professional crews as
backed up by professional crews as well. We were quite close to a dam,
well. We were quite close to a dam, a lake near the town of Bargo in
a lake near the town of Bargo in this enormous helicopter, a water
this enormous helicopter, a water bombing aircraft came down with a
bombing aircraft came down with a giant hose, sucking up water, before
giant hose, sucking up water, before going off to fight the fires. So in
going off to fight the fires. So in many ways it is a military style
many ways it is a military style operation, beats on the ground
operation, beats on the ground supported by those squadrons of
supported by those squadrons of water bombing aircraft. But,
water bombing aircraft. But, tragically, the death of those two
tragically, the death of those two firefighters does illustrate the
firefighters does illustrate the dangers on the front line. And of
dangers on the front line. And of course, this is the fire season. Why
course, this is the fire season. why is it that
course, this is the fire season. Why is it that the fires this year have
is it that the fires this year have been so bad? Scientists are telling
been so bad? Scientists are telling us that this annual fire season is
us that this annual fire season is not only starting earlier, it is
not only starting eartier, it is likely to
not only starting earlier, it is likely to last longer, and is more
likely to last longer, and is more intense. So bushfires have always
intense. So bushfires have always been part of the Australian Story.
been part of the Australian Story. Long before the Europeans arrived,
Long before the Europeans arrived, bushfires are a fact of life in this
bushfires are a fact of life in this country. But what worries many
country. But what worries many scientists and other people is that
scientists and other people is that they seem to be starting earlier and
they seem to be starting eartier and they are far
they seem to be starting earlier and they are far more intense. Now,
they are far more intense. Now, scientists can’t say that that
scientists can’t say that that particular bushfire west of Sydney
particular bushfire west of Sydney or a fire in Western Australia is
or a fire in Western Australia is directly caused by climate change,
directly caused by climate change, but what they do say is that global
but what they do say is that global warming is making the conditions
warming is making the conditions here dryer and that is a massive
here dryer and that is a massive factor in these bushfires. Hearing
factor in these bushfires. Hearing in Western Australia, for example,
in Western Australia, for example, we have had a very long drought. So
we have had a very long drought. So what you have, you have dry
what you have, you have dry conditions underfoot, you have no
conditions underfoot, you have no rain, strong winds, and hot
rain, strong winds, and hot temperatures. In those conditions do
temperatures. In those conditions do conspire to heighten the fire
conspire to heighten the fire danger. As we say here in New South
danger. As we say here in New South Wales, three major areas facing
Wales, three major areas facing catastrophic conditions. And that’s
catastrophic conditions. And that’s as bad as it gets. There are various
as bad as it gets. There are various levels of rate in this country and
levels of rate in this country and catastrophic is right at the very
catastrophic is right at the very top. That’s Phil Mercer there.
There have been more mass protests in India today over a controversial
new citizenship law.
At least six people have been killed in the demonstrations.
Critics say the legislation discriminates against the country’s
200 million strong Muslim population, with many fearing
they could become stateless.
But the move by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is popular
with his Hindu supporters.
From Delhi, here’s Rajini Vaidyanathan.
Is this a moment of reckoning for the world’s largest democracy,
as anger over a controversial citizenship law intensifies?
Scenes of defiance, protesters ignoring curfews,
police accused of heavy—handed tactics.
Hundreds of thousands across this vast and diverse nation have taken
to the streets to oppose a law they say discriminates against
Muslims.
It offers fast—track citizenship for illegal immigrants from three
neighbouring countries, except Muslims.
The government says it is to protect religious
minorities fleeing persecution.
India prides itself on its secular principles, the right to equality
for all faiths.
But many fear that, by making religion a condition of citizenship,
that core fundamental principle is now at stake.
Muslims say they are living in fear.
The government is planning to publish a nationwide register
of citizens, in which everyone would have to prove they are Indian.
Those who can’t would be considered illegal immigrants,
with only non—Muslims afforded protection under
the new citizenship law.
"I don’t trust the government," she tells me.
"If they don’t accept my documents, which prove I’m Indian,
then what will I do?"
Pressure is mounting on India’s Prime Minister,
Narendra Modi, but he still has huge support for his
Hindu nationalist agenda.
Tonight in Delhi, 3 group of his supporters came out to defend
the citizenship act.
A lot of people are saying that it is against Muslims,
but it is not against Muslims.
It is only against — only for.
It is not against anyone.
It is for minorities in three neighbouring countries,
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, where Islam
is a state religion.
This week’s large—scale protest represents the first real dissent
against Mr Modi’s government.
Some fear the country is inching closer to becoming a Hindu state,
and worry that India’s secular soul is at stake.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The International Criminal Court’s chief prosecutor says she believes
war crimes have been committed in the Israeli—occupied Palestinian
Territories.
Fatou Bensouda says she wants to launch an investigation but needs
the court to establish first if they have authority
over these areas.
Officials in Russia say they’ve established the identity
of the gunman who opened fire at the headquarters of the country’s
main security agency, the FSB.
One FSB officer was killed on Thursday, while a second has died
from his wounds in the last few hours.
Another four people were wounded.
The motive for the attack remains unclear.
Three and a half years after the UK voted to leave the European Union,
MPs have voted overwhelmingly in favour of the government’s Brexit
Bill.
The legislation now paves the way for Boris Johnson
to deliver his promise by the end of next month.
The Prime Minister won the vote easily, with six opposition Labour
MPs backing the government.
The United Nations has warned of a rapid increase in hunger
and disease amongst displaced people in Syria.
It follows the decision by Russia and China to veto a measure to keep
aid flowing to civilians.
Fighting between the government forces and rebels
in the north—western province of Idlib has been intensifying —
with thousands fleeing their homes.
Bill Hayton reports.
This is the corner post, one of four places where aid can cross into
places where aid ran cross into Syria stop
places where aid can cross into Syria stop but on Friday was the
Syria stop but on Friday was the scene of demonstrations. Thousands
scene of demonstrations. Thousands of people march to protest what they
of peopla march to protest what they see as Turkeys
of people march to protest what they see as Turkey’s elaboration with a
see as Turkeys elaboration with a renewed
see as Turkey’s elaboration with a renewed offensive in Idlib province.
renewed offensive in Idlib province. —— collaboration. Syrian government
-- collaboration. Syrian government forces,
—— collaboration. Syrian government forces, backed by Russia, moving
forces, backed by Russia, moving into the north—west of Idlib,
into the north-west of Idlib, forcing tens
into the north—west of Idlib, forcing tens of thousands to flee.
forcing tens of thousands to ﬂee. The road
forcing tens of thousands to flee. The road towards the border is now
The road towards the border is now full of
The road towards the border is new full of trucks heading to safety.
full of trucks heading to safety. TRANSLATION: They were bombing us.
TRANSLATION: They were bombing us. We couldn’t sleep. They were using
We couldn’t sleep. They were using every WPe
We couldn’t sleep. They were using every type of weapon, including
every type of weapon, including bombs and rockets. The latest exit
bombs and rockets. The latest exit is only adds to the numbers needing
is only adds to the numbers needing aid. The UN says it fed over
is only adds to the numbers needing aid. The UN says it fed overi
aid. The UN says it fed overi million
aid. The UN says it fed overl million people in October with
million people in October with cross—border supplies. At that
cross-border supplies. At that programme
cross—border supplies. At that programme well and on
cross—border supplies. At that programme well and onJanuary ten,
programme well and on january ten, unless it
programme well and onJanuary ten, unless it is renewed. On Friday,
unless it is renewed. On Friday, Russia and China blocked an
Russia and China blocked an extension, causing outrage from the
extension, causing outrage from the American ambassador. This decision
American ambassador. This decision is reckless, irresponsible, and
is reckless, irresponsible, and cmel.
is reckless, irresponsible, and cruel. There is no
is reckless, irresponsible, and cruel. There is nojustification
cmel. There is no justification imaginabla
cruel. There is nojustification imaginable for any member of this
imaginabla for any member of this Security
imaginable for any member of this Security Council leaving vulnerable
Security Council leaving vulnerable Syrian civilians with fewer means of
Syrian civilians with fewer means of securing vital aid. Russia wants two
securing vital aid. Russia wants two of the eight crossing points closed.
of the eight crossing points dosed. Those
of the eight crossing points closed. Those from Jordan and Iraq. Leaving
Those from jordan and Iraq. Leaving only the two
Those from Jordan and Iraq. Leaving only the two turkeys roots. It also
only the two turkeys roots. It also was the mission length reduced to
was the mission length reduced to six month. It’s ambassador blamed
six month. It’s ambassador blamed other countries for blocking the aid
other countries for blocking the aid renewal.
renewal. TRANSLATION: Who won
renewal. TRANSLATION: who won today? Nobody.
TRANSLATION: who won today? Nobody. who
TRANSLATION: Who won today? Nobody. Who lost? Those who lost were the
who lost? Those who lost were the Syrian people.
Who lost? Those who lost were the Syrian people. Do not attempt to
Syrian peopla. Do not attempt to shift
Syrian people. Do not attempt to shift blame for this on us. With two
shift blame for this on us. with two weeks
shift blame for this on us. With two weeks left until the Callan
weeks left until the Callan resolution expires, there is still
resolution expires, there is still time for agreement. But it looks as
time for agreement. But it looks as if compromised will be hard to
if compromised will be hard to reach. In the meantime, the
reach. In the meantime, the situation in Syria gets more
situation in Syria gets more desperate. Bill Hayton, BBC News.
Facebook says it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties
to a conservative news outlet that uses fake profile photos,
generated with the help of artificial intelligence.
Researchers said the Facebook and Instagram fake profiles,
generate thousands of personalities who emphasise
support for President Trump and opposition to the Chinese
government.
Peter, first of all, explain exactly what’s been happening here. It
what’s been happening here. It sounds very worrying, doesn’t it?
sounds very worrying, doesn’t it? This is, say a lot of people, very
This is, say a lot of peopla, very worrying. And it
This is, say a lot of people, very worrying. And it shows what
worrying. And it shows what technology can achieve these days.
technology ran achieve these days. In terms
technology can achieve these days. In terms of generating these images,
In terms of generating these images, faces that look like profile shots
faces that look like profila shots of
faces that look like profilo shots of ordinary
faces that look like profile shots of ordinary people, but they are
of ordinary peopla, but they are fake, they are
of ordinary people, but they are fake, they are generated by
fake, they are generated by algorithms. There is absolutely
algorithms. There is absolutely nothing real about them. They don’t
nothing real about them. They don’t represent real people. But they have
represent real people. But they have been generated by users in Vietnam,
been generated by users in Vietnam, 55V
been generated by users in Vietnam, say Facebook, purporting to be
say Facebook, purporting to be Americans. And they have removed
Americans. And they have removed several hundred of these Facebook
several hundred of these Facebook accounts, as you say, along with
accounts, as you say, along with Instagram sites and various pages as
Instagram sites and various pages as well that carried with the messages
well that carried with the messages that were anti— China, that were pro
that were anti- China, that were pro tmmpet, or
that were anti— China, that were pro trumpet, or generated conversations
tmmpet, or generated conversations about family
trumpet, or generated conversations about family values or impeachment
about family values or impeachment or the hot button issues that are in
or the hot button issues that are in the news at the moment —— Donald
the news at the moment -- Donald Tmmp. what is
the news at the moment —— Donald Trump. What is the social media
Trump. what is the social media giant been
Trump. What is the social media giant been saying about all of this
giant been saying about all of this and what it is doing to combat this
and what it is doing to combat this sort of thing? Well, this is an
sort of thing? Well, this is an ongoing battle, of course, for
ongoing battle, of course, for Facebook and it has faced similar
Facebook and it has faced similar problams of
Facebook and it has faced similar problems of course, going back to
problams of course, going back to the last
problems of course, going back to the last American election in 2016,
the last American elaction in 2016, then the
the last American election in 2016, then the key threat was from Russia.
then the key threat was from Russia. But this was coming from a different
But this was coming from a different part of the world. And this is in
part of the world. And this is in pathway Facebook have been very open
pathway Facebook have been very open about revealing what they have found
about revealing what they have found now. And they are digging into the
now. And they are digging into the technology. They are trying to find
technology. They are trying to find out and really get ahead of those
out and really get ahead of those people who can generate these kinds
people who ran generate these kinds of images. The
people who can generate these kinds of images. The experts who have been
of images. The experts who have been looking at this say they have been
looking at this say they have been essentially quite startled at how
essentially quite startled at how good they are. How easy it is to
good they are. How easy it is to generate these images. And they have
generate these images. And they have never seen anything quite like it
never seen anything quite like it with these, I suppose, artificial
with these, Isuppose, artificial faces being
with these, I suppose, artificial faces being used to send out false
faces being used to send out false information, disinformation in
information, disinformation in social media. Peter Bowes in Los
social media. Peter Bones in Los Angeles.
social media. Peter Bowes in Los Angeles. Thank you very much.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: We meet the Italian engineer who makes sure that less
well off children don’t miss out on toys.
The world of news has been paying tribute to George Michael,
—— The world of music has been paying tribute to George Michael,
who has died of suspected heart failure at the age of 53.
He sold well over 100 million albums in a career spanning more
than three decades.
The United States troops have been trying to overthrow the dictatorship
of General Manuel Noriega.
The Pentagon has says it has failed in its principle objective
to capture him and take him to the United States.
The Hammer and Sickle was hastily taken away.
In its place, the Russian flag was hoisted over what is now
no longer the Soviet Union,
but the Commonwealth of Independent States.
Day broke slowly over Lockerbie, over the cockpit of Pan Am’s Maiden
of the Seas, nosedown in the soft earth.
You could see what happens when a plane eight stories high,
a football pitch wide, falls from 30,000 feet.
Christmas has returned to Albania after a communist ban lasting more
than 20 years.
Thousands went to midnight Mass,
where there were anti—Communist riots ten days ago.
This is BBC News.
The latest headlines:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia for Saturday
in three parts of New South Wales with temperatures set to hit
the mid—405 Celsius.
One of the pioneers of new approaches to international
development, Sir Fazle Hasan Abed, has died.
He was 83.
He founded the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee,
also known as BRAC, in 1972.
It’s now one of the world’s largest NGOs, operating in 11 Asian
and African countries.
BRAC is said to have lifted 150 million people out of poverty.
Someone who knew Sir Fazle Hasan Abed
is Nicholas Kristof, columnist with the New York Times.
Hejoins me now from Oregon in the US.
Thank you so much for
Thank you so much forjoining us
Thank you so much for joining us here on
Thank you so much forjoining us here on BBC News. Talk to me about
here on BBC News. Talk to me about how well you knew Sir Fazle Hasan
how well you knew Sir Fazle Hasan Abed and how you knew him. So
how well you knew Sir Fazle Hasan Abed and how you knew him. Sol met
Abel! and how you knew him. So I met him through
Abed and how you knew him. Sol met him through various conferences
him through various conferences and then visited Bangladesh because it
then visited Bangladesh because it was kind of an inspiring model of
was kind of an inspiring model of what education and the empowerment
what education and the empowerment of women and an organisation like
of women and an organisation like BRAC could achieve and it really was
BRAC could achieve and it really was kind of extraordinary how
kind of extraordinary how Bangladesh, which Henry Kissinger
Bangladesh, which Henry Kissinger had famously dismissed as the
had famously dismissed as the world’s basketcase back in
world’s basketrase back in the beginning
world’s basketcase back in the beginning of the 19705, has enjoyed
beginning of the 19705, has enjoyed economic growth and fertility growth
economic growth and fertility growth and it was not hard because Abed
and it was not hard because Abed focused on education and empowering
focused on education and empowering mral,
focused on education and empowering rural, impoverished women and today,
mral, impoverished women and today, there are
rural, impoverished women and today, there are more girls in high school
there are more giris in high school in Bangladesh
there are more girls in high school in Bangladesh than boys because that
in Bangladesh than boys herause that is a
in Bangladesh than boys because that is a remarkable achievement and in
is a remarkable achievement and in many ways that is
many ways that is Abed’s fingerprints on it. So
many ways that is Abed’s fingerprints on it. Sol
many ways that is Abed’s fingerprints on it. So I saw him at
fingerprints on it. So I saw him at conferences and in Bangladesh and I
conferences and in Bangladesh and I grew to enormously admire what he
grew to enormously admire what he had done, not only in his own
had done, not only in his own country but later expanding that
country but later expanding that into Afghanistan, South Sudan, and
into Afghanistan, South Sudan, and he was really a giant over the last
he was really a giant over the last century in global development. He
century in global development. He was so passionate, wasn’t he, and so
was so passionate, wasn’t he, and so patient -- driven
was so passionate, wasn’t he, and so patient —— driven and so passionate
patient -- driven and so passionate about global
patient —— driven and so passionate about global development. What do
about global development. what do you think his
about global development. What do you think his legacy is going to be?
you think his lagacy is going to be? So I
you think his legacy is going to be? So I think it is a few things. One
So I think it is a few things. One is going to be that when he began in
is going to be that when he began in the development space, it was really
the development space, it was really about Westerners sitting
about Westerners sitting around conference rooms in places like
conference rooms in places like London and Washington and
London and Washington and deciding what was best for people in villages
what was best for peopla in villages half a
what was best for people in villages half a world away. And that never
half a world away. And that never really worked. And Abed was a leader
really worked. And Abed was a leader in the developing world’s
in the developing world’s own responses to poverty and the truth
responses to poverty and the truth is that when there was local
is that when there was [oral ownership
is that when there was local ownership it worked a lot better.
ownership it worked a lot better. You know, the US did a lot of
You know, the US did a lot of projects in Afghanistan, they were
projects in Afghanistan, they were not vastly successful. Negritude did
not vastly successful. Negritude did work in Afghanistan BRAC BRAC did
work in Afghanistan BRAC BRAC did work. The local
work. The local ownership development, I think another is his
development, I think another is his emphasis on education and on
emphasis on education and on empowering of women and the returns
empowering of women and the returns you get from that and in recent, I
you get from that and in recent, I don’t think it was something he
don’t think it was something he really began early in his career but
really began earty in his career but over the
really began early in his career but over the last 15 years or so he was
over the last 15 years or so he was increasingly involved in
increasingly involved in using randomised controlled trials to test
randomised controlled trials to test interventions and see how well they
interventions and see how well they worked. If there was a
worked. If there was a pharmaceutical trial. And that
pharmaceutical trial. And that has been a pioneering step in
been a pioneering step in development, Nobel Prize for
development, Nobel Prize for economics went to three economists
economic went to three economists who
economics went to three economists who worked on them and in some cases
who worked on them and in some cases with BRAC or on BRAC — inspired
with BRAC or on BRAC - inspired programmes
with BRAC or on BRAC — inspired programmes so
with BRAC or on BRAC — inspired programmes sol
with BRAC or on BRAC — inspired programmes so I think he leaves a
programmes so I think he leaves a huge legacy at the top tiers of
huge legacy at the top tiers of development but also in villages
development but also in villages around the world, kids who otherwise
around the world, kids who otherwise would have died who are here because
would have died who are here because of his work. Nicholas, it is good to
of his work. Nicholas, it is good to have you on the programme. Thank you
have you on the programme. Thank you for your time. My pleasure.
The Duke of Edinburgh, husband of Queen Elizabeth,
is spending the night in a London hospital.
Royal officials say the Duke, who is 98,
has been taken there as a precautionary measure
for a pre—existing condition.
The Queen is at her Sandringham Estate in the east of England,
where she arrived on Friday morning.
Nasa hopes the Boeing Starliner craft could be used to ferry
passengers to and from the International Space Station,
but a test flight in Florida failed to go as planned.
Jonathan Amos reports.
GROUND CONTROL: And lift-off for the Starliner, a new era
in human space flight.
A new era perhaps, but notjust yet.
Boeing launched its Starliner capsule on time from Cape Canaveral
in Florida, but the automated ship then failed to carry
out its commands properly.
When it came off the top of the rocket, it was supposed
to fire its engines to increase its height.
It did, but at the wrong time, and for too long.
The Starliner put itself in the wrong part of the sky.
It can no longer reach the space station and will have to come home.
The American space agency has been overseeing the development
of the capsule.
Nasa has provided milestone payments to help Boeing bring
the vehicle into operation.
And despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
If we would’ve had crew in there, number one,
they would have been safe.
To be very clear, our crew would have been safe.
And, in fact, had they been in there, we very well may have been
orbiting or docking with the International Space Station
tomorrow, had they been in the spacecraft.
So a lot of things went right today and I want to be really clear —
a lot of things went right, and this is why we test
and because we are now in orbit and because,
in fact, elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data
and a lot more information in the coming days.
So this is all very positive.
Nasa has not been able to launch its own astronauts
to orbit for nearly nine years.
When it retired the shuttles in 2011, it ceased to operate space
vehicles and it bought seats to the space station
in Russian capsules instead.
Nasa would rather spend its money handling rides on American—built
space taxi services.
—— Nasa would rather spend its money hailing rides on American—built
space taxi services.
Another enterprise, California’s SpaceX company,
has already completed its test flight of its astronaut capsule.
The Dragon craft made a flawless trip to the orbiting lab in March.
SpaceX looks set to start flying astronauts for real
in the next few months.
Quite how far behind today’s events put Boeing is unclear.
Engineers will need to inspect the Starliner when they get it
back on Earth.
Nasa is determined that it should have a choice of capsules
in the future.
Boeing is certain to try again.
Jonathan Amos, BBC News.
Christmas is coming.
All around the world, millions of children will be hoping
for a visit from Santa.
Some less well—off youngsters may miss out on getting a toy
but a retired engineerfrom Rome is determined to do something
about that, as Tim Allman explains.
His name is Guido but it may as well be Geppetto.
A former engineer with an Italian airline, he now devotes himself
to repairing and restoring toys.
Lots and lots of toys.
Anything up to 70 a day, in fact, and it is all in a good cause.
TRANSLATION: Take this one, for example.
Some toy shops give us the faulty toys that they cannot sell.
This one, I have repaired it and it works now.
And these new toys we send to hospitals.
Notjust hospitals.
This charity also provides playthings to the children
of refugees, or kids whose parents have lost theirjobs —
any youngster who wants a moment ofjoy and a toy of their own.
TRANSLATION: We call these objects re—loved,
since they are loved twice.
First, by the parents of the children who donated them
and then, they are loved by the children who receive them.
So we reuse objects and avoid wasting plastic.
They distribute around 20,000 toys.
Cars, action figures, teddies, toys, dolls,
Guido tinkers away at them all.
His greatest reward, he says, are the smiles
on the children’s faces.
Tim Allman, BBC News. But is such a lovely story to endon now. —— to end
lovely story to endon now. -- to end on now.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @BBCMaryam.
And of course, you can see all of
And of course, you ran see all of the stories
And of course, you can see all of the stories we are talking about on
the stories we are talking about on our website.
the stories we are talking about on ourwebsite. Back
the stories we are talking about on our website. Back in a couple of
our website. Back in a couple of minutes with the headlines but thank
minutes with the headlines but thank you for joining
minutes with the headlines but thank you forjoining us. Goodbye.
Good morning.
What a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some
relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
In fact, Friday afternoon, these were fairly typical
Weather Watcher pictures across parts of central and southern
England in particular.
In fact, by close of play on Friday, there were over 90 flood warnings
in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend,
well, do go to the BBC weather website for the latest updates
on the flood warnings, and also any Met Office
warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather
front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy,
with hail and thunder.
Windy conditions following on behind before another weather front
makes its presence felt by the end of the day on Saturday.
50 Saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp
showers still remaining, but
they are easing away.
The best of the sunshine perhaps on Saturday,
likely to be for the far north of Scotland.
Slowly brightening up as well across parts of England and Wales
for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push
into the south—west by the end of the day.
A cooler feeling in Scotland, five or six degrees.
Double digits quite widely further south.
Now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily east
but it is going to clear off into the near Continent
through the early hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning.
And then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start
into sheltered eastern areas of Scotland, maybe a touch
of light frost here.
Too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
And still some bits and pieces of rain first thing
on Sunday morning.
But Sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells
and a few isolated showers.
Still quite windy across the exposed coasts of the south,
40—50 mile an hour gusts of wind not out of the question.
Cooler again in Scotland, five or six.
Higher values of nine or ten further south.
It looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue for a time.
Showers will ease away on Monday and by Tuesday,
Christmas Eve, it will be drier and quieter.
What on earth is happening, you may ask?
It looks as though Father Christmas might be granting us our wish
and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment
with high pressure building on Christmas Eve into Christmas Day,
that will quieten things down quite nicely.
It means the chance of a white Christmas is very remote indeed
but it does mean a good deal of dry weather in the forecast.
So our Christmas week is looking like this —
a showery start,
drying up nicely for Christmas Eve and Christmas Day,
there is the potential
for more rain arriving late in the week.
Take care.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia for Saturday
in three parts of New South Wales, with temperatures set to hit
the mid—405 Celsius.
The Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has apologised
for going on a family holiday to Hawaii while his country
was dealing with the bushfire emergency.
At least six people have been killed in India,
as police tried to contain a further day of protests
about a new citizenship law.
Police used tear gas and batons but denied firing on demonstrators.
The law allows fast—track citizenship for religious refugees
from neighbouring countries but excludes Muslims.
Russia and China have vetoed a UN Security Council resolution that
would have allowed aid to continue flowing to civilians in northern
A UN aid chief warned that without an agreement there’d be
a rapid increase in hunger and disease, and more deaths.
Now, take a front row seat as Film critic Mark Kermode takes a look
back at the big releases of the year — in Review 2019: The Year in Film.
Hi, I’m Mark Kermode.
We’re here at the Cinema Museum in South London.
Over the next half an hour, I’ll be looking back at some
of the best movies released in UK cinemas in 2019.
Films from around the world, from big—budget blockbusters
to smaller indie gems, from widescreen full—colour
spectacle to more intimate black—and—white experimentation.
As always, 2019 kicked off with awards season and the UK
release of several films that opened in America in 2018 in time
to qualify for the Oscars.
In a weird echo of the 1990 Academy Awards, when Driving Miss
Daisy won Best Picture — for which category Spike Lee’s
infinitely superior Do The Right Thing wasn’t even
nominated — this year, the likeable but bland
Green Book beat BlacKKKlansman to the top prize.
Although Spike Lee did triumph in the Screenplay category,
earning his first competitive Academy Award.
That child is your grandchild!
What difference does it make how it gets here?
In the acting categories, Regina King and Mahershala Ali
proved deserving winners for their supporting roles
in If Beale Street Could Talk and Green Book respectively,
while Rami Malek won Best Actor for his remarkable turn
as Freddie Mercury in Bohemian Rhapsody.
# For me...
For British audiences, however, it was Olivia Colman’s winning turn
as Queen Anne in Greek director Yorgos Lanthimos’
The Favourite that proved
the highlight of the evening, with one of the funniest and most
self—deprecating acceptance speeches ever.
Did you just look at me?
Stop it!
I am the Queen.
But you are mad.
You look like a badger.
I have sent for some lobsters.
I thought we could race them and then eat them.
Particularly significant was the fact that Roma won three Oscars,
including Best Foreign Language film, dispelling any doubts
about the cinematic legitimacy of Netﬂix productions,
about which institutions such as the Cannes Film Festival had
previously proved very sniffy.
This year, Netﬂix has a number of productions up
for awards consideration, with titles as diverse
as Noah Baumbach’s Marriage Story and Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman
shaping up as serious Oscar contenders.
Both have already picked up Best Picture nods
at the Golden Globes alongside other Netflix releases The Two Popes
and Dolemite Is My Name.
You’re going to jail for a long time.
You going to have to take me!
Cut, cut!
Although arguments about big and small—screen productions
continue to rage, fuelled in part by Steven Spielberg’s
comments about TV movies not deserving Oscar nominations,
the area in which Netﬂix really proved their worth this year
is in the realm of animation.
Got to work.
What happened 7
You just sit there and be all magical and awesome.
Along with the release of their first self—produced
animated feature Klaus, an adventurous Christmas tale
from Spanish director Sergio Pablos, Netﬂix also picked up
the distribution rights of one of my favourite films of 2019,
the French gem I Lost My Body.
A tale of broken hearts and severed body parts,
Jeremy Clapin’s feature debut, freely adapted from the book
Happy Hand by Guillaume Laurant,
is a genuine wonder, which made history by becoming
the first animated feature to take the top prize in the Critics Week
section at Cannes in May.
There were a number of historic firsts at Cannes this year.
Parasite, a biting social satire from director Bong Joon—ho,
which doesn’t open in the UK until February, became the first
Korean film to win the Palme d’Or.
Meanwhile, Mati Diop, a French—Senegalese film—maker,
became the first Black women to helm a Palme d’Or contender
with Atlantics, which went on to win the Grand Prix.
Oh, and Netﬂix picked that one up, too.
Other Cannes prize—winners included Celine Sciamma,
who won Best Screenplay
for Portrait of a Lady on Fire,
and Emily Beecham, who won Best Actress for Little Joe,
both of which open here in February 2020, just in time
to qualify for the Baftas.
No, I have to run.
Meanwhile, the Cannes Best Actor award went to Antonio Banderas
for his brilliant portrayal of a film—maker struggling to move
forward in Pedro Almodovar’s semi—autobiographical
Pain and Glory.
Pain and Glory was just one of several foreign language films
which opened in the UK in 2019, reminding us that cinema is a truly
international art form.
This year, UK cinemagoers could feast on a wide range
of treats from around the world.
From Colombia, we had Birds of Passage, an arresting tale
of gangsters and spirits from the creators of
Embrace of the Serpent, who described its birth of the drug
trade narrative as addressing the great tragedy that
will curse us forever, the great taboo that we’re not
allowed to discuss.
Writer—director Nadine Labaki, the deserved Oscar
nomination for Capernaum, which became both the highest
grossing Arabic film and the highest grossing Middle Eastern film
of all time.
The story concerns a young boy growing up in Lebanon who attempts
to sue his parents for bringing him into a world so full
of suffering and strife.
From German director Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, who won an Oscar
for The Lives Of Others, came Never Look Away,
an impressive meditation on art and morality,
inspired by the early life of Gerhard Richter.
From German director Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, who won an Oscar
for The Lives Of Others, came Never Look Away,
an impressive meditation on art and morality,
inspired by the early life of Gerhard Richter.
Meanwhile, Swedish actress Halldora Geirharosdottir
excelled in Women At War, a jet—black comedy about
an eco—warrior fighting to save the planet from destruction,
accompanied by an on—screen musical trio that provides surreal Greek
choral accompaniment — with drums, accordion and sousaphone
at the ready.
Music, of course, has always been at the heart of cinema,
and this year saw a plethora of brilliant scores breathing life
into a dizzying range of movies.
My own favourites included Clint Mansell’s moody,
jazzy score for Out Of Blue, a murder mystery about life,
the universe and everything which was rather overlooked when it
opened here in March, but which I predict
will go on to become an enduring cult classic.
Makes me want to lay across all the water.
April saw the UK release of Eighth Grade, 3 coming—of—age
tale boasting an mesmerizing electronica accompaniment
by Anna Meredith.
What’s wrong, Dad?
Please tell me.
Your Nana’s dying.
She does not know, so you can’t say anything.
In September, The Farewell served up a bittersweet tale of Chinese family
loyalties played out to Alex Weston’s
unexpectedly quirky music.
And in November, we got Monos, a fable about child soldiers
from Colombian—Ecudadorian writer—director
Alejandro Landes, from
which Mica Levi conjured sounds that are as strange and enthralling
as the movie itself.
My favourite film score of the year, however, was by Icelandic
composer Hildur Guonadottir, whose brooding themes
lent real depth to one of the year’s most successful
and controversial releases, Joker.
Would you please stop bothering my kid?
Sorry.
Directed by Todd Phillips — best known for the Hangover movies —
Joker, which drew in equal measure on Alan Moore’s The Killing Joke
and Scorsese’s King of Comedy,
premiered to an eight—minute standing ovation at the Venice
Film Festival in August, where it scooped the top prize.
But almost immediately, a backlash began, with critics using words such
as toxic, cynical and irresponsible to describe the film’s
relentlessly embittered and allegedly glorified tone.
But none of that could stop it from becoming a box office hit,
surpassing Deadpool to become the highest grossing
R—rated movie of all time, albeit unadjusted for inflation.
Joker also arrived on the scene at exactly the moment that some
old—school directors decided to get off their bikes about
comic book movies.
In a year in which the biggest box office hits included Captain Marvel,
Spider—Man: Far From Home and, of course, Avengers: Endgame,
Martin Scorsese caused uproar among fans by claiming that Marvel movies
aren’t cinema, comparing them instead to theme park rides that
said little about the human condition and had no
mystery about them.
Francis Ford Coppola, who — let’s be honest about this —
hasn’t made a decent film in decades, went further, calling
Marvel—type movies despicable.
Now, all of this sounds suspiciously like a bunch of grumpy old white men
complaining that everything was better in their day,
when men were men and movies were real movies.
But as Black Panther star Chadwick Boseman told my BBC
colleague Simon Mayo, the mystery that Scorsese is talking
about, it’s is in Black Panther, but he didn’t get that there
was this feeling of being unsure, of not knowing what was going
to happen that black people feel cos we never had a superhero
like this before, said Boseman.
Maybe Scorsese didn’t get that when he watched it —
that’s cultural.
Oof!
There was a similar sense of cultural change afoot
when Pinar Toprak became the first woman to score a movie
from the Marvel Cinematic Universe with Captain Marvel,
a film that, like DC’s Wonder Woman, has started to rebalance
long—standing gender stereotypes.
Other big hitters at the 2019 box office inevitably included
family—friendly sequels, such as Disney’s long—awaited Toy Story 4
and more recently Frozen II.
Wow!
This place is amazing.
Wasn’t Buzz going to meet us here?
He must be held up somewhere.
Up here, astro boy.
If you think you can take our top prize spot, you’re wrong.
Dead wrong.
Help me get out of here.
0h, I’ll help you — with my foot!
How do you like that?
To infinity and my foot!
Boom!
In the vacuum of space, they cannot hear you scream!
The House of Mouse also continued its mission
to repackage its back catalogue through live—action remakes,
like Guy Ritchie’s Aladdin.
You look like a prince on the outside.
But I didn’t change anything on the inside.
Showtime.
No, I’m in charge, 0K?
I say when it’s time.
Really?
The most baffling of these, however, wasJon Favreau’s
reboot of The Lion King, which used photorealist animation
to create something that looked absolutely real
while remaining absolutely unreal.
And in my opinion, absolutely pointless.
If you want reality, the best place to find
it is in documentaries.
And one of the most powerful documentaries of 2019 was For Same,
an astonishing front—line account of life under siege in Aleppo filmed
by a Syrian citizen journalist.
Constructed as a letter to her daughter, the film asks
will you blame me for staying here or blame me for leaving?
A question raised as we see her and her medic husband returning
to the besieged city to tend to the wounded, dodging
bullets and barrel bombs with young Sama in their arms.
Altogether less traumatic was Amazing Grace, a music
documentary that took the best part of five decades to make
it to our screens.
Shot over two nights in 1972, it documents
Aretha Franklin’s performance at the New Temple Missionary Baptist
Church in Los Angeles, which became the biggest selling
live gospel album of all time.
Oscar—winner Sydney Pollack directed the shoot, but with his background
in drama rather than music docs, he failed to use clapperboards
or markers, making it virtually impossible to synch the resulting
picture to the recorded sound.
Now, finally new technology solved the problem,
and it was worth the wait.
# Going to say it one more time.
# I’m so glad!
# So glad!
# So glad!
# So glad!
# I’ve got religion!
Three years before Aretha made those extraordinary
Baptist Church recordings, Neil Armstrong became the first man
to set foot on the Moon, an event which marked its 50th
anniversary in 2019.
Unsurprisingly, cinema joined in the celebrations
with the documentary Apollo 11 using remarkable footage to revisit
those epochal events, putting the viewer right
there in that tin can that miraculously made it
to the Moon and back.
On the fictional front, there were also several movies this
year that portrayed space as the final frontier.
The most high—profile of these was James Gray’s Ad Astra,
which was pitched as 2001 meets Apocalypse Now but was actually more
like Event Horizon with added Interstellar Overdrive.
Ad Astra may have had a big star name to fall on in Brad Pitt,
but so did French director Claire Denis’ altogether more
adventurous High Life,
in which Robert Pattison joined a misfit crew on a voyage
into the heart of darkness.
Even though we’re forwards, getting farther from
what’s getting nearer...
But my own personal favourite was Aniara,
an astonishing existential
adventure adapted from an epic poem by Swedish Nobel laureate
Harry Martinson.
I saw echoes of Solaris and Silent Running in this tale
of a transporter ship travelling from a ravaged Earth to Mars
which gets knocked off course, leaving its passengers to unravel
as deep space beckons.
Down to Earth and closer to home, 2019 proved a remarkable year
for British film—makers, with a string of home—grown
projects giving us some of the highlights of the year.
Ladies and gentlemen, Rose—Lynn Harlan!
MUSIC.
# And I lost my mind somewhere in Mexico...
In April, Jessie Buckley earned her musical spurs in Wild Rose,
a tale of a single mother living in Glasgow but dreaming
of travelling to Nashville to find fame and fortune
as a country singer.
# ..on my side...
# And I think it’s going to be along, longtime...
In May, Dexter Fletcher’s Rocketman channelled the spirit of Ken Russell
as it turned Eltonjohn’s life into a rip—roaring pop fantasia,
centred on a barnstorming central performance by Taron Egerton.
Big night?
Where’s your mask?
June saw the release of Dirty God, Sacha Polak’s film
about the survivor of an acid
attack which boasted a starmaking performance from feature
first—timer Vicky Knight, an extremely versatile actor
who, on this evidence, could have a long and varied
successful career ahead of her.
She really is astonishing.
Then in September, we had a trio of home—grown modern classics that
showcased the diversity of film—making in the UK.
She’s not coming to take him away.
You promise?
There’s so much we can do here now that you’re home.
From writer—director Shola Amoo came the semiautobiographical second
feature The Last Tree, the story of a young man of Nigerian
heritage being uprooted from an idyllic rural childhood
to face life on the mean streets of London.
It’s a very powerful film featuring a breakthrough
performance by Sam Adewunmi.
I have not got that much room.
You’ve got a foot on that side.
And I literally am on the ledge.
I’ve got nowhere to go.
Also in September, we had the release ofJoanna Hogg’s
The Souvenir, recently voted Best Film of 2019
by Sight & Sound magazine.
Another autobiographically inspired work, The Souvenir starred
Honor Swinton Byrne as a young
film—maker who falls into a relationship
with Tom Burke’s sinisterly mysterious Anthony.
It’s a very personal film, wryly tender, frequently funny
but insidiously suffocating.
I’m just playing, Julie.
Stop torturing yourself.
I’m not torturing myself.
You’re inviting me to torture you.
For me, howver, the very best film of the year was Bait,
the breakthrough feature from Cornish film—maker MarkJenkin.
I can’t speak for everyone.
Give it a bloody good go, then.
As a resident, as a homeowner...
A tourist...
Chairman of the committee...
Someone who spent a lot of time investing a great deal of money
in supporting local industry!
A refreshingly authentic tale of tensions between locals
and tourists in a once—thriving fishing village, it’s an evocative
portrait of familiar culture classes in an area where traditional trades
and lifestyles are under threat.
Shot with clockwork cameras on grainy 60mm stock,
which jenkin hand-processed in his studio,
Bait is both an impassioned celebration of Cornwall’s proud past
and a bracingly tragicomic portrait of its troubled present
and possible future.
It’s a genuine modern masterpiece which establishesjenkin as one
of the most arresting and intriguing British film—makers
of his generation.
Now, I hope that Bait get the recognition it
deserves at the Baftas.
It’s exactly the kind of film that a British award ceremony
should be celebrating.
So, if I have to come in, you won’t come and visit me?
They’re not going to bring you injust for a cyst.
All I knew is it felt serious.
That’s just because of all the sick people around you.
You see the nonsense you talk?
How do you get through life?
You’re still here with me.
I’m just doing that out of spite.
I’d also like to see Bafta nominations for Ordinary Love, in
which Lesley Manville and Liam Neeson face up
to a diagnosis of breast cancer.
Brilliantly written by Belfast playwright Owen McCafferty
and directed by Glenn Leyburn and Lisa Barros D’Sa,
who made the life—affirming Good Vibrations,
Ordinary Love is a remarkable picture that approaches a difficult
subject matter with wit, honesty and a large dose of humour.
Due to a delayed American release, Ordinary Love won’t be eligible
for the forthcoming 92nd Academy Awards.
So what are the likely contenders?
I’m Rick Dalton.
It’s my pleasure, Mr Schwartz.
Call me Marvin.
Put it there.
Is that your son?
No, that’s my stunt double, Cliff Booth.
Well, alongside the films revert he mentioned,
we can probably expect to see some recognition
for Once Upon a Time in Hollywood,
Quentin Tarantino’s paean to the end of cinema’s age of innocence.
After all, Oscar voters traditionally love movies
about making movies.
Line!
Cut!
You embarrassed yourself up in front of all those people!
I intend to make my own way in the world.
No one makes their own way, least of all a woman.
You’ll need to marry well.
But you are not married.
That’s because I’m rich.
There’s plenty of Oscar buzz, too, around Greta Gerwig’s Little Women.
It’s the latest adaptation of Louisa May Alcott’s timeless
novel and it’s drawing
critical plaudits.
particularly for leading lady Saoirse Ronan.
Who is that guy?
Mr Blanc is a private investigator of great renown.
RianJohnson’s Knives Out is a possible contender, too, using
an all—star cast to breathe new life into an old Agatha
Christie style whodunit.
I suspect foul play.
Where’s Jason?
And Jordan Peele’s Us is an outside contender with its mix
of horror and social satire.
Who knows how these movies will fare with Oscar voters?
As always with awards, the one that you can be certain of
is that the results will probably make you
want to scream as much as cheer.
I’ll leave you with a taste of something that’s become a modern
Christmas tradition — a new Star Wars movie,
still packing out cinemas for 42 years after A New Hope first
landed, reminding us that, when it comes to the movies, some things
remain the same.
We spotted the fugitives.
0h, they fly now!
They fly now?
They fly now!
Good morning.
What a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some
relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
In fact, on Friday afternoon, these were fairly typical
Weather Watcher pictures across parts of central and southern
England in particular.
In fact, by close of play on Friday, there were over 90 flood warnings
in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend,
well, do go to the BBC weather website for the latest updates
on the flood warnings, and also any Met Office
warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather
front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy,
with hail and thunder.
Windy conditions following on behind before another weather front
makes its presence felt by the end of the day on Saturday.
50 Saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp
showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
The best of the sunshine perhaps on Saturday,
likely to be for the far north of Scotland.
Slowly brightening up as well across parts of England and Wales
for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push
into the south—west by the end of the day.
A cooler feel in Scotland, five or six degrees.
Double digits quite widely further south.
Now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards
but it is going to clear off into the near Continent
through the early hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning.
And then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start
into sheltered eastern areas of Scotland, maybe a touch
of light frost here.
Too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
And still some bits and pieces of rain first thing
on Sunday morning.
But Sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few
isolated showers around.
But still quite windy across the exposed coasts
of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out
of the question.
Cooler again in Scotland, five or six degrees but higher
values of nine or ten further south.
It looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue
for a time, though.
Showers will ease away on Monday and by Tuesday,
Christmas Eve, it will be drier and quieter.
What on earth is happening, you may ask.
It looks as though Father Christmas might be granting us our wish
and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment
with high pressure building on Christmas Eve into Christmas Day.
That will quieten things down quite nicely.
It means the chance of a white Christmas is very remote indeed
but it does mean a good deal of dry weather in the forecast.
So our Christmas week is looking like this —
a showery start, drying up nicely for Christmas Eve and Christmas Day,
there is the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
Take care.
This is BBC News.
Welcome if you’re watching here in the UK, on PBS in America,
or around the globe.
I’m Maryam Moshiri.
Our top stories:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia for Saturday
in three parts of New South Wales, with temperatures set to hit
the mid—405 Celsius.
At least six people die in northern India during another day of big
protests against the country’s new citizenship law.
Facebook says it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties
to a conservative news outlet.
And stuck in orbit.
Why Boeing’s mission to the International Space Station
didn’t quite go as planned.
Firefighters in the Australian state of New South Wales were bracing
for what are being termed "catastrophic" fire conditions.
for what are being termed "catastrophic" fire conditions.
Temperatures have soared above A0 degrees and are set to fuel more
than a hundred fires burning across the state.
In South Australia, one person has died overnight in a blaze
east of Adelaide.
The Prime Minister Scott Morrison, widely criticised for being
on holiday during the crisis, is expected back in Australia
over the weekend.
I got the latest from our reporter Phil Mercer.
We have, as you say, a catastrophic fire warning
for three large areas here in New South Wales.
More than 100 fires are burning across Australia’s
most populous state.
Roads have been closed, rail services have been disrupted,
and what with just a few days left until Christmas,
summer holidaymakers hoping to go north, south,
and west of Sydney have been urged to stay at home today
and to delay their trip until tomorrow, because conditions
are very, very dangerous, as you say, very hot temperatures
in parts of New South Wales.
We also have a prediction of very strong winds later.
So that is a real menace for firefighters.
Hot temperatures, very dry conditions underfoot,
and those winds will make those fires increasingly unpredictable.
Fires burning to in the state of Victoria, also in South Australia
and on the other side of the continent in Western Australia
fire crews battling blazes there too.
So it’s another brutal day in Australia’s summer.
Amid all this the Prime Minister, Scott Morrison, criticised
for going on holiday to Hawaii, is on his way back now.
He is.
And one would imagine that he will get quite a reception
when he gets home.
Many Australians very angry that their Prime Minister decided
to take a holiday to Hawaii at a time of crisis.
Mr Morrison has issued a statement saying that he deeply regrets any
offence caused to those Australians affected by the bushfires.
And it’s not just the fact that Mr Morrison has gone on holiday
during this emergency.
Many Australians wondering about his attitude to climate change
and the role that they are playing in Australia’s bushfire crisis.
Mr Morrison has acknowledged that global warming is a factor
in Australia’s emergency.
Safe to say when Mr Morrison lands today, here in Australia,
his handling of this emergency will come under immense scrutiny.
And of course there have been deaths, as well,
haven’t there, including a couple of volunteer firefighters.
We were down yesterday near the town of Buxton,
where these two firefighters died.
A tree hit their fire engine, causing the vehicle to roll over.
Those two volunteer firefighters were men in their 305.
And, once again, it does underscore the dangers facing firefighters,
many of them are volunteers here in New South Wales,
backed up by professional crews as well.
We were quite close to a dam, a lake near the town of Bargo
in this enormous helicopter, a water bombing aircraft came down
with a giant hose, sucking up water, before going off to fight the fires.
So in many ways it is a military—style operation,
boots on the ground supported by those squadrons
of water bombing aircraft.
But, tragically, the death of those two firefighters does illustrate
the dangers on the front line.
And of course, Phil, this is the fire season.
Why is it that the fires this year have been so bad?
Scientists are telling us that this annual fire season is not only
starting earlier, it’s likely to last longer,
and is more intense.
So bushfires have always been part of the Australian story.
Long before the Europeans arrived, bushfires are a fact of life
in this country.
But what worries many scientists and other people is that they seem
to be starting earlier and they are far more intense.
Now, scientists can’t say that that particular bushfire west of Sydney
or a fire in Western Australia is directly caused by climate
change, but what they do say is that global warming is making
the conditions here dryer and that is a massive factor
in these bushfires.
Here in eastern Australia, for example, we’ve had
a very long drought.
So what you have, you have dry conditions underfoot,
you have no rain, strong winds, and hot temperatures.
In those conditions do conspire to heighten the fire danger.
As we say here in New South Wales, three major areas facing
catastrophic conditions.
And that’s as bad as it gets.
There are various levels of rate in this country and catastrophic
is right at the very top.
Phil Mercer there.
There have been more mass protests in India today over a controversial
new citizenship law.
At least six people have been killed in the demonstrations.
Critics say the legislation discriminates against the country’s
200 million strong Muslim population, with many fearing
they could become stateless.
But the move by Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, is popular
with his Hindu supporters.
From Delhi, here’s Rajini Vaidyanathan.
Is this a moment of reckoning for the world’s largest democracy,
as anger over a controversial citizenship law intensifies?
Scenes of defiance, protesters ignoring curfews,
police accused of heavy—handed tactics.
Hundreds of thousands across this vast and diverse nation have taken
to the streets to oppose a law they say discriminates against
Muslims.
It offers fast—track citizenship for illegal immigrants from three
neighbouring countries, except Muslims.
The government says it is to protect religious
minorities fleeing persecution.
India prides itself on its secular principles, the right to equality
for all faiths.
But many fear that, by making religion a condition of citizenship,
that core fundamental principle is now at stake.
Muslims say they are living in fear.
The government is planning to publish a nationwide register
of citizens, in which everyone would have to prove they are Indian.
Those who can’t would be considered illegal immigrants,
with only non—Muslims afforded protection under
the new citizenship law.
"I don’t trust the government," she tells me.
"If they don’t accept my documents, which prove I’m Indian,
then what will I do?"
Pressure is mounting on India’s Prime Minister,
Narendra Modi, but he still has huge support for his
Hindu nationalist agenda.
Tonight in Delhi, 3 group of his supporters came out to defend
the citizenship act.
A lot of people are saying that it is against Muslims,
but it is not against Muslims.
It is only against — only for.
It is not against anyone.
It is for minorities in three neighbouring countries,
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, where Islam
is a state religion.
This week’s large—scale protest represents the first real dissent
against Mr Modi’s government.
Some fear the country is inching closer to becoming a Hindu state,
and worry that India’s secular soul is at stake.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The International Criminal Court’s chief prosecutor says she believes
war crimes have been committed in the Israeli—occupied Palestinian
Territories.
Fatou Bensouda says she wants to launch an investigation but needs
the court to establish first if they have authority
over these areas.
Three and a half years after the UK voted to leave the European Union,
MPs have voted overwhelmingly in favour of the government’s Brexit
Bill.
The legislation now paves the way for Boris Johnson
to deliver his promise by the end of next month.
The Prime Minister won the vote easily, with six opposition Labour
MPs backing the government.
President Trump has said he wants an immediate impeachment trial.
Writing on Twitter, he said the Democrats had zero
proof of anything.
The Republican leader in the US Senate, where an impeachment trial
would be held, says there’s still no agreement with Democrats
about how to proceed.
The United Nations has warned of a rapid increase in hunger
and disease amongst displaced people in Syria.
It follows the decision by Russia and China to veto a measure to keep
aid flowing to civilians.
Fighting between the government forces and rebels in
the north—western province of Idlib has been intensifying,
with thousands fleeing their homes.
Bill Hayton reports.
This is the Bab al—Hawa border post, one of four places where aid can
cross into Syria.
But on Friday it was the scene of demonstrations.
Thousands of people marched to protest what they see
as Turkey’s Collaboration with a renewed offensive
in Idlib province.
CHANTING.
Syrian government forces, backed by Russia, moving
into the north—west of Idlib, forcing tens of thousands to flee.
The road towards the border is new full of trucks heading for safety.
TRANSLATION: They were bombing us. We couldn’t sleep.
They were using every type of weapon, including
bombs and rockets.
The latest exodus only adds to the numbers needing aid.
The UN says it fed overl million people in October
with cross—border supplies.
But that programme will end onJanuary 10, unless it is renewed.
On Friday, Russia and China blocked an extension,
causing outrage from the American ambassador.
This decision is reckless, irresponsible, and cruel.
There is nojustification imaginable for any member of this
Security Council leaving vulnerable Syrian civilians with fewer means
of securing vital aid.
Russia wants two of the aid crossing points closed —
those from Jordan and Iraq.
Leaving only the two Turkish routes.
It also wants the mission length reduced to six months.
Its ambassador blamed other countries for blocking
the aid renewal.
TRANSLATION: who won today? Nobody.
Who lost?
Those who lost were the Syrian people.
Do not attempt to shift blame for this on us.
With two weeks left until the current resolution
expires, there’s still time for agreement.
But it looks as if compromise will be hard to reach.
In the meantime, the situation in Syria gets more desperate.
Bill Hayton, BBC News.
Facebook says it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties
to a conservative news outlet that uses fake profile photos generated
with the help of artificial intelligence.
Researchers said the Facebook and Instagram fake profiles generate
thousands of personalities who emphasise support
for President Trump and opposition to the Chinese government.
Our North America correspondent Peter Bowes is following the story
from Los Angeles.
This is, say a lot of people, very worrying.
And it shows what technology can achieve these days.
In terms of generating these images, faces that look like profile shots
of ordinary people, but they are fake,
they are generated by algorithms.
There’s absolutely nothing real about them.
They don’t represent real people.
But they have been generated by users in Vietnam,
say Facebook, purporting to be Americans.
And they’ve removed several hundred of these Facebook accounts,
as you say, along with Instagram sites and various pages as well that
carried with the,m messages that were anti—China,
that were pro—Trump, or generated conversations
about family values or impeachment, a lot of those hot button issues
that are in the news at the moment.
What is the social media giant been saying about all of this
and what it’s doing to combat this sort of thing?
Well, this is an ongoing battle, of course, for Facebook and it’s
faced similar problems of course, going back to the last American
election in 2016, then the key threat was from Russia.
But this was coming from a different part of the world.
And this is in part why Facebook have been very open about revealing
what they have found now.
And they are digging into the technology.
They are trying to find out and really get ahead of those people
who can generate these kinds of images.
The experts who have been looking at this say they have been
essentially quite startled at how good they are.
How easy it is to generate these images.
And they’ve never seen anything quite like it with these,
I suppose, artificial faces being used to send out false
information, disinformation in social media.
Peter Bowes in Los Angeles.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: We meet the Italian engineer who makes sure that less
well off children don’t miss out on toys.
The world of music has been paying tribute to George Michael,
who’s died from suspected heart failure at the age of 53.
He sold well over 100 million albums in a career spanning more
than three decades.
The United States’ troops have been trying to overthrow the dictatorship
of General Manuel Noriega.
The Pentagon says it’s failed in its principle objective
to capture Noriega and take him to the United States
to face drugs charges.
The hammer and sickle was hastily taken away.
In its place, the Russian flag was hoisted over what is now no
longer the Soviet Union, but the Commonwealth of Independent
States.
Day broke slowly over Lockerbie, over the cockpit of Pan Am’s Maid
of the Seas, nosedown in the soft earth.
You could see what happens when a plane eight storeys high,
a football pitch wide, falls from 30,000 feet.
Christmas has returned to Albania after a communist ban lasting more
than 20 years.
Thousands went to midnight Mass in the town of Shkoder,
where there were anti—Communist riots ten days ago.
This is BBC World News.
The latest headlines:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia for Saturday
in three parts of New South Wales with temperatures set to hit
the mid—405 Celsius.
At least six people die in northern India during another day of big
protests against the country’s new citizenship law.
Poland’s parliament has adopted a law which will see major reform
of the country’s judiciary, making it easier for the government
to fire, fine or discipline judges.
The ruling Law and Justice Party says reforms are necessary,
but critics call it an attempt to stifle judges, and there have
been widespread demonstrations.
Rich Preston reports.
The bill has been hugely controversial.
As it was being debated, people took to the streets outside
parliament in support of the judges and judicial independence.
The changes give the government the power to discipline judges
for what it calls "political activity," including questioning
newjudges that the government appoints.
In a marathon debate, the ruling party argued the changes
are necessary to prevent chaos in the judicial system.
TRANSLATION:
Wea ke ns
Weakens the rule of law most is what
Weakens the ml; of law most is what we all
Weakens the rule of law most is what we call the state of the judges.
The state of the judges is the state in which the judges
decide what is law and what is not.
decide what is law and what is not.
But opposition lawmakers say it is an attempt to gag judges.
TRANSLATION: The bill will subject Polish courts
and Polishjudges to political control by the legislative
and exacting bodies and reduce the level
ofjudicial protection of individual rights.
There are concerns such sweeping changes to Poland’s industry
could contradict European law and force Poland out of the EU.
TRANSLATION: You are lying to the Poles, claiming that these
are European solutions, while the European Commission says
clearly, "Please stop working on this shameful project".
The bill will now be sent to Poland’s Senate,
which can delay the new law, but not block it.
Rich Preston, BBC News.
One of the pioneers of new approaches to international
development, Sir Fazle Hasan Abed, has died.
He was 83.
He founded the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee,
also known as BRAC, in 1972.
It’s now one of the world’s largest NGOs, operating in 11 Asian
and African countries.
BRAC is said to have lifted 150 million people out of poverty.
Nicholas Kristof is a columnist with The New York Times
who knew Sir Fazle.
He told me more about his legacy.
So I think it’s a few things.
One is that when he began in the development space,
it was really about Westerners sitting around conference rooms
in places like London and Washington and deciding what was best
for people in villages half a world away.
And that never really worked terribly well.
And Abed was a leader in the developing world’s
own responses to poverty, and the truth is that
when there was local ownership, it worked a lot better.
You know, the US did a lot of projects in Afghanistan.
They were not vastly successful.
BRAC did work in Afghanistan.
When American—built tools were blown up, BRAC’s continued.
So I think one is the local ownership development.
I think another is his emphasis on education and on empowering
of women and the returns you get from that and in recent —
I don’t think it was really something he really with began early
in his career, but over the last 15 years or so he was increasingly
involved in using randomised controlled trials to test
interventions and see how well they worked,
as if they were a pharmaceutical trial.
And that has been a pioneering step in development —
the Nobel Prize for economics went to three economists who worked
on them, in some cases with BRAC or BRAC—inspired programmes,
so I think he, you know, he leaves a huge legacy at the top
tiers of development, but also in villages around
the world — kids who otherwise would have died who are here
because of his work.
The Duke of Edinburgh, husband of Queen Elizabeth,
is spending the night in a London hospital.
Royal officials say the Duke, who is 98, has been taken
there as a precautionary measure for a pre—existing condition.
The Queen is at her Sandringham estate, in the east of England,
where she arrived on Friday morning.
America’s progress towards being able to return
to putting its own people into space has hit a hurdle.
Nasa hopes the Boeing Starliner craft could be used to ferry
passengers to and from the International Space Station,
but a test flight in Florida failed to go as planned.
Jonathan Amos reports.
GROUND CONTROL: And lift-off.
The rise of Starliner.
A new era in human space flight.
A new era perhaps, but notjust yet.
Boeing launched its Starliner capsule on time from Cape Canaveral
in Florida, but the automated ship then failed to carry
out its commands properly.
When it came off the top of the rocket, it was supposed
to fire its engines to increase its height.
The Starliner put itself in the wrong part of the sky.
It can no longer reach the space station and will have to come home.
The American space agency has been overseeing the development
of the capsule.
Nasa has provided milestone payments to help Boeing bring
the vehicle into operation.
And despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
If we would’ve had crew in there, number one,
they would have been safe.
To be very clear, our crew would have been safe.
And, in fact, had they been in there, we very well may be
orbiting or docking with the International Space Station
tomorrow, had they been in the spacecraft.
So a lot of things went right today.
I want to be really clear — a lot of things went right,
and this is why we test and because we are now in orbit
and in fact, elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data
and a lot more information in the coming days.
So this is all — this is all very positive.
Two, one, zero...
Nasa has not been able to launch its own astronauts
to orbit for nearly nine years.
When it retired the shuttles in 2011, it ceased to operate space
vehicles and it bought seats to the space station
in Russian capsules instead.
Nasa would rather spend its money hailing rides on American—built
space taxi services.
Another enterprise, California’s SpaceX company,
has already completed its test flight of its astronaut capsule.
The Dragon craft made a flawless trip to the orbiting lab in March.
SpaceX looks set to start flying astronauts for real
in the next few months.
Quite how far behind today’s events put Boeing is unclear.
Engineers will need to inspect the Starliner when they get it
back on Earth.
Nasa is determined, though, that it should have a choice
of capsules in the future.
Boeing is certain to try again.
Jonathan Amos, BBC News.
Christmas is coming.
All around the world, millions of children will be hoping
for a visit from Santa.
Some less well—off youngsters may miss out on getting a toy
but a retired engineerfrom Rome is determined to do something
about that, as Tim Allman explains.
His name is Guido but it may as well be Geppetto.
A former engineer with an Italian airline, he now devotes himself
to repairing and restoring toys.
Lots and lots of toys.
Anything up to 70 a day, in fact, and it is all in a good cause.
TRANSLATION: Take this one, for example.
Some toy shops give us the faulty toys that they cannot sell.
This one, I have repaired it, and it works now.
And these new toys, we send to hospitals.
Notjust hospitals.
This charity also provides playthings to the children
of refugees, or kids whose parents have lost theirjobs —
any youngster who wants a moment ofjoy and a toy of their own.
TRANSLATION: We call these objects re—loved,
since they are loved twice.
First, by the parents of the children who donated them
and then, they are loved by the children who receive them.
So we reuse objects and we avoid wasting plastic.
They distribute around 20,000 toys 3 year.
Dolls, teddies, cars, action figures —
Guido tinkers away at them all.
His greatest reward, he says — the smiles
on the children’s faces.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
What a lovely story to end on. You
what a lovely story to end on. You ran reach
What a lovely story to end on. You can reach me.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @BBCMaryam.
Plenty more on our website. Thank you for watching. To stay with us.
you for watching. To stay with us. Plenty to come in a moment.
—— Do stay with us.
Good morning.
What a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some
relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
In fact, on Friday afternoon, these were fairly typical
Weather Watcher pictures across parts of central and southern
England in particular.
In fact, by close of play on Friday, there were over 90 flood warnings
in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend,
well, do go to the BBC weather website for the latest updates
on the flood warnings, and also any Met Office
warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather
front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy,
with hail and thunder.
Windy conditions following on behind before another weather front
makes its presence felt by the end of the day on Saturday.
50 Saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp
showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
The best of the sunshine perhaps on Saturday,
likely to be for the far north of Scotland.
Slowly brightening up as well across parts of England and Wales
for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push
into the south—west by the end of the day.
A cooler feel in Scotland, five or six degrees.
Double digits quite widely further south.
Now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards
but it is going to clear off into the near Continent
through the early hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning.
And then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start
into sheltered eastern areas of Scotland, maybe a touch
of light frost here.
Too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
And still some bits and pieces of rain first thing
on Sunday morning.
But Sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few
isolated showers around.
But still quite windy across the exposed coasts
of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out
of the question.
Cooler again in Scotland, five or six degrees but higher
values of nine or ten further south.
It looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue
for a time, though.
Showers will ease away on Monday and by Tuesday,
Christmas Eve, it will be drier and quieter.
What on earth is happening, you may ask.
It looks as though Father Christmas might be granting us our wish
and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment
with high pressure building on Christmas Eve into Christmas Day.
That will quieten things down quite nicely.
It means the chance of a white Christmas is very remote indeed
but it does mean a good deal of dry weather in the forecast.
So our Christmas week is looking like this —
a showery start, drying up nicely for Christmas Eve and Christmas Day,
there is the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
Take care.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia for Saturday
in three parts of New South Wales, with temperatures set to hit
the mid—forties Celsius.
The Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has apologised
for going on a family holiday to Hawaii while his country
was dealing with the bushfire emergency.
At least six people have been killed in India,
as police tried to contain a further day of protests
about a new citizenship law.
Police used tear gas and batons but denied firing on demonstrators.
The law allows fast—track citizenship for religious refugees
from neighbouring countries but excludes Muslims.
Facebook says that it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties
to a conservative news outlet that uses artificially generated faces
to spread messages in favour of President Trump and against
the Chinese government.
The social media network said the fake profiles are linked
to the US—based news outlet, the Epoch Times.
Now on BBC News, one of the highlights of the year
from Our World.
Russia faces a deadly epidemic of domestic violence,
so last month, Lucy Ash went to meet some of the families whose stories
have sparked a national debate.
A warning — this programme contains scenes some viewers
may find upsetting.
Russia can be a dangerous place for women.
It has a deadly culture of domestic violence.
Across the country, hundreds of women are killed every year
by partners and relatives.
But now, some Russian women are fighting back,
with a new wave of activism.
This year, Russian society was rocked by a big court case.
Three sisters accused of murdering their father inJuly
2018 were found to have been physically and sexually abused
by him for years.
Krestina, Angelina and Maria confessed to attacking
their sleeping father, Mikhail Khachaturyan,
with a hunting knife and a hammer.
They face up to 20 years in prison.
Mikhail Khachaturyan’s body was found in the third—floor landing
of this block, where he lived with his daughters.
After a public outcry, the sisters have been released
from prison and are leading relatively normal lives,
with some restrictions while awaiting trial.
I can’t speak to the sisters while the case is being
investigated, but I can talk to their mother.
Aurelia Dunduk was herself a victim of constant abuse from her husband,
Mikhail, for many years.
At first, she tried going to police, but that only made matters worse.
Eventually, he kicked her out.
This high—profile case has shone a powerful light on the scourge
of domestic violence.
Hundreds of thousands have signed a petition calling
for the sisters’ release.
Activists at weekly pickets blame Russia’s legal system for turning
a blind eye and forcing the teenagers to defend themselves.
Russia’s most famous opposition punk band,
Pussy Riot, performed at a concert fundraiser for the sisters.
This is a theatre performance which tells the story
of the Khachaturyan sisters, but the actors also tell
the audience about their own experiences.
This is a theatre performance which tells the story
of the Khachaturyan sisters, but the actors also tell
the audience about their own experiences.
Domestic abuse is still relatively taboo here.
Many believe the state shouldn’t poke its nose
into private, family business.
But the Khachaturyan case sparked a kind of Russia Me Too movement.
Today, women battling the culture of domestic abuse have finally
started to gain a voice.
Anna Rivina has opened a walk—in help Centre in Moscow called
No To Violence, where women can get legal and psychological support.
The centre is also raising awareness through slick social media
campaigns, including this one, where famous Russian men say
it is uncool to hit women.
One of the main problems is why domestic violence still exists.
It is the generations.
There is connection with generations, and of course,
if a young boy or girl grows up in a family where they see it,
day by day, for them, it’sjust a normal thing.
They just cannot understand why it’s not OK.
And for us, it’s the main thing, is not only to protect
or to prevent, but to explain that this is violence,
this is not OK.
I can say that there is a big difference since then,
2015, when I started this work.
Now, it’s much easier.
Now, it’s more obvious for people that this problem exists,
and now it’s much more obvious for people that it’s
not about women.
It’s about human rights.
And of course, a few years ago,, we had decriminalisation of domestic
violence, as people’s first time.
Anna Rivina is referring to a controversial law passed
in 2017 which scrapped prison sentences for first—time abusers.
Beatings which didn’t require hospital treatment were classed
as administrative offences, not crimes.
Some say this has led to an upsurge in violence.
One of the biggest problems in tackling domestic violence
is the lack of reliable statistics.
Police registered more than 13,000 assaults against wives
by husbands last year.
But that figure only includes married women,
and the true figure is likely to be much higher.
26—year—olds Margarita Gracheva, a mother—of—two, was initially
a victim of so—called minor harm.
Her husband had hit her and threatened her with a knife.
But, when she went to the police, they said the investigation
would take 20 days.
Then they dropped the case.
One month later, her husband took her into the woods and chopped
off her hands.
The doctors were able to save one of them,
but not the other.
Margarita has just published a book about her recovery.
She is now able to look after her children on her own,
in her apartment, and is keen to go back to work.
Like the Khachaturian case, Margarita’s story has become
a media sensation.
It has focused attention on the toxic masculinity,
weak laws and official indifference which endanger millions
of Russian women.
Russia doesn’t have a national domestic violence law
but inside the parliament, one woman is working hard
Russia doesn’t have a national domestic violence law
but inside the parliament, one woman is working hard
to introduce one.
Oksana Pushkina is the deputy head of the parliamentary committee
for women and children.
She was one of the very few MPs to take a strong stance
against the decriminalisation law in 2017.
That takes some guts, because she is affiliated
with the political party loyal to President Vladimir Putin,
which passed the law.
In Russia, tackling domestic abuse has never been
a priority for lawmakers.
But this recent debate in the parliament is a sign
that the government is beginning to take the problem more seriously.
Here, Pushkina is pushing to introduce restraining orders
to keep violent partners away from victims.
She says the recent increase in Russian domestic violence cases
in the European Court of Human Rights have
embarrassed the government.
But Pushkina is facing a lot of opposition,
and her criticsjump to some odd conclusions.
Earlier this year, an archpriest of the Russian Orthodox Church told
a radio station that women are more submissive and generally less
intelligent than men.
Smart women, he said, are rare.
Those are the words of a man who heads the commission
on the protection of women, children and families.
And it’s attitudes like these that help to explain why tackling
domestic violence is still not very high up on the agenda
in this country.
That same archpriest has also stated that even the term ‘domestic
violence’ is linked to radical Western feminism and is incompatible
with Russian family values.
Anton Sorvachev is a family lawyer.
Twice divorced himself, he specialises in defending
the interests of men in family break—ups and he believes the status
quo is in favour of women.
He also has his own show on YouTube with overtly misogynist views,
and he is outraged by the idea of restraining orders.
You think it is the woman that should leave the family home
in the case of domestic violence?
But all too often, the police don’t take the necessary action to protect
the victims of domestic abuse.
Anna’s 29—year—old daughter Alyona Verba was brutally murdered
by her husband in this very apartment.
He stabbed her 57 times and then left for work.
In the morning, their 7—year—old son Nikita went into his mother’s
bedroom and found her body.
Although former police captain Sergei Gustyatnikov was convicted
of murder, he hasn’t been stripped of his parental rights.
Anna and her grandson can only hope for a change
in Russia’s legal system.
The appalling cases in this film might have been prevented,
if only the right measures been in place.
Russia desperately needs a domestic violence law,
but those who are fighting for change have many
tough battles ahead.
Good morning.
What a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some
relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
In fact, on Friday afternoon, these were fairly typical
Weather Watcher pictures across parts of central and southern
England in particular.
In fact, by close of play on Friday, there were over 90 flood warnings
in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend,
well, do go to the BBC weather website for the latest updates
on the flood warnings, and also any Met Office
warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather
front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy,
with hail and thunder.
Windy conditions following on behind before another weather front
makes its presence felt by the end of the day on Saturday.
50 Saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp
showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
The best of the sunshine perhaps on Saturday,
likely to be for the far north of Scotland.
Slowly brightening up as well across parts of England and Wales
for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push
into the south—west by the end of the day.
A cooler feel in Scotland, five or six degrees.
Double digits quite widely further south.
Now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards
but it is going to clear off into the near Continent
through the early hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning.
And then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start
into sheltered eastern areas of Scotland, maybe a touch
of light frost here.
Too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
And still some bits and pieces of rain first thing
on Sunday morning.
But Sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few
isolated showers around.
But still quite windy across the exposed coasts
of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out
of the question.
Cooler again in Scotland, five or six degrees,
but highest values of nine or ten further south.
It looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue
for a time, though.
Showers will ease away on Monday and by Tuesday,
Christmas Eve, drier and quieter.
What on earth is happening, you may ask.
It looks as though Father Christmas might be granting us our wish
and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment
with high pressure building on Christmas Eve into Christmas Day.
That will quieten things down quite nicely.
It means the chance of a white Christmas is very remote indeed
but it does mean a good deal of dry weather in the forecast.
So our Christmas week is looking like this —
a showery start, drying up quite nicely for Christmas Eve
and Christmas Day.
There is the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
Take care.
This is BBC World News.
Our top stories:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia
for Saturday in three parts of New South Wales,
with temperatures set to hit the mid—forties celsius.
Facebook says it’s closed down hundreds of accounts linked
to a conservative news outlet that uses artificial intelligence
to create fake photo profiles.
Poland’s parliament adopts a law that makes it easier
for the government to fire judges, despite a plea
from the European Commission to wait.
And stuck in orbit — why Boeing’s mission
to the International Space Station didn’t quite go as planned.
More catastrophic fire warnings have been issued for parts
of New South Wales, with temperatures set to hit
the mid—405 celsius.
In South Australia, one person has died in a blaze east of Adelaide,
while crews are also battling outbreaks in the west of the country
and in Victoria.
The Prime Minister, Scott Morrison, who’s been widely criticised
for being on holiday during the crisis,
is expected back in Australia soon.
Dr Sarah Perkins—Kirkpatrick, who is a climate scientist
at the University of NSW’s Climate Change Research Centre
joins me now from Sydney.
Thanks for
Thanks forjoining us here. Personable, if I can ask, how
Personable, if I can ask, how unprecedented are these fires? These
unprecedented are these fires? These fires are unprecedented in a number
fires are unprecedented in a number of ways, firstly in their size,
of ways, firstly in their size, there have been over 2 million
there have been over 2 million hectares that have been burnt, and
hectares that have been burnt, and the time of year. We don’t usually
the time of year. We don’t usually expect bushfires to occur and be
expect bushfires to occur and be this extreme at this time of year,
this extreme at this time of year, so particularty
this extreme at this time of year, so particularly with this
so particularly with this catastrophic fire rating, this is
catastrophic fire rating, this is the second time we have seen this
the second time we have seen this rating already in the Sydney region.
rating already in the Sydney region. Why
rating already in the Sydney region. why are
rating already in the Sydney region. Why are things so bad this year? A
why are things so bad this year? A number
Why are things so bad this year? A number of causes, part of that is
number of causes, part of that is due to natural cycles, so we have
due to natural cycles, so we have had quite a dry winter, three dry
had quite a dry winter, three dry winters in fact, one after the
winters in fact, one after the other, which has prolonged the
other, which has prolonged the drought. We have a lot of high dry
drought. We have a lot of high dry air into New South Wales from the
air into New South Wales from the centre, and the monsoon has not had
centre, and the monsoon has not had the northern part of northern
the northern part of northern Australia allowing me to build up
Australia allowing me to build up and lastly climate change is a
and lastly climate change is a common influence. We would not
common inﬂuence. We would not expect to
common influence. We would not expect to have conditions so extreme
expect to have conditions so extreme if climate share was not there to
if climate share was not there to boost what is going on. How
boost what is going on. How difficult is it for Australians as a
difficult is it for Australians as a nation to deal with this? This could
nation to deal with this? This could be the new reality, harder and
be the new reality, harder and harder bushfire season is coming up
harder bushfire season is coming up in the future. This is the scary
in the future. This is the scary thing. Especially for me, living in
thing. Especially for me, living in Sydney, working in climate science
Sydney, working in climate science and working to make things happen,
and working to make things happen, we have been saying that this is
we have been saying that this is what climate change would bring,
what climate change would bring, longer bushfire seasons, more
longer bushfire seasons, more intense players, less waiting time
intense players, less waiting time between extreme bushfires
between extreme bushfires themselves, but it is happening now
themselves, but it is happening now and people are starting to realise
and peopla are starting to realise what
and people are starting to realise what we have been talking about is
what we have been talking about is starting to happen now, and it is
starting to happen now, and it is quite sobering and quite distressing
quite sobering and quite distressing as well. Of course the Prime
as well. Of course the Prime Minister has been criticised for
Minister has been criticised for this precise reason, that climate
this precise reason, that climate change is such a pressing issue, he
change is such a pressing issue, he has been criticised about his
has been criticised about his attitude towards it. He has a. I am
attitude towards it. He has a. I am not a politician so I am not going
not a politician so I am not going to comment on politics on this
to comment on politic on this particular
to comment on politics on this particular issue, but it has been
particular issue, but it has been quite silent on climate change and
quite silant on climate change and what
quite silent on climate change and what we can and should be doing, and
what we ran and should be doing, and we should
what we can and should be doing, and we should be doing more, that emits
we should be doing more, that emits a lot of carbon emissions from
a lot of carbon emissions from exporting coal, there is a lot more
exporting coal, there is a lot more we ran do,
exporting coal, there is a lot more we can do, perhaps there is a lot
we ran do, perhaps there is a lot more the
we can do, perhaps there is a lot more the world could do but we
more the world could do but we should do more as well. This is not
should do more as well. This is not just a problem for Australia, it is
just a problem for Australia, it is a global problem. Exactly. Intense
a global problem. Exactly. Intense wildfires, longer wildfires seasons,
wildfires, longer wildfires seasons, it has been recorded in other parts
it has been recorded in other parts of the world and it is exactly what
of the world and it is exactly what we expect with climate change,
we expect with climate change, especially with more heat in the
especially with more heat in the system, and heat is a precursor to a
system, and heat is a precursor to a catastrophic bushfire season, this
catastrophic bushfire season, this is exactly what we expected. So good
is exactly what we expected. So good to have you on the programme, thank
to have you on the programme, thank you very much.
The United Nations has warned of a rapid increase in hunger
and disease amongst displaced people in Syria.
It follows the decision by Russia and China to veto a measure to keep
aid flowing to civilians.
Fighting between the government forces and rebels
in the north—western province of Idlib has been intensifying,
with thousands fleeing their homes.
Bill Hayton reports.
This is the Bab al—Hawa border post, one of four places where aid can
cross into Syria.
But on Friday it was the scene of demonstrations.
Thousands of people marched to protest what they see
as Turkey’s Collaboration with a renewed offensive
in Idlib province.
CHANTING.
Syrian government forces, backed by Russia, moving
into the north—west of Idlib, forcing tens of thousands to flee.
The road towards the border is new full of trucks heading for safety.
TRANSLATION: They were bombing us.
We couldn’t sleep.
They were using every type of weapon, including
bombs and rockets.
The latest exodus only adds to the numbers needing aid.
The UN says it fed overl million people in October
with cross—border supplies.
But that programme will end onJanuary 10, unless it is renewed.
On Friday, Russia and China blocked an extension,
causing outrage from the American ambassador.
This decision is reckless, irresponsible, and cruel.
There is nojustification imaginable for any member of this
Security Council leaving vulnerable Syrian civilians with fewer means
of securing vital aid.
Russia wants two of the aid crossing points closed —
those from Jordan and Iraq.
Leaving only the two Turkish routes.
It also wants the mission length reduced to six months.
Its ambassador blamed other countries for blocking
the aid renewal.
TRANSLATION: Who won today?
Nobody.
Who lost?
Those who lost were the Syrian people.
Do not attempt to shift blame for this on us.
With two weeks left until the current resolution
expires, there’s still time for agreement.
But it looks as if compromise will be hard to reach.
In the meantime, the situation in Syria gets more desperate.
Bill Hayton, BBC News.
There have been more mass protests in India over
a controversial new citizenship law.
At least six people have been killed in the demonstrations.
Critics say the legislation discriminates against the country’s
200 million strong Muslim population, with many fearing
they could become stateless.
But the move by Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, is popular
with his Hindu supporters.
From Delhi, here’s Rajini Vaidyanathan.
Is this a moment of reckoning for the world’s largest democracy,
as anger over a controversial citizenship law intensifies?
Scenes of defiance, protesters ignoring curfews,
police accused of heavy—handed tactics.
Hundreds of thousands across this vast and diverse nation have taken
to the streets to oppose a law they say discriminates against
Muslims.
It offers fast—track citizenship for illegal immigrants from three
neighbouring countries, except Muslims.
The government says it is to protect religious
minorities fleeing persecution.
India prides itself on its secular principles, the right to equality
for all faiths.
But many fear that, by making religion a condition of citizenship,
that core fundamental principle is now at stake.
Muslims say they are living in fear.
The government is planning to publish a nationwide register
of citizens, in which everyone would have to prove they are Indian.
Those who can’t would be considered illegal immigrants,
with only non—Muslims afforded protection under
the new citizenship law.
"I don’t trust the government," she tells me.
"If they don’t accept my documents, which prove I’m Indian,
then what will I do?"
Pressure is mounting on India’s Prime Minister,
Narendra Modi, but he still has huge support for his
Hindu nationalist agenda.
Tonight in Delhi, 3 group of his supporters came out to defend
the citizenship act.
A lot of people are saying that it is against Muslims,
but it is not against Muslims.
It is only against — only for.
It is not against anyone.
It is for minorities in three neighbouring countries,
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, where Islam
is a state religion.
This week’s large—scale protest represents the first real dissent
against Mr Modi’s government.
Some fear the country is inching closer to becoming a Hindu state,
and worry that India’s secular soul is at stake.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The International Criminal Court’s chief prosecutor says
The completion of a pipeline set to supply Russian gas to Europe
has hit a stumbling block, after Donald Trump signed off
on sanctions against companies involved in the construction.
The Nord Stream 2 project is almost finished and would link
Russia and Germany.
The US says it will give Moscow dangerous leverage over Europe,
but the continent’s leaders have condemed the move.
One company involved in its construction has
already halted work.
The International Criminal Court’s chief prosecutor says
she believes war crimes have been committed
in the Israeli—occupied Palestinian Territories.
Fatou Bensouda says she wants to launch an investigation but needs
the court to establish first if they have authority
over these areas.
Facebook says it has removed hundreds of accounts with ties
to a conservative news outlet that uses fake profile photos,
generated with the help of artificial intelligence.
Researchers said the Facebook and Instagram fake profiles generate
thousands of personalities who emphasise
support for President Trump and opposition to the Chinese
government.
Our North America correspondent Peter Bowes is following the story
from Los Angeles.
This is, say a lot of people, very worrying.
And it shows what technology can achieve these days.
In terms of generating these images, faces that look like profile shots
of ordinary people, but they are fake,
they are generated by algorithms.
There’s absolutely nothing real about them.
They don’t represent real people.
But they have been generated by users in Vietnam,
say Facebook, purporting to be Americans.
And they’ve removed several hundred of these Facebook accounts,
as you say, along with Instagram sites and various pages as well that
carried with them messages that were anti—China,
that were pro—Trump, or generated conversations
about family values or impeachment, a lot of those hot button issues
that are in the news at the moment.
What is the social media giant been saying about all of this
and what it’s doing to combat this sort of thing?
Well, this is an ongoing battle, of course, for Facebook and it’s
faced similar problems of course, going back to the last American
election in 2016, then the key threat was from Russia.
But this was coming from a different part of the world.
And this is in part why Facebook have been very open about revealing
what they have found now.
And they are digging into the technology.
They are trying to find out and really get ahead of those people
who can generate these kinds of images.
The experts who have been looking at this say they have been
essentially quite startled at how good they are.
How easy it is to generate these images.
And they’ve never seen anything quite like it with these,
I suppose, artificial faces being used to send out false
information, disinformation in social media.
Peter Bowes in Los Angeles.
:'s
: ‘s parliament has adopted a law
: ‘s partiament has adopted a law reform making
: ‘s parliament has adopted a law reform making it easier
: ‘s parliament has adopted a law reform making it easierfor the
reform making it easier for the government
reform making it easierfor the government to fire, fine or
government to fire, fine or discipline
government to fire, fine or disciplinejudges — Poland’s. The
discipline judges - Poland’s. The mling just
disciplinejudges — Poland’s. The ruling just party says reform is
ruling just party says reform is unnecessary, but critics call it an
unnecessary, but critis all it an attempt to
unnecessary, but critics call it an attempt to stifle judges, and have
attempt to stiﬂe judges, and have been
attempt to stifle judges, and have been wide spread demonstrations.
The bill has been hugely controversial.
As it was being debated, people took to the streets
outside parliament in support of thejudges, and
judicial independence.
The changes give the government the power to discipline judges
for what it calls political activity, including questioning
the newjudges that the government appoints.
In a marathon debate, the ruling party
argued the changes are necessary to prevent chaos in the judicial
system.
TRANSLATION: What weakens the rule
TRANSLATION: what weakens the mle of law
TRANSLATION: What weakens the rule of law most of the mutation that we
of law most of the mutation that we all the
of law most of the mutation that we call the state of
of law most of the mutation that we call the state ofjudges, the state
all the state ofjudges, the state of the
call the state ofjudges, the state of the judges is the state which
of the judges is the state which ignores the principle of national
ignores the principle of national sovereignty, that ignores the
sovereignty, that ignores the authority of the nation, the state
authority of the nation, the state of the judges is the state in which
of the judges is the state in which the judges
of the judges is the state in which thejudges decide what
of the judges is the state in which the judges decide what is law and
the judges decide what is law and what is not.
Opposition lawmakers say an attempt to gag judges.
TRANSLATION: The bill will subject the Polish court and the Polish
judges to political control by the legislative and exacting
bodies and reduce the level ofjudicial
protection of individual rights.
There are concerns such sweeping changes to Poland’s industry
could contradict European law and force
Poland out of the EU.
TRANSLATION: You are lying to the Poles, claiming
that these are European solutions, while the European Commission says
clearly, please stop working on this shameful project.
The bill will now be sent to Poland’s Senate,
which ran delay the new law, but not block it.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
We meet the Italian engineer who makes sure
that less well off children don’t miss out on toys.
The world of music has been paying tribute to George Michael,
who’s died from suspected heart failure at the age of 53.
He sold well over 100 million albums in a career spanning more
than three decades.
The United States’ troops have been trying to overthrow the dictatorship
of General Manuel Noriega.
The Pentagon says it’s failed in its principle objective
to capture Noriega and take him to the United States
to face drugs charges.
The hammer and sickle was hastily taken away.
In its place, the Russian flag was hoisted over what is now no
longer the Soviet Union, but the Commonwealth of Independent
States.
Day broke slowly over Lockerbie, over the cockpit of Pan Am’s Maid
of the Seas, nosedown in the soft earth.
You could see what happens when a plane eight storeys high,
a football pitch wide, falls from 30,000 feet.
Christmas has returned to Albania after a communist ban lasting more
than 20 years.
Thousands went to midnight Mass in the town of Shkoder,
where there were anti—Communist riots ten days ago.
This is BBC World News.
The latest headlines:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia
for Saturday in three parts of New South Wales,
with temperatures set to hit the mid—forties celsius.
Facebook says it has closed down to hundreds of accounts linked to a
hundreds of accounts linked to a conservative news outlet which uses
conservative news outlet which uses artificial intelligence to create
artificial intelligence to create fake photo profiles.
artificial intelligence to create fake photo profiles.
The former boss of France Telecom and two former executives have been
and two former executives have been jailed
and two former executives have been jailad over a
and two former executives have been jailed over a restructuring policy
jailad over a restructuring policy linked
jailed over a restructuring policy linked to suicides among employees
linked to suicides among employees in the 2000 ‘s. Hugh Schofield
in the 2000 ‘s. Hugh Schofield reports. Former
in the 2000 ‘s. Hugh Schofield reports. Formertop
in the 2000 ‘s. Hugh Schofield reports. Former top executives at
reports. Former top executives at France Telecom arrive in court to
France Telecom arrive in court to hear a damning verdict. They and
hear a damning verdict. They and their company were guilty of moral
their company were guilty of moral harassment, bullying starting
harassment, bullying starting to anxiety and depression and in the
anxiety and depression and in the worst cases, suicide. For
anxiety and depression and in the worst cases, suicide. Forfamily
worst cases, suicide. For family members
worst cases, suicide. Forfamily members of those who died, the
members of those who died, the judgement was a vindication of ten
judgement was a vindication of ten years of campaigning. TRANSLATION:
years of campaigning. TRANSLATION: We are satisfied because of what the
We are satisfied because of what the president of the court said. She
president of the court said. She said that the procedures used by the
said that the procedures used by the management of France Telecom were
management of France Telecom were forbidden. This answers the one
forbidden. This answers the one question that was the fundamental
question that was the fundamental question throughout the
question throughout the whole process. Should we be able to do
process. Should we be able to do these sorts of things? At least the
these sorts of things? At least the first response of the court is no,
first response of the court is no, it is not acceptable, and if you do
it is not acceptable, and if you do that you will be convicted. It all
that you will be convicted. It all happened when France Telecom,
happened when France Telecom, formerty a
happened when France Telecom, formerly a state monopoly, was
formerty a state monopoly, was having to
formerly a state monopoly, was having to transform itself to face
having to transform itself to face the competition. The old ways were
the competition. The old ways were going. what
the competition. The old ways were going. What was needed was fewer
going. what was needed was fewer staff
going. What was needed was fewer staff and new skills. But in
staff and new skills. But in pressurising workers to adapt
staff and new skills. But in pressurising workers to adaptor
pressurising workers to adapt or leave, the
pressurising workers to adaptor leave, the court found France
leave, the court found France Telecom had used methods that were
Telecom had used methods that were unacceptable. This is seen as a case
unacceptable. This is seen as a rase which
unacceptable. This is seen as a case which could have important
which could have important implications for business in the
implications for business in the future. It is the first time a major
future. It is the first time a major French company has been found guilty
French company has been found guilty of bullying. Not by the actions of
of bullying. Not by the actions of individual managers, but through
individual managers, but through its general economic strategy. Lawyers
general economic strategy. Lawyers for the plaintiffs said the
for the plaintiffs said the implications for businesses in
implications for businesses in France but want to restructure and
France but want to restmcture and show jobs now
France but want to restructure and showjobs now were very important.
showjobs now were very important. TRANSLATION: In this case we had
TRANSLATION: In this rase we had management
TRANSLATION: In this case we had management methods that did
management methods that did not comply with regulations and the law,
comply with regulations and the law, and with this decision we now
and with this decision we now understand how employees should be
understand how employees should be treated, and it is a token but the
treated, and it is a token but the wrongdoings in the France Telecom
wrongdoings in the France Telecom they will not be happening again.
they will not be happening again. Lawyers for the convicted manager
Lawyers for the convicted manager said the court had more interested
said the court had more interested in reaching a crowdpleasing verdict
in reaching a crowdpleasing verdict than in following the letter of the
than in following the letter of the law. They plan to appeal. Families
law. They plan to appeal. Families are happy their cause has been
are happy their cause has been recognised. French businesses will
recognised. French businesses will now be wondering how this widens
now be wondering how this widens legal concept of corporate
legal concept of corporate harassment could affect them.
One of the pioneers of new approaches to international
development, Sir Fazle Hasan Abed, has died.
He was 83.
He founded the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee also known
as BRAC, in 1972.
It’s now one of the world’s largest NGOs, operating in 11 Asian
and African countries.
BRAC is said to have lifted 150 million people
out of poverty.
Nicholas Kristof is a columnist with the New York Times who knew
Sir Fazle.
He told me more about his legacy.
So I think it’s a few things.
One is that when he began in the development space,
it was really about Westerners sitting around conference rooms
in places like London and Washington and deciding what was best
for people in villages half a world away.
And that never really worked terribly well.
And Abed was a leader in the developing world’s
own responses to poverty, and the truth is that
when there was local ownership, it worked a lot better.
You know, the US did a lot of projects in Afghanistan.
They were not vastly successful.
BRAC did work in Afghanistan.
When American—built tools were blown up, BRAC’s continued.
So I think one is the local ownership development.
I think another is his emphasis on education and on empowering
of women and the returns you get from that and in recent —
I don’t think it was really something he really with began early
in his career, but over the last 15 years or so he was increasingly
involved in using randomised controlled trials to test
interventions and see how well they worked,
as if they were a pharmaceutical trial.
And that has been a pioneering step in development —
the Nobel Prize for economics went to three economists who worked
on them, in some cases with BRAC or BRAC—inspired programmes,
so I think he, you know, he leaves a huge legacy at the top
tiers of development, but also in villages around
the world — kids who otherwise would have died who are here
because of his work.
America’s progress towards being able to return
to putting its own people into space has hit a hurdle.
Nasa hopes the Boeing Starliner craft could be used to ferry
passengers to and from the International Space Station,
but a test flight in Florida failed to go as planned.
Jonathan Amos reports.
GROUND CONTROL: And lift-off.
The rise of Starliner and a new era in human space flight.
A new era perhaps, but notjust yet.
Boeing launched its Starliner capsule on time from Cape Canaveral
in Florida, but the automated ship then failed to carry
out its commands properly.
When it came off the top of the rocket, it was supposed
to fire its engines to increase its height.
It did, but at the wrong time, and for too long.
The Starliner put itself in the wrong part of the sky.
It can no longer reach the space station and will have to come home.
The American space agency has been overseeing the development
of the capsule.
Nasa has provided milestone payments to help Boeing bring
the vehicle into operation.
And despite the setback, the agency is staying positive.
If we would’ve had crew in there, number one,
they would have been safe.
To be very clear, our crew would have been safe.
And, in fact, had they been in there, we very well may be
orbiting or we may be docking with the International Space Station
tomorrow, had they been in the spacecraft.
So a lot of things went right today.
I want to be really clear — a lot of things went right,
and this is why we test and because we are now in orbit
and in fact, elevating our orbit, we are going to get a lot more data
and a lot more information in the coming days.
So this is all — this is all very positive.
Two, one, zero...
Nasa has not been able to launch its own astronauts
to orbit for nearly nine years.
When it retired the shuttles in 2011, it ceased to operate space
vehicles, and it bought seats to the space station
in Russian capsules instead.
Nasa would rather spend its money hailing rides on American—built
astronaut space taxi services.
Another enterprise, California’s SpaceX company,
has already completed the test flight of its astronaut capsule.
The Dragon craft made a flawless trip to the orbiting lab in March.
SpaceX looks set to start flying astronauts for real
in the next few months.
Quite how far behind today’s events put Boeing is unclear.
Engineers will need to inspect the Starliner when they get it
back on Earth.
Nasa is determined, though, that it should have a choice
of capsules in the future.
Boeing is certain to try again.
All around the world, millions of children will be hoping
for a visit from Santa.
Some less well off youngsters may miss out on getting a toy.
But a retired engineerfrom Rome is determined to do something
about that, as Tim Allman explains.
His name is Guido but it might as well be Geppetto.
A former engineer with an Italian airline, he now devotes himself
to repairing and restoring toys.
Lots and lots of toys.
Anything up to 70 a day, in fact, and it is all in a good cause.
TRANSLATION: Take this one, for example.
Some toy shops give us the faulty toys that they cannot sell.
This one, I have repaired it, and it works now.
And these new toys, we send to hospitals.
Notjust hospitals.
This charity also provides playthings to the children
of refugees, or kids whose parents have lost theirjobs —
any youngster who wants a moment ofjoy and a toy of their own.
TRANSLATION: We call these objects re—loved,
since they are loved twice.
First, by the parents of the children who donated them
and then, they are loved by the children who receive them.
So we reuse objects and we avoid wasting plastic.
They distribute about 20,000 toys 3 year.
Dolls, teddies, cars, action figures — Guido tinkers away
at them all.
His greatest reward, he says — the smiles on the children’s faces.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
What a lovely story to end the
what a lovely story to end the programme
What a lovely story to end the programme on. Thank you for your
programme on. Thank you for your company. Headlines coming up in a
company. Headlines coming up in a couple of minutes. Goodbye for now.
Good morning.
What a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some
relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
In fact, on Friday afternoon, these were fairly typical
Weather Watcher pictures across parts of central and southern
England in particular.
In fact, by close of play on Friday, there were over 90 flood warnings
in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend,
well, do go to the BBC weather website for the latest updates
on the flood warnings, and also any Met Office
warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather
front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy,
with hail and thunder.
Windy conditions following on behind before another weather front
makes its presence felt by the end of the day on Saturday.
50 Saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp
showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
The best of the sunshine perhaps on Saturday,
likely to be for the far north of Scotland.
Slowly brightening up as well across parts of England and Wales
for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push
into the south—west by the end of the day.
A cooler feel in Scotland, five or six degrees.
Double digits quite widely further south.
Now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards
but it is going to clear off into the near Continent
through the early hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning.
And then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start
into sheltered eastern areas of Scotland, maybe a touch
of light frost here.
Too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
And still some bits and pieces of rain first thing
on Sunday morning.
But Sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few
isolated showers around.
But still quite windy across the exposed coasts
of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out
of the question.
Cooler again in Scotland, five or six degrees,
but highest values of nine or ten further south.
It looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue
for a time, though.
Showers will ease away on Monday and by Tuesday,
Christmas Eve, drier and quieter.
What on earth is happening, you may ask.
It looks as though Father Christmas might be granting us our wish
and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment
with high pressure building on Christmas Eve into Christmas Day.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
There are more catastrophic fire warnings in Australia
for Saturday in three parts of New South Wales,
with temperatures set to hit the mid—405 celsius.
The Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has apologised
for going on a family holiday to Hawaii while his country
was dealing with the bushfire emergency.
Facebook says that it has removed hundreds of accounts
with ties to a conservative news outlet that uses artificially
generated faces to spread messages in favour of President Trump
and against the Chinese government.
The social media network said the fake profiles are linked
to the US—based news outlet, the Epoch Times.
MPs in Poland have adopted a law making it easier
for the government to sackjudges.
The legislation also allows them to be fined or demoted for dissent
and has been adopted despite a plea to wait from the European
Commission.
A funeral and a memorial service have taken place for the two
A funeral and a memorial service have taken place for the two
victims of last month’s terror attack near London Bridge.
Jack Merritt and Saskia Jones, were stabbed to death by convicted
terrorist Usman Khan, while attending a conference
in a building next to the bridge.
Our Home Affairs Correspondent, Daniel Sandford has more.
At the Cambridge University church of St Mary the Great,
Jack Merritt’s mother and father and girlfriend,
Leanne O’Brien.
His body in a wicker coffin, in keeping with the ethical life
he’d tried to lead.
Jack Merritt was 25 years old and had a Masters
in criminology from Cambridge.
In the service, his friends and family recalled a compassionate
young man who felt compelled to help people, and whose politics
was love, not hate.
It is a tragedy, Jack’s death, but his life, as his father said
in the service, his life was a triumph, and we have to hold
onto that and Jack’s legacy of commitment to those
on whom society is all too happy to turn its back.
Jack passionately believed in others, and so should we.
In Stratford—upon—Avon, at the Holy Trinity Church,
where William Shakespeare is buried, the family and friends
of Saskia Jones were gathering to remember her.
She died in the same attack as Jack Merritt,
and also had a Masters in criminology from Cambridge.
She’d planned tojoin the police to work with victims of crime.
She was with Jack Merritt at a prisoner education conference
near London Bridge three weeks ago when one of the participants,
who had recently been released from a long sentence for terrorism
offences, stabbed them both to death.
The Cambridge University Vice—Chancellor said that the way
they died should not eclipse their lives and the way
they had helped others.
Daniel Sandford, BBC News.
Now, the Travel Show.
Lucy Hedges rounds up some of the team’s best
adventures from 2019.
Hello and welcome to this, the last Travel Show of 2019, so what a
Travel Show of 2019, so what a better time to take a look back on
better time to take a look back on the past year on the programme. Has
the past year on the programme. Has a taste of what’s coming up.
the past year on the programme. Has a taste of what’s coming up. Condors
a taste of what’s coming up. Condors get this view, condors and us, it’s
get this view, condors and us, it’s incredible.
get this view, condors and us, it’s incredible. That was like being in a
incredible. That was like being in a tumble dry us. That was completely
tumble dry us. That was completely insane. All that and more to come
insane. All that and more to come here on the show this week, but
here on the show this week, but let’s kick off with a trip that Mike
let’s kick off with a trip that Mike made over to California back in May.
made over to California back in May. We told him that all he would need
We told him that all he would need was a taste for adventure and a head
was a taste for adventure and a head for heights. Here is what happened
for heights. Here is what happened to. Here in western California,
to. Here in western California, there are complex beings that have
there are complex beings that have lived for over a millennium. Redwood
lived for over a millennium. Redwood trees have become an icon of this
trees have become an icon of this State. Some fear that our changing
State. Some fear that our changing climate might threaten their
climate might threaten their survival. I have come to the most
survival. I have come to the most southern tip of their range, where
southern tip of their range, where change could hit the hardest, to
change could hit the hardest, to join a scientist who has been
join a scientist who has been working here to try to find some
working here to try to find some answers. It’s absolutely amazing
answers. It’s absolutely amazing being out in the forest, I
answers. It’s absolutely amazing being out in the forest, Ijust
being out in the forest, Ijust love it, listening to the birds and
it, listening to the birds and watching the sun moves through the
watching the sun moves through the ranopy,
watching the sun moves through the canopy, it’s beautiful. Today, we
canopy, it’s beautiful. Today, we will be climbing this...
canopy, it’s beautiful. Today, we will be climbing this... These are
will be climbing this... These are coast redwoods, the tallest tree
coast redwoods, the tallest tree species in the world, reaching
species in the world, reaching commonly about 380 feet tall
species in the world, reaching commonly about 380 feet tell is the
commonly about 380 feet tall is the tallest,
commonly about 380 feet tell is the tallest, and they are incredibly
tallest, and they are incredibly tough and resilient, really
tough and resilient, really important ecologically, they are
important ecologically, they are iconic. I have been here trying to
iconic. I have been here trying to get a better understanding of how
get a better understanding of how they are responding to climate
they are responding to climate change, and how they might respond
change, and how they might respond to future climate change. And how
to future climate change. And how are they responding? As the climate
are they responding? As the climate changes, temperatures are
changes, temperatures are increasing, it’s trying things out
increasing, it’s trying things out as temperatures get warmer, and
as temperatures get warmer, and that’s a big consideration for these
that’s a big consideration for these particular trees because they need
particular trees because they need so much water, it’s affecting their
so much water, it’s affecting their water balance in their ability to
water balance in their ability to transport more water to the tops of
transport more water to the tops of the trees. Now, it’s time to get to
the trees. Now, it’s time to get to work. There we go. First, we need a
work. There we go. First, we need a sample of the tree’s core. This is
sampla of the tree’s core. This is the halfway
sample of the tree’s core. This is the halfway mark there, and then
the halfway mark there, and then when you get to the ground, we can
when you get to the ground, we ran pull that spoon
when you get to the ground, we can pull that spoon out with the core on
pull that spoon out with the core on it. And the hidden secrets beneath
it. And the hidden secrets beneath this hark
it. And the hidden secrets beneath this bark will be ours! The
this bark will be ours! The knowledge will be ours! Earlier on,
knowladge will be ours! Eadier on, Anthony
knowledge will be ours! Earlier on, Anthony showed me some of the secret
Anthony showed me some of the secret the tree had already revealed. These
the tree had already revealed. These other rings here? Yeah, each one of
other rings here? Yeah, each one of those an annual ring, one year of
those an annual ring, one year of growth. So it only grows a couple of
growth. 50 it only grows a couple of millimetres each year? And
growth. So it only grows a couple of millimetres each year? And sometimes
millimetres each year? And sometimes only less than a millimetre a year.
only less than a millimetre a year. We are back hundreds of years right
We are back hundreds of years right now? Wants we polish this up and
now? Wants we polish this up and sanded and get a better of the
sanded and get a better of the rings, there could be... 100, 200,
rings, there could be... 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 600, 700 may be years
300, 400, 500 600, 700 may be years here. This section appear, it has
here. This section appear, it has seen sunlight for 600, 700 years. Is
seen sunlight for 600, 700 years. Is an amazing archive. I have one end
an amazing archive. I have one end of the tape measure, we are doing
of the tape measure, we are doing the circumference measurement. Rapid
the circumference measurement. Rapid all the way around that underneath
all the way around that underneath this tubing. We are at 7.81; metres
this tubing. We are at 7.81; metres circumference. That’s a big tree...
cirwmference. That’s a big tree... Seven .8
circumference. That’s a big tree... Seven .8 metres around, and the next
Seven .8 metres around, and the next plan is to go up to the top. Upwards
plan is to go up to the top. Upwards we go, to the top! . This redwood
we go, to the top! . This redwood stands at over 70 metres tall.
stands at over 70 metres tall. Claiming redwoods is forbidden in
Claiming redwoods is forbidden in most places, but in this reserve, we
most places, but in this reserve, we have a special permission, and what
have a special permission, and what a privilage it is. I
have a special permission, and what a privilege it is. I can’t get over
a privilage it is. I can’t get over how
a privilege it is. I can’t get over how beautiful this tree is. There
how beautiful this tree is. There are marks on this tree, A0 metres,
are marks on this tree, 40 metres, which bogglas
are marks on this tree, A0 metres, which boggles my mind... It’s
which boggles my mind... It’s incredible
which bogglas my mind... It’s incredible up
which boggles my mind... It’s incredible up here. As we inched
incredible up here. As we inched upwards, I
incredible up here. As we inched upwards, lam
incredible up here. As we inched upwards, I am faced with more
upwards, I am faced with more scorched bark. Anthony told me that
scorched bark. Anthony told me that wildfires are another threat that
wildfires are another threat that these trees are increasingly facing
these trees are increasingly facing in the modern world. Birds nest. I
in the modern world. Birds nest. I don’t think there is anybody at home
don’t think there is anybody at home though. with
don’t think there is anybody at home though. With Anthony already at the
though. with Anthony already at the top
though. With Anthony already at the top collecting samples, I make my
top collecting samples, I make my final push upwards. This view...
final push upwards. This view... It’s definitely one of the wildest,
It’s definitely one of the wildest, most incredible views I have seen in
most incredible views I have seen in my entire life. I can’t believe we
my entire life. I can’t believe we are 71 metres off the ground right
are 71 metres off the ground right now. Condors get this view, condors,
now. Condors get this view, condors, and us. Is incredible. This is 700
and us. Is incredible. This is 700 years old, which is before the
years old, which is before the colonisation of America, before Taj
colonisation of America, before Taj Mahal, it makes you feel like a
Mahal, it makes you feel like a speck of sand in the sandbox,
speck of sand in the sandbox, insignificant. Humbling experience.
insignificant. Humbling experience. If the climate change experience try
If the climate change experience try things sufficiently, then they might
things sufficiently, then they might start to feel some impacts, they
start to feel some impacts, they might not grow as well, may not get
might not grow as well, may not get as tall, and might die back, and
as tall, and might die back, and that is what we’re trying to out.
that is what we’re trying to out. Hayfield
that is what we’re trying to out. Mayfield the tree shaking a little
Hayfield the tree shaking a little bit?
Mayfield the tree shaking a little bit? Yeah, it’s wriggling. Just a
bit? Yeah, it’s wriggling. just a normal thing,
bit? Yeah, it’s wriggling. Just a normalthing, I
bit? Yeah, it’s wriggling. Just a normal thing, I am assuming? Mike
normal thing, lam assuming? Mike being rewarded
normal thing, I am assuming? Mike being rewarded with some truly
being rewarded with some tmly spectacular
being rewarded with some truly spectacular views in California back
spectacular views in California back in May, and earlier in
spectacular views in California back in May, and earlier inJanuary,
in May, and eartier in january, (“artin
in May, and earlier inJanuary, Carlin took on her own talent in
(“artin took on her own talant in Taiwan, but
Carlin took on her own talent in Taiwan, but this would involve
Taiwan, but this would involve staying firmly on the ground. It’s
staying firmly on the ground. It’s the annual arts Festival and a local
the annual arts Festival and a [oral dance
the annual arts Festival and a local dance company have invited me to
dance company have invited me to take part in a performance that they
take part in a performance that they are doing for today’s parade. You
are doing for todars parade. You must be
are doing for today’s parade. You must be Roger? I am, let’s get
must be Roger? I am, let’s get changed. 0K! The festival is held
changed. 0K! The festival is held every year close to Taipei, and
every year dose to Taipei, and teams
every year close to Taipei, and teams from all over the country and
teams from all over the country and further afield come to compete in a
further afield come to compete in a celebration of music and dance. It’s
celabration of music and dance. It’s a big
celebration of music and dance. It’s a big high—profile event, so my team
a big high-profile event, so my team are taking a real
a big high—profile event, so my team are taking a real risk by letting a
are taking a real risk by [citing a total
are taking a real risk by letting a total novice join
are taking a real risk by letting a total novicejoin their
are taking a real risk by letting a total novice join their ranks. With
total novice join their ranks. with only an hour to
total novice join their ranks. With only an hour to go before the start
only an hour to go before the start of the parade, troop leader Roger
of the parade, troop leader Roger walked me through my role. I’d
walked me through my rola. I’d rather be
walked me through my role. I’d rather be hiding somewhere at the
rather be hiding somewhere at the back, but he has me leading the
back, but he has me leading the whole team. Look at the Dragon,
whola team. Look at the Dragon, swing this
whole team. Look at the Dragon, swing this way, like an eight. The
swing this way, like an eight. The idea is that the Dragon follows the
idea is that the Dragon follows the hall
idea is that the Dragon follows the ball and stick that I am holding. If
ball and stick that I am holding. If only I knew R is meant to be heading
only I knew R is meant to be heading - where I
only I knew R is meant to be heading — where I was. Miraculously, the
- where I was. miraculously, the other
— where I was. Miraculously, the other performers follow my somewhat
other performers follow my somewhat frantic lead. Let’s
other performers follow my somewhat frantic lead. Let’sjust
other performers follow my somewhat frantic lead. Let’s just hope they
frantic lead. Let’s just hope they will be this accommodating when we
will be this accommodating when we do it for real. I hope no—one laughs
do it for real. I hope no-one laughs at me... In the
do it for real. I hope no—one laughs at me... In the first section of the
at me... In the first section of the parade, a dozen or so local high
parade, a dozen or so [oral high schools
parade, a dozen or so local high schools will compete for best
schools will compete for best performance. The streets are crammed
performance. The streets are crammed with friends, families and teachers
with friends, families and teachers all waiting to see their groups
all waiting to see their groups performed. They have been working on
performed. They have been working on their routines for months, and today
their routines for months, and today is the day that it all comes
is the day that it all comes together, with an extravaganza of
together, with an extravaganza of energy, colour and sound. With a
energy, colour and sound. with a great level of
energy, colour and sound. With a great level of showmanship thrown in
great level of showmanship thrown in as well for good measure. And now I
as well for good measure. And now I ran hear my
as well for good measure. And now I can hear my group approaching. I am
ran hear my group approaching. I am so nervous!
can hear my group approaching. I am so nervous! I don’t want to make a
so nervous! I don’t want to make a total full of myself in front of
total full of myself in front of this big crowd. There is at least a
this big crowd. There is at least a thousand people here, it’s a lot
thousand peopla here, it’s a lot more
thousand people here, it’s a lot more than I thought. 0K, tell me
more than I thought. 0K, tell me when? Now? And all of a sudden, I’m
when? Now? And all of a sudden, I’m on. My mind seems to go totally
on. My mind seems to go totally blank, amid all the noise and
blank, amid all the noise and colour. Luckily, Roger is there to
colour. Luckily, Roger is there to give me a push in the right
give me a push in the right direction. Somehow, the team follow
direction. Somehow, the team follow my lead, although I really have no
my lead, although I really have no idea where I am going. 0K
my lead, although I really have no idea where I am going. OK now in the
idea where I am going. OK now in the middle? Sorry! It’s OK! And then, my
middle? Sorry! It’s OK! And then, my big Dragon stick seems to develop a
big Dragon stick seems to develop a mind of its own... I was really
mind of its own... I was really really nervous, and it was quite
really nervous, and it was quite stressful, all my gosh! I tried to
stressful, all my gosh! I tried to remember my moves, I think I only
remember my moves, I think I only had two people with the ball. I was
had two peopla with the hall. I was in a state
had two people with the ball. I was in a state of panic. Sorry to the
in a state of panic. Sorry to the peopla that I
in a state of panic. Sorry to the people that I hit with the ball, it
people that I hit with the ball, it seemed to go on forever. I can’t
seemed to go on forever. I can’t believe I was part of a dragon dance
believe I was part of a dragon dance on the streets of Taiwan! Who would
on the streets of Taiwan! who would have thought?
on the streets of Taiwan! Who would have thought? Carmen causing trouble
have thought? Carmen causing troubla with her Dragon
have thought? Carmen causing trouble with her Dragon stick in Taiwan,
with her Dragon stick in Taiwan, back at the start of the year. Type
back at the start of the year. Type something with a bit more horsepower
something with a bit more horsepower now, and in March, Adam made his
now, and in March, Adam made his first ever visit to Dubai, let’s
first ever visit to Dubai, let’s just say he got to travel style,
just say he got to travel styla, "TY
just say he got to travel styla, very very
just say he got to travel style, very very quickly. Good to see you.
very very quickly. Good to see you. Look at this! Jump in. All set?
Look at this! jump in. All sat? Let’s do
Look at this! Jump in. All set? Let’s do it!
Look at this! Jump in. All set? Let’s do it! I’m just seeing, we
Let’s do it! I’m just seeing, we have a Rolls—Royce going past here,
have a Rolls-Royce going past here, that is
have a Rolls—Royce going past here, that is standard, Supercars
that is standard, Supercars everywhere. What is it with you by?
everywhere. what is it with you by? Why
everywhere. what is it with you by? why are they
everywhere. What is it with you by? Why are they so in love with the
why are they so in love with the Superars?
Why are they so in love with the Supercars? There are a couple of
Superars? There are a couple of different
Supercars? There are a couple of different reasons. One is to show
different reasons. One is to show off.
different reasons. One is to show off, as much as no—one wants to
off, as much as no-one wants to admit it, peopla
off, as much as no—one wants to admit it, people do like showing
admit it, peopla do like showing off. partly
admit it, people do like showing off, partly why people drive
off, partly why peopla drive Superars,
off, partly why people drive Supercars, to show off a little bit,
Superars, to show off a little bit, then
Supercars, to show off a little bit, then there is the most amazing
then there is the most amazing driving roads here, you had out to
driving roads here, you had out to the [oral
driving roads here, you had out to the local areas, there are amazing
the [oral areas, there are amazing driving roads
the local areas, there are amazing driving roads out there. Danny’s
driving roads out there. Dannrs ninth degree
driving roads out there. Danny’s ninth degree group of local supercar
ninth degree group of [oral superar owners
ninth degree group of local supercar owners hold regular track days and
owners hold regular track days and events here. That even let you hire
events here. That even let you hire one of the top of the range models,
one of the top of the range models, so that you ran
one of the top of the range models, so that you can get behind the wheel
so that you ran get behind the wheel for a few
so that you can get behind the wheel for a few hours, at least. We are
for a few hours, at least. We are going to go for a spin in this car,
going to go for a spin in this far, and this
going to go for a spin in this car, and this car is the real deal. It’s
and this far is the real deal. It’s almost £1
and this car is the real deal. It’s almost £1 million worth of raw,
almost £1 million worth of raw, bmtal,
almost £1 million worth of raw, brutal, unadulterated power. Let’s
bmtal, unadulterated power. Let’s do this, man!
brutal, unadulterated power. Let’s do this, man! 0h
brutal, unadulterated power. Let’s do this, man! Oh yes!
0h,
Oh, my days!
Oh, my days! Ade not quite breaking the sound barrier, but almost, in
the sound barrier, but almost, in Dubai earlier this year. Stick
Dubai eartier this year. Stick around,
Dubai earlier this year. Stick around, because there is plenty more
around, because there is plenty more to come, including this. I know they
to come, including this. I know they said I’m not going to feel the cold,
said I’m not going to feel the cold, but I’m really nervous. My goodness!
but I’m really nervous. My goodness! Now, if you are a fan of winter
Now, if you are a fan of winter sports, you are going to love this
sports, you are going to love this next one, because back in March,
next one, because back in March, Christa headed to Latvia to try her
Christa headed to latvia to try her hand on
Christa headed to Latvia to try her hand on one of the very few
hand on one of the very few professional bobsleigh tracks
professional bobsloigh tracks open to
professional bobsleigh tracks open to tourists, and it was quite a
to tourists, and it was quite a ride. Welcome to Segorda’s bobsleigh
ride. Welcome to Segorda’s bobslaigh tracks,
ride. Welcome to Segorda’s bobsleigh tracks, one of the very few in the
tracks, one of the very few in the world where tourists can get the
world where tourists ran get the same
world where tourists can get the same adrenaline rush as professional
same adrenaline msh as professional races. We
same adrenaline rush as professional races. We are about to set off, 100
races. We are about to set off, 100 kilometres, down a very icy help.
kilometres, down a very icy help. Luckily I’ve got an expert pilot, so
Luckily I’ve got an expert pilot, so fingers crossed that it goes very
fingers crossed that it goes very smoothly. Apart from the pilots
smoothly. Apart from the pilots duﬂng
smoothly. Apart from the pilots during the bobsleigh from the front,
during the bobslaigh from the front, a
during the bobsleigh from the front, a team also includes pushes and a
a team also includes pushes and a brakeman. But tourists get it easy.
brakeman. But tourists get it easy. They just need
brakeman. But tourists get it easy. Theyjust need to duck in and hold
They just need to duck in and hold on very tight.
Theyjust need to duck in and hold on very tight. This track is almost
on very tight. This track is almost 1500 metres long and you need a
1500 metres long and you need a pretty strong stomach to manage its
pretty strong stomach to manage its 16 curves.
pretty strong stomach to manage its 16 curves. 0h,
pretty strong stomach to manage its 16 curves. Oh, man! I
pretty strong stomach to manage its 16 curves. Oh, man! Ithink
pretty strong stomach to manage its 16 curves. Oh, man! I think that is
16 curves. Oh, man! Ithink that is one of the
16 curves. Oh, man! I think that is one of the most intense experiences
one of the most intense experiences of my entire life. That was like
of my entire life. That was like being in a very, very active, very
being in a very, very active, very cold tunnel drier
being in a very, very active, very cold tunnel drierfor a
being in a very, very active, very cold tunnel drier for a minute and
being in a very, very active, very cold tunnel drierfor a minute and a
cold tunnel drier for a minute and a half. I
cold tunnel drierfor a minute and a half. I didn’t even know how long it
half. I didn’t even know how long it was. That was completely insane.
was. That was completely insane. Another winter sport that can take
Another winter sport that ran take your breath
Another winter sport that can take your breath away is this, the
your breath away is this, the skeleton. Imagine a luge with no
skelaton. Imagine a Inge with no breaks
skeleton. Imagine a luge with no breaks or steering aid that you ride
breaks or steering aid that you ride headfirst. I don’t think I’m ready
headfirst. I don’t think I’m ready to try one of the full—blown
to try one of the full—blown skeletons, but there is a tourist
skeletons, but there is a tourist version available but is a little
version available but is a little bit more my speed. Wish me luck.
bit more my speed. wish me luck. It’s rallad
bit more my speed. Wish me luck. It’s called a
bit more my speed. wish me luck. It’s rallad a frog,
bit more my speed. Wish me luck. It’s called a frog, and for this
It’s rallad a frog, and for this one,
It’s called a frog, and for this one, there is no crew to make me
one, there is no crew to make me feel safe.
one, there is no crew to make me feel safe. 0h,
one, there is no crew to make me feel safe. Oh, my goodness! 0h,
one, there is no crew to make me feel safe. Oh, my goodness! Oh, god!
feel safe. Oh, my goodness! Oh, god! LAUGHTER. 0h,
feel safe. Oh, my goodness! Oh, god! LAUGHTER. Oh, god.
How was it? So
How was it? 50 cool! I could go
How was it? So cool! I could go again! Right
How was it? 50 cool! I could go again! Right now, let’s go. Christa
again! Right now, let’s go. Christa in latvia
again! Right now, let’s go. Christa in Latvia back in March. And keeping
in latvia back in March. And keeping within the icy
in Latvia back in March. And keeping within the icy theme, it was my turn
within the icy theme, it was my turn to feel the cold when I headed to
to feel the cold when I headed to the French Alps to try my hand at
the French Alps to try my hand at ice diving. I still can’t believe I
ice diving. I still can’t believe I somehow got talked into that one.
somehow got talked into that one. The good news is I can’t feel how
The good news is I can’t feel how cold it is out here. The lake I’ll
cold it is out here. The lake I’ll be diving into is right in the ski
be diving into is right in the ski village of Temlinac, just a stones
village of Temlinac, just a stones throw from the lifts. The more I
throw from the lifts. The more I stare at the icy abyss, the more I
stare at the icy abyss, the more I just want to stick my foot in just
just want to stick my foot in just to get a taste or a feel of how cold
to get a taste or a feel of how cold it is. I know they said I’m not
it is. I know they said I’m not going to feel the cold, but I’m
going to feel the cold, but I’m really nervous about my body going
really nervous about my body going into some kind of shock once I get
into some kind of shock once I get into the water. I am sure it will be
into the water. I am sure it will be fine, but my mind is currently in
fine, but my mind is currently in overdrive. I
fine, but my mind is currently in overdrive. Ijust want
fine, but my mind is currently in overdrive. I just want to get
fine, but my mind is currently in overdrive. Ijust want to get in
overdrive. I just want to get in now. You
overdrive. Ijust want to get in now. You are in, perfect. Davan will
now. You are in, perfect. Davan will be staying above the ice, helping me
be staying above the ice, helping me and another instructor go under. It
and another instmctor go under. It is not an activity
and another instructor go under. It is not an activity you can do as a
is not an activity you ran do as a group. Rather,
is not an activity you can do as a group. Rather, one person at a time
group. Rather, one person at a time with an instructor, for
with an instmctor, for safety reasons.
with an instructor, for safety reasons. We will go into the
reasons. We will go into the water... Now. My initial
reasons. We will go into the water... Now. My initialworries
reasons. We will go into the water... Now. My initial worries of
water... Now. My initial worries of freezing to death quickly went away.
freezing to death quickly went away. Perfect! I buy!
freezing to death quickly went away. Perfect! I buy! But it didn’t quite
Perfect! I buy! But it didn’t quite go to plan, and I had to surface. 50
go to plan, and I had to surface. So my mask started
go to plan, and I had to surface. 50 my mask started to fill with
my mask started to fill with water. . .
my mask started to fill with water... And I started to panic. So
water... And I started to panic. So I was
water... And I started to panic. So Iwas like, help!
water... And I started to panic. So I was like, help! After a little
I was like, help! After a little reminder about what to do, namely,
reminder about what to do, namely, don’t panic, I was mentally prepared
don’t panic, I was mentally prepared for another go. I am
don’t panic, I was mentally prepared for another go. lam ready
don’t panic, I was mentally prepared for another go. I am ready to go
for another go. I am ready to go back in. I
for another go. I am ready to go back in. Ionly
for another go. I am ready to go back in. I only did it for a minute
back in. I only did it for a minute or so, but it is so pretty down
or so, but it is so pretty down there stop just being able to touch
there stop just being able to touch all the bubbles under the ice is
all the bubbles under the ice is really cool. This time my mask
really cool. This time my mask stayed put, but we decided not to
stayed put, but we decided not to stray too far from the ice whole,
stray too far from the ice whole, and my confidence returned. It is an
and my confidence returned. It is an otherworldly experience under the
otherworldly experience under the ice, cut off from the noise and
ice, cut off from the noise and distractions above. And it is
distractions above. And it is surprisingly relaxing. Only towards
surprisingly relaxing. Only towards the end did my toes and fingers
the and did my toes and fingers start to
the end did my toes and fingers start to tingle a little, but
start to tingle a little, but otherwise, the drysuit really did
otherwise, the drysuit really did keep the cold out. For the really
keep the cold out. For the really daring, it is possible to free dive.
daring, it is possibla to free dive. Following not
daring, it is possible to free dive. Following not funny, though. I much
Following not funny, though. I much prefer having the oxygen tank. A
prefer having the oxygen tank. A tmly amazing
prefer having the oxygen tank. A truly amazing experience, but one
tmly amazing experience, but one I’m not in any
truly amazing experience, but one I’m not in any kind of hurry to
I’m not in any kind of hurry to repeat, you won’t be surprised to
repeat, you won’t be surprised to hear. Let’s finish this look back at
hear. Let’s finish this look back at 2019 by heading to Malaysia, where
2019 by heading to Malaysia, where Mike got a chance to get up close to
Mike got a chance to get up close to the orangutans of Sarawak back in
the orangutans of Sarawak back in October. I am sure it is an
October. I am sure it is an experience you won’t forget. I have
experience you won’t forget. I have come to the Samango nature reserve
come to the Samango nature reserve where the ranges are preparing for
where the ranges are preparing for the morning feed. The reserve took
the morning feed. The reserve took orangutans that have been rescued
orangutans that have been rescued from captivity or suffered from
from captivity or suffered from habitat loss and taught them how to
habitat loss and taught them how to live wild in the surrounding forest.
live wild in the surrounding forest. Since then, the rehabilitation
Since then, the rehabilitation programme has been moved
programme has been moved elsewhere, but the forest is still home to 33
but the forest is still home to 33 orangutans, and tourists have
orangutans, and tourists have the chance to glimpse those tempted back
chance to glimpse those tempted back by a free meal. It is very different
by a free meal. It is very different to a zoo,
by a free meal. It is very different to a 200, then? No orangutans in
to a zoo, then? No orangutans in rages here?
to a 200, then? No orangutans in cages here? Yeah, it is totally
cages here? Yeah, it is totally different to a zoo. Luckily for us,
different to a zoo. Luckily for us, we don’t have to wait long for a
we don’t have to wait long for a sighting. Mrs Edwin, one of the
sighting. Mrs Edwin, one of the mains in
sighting. Mrs Edwin, one of the males in the park. Like the ranger
males in the park. Like the ranger said, this is not a zoo. The
said, this is not a zoo. The orangutans can come from
orangutans can come from any direction at any time, so you have
direction at any time, so you have to be a little careful, especially
to be a little careful, especially around the big males like Edwin
around the big males like Edwin here. While these orangutans are
here. while these orangutans are used to
here. While these orangutans are used to people, they are still
used to people, they are still unpredictable, so tourists are kept
unpredictabla, so tourists are kept at a safe
unpredictable, so tourists are kept at a safe distance. Edwin is 23
at a safe distance. Edwin is 23 years old, born in 1996, and he was
years old, born in 1996, and he was the first male Austrian born in
the first male Austrian born in Samango. Sadly, despite conservation
Samango. Sadly, despite conservation efforts, orangutans face an
efforts, orangutans face an uncertain future. Over a 16 year
uncertain future. Over a 16 year period, the numbers in Borneo fell
period, the numbers in Borneo fell by more than 100,000, a decline
by more than 100,000, a decline blamed on hunting and deforestation.
blamed on hunting and deforestation. It is now estimated that I
blamed on hunting and deforestation. It is now estimated that Ijust over
It is now estimated that Ijust over 100,000 orangutans left on the
100,000 orangutans left on the island. And so the facility here,
island. And so the facility here, how does it help? So, by having a
how does it help? So, by having a sanctuary like Samango, people still
sanctuary like Samango, peopla still get the
sanctuary like Samango, people still get the sense of seeing the wild
get the sense of seeing the wild orangutan, and not disturb the in
orangutan, and not disturb the in its natural habitat stop the
its natural habitat stop the feeling, the excitement of seeing
feeling, the excitement of seeing wild orangutans bringing you closer
wild orangutans bringing you closer conservation efforts, it really mean
conservation efforts, it really mean something.
conservation efforts, it really mean something. Mike in Malaysia back in
something. Mike in Malaysia back in October. And I’m afraid that is set
October. And I’m afraid that is set for this programme and for this
for this programme and for this year. All that is left to do is to
year. All that is leftto do is to 55V
year. All that is leftto do is to say thank you
year. All that is left to do is to say thank you for
year. All that is left to do is to say thank you forjoining us on our
say thank you for joining us on our travels in
say thank you forjoining us on our travels in 2019. And on behalf of
travels in 2019. And on behalf of everyone here on the programme in
everyone here on the programme in front of and behind the camera, we
front of and behind the camera, we would like to wish you a happy and
would like to wish you a happy and healthy new Year, and we will
healthy new Year, and we will all see you again in 2020. Bye—bye.
ﬂ
Imean,
I mean, this is 2000 years old! Definitely worth the ungodly wake—up
Definitely worth the ungodly wake-up call.
Definitely worth the ungodly wake-up all. Oh, if you
Definitely worth the ungodly wake—up call. oh, if you insist. Here you
all. Oh, ifyou insist. Here you go. oh!
Good morning.
What a miserable week of weather it has been for many of us with some
relentless rain, and that has brought localised flooding.
In fact, on Friday afternoon, these were fairly typical
Weather Watcher pictures across parts of central and southern
England in particular.
In fact, by close of play on Friday, there were over 90 flood warnings
in force, and with more rain to come through the weekend,
well, do go to the BBC weather website for the latest updates
on the flood warnings, and also any Met Office
warnings as well.
50, over the next few hours, we’ve got this little mini weather
front which will enhance some showers, some of them heavy,
with hail and thunder.
Windy conditions following on behind before another weather front
makes its presence felt by the end of the day on Saturday.
50 Saturday morning, we start off with a few sharp
showers still remaining, but they are easing away.
The best of the sunshine perhaps on Saturday,
likely to be for the far north of Scotland.
Slowly brightening up as well across parts of England and Wales
for a brief time, before yet more wet weather starts to push
into the south—west by the end of the day.
A cooler feel in Scotland, five or six degrees.
Double digits quite widely further south.
Now, that rain will continue to drift its way steadily eastwards
but it is going to clear off into the near Continent
through the early hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning.
And then behind, with some clearer skies, it will be a chilly start
into sheltered eastern areas of Scotland, maybe a touch
of light frost here.
Too much cloud further south and too much of a breeze for any issue.
And still some bits and pieces of rain first thing
on Sunday morning.
But Sunday will be quieter for many — a case of sunny spells and a few
isolated showers around.
But still quite windy across the exposed coasts
of the south, 40—50 mile an hour gusts of winds not out
of the question.
Cooler again in Scotland, five or six degrees,
but highest values of nine or ten further south.
It looks as though that quieter theme is set to continue
for a time, though.
Showers will ease away on Monday and by Tuesday,
Christmas Eve, drier and quieter.
What on earth is happening, you may ask.
It looks as though Father Christmas might be granting us our wish
and giving us a brief lull in the weather story at the moment
with high pressure building on Christmas Eve into Christmas Day.
That will quieten things down quite nicely.
It means the chance of a white Christmas is very remote indeed
but it does mean a good deal of dry weather in the forecast.
So our Christmas week is looking like this —
a showery start, drying up quite nicely for Christmas Eve
and Christmas Day.
There is the potentialfor more rain arriving late in the week.
Take care.
Good morning.
Welcome to Breakfast, withJon Kay and Tina Daheley.
Our headlines today:
The man who confronted the London Bridge attacker
with a narwhal tusk speaks publicly for the first time,
and tells of his deep hurt at not being able to save the victims.
A catastrophic fire warning is issued in parts of eastern
Australia, including Sydney, with residents urged to leave before
it’s too late.
Prince Philip spends the night in hospital in London
after being admitted for treatment for a pre—existing condition.
It is one of the few trophies missing from their cabinet,
as Liverpool take on Brazilian side Flamengo in the final
of the Club World Cup, bidding to win it for the first time.
Good morning. We’ve got some dense patches of fog across Northern
patches of fog across Northern Ireland this morning, and over 100
Ireland this morning, and over 100 ﬂood warnings
Ireland this morning, and over 100 flood warnings across England. While
ﬂood warnings across England. whilo for many it is a
flood warnings across England. While for many it is a day of sunshine and
for many it is a day of sunshine and showers, there is more persistent
showers, there is more persistent rain in the forecast later on across
rain in the forecast later on across southern parts of the UK. All the
southern parts of the UK. All the details coming up in the next
details coming up in the next half—an—hour.
It is Saturday 21 December.
Our top story: The man who fought off the London Bridge attacker
with a narwhal tusk has given a dramatic account of how
he was able to stop the knifeman and pin him to the ground.
he was able to stop the knifeman and pin him to the ground.
Two people died in the attack last month.
Civil servant Darryn Frost has described how Usman Khan was running
towards people with knives raised above his head,
and wearing what looked like a suicide vest.
This report from Rich Preston.
This is the dramatic moment passers-by
This is the dramatic moment passers—by attempted to stop a
passers—by attempted to stop a convicted terrorist Usman Khan. His
convicted terrorist Usman Khan. His attack had become fishmonger ‘s
attack had become fishmonger ‘s Hall, where he had just killed two
Hall, where he had just killed two peopla -- had
Hall, where he had just killed two people —— had begun. It was their
peopla -- had begun. It was their Darryn Frost, a
people —— had begun. It was their Darryn Frost, a civil servant, took
Darryn Frost, a civil servant, took on Khan with others attending a
on Khan with others attending a prisoner rehabilitation event,
prisoner rehabilitation event, describing for the first time what
describing for the first time what happened. Mr Frost told the press
happened. Mr Frost told the press Association that he took a narwhal
Association that he took a namhal task to
Association that he took a narwhal task to defend himself after hearing
task to defend himself after hearing a commotion from the floor below. He
a commotion from the ﬂoor below. He described
a commotion from the floor below. He described the moment Khan ran at him
described the moment Khan ran at him with knives raised above his head.
with knives raised above his head. He went on to recall chasing
with knives raised above his head. He went on to recall chasing Khan
He went on to recall chasing Khan onto London Bridge, where a group
onto London Bridge, where a group wresﬂad
onto London Bridge, where a group wrestled him to the ground, stopping
wresﬂad him to the ground, stopping him
wrestiad him to the ground, stopping him attacking
wrestled him to the ground, stopping him attacking anyone else or set of
him attacking anyone else or set of what they thought was a suicide
what they thought was a suicide vest. Talking about Jack Merritt and
vest. Talking about jack Merritt and Saskia jones,
vest. Talking about Jack Merritt and Saskia Jones, who were both killed
Saskia jones, who were both killed by Khan, Mr
Saskia jones, who were both killed by Khan, Mr
Saskia Jones, who were both killed by Khan, Mr Frost said he will
by Khan, Mr Frost said he will always feel the deep hurt of not
always feel the deep hurt of not being able to save them. He said he
being able to save them. He said he hoped speaking out would urge people
hoped speaking out would urge people to unite against terrorism and raise
to unite against terrorism and raise money for the victims’ families.
A catastrophic fire warning is in place for parts of eastern
Australia, including Sydney, with strong winds expected
and temperatures set to hit the mid—40s Celsius.
People living in the path of one bushfire have been told it’s too
late to leave.
Let’s talk to our Sydney correspondent Phil Mercer.
This seems to be getting worse, if anything. It is. This is another
anything. It is. This is another bmtal day in
anything. It is. This is another brutal day in Australia’s horror
bmtal day in Australia’s horror summer.
brutal day in Australia’s horror summer. There are six emergency
summer. There are six emergency warnings here in New South Wales
warnings here in New South Wales alone. Three of those are to the
alone. Three of those are to the north and north—west of Sydney, and
north and north-west of Sydney, and the remaining
north and north—west of Sydney, and the remaining three are to the south
the remaining three are to the south of Sydney. And as you say, people in
of Sydney. And as you say, peopla in those
of Sydney. And as you say, people in those emergency zones are being told
those emergency zones are being told that it is too late to leave, and
that it is too late to leave, and they are being advised by
they are being advised by firefighters to seek a place of
firefighters to seek a place of safety and a solid structure to
safety and a solid stmcture to protect
safety and a solid structure to protect themselves from the heat. A
protect themselves from the heat. A catastrophic fire warning has been
catastrophic fire warning has been issued here in New South Wales, and
issued here in New South Wales, and the government, the State Government
the government, the State Government here, says that this is the biggest
here, says that this is the biggest ever deployment of emergency
ever deployment of emergency services personnel New South Wales
services personnel New South Wales has ever seen. And this is a
has ever seen. And this is a dangerous time not only for Eastern
dangerous time not only for Eastern Australia, in South Australia,
Australia, in South Australia, terrible conditions down there. One
terrible conditions down there. One person has died in the fires and
person has died in the fires and more than a dozen homes have been
more than a dozen homes have been destroyed in the state. In Victoria,
destroyed in the state. In Victoria, firefighters battling serious blazes
firefighters battling serious blazes there as well. On the other side of
there as well. On the other side of the continent, in Western Australia,
the continent, in Western Australia, in recent days, dozens of fires have
in recent days, dozens offires have been fought
in recent days, dozens of fires have been fought over there as well. As
been fought over there as well. As for the prime minister, Scott
for the prime minister, Scott Morrison, he has been criticised for
Morrison, he has been criticised for being out of the country during this
being out of the country during this time of crisis, and we understand
time of crisis, and we understand that he is now heading home from
that he is now heading home from away, and certainly his handling of
away, and certainly his handling of this emergency will come under
this emergency will come under greater scrutiny when he

Citation: BBC News, 01:30 21/12/2019, BBC1 London, 270 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/1502FD34?bcast=130874683 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)