the south.
foremost, a day of sunshine and showers once again.
eratures 3—9 and feeling cold.
this is news — these are the latest headlines in the and around the world.
the government’ performance in delivering brexit saying the only detectable impact so far has been an extra burden on businesses in the form of increased costs, paperwork and border delays.
until it’ our government gets to grip with competence and attention to detail, and not grandstanding and winding the french up, we are absolutely, well, i can’ see an end to this — the problems.
a flurry of international efforts as european leaders to avert war in ukraine — and say there is some cause for optimism.
the mayor of london, sadiq khan, says the commissioner of the metropolitan police, dame cressida dick, has "days and weeks" to show him she has a plan to restore public trust in her running of the force.
health minister gillian keegan apologises for continuing with a meeting yesterday, despite having tested positive for covid.
booing on the pitch for footballer kurt zouma, as police confirm they are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
or around the world.
a cross—party group of british says the ’ exit from the european union has so far only led to increased costs, paperwork and border problems for businesses.
a report from parliament’ spending watchdog, the public accounts committee, found costs for businesses had risen and trade had fallen as a result of leaving the .
the report also warned there could be further disruption to cross—border trade this year, when new import controls come in.
the mp5 say more must be done to improve border arrangements for businesses.
they say that brexit has led to increased costs for exporters, more paperwork for businesses, and more border delays.
businesses to trade effectively.
here’ our global trade correspondent, chris morris.
the focus on britain’ borders continues.
this report says trade volumes have fallen partly because of the impact of covid.
the exit from the has clearly had an impact and new border arrangements have added costs to business.
smaller firms with fewer resources have been hit the hardest.
between the delays at the border, the extra costs and paperwork, a lot of businesses are saying it has been a struggle for them.
we have said to the government repeatedly, before brexit and again in this report, you need to step up and support smaller businesses.
they have concentrated on volume businesses, the bigger ones, that are doing the most trade with europe.
that is no consolation for those many people whose livelihoods, and sometimes jobs of other people, depend on their being able to do this trade with europe.
the committee notes that a brexit support fund worth £20 million was initially created for small businesses.
but only 6.
7 million was paid out because it was so hard to access the money.
more, the report says, needs to be done.
outside dover, long queues of lorries have become the norm.
the committee says it could get worse.
it says there is potential for further disruption as more people start travelling again and passenger volumes at key ports like dover increase.
introduces new passport controls and the starts checking the import of food products.
the mp5 want more transparency from government about the problems businesses are facing.
the government says it plans to create the most effective border in the world by 2025.
the committee says that is a noteworthy ambition, but optimistic given where things stand today.
chris morris, news.
: we are seeing some tweets coming in the last minute today’
commons david frost who said today’ commons committee report on the — rder is quite in stuff and border is quite thin stuff and doesn’ always give the full ure.
the committee identifies extra costs of, for ple, agri— food processes but doesn’ ntion the ’ refusal in 20 to negotiate, and he goes on to about an equivalence process, ite quickly the language gets uite technical.
he goes on.
ever, the committee is right to this year is affected by the inward customs processes we ought in on the 1st of anuary.
i wouldn’ done this, he says, i lost the internal argument.
there is still time to think refully before introducing full ntrols from july.
he goes on, we to put up controls but we don’ have to replicate them elves.
we should have a light touch border to the whole world, is a exit opportunity.
lord that is a brexit opportunity.
lord frost continuing to talk about the tunities of brexit and saying opportunities of brexit and saying that the report today by the commons accounts committee is quite public accounts committee is quite thin stuff, in his words.
mary quicke runs a cheesemaking company in devon she told me about the impact of post—brexit trading rules on her business.
the costs, we are a little business, and with delays we have no idea when a cheese off whether it will tually arrive there on time.
there different rules.
great that we the fantastic port system, actually for as long as we keep nding the french up and having nding the french up as a political , the port authorities in ance, random different rules apply fferent times.
50 until our at different times.
so until our government gets to grip with etence and attention to detail, not grandstanding and winding the french up, we are absolutely, i can’ see an end to this, the lams.
ems.
we are on the verge problems.
we are on the verge of saying actually it is not worth us rting direct to europe.
we will have to do it through someone else.
in a changing europe initiative.
thank you for joining us.
you may have just heard me quote that tweet avid frost, lord frost, saying from david frost, lord frost, saying todars report is quite thin stuff doesn’ always give the full cture.
i guess it’ difficult for report to give the full picture.
what is your interpretation of the public accounts committee as said?
significant things, the mittee is stating the obvious, he obvious is brexit will lessen rade with the european union ecause it will make it slower and cumbersome and more expensive.
’ exactly what the lady you were just talking to has erienced.
the fact is that being utside the single market and toms union is going to make trade arder.
i think the committee is saying we need to find ways mitigating that.
but mitigating, removing the additional costs.
fact of being outside the opean union is going to have an pact on trade whatever we do.
the bate now is about whether given we can do things to lessen that that we ran do things to lassen that impact, but we can’ remove it gether.
the committee also talks out the government being more nsparent and upfront about the allanges now trading with the .
we have heard from businesses that the government hasn’ een clear enough with information about what they need to do, out what the challenges are.
are eing any changes on that front rom the government?
no, not really.
ence of the government, what in defence of the government, what i’ say is this.
the czechs and at borders have come in mediately.
the potential benefits exit that the government may ant to reap will take far longer to lise and the government, since aving the european union, has been -- wholly ocused on the fully -- wholly focused on the pandemic.
but there is scope for transparency from the overnment, in making it clear instance are a business that arades with europe you will have used to increased costs, to ncreased paperwork because that’ rice we are paying for brexit.
ran understand ministers are uctant to use that sort of guage but that’ the sort of larity that would make things ier for business and help usinesses to adapt to a very new ding situation.
we now have a nister or brexit pportunities, jacob ees—mogg.
how effective do you think he ?
how effective you think he will be?
how effective do you think he can be given the llenges have outlined?
that challanges you have outlined?
that depends on a few things.
david , before he resigned, was also in charge of brexit opportunities, part of his portfolio has been taken up by cob rees—mogg.
been taken up byjacob rees-099.
how effective he can be depends on things.
whether he can many things.
whether he ran convince cabinet and particularly ime minister that the the prime minister that the direction he wants to go in is the direction, so if he wants to duce regulations, can he get olitical cking?
secondly, it is orth bearing in mind there are ays trade—offs.
if you want to rid of get rid of regulations are imposed on us, it might end up easing the difficulty that raders like the one you have just from experience in trading ith the because the more we erge from the rules the harder it will be for orters to deal with he market while conforming to new rules.
as with everything do brexit it is swings and undabouts, it is opportunities rsus costs.
so it is a bit of a efield versus costs.
50 it is a bit of a minefield jacob rees—mogg will have navigate.
the plan to have borders as the best borders in the by 2025?
what do you mean by the best oarders?
it’ an ambitious ement, but yes, what does it ean?
absolutely it is ambitious but ’ the sort of boosterist language were used to from this rnment but david frost thinks the best body is a light touch and for others who thought aking back control have stricter res at the boarders might think it is about having stricter ders.
the full range of checks ith the will not be in place november under current plans.
utting hose in place and then aking our border better than anyone ’ by 2025 is, to put it mildly, uite a challenging task.
anand non, ank you very much.
menon, thank you very much.
professor anand menon from auk aukin aukina changing europe.
if you want to get in touch about that or any of the other stories we re talking about today you can do on itter @ anita and use it on twitter 0 anita and use the hashtag your questions.
mayor of london sadiq khan says scotland yard’ commissioner, dame cressida dick, has only weeks to address his concerns about her running of the metropolitan police force.
a report by the independent office for police conduct revealed highly offensive language used on whatsapp and facebook chats by officers from a now—disbanded team based in westminster, primarily at charing cross.
1a officers were investigated by the watchdog — nine remain serving — and two officers have been promoted.
scotland yard’ commissioner has come under mounting pressure of her handling over key events during recent years.
this includes, a man who was a serving metropolitan police officer, who abducted, raped and strangled sarah everard.
the force faced severe criticism over their policing of a vigil held in clapham common, london.
a pair of met police constables, who took photos of two murdered sisters, nicole smallman and bibaa henry.
they shared the images on whatsapp groups.
both officers were jailed for 33 months each.
and anthony walgate, jack taylor, gabriel kovari and daniel whitworth — four gay men were killed by stephen port.
a coroner’ report identified ‘basic investigative failings’ by the scotland yard into their deaths.
our correspondent greg mckenzie has more on this story .
greg, this challenge from the mayor of london to cressida dick, how much oblem is that for the of a problem is that for the commissioner?
it will be a big lem because ultimately it is the ome secretary priti patel that will .
she fires and hires, and in fact she would have approved, in , she did approve that fact, she did approve that appointment.
cressida dick, was inted in 2017, the first woman ad lead britain’ biggest police and in recent times she has me under immense pressure, some lling for her to .
as for the falling for her to quit.
as for the mayor and his ultimatum, if you , he has said today that she as, as you said, literally days or to sort out the met’ racism and misogyny.
is all comes off the of this independent office for lice complaints report.
they did a looking at a number of report looking at a number of individuals at the met police een a certain period of time and hey have concluded that ultimately tuff came out the stuff came out last week, and i can’ even read half of it, that’ isturbing it is, some of the hings that they were talking about, about rape and different drugs and all sorts of different offences.
the answer, really, ’ all about banter.
then there is hock to come as most people were cked, and he is saying that she as a matter of days to change it.
her to shake up the metropolitan police.
now, mately, as i said, it is the ultimately, as i said, it is the home secretary that will decide in of the met commissioner and the job in hand, she does take views hand in terms of he will have a heavy influence on the ointment whether she is fired appointment and whether she is fired or asked to leave.
as you say, this ultimatum from the mayor of ndon.
the timing, of course, is incredibly important, given the that the metropolitan police is investigating events, parties at ing street.
they are looking into what has happened at the very of government during ckdowns.
50 another reason this is so ificant.
it is this is so significant.
it is indeed, and also significant is the hat the commissioner’ fact that the commissioner’ contract was due to end in two hs’ time in april, but she was ven a two-year ension only last given a two-year extension only last year.
so lots of questions to er.
year.
50 lots of questions to answer.
she is yet to speak in terms ars ’ comments by the mayor.
of todars comments by the mayor.
but dame cressida dick is yet to ase a statement in relation to he challenge, if you like, by the on mayor sadiq khan.
i think we ran bring you hat clip now.
i have been quite clear to the commissioner, my expectation is, the next time i see her, i want to see what her response is to the examples, not of one officer, 01:14 officers being involved in racist, sexist misogynistic, homophobic, anti—semitic, islamophobic and the like behaviour, nine of whom are still serving.
and secondly, what her plans are to win back the trust and confidence that has been both knocked and shattered as a consequence of these cases.
and i make this point, in the words of the , the independent office for police conduct, these cases are not historic, they are not isolated, and that is it is important for the commissioner, when i next see her, to answer me those two big questions.
if: he was pushed on that in terms of when will you see her?
he didn’ answer
but he said it will be on.
time will only tell and the ory is definitely not going away time soon.
greg, thank you very for that.
the threat of war still hangs over ukraine.
but a top russian diplomat has told the the european initiative to resolve the crisis has been positive , and there is still time for a political settlement.
vladimir chizhov said meetings in moscow this week could be key.
european leaders said they’ll continue talking to russia to to avert a conflict, that follows two days of shuttle diplomacy by the french president, emmanuel macron.
moscow has denied any plans to invade ukraine, but it has assembled more than 100,000 troops near its borders.
and military exercises are continuing — these pictures show russian air defence systems in the brest region of belarus, which boarders ukraine.
chizhov told the ’ europe editor, katya adler, that the military build—up could be reduced later this month.
those exercises, joint russian—belarusian exercises that are taking place there, they had been preannounced since last year.
and of course, after they are finished the troops will return to their own permanent stations.
separately, there’ talk of more than 100,000 russian soldiers.
can we expect to see fewer than our present at the moment?
isn’ anyone speaking of ukrainian soldiers?
they have an army of more than 250,000, and more than half of it is placed directly facing russia.
is russia interested, though, in diplomacy?
we certainly believe there is still room for diplomacy.
russia is preparing a formal reply to answers that we received from the united states and nate on russia’ concerns over european security.
the focus appears to be in preventing nato’ expansion further eastward, preventing ukraine becoming a member state of nate, the west has already said forget it.
so where can diplomacy go now?
we are not going to forget it, first.
and we cannot afford to forget it.
five waves of nato expansion, that was not the evolution that we expected.
is the kremlin worried about this threat of massive sanctions, painful sanctions?
president putin himself will be targeted, says the west, with the sanctions.
how?
how?
who will suffer most?
the consumers in western europe because any sanctions are tantamount to produce counter sanctions from russia.
i am not saying that russia is going to turn the tap of gas to europe.
pe.
no.
but there may be counter sanctions.
so are you threatening european families?
we are not threatening anybody because we are not going to invade any country.
that’ your word on that?
take my word.
we don’ have any intention.
of course, the important thing is not to provoke russia into changing its mind.
isn’ there a danger of miscalculation on both sides right now?
hopefully not on the russian side.
and hopefully not on the other side.
katya adler talking to the russian ambassador to the european union.
a conservative party donor has told news that borisjohnson’ leadership is "past the point of no return".
john armitage — a billionaire financier — said the current situation in government was "tremendously upsetting" and that the tory party needed to "remake itself".
armitage has also donated money to three labour mps.
in response, a conservative spokesperson said, "the government remains fully focussed on delivering for the british people.
" this is what armitage told us.
if you do something or say something which on the front page of the sunday times looks terrible and you do that consistently, and you betray a sense of not really caring, i think you should leave.
and i find the lack of honour inherent in modern politics incredibly distressing.
earlier our political correspondent iain watson, told me what impactjohn armitage’ comments could have among conservatives.
it will have a financial impact, no doubt, he donated £3 million to the conservative party, £500,000 under borisjohnson’ leadership and now he says he will not be donating again at this time, so he is withdrawing the financial support for the time being.
but it is likely to have a political consequence as well.
we know that various conservative have been wondering about whether to submit a letter of no confidence in borisjohnson, some have told me they are waiting for various events to happen, the police investigation to conclude, for example, or to see if there is an electoral consequence to the so—called partygate allegations and investigations at the local elections.
now it looks like there may be a financial consequence as well so it may well be something that concentrates minds.
you asked me to tell you something more about john armitage.
not somebody who would be a classic boris johnson supporter.
i think in any case he helped to fund the remain campaign, on brexit he wasn’ a brexiteer unlike borisjohnson.
as you mentioned, he has given small amounts to the labour party, some ex labour politicians, about £12,500, nothing of the same order he gave to the conservative party.
he does have deep pockets, he’ pretty wealthy, he is hedge fund manager.
he did say he will continue as a conservative party member.
he is not resigning from the party.
so it looks at this stage that he is simply withdrawing his financial rather than political support.
that said, he did sound pretty critical about how things have been handled.
iain watson.
the health minister, gillian keegan, has apologised for continuing a meeting yesterday after testing positive for covid.
keegan said she found out as she was listening to three fathers who had lost their daughters to suicide.
she says that after getting their consent, she stayed on for a short period, but admitted it had been an error ofjudgment.
in a tweet she said: "i should have immediately ended the meeting and on reflection this was an error of judgement on my part.
i fully recognise the importance of following the letter and spirit of the policies, so want to be upfront about what happened and to apologise for the mistake i made.
" health secretary sajid javid says he’ accepted gillian keegan’ apology and "continues to support her in her role".
the manager of the english premier league side, west ham, david moyes, has defended his decision to select kurt zouma against watford last night — while police are investigating footage of the player kicking his pet cat.
the french international was booed by fans at the london stadium, following the release of a video showing the 27—year—old, hitting, dropping and kicking the animal across the ﬂoor.
we aren’ broadcasting the footage.
the club says it "unreservedly condemns" him for his actions, but said it was a separate matter from the match.
i’ a human being and i’ also a great animal lover.
so i understand how people feel.
but again, as i said, i am the football manager here
and i have to find a way of getting the results here.
and kurt zouma is one of the key players to us.
kurt zouma has issued an apology about the incident.
he said "there are no excuses for my behaviour which i sincerely regret.
i also want to say how deeply sorry i am to anyone who was upset by the video.
"i would like to assure everyone that our two cats are perfectly fine and healthy.
it was an isolated incident which will never happen again.
" jamesjones is the co—host of the we are west ham podcast — i asked for his reaction to the decision to start zouma in tuesday’ game.
it baffles me, the decision to play him.
everyone expected him not to be in the team, in the squad, in the stadium for last night’ game and when the starting 11 was announced before the game and he was there there was a lot of shock, i was just outside the stadium at the time and it was such a baffling decision, he should be nowhere near the stadium, and it brings the club into more disrepute, further than what his actions had already done in terms of putting david moyes and his decision under more spotlight or scrutiny.
the club the’ decision to play him under more scrutiny.
he should have been nowhere near the football pitch last night.
what you make of david moyes’ rationale that he was thinking purely about the football, about the game, what was best in terms of the club’ chances of winning?
he has got a job to do but i think in a situation like this, football is almost irrelevant, at the end of the day kurt zouma’ actions are appalling and disgraceful.
and regardless of whether you need to win a football match or not his actions are wrong and he needs to be punished for it.
the club are investigating, we’re told, but that’ not enough, he should have not played last night.
if it meant a weaker starting 11 for west ham last night, so be it, the fact is he shouldn’ have been on the pitch and david moyes arguing that it was a footballing decision, i think football comes second in this situation, 100%.
he shouldn’ have been there.
kurt zouma, as we know, apologised for his actions, he said there were no excuses for my behaviour, which i sincerely regret.
he said he wanted to say how deeply sorry he was to anyone who was upset by the video.
that said, do you think west ham have lost their best opportunity to take a stance on this?
you said the fact he was on the pitch last night is bringing the club itself into disrepute.
so given that he did play, is there an opportunity now for west ham to row back from this?
or have they lost that opportunity?
i think given the backlash to the fact that he was playing it might push them into taking a stronger stance on it retrospectively.
but at the end of the day it is difficult to say whether the whole club is in disrepute.
i know i have said that
but it hasn’ put the club in a great light when all they needed to do was take him out of the spotlight completely in light of what happened and the video on social media, and remove all of the backlash that we are now having.
we should be talking about west ham fighting for the champions league and instead we are talking about west ham might play a player filmed kicking a cat.
we should not be in that position, they should have taken a stance, they should have shown that actually it is wrong for anyone to abuse animals, let alone a premier league footballer.
james jamesjones, co—host of west ham podrast.
breaking news, foreign minister liz truss will avel oscow to meet the russian travel to moscow to meet the russian foreign minister.
her russian valent at sergey lavrov.
we are that she will be flying to scow today to urge the kremlin to escalate and to desist in its ggression inst ukraine.
this comes as a top russian diplomat has he that the european told the that the european initiative to resolve the crisis has ositive and that there is been positive and that there is still time for a political tlement.
foreign minister liz travelling to moscow today to eak to her sian counterpart speak to her russian counterpart sergey lavrov.
a stand—off between truckers and the canadian government over covid restrictions shows no sign of ending.
the city of ottawa has called for reinforcements asking for 1,800 additional police officers to assist those already on the ground.
local people are angry at the demonstration, as tanya dendrinos reports.
they are used to hauling across the country.
now these truckers are parked up for the long haul, demanding an end to vaccine mandates.
i think it is just the fact that they are saying you have to have a mandate, that you have to have a shot.
that is the problem because again, ever since covid started, truckers have been going back and forth across the border and across canada, across the united states.
they were hauling things to first responders, the emergency supplies, the masks, all this stuff, even when the truckers couldn’ get it, even the shots and the vaccine, when the truckers couldn’ get it
but they were getting it out to other people.
the protest, which is going into its second week, has seen around 500 trucks lining the streets of downtown ottawa.
some have been blockaded altogether, including the busiest and crossing between canada and the united states, which was shut for hours on tuesday.
it has turned into an occupation.
they have removed the tyres off of their big wheel trucks.
they are bringing fuel in.
they have set up temporary shelters.
this is no longerjust a peaceful conversation or attempt at negotiation.
this is a hostagetaking of our city.
speaker canadian prime ministerjustin trudeau was heckled in parliament as he defended the use of restrictions to fight the pandemic.
it is clear patience is running thin on many fronts.
an injunction has been granted to stop the truckers honking their horns.
it may have quietened the scene but they are determined not to be silenced.
tanya dendrinos, news.
our correspondent samira hussein sent this update from ottawa.
the protests here in ottawa, canada, have clearly entered into their second week and it doesn’ seem like anyone is going to be leaving soon.
this entire road has been blocked off and it is the main thoroughfare to which you can get to parliament hill, it is the centre of canada’ government and the protests aren’tjust here in ottawa, it has spread to other canadian cities.
that said, the kind of tensions you were seeing in the earlier days of the protests have eased somewhat between the residents and the protesters, as the truckers are no longer honking their horns.
without that noise, there is much less anxiety.
in fact, there was somewhat more of a carnival—like atmosphere happening here with a stage set up and music and dancing.
of course the big question is how long will these truckers remain here?
and many of those i had spoken with have said they have spent many weeks on the road away from theirfamilies.
they are in it for the long haul.
the headlines on news.
the government’ performance in delivering brexit saying the only detectable impact so far has been an extra burden on businesses in the form of increased costs, paperwork and border delays.
a flurry of international efforts — as european leaders to avert war in ukraine — and say there is some cause for optimism.
the mayor of london, sadiq khan, says the commissioner of the metropolitan police, dame cressida dick, has "days and weeks" to show him she has a plan to restore public trust in her running of the force.
health minister gillian keegan apologises for continuing with a meeting yesterday, despite having tested positive for covid.
booing on the pitch for footballer kurt zouma, as police confirm they are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
the charity carers trust is calling for greater support and recognition from the government for the millions of unpaid carers in the who provide vital help for loved ones in need.
the carers trust says there are around seven million unpaid carers in the , and anyone can become a carer at any time.
it’ believed three in five people will be in this position at some point in their lifetime and a large number of people are spending an average of 50 hours or more per week caring for a relative.
a recent survey of almost 1,500 carers by the charity found that more than half of them had to either reduce their hours or stop working altogether so they could care for someone.
zoe conway has been to meet two families dealing with caring responsibilities.
mark has kennedy’ disease.
a type of motor neurone disease that is making his muscles weaker and weaker.
he was diagnosed eight years ago and is totally reliant on his wife katie.
it is really intrinsic support, coming to terms with it is a step in the right direction.
if i’ left alone, which i am sometimes, i can’ do anything because if i fall over, or i get stuck on the toilet or something like that, i’ stuck and i have to phone someone to come and get me.
katie had to give up herjob as a geography teacher to care for mark.
she now gets a carer’ allowance of £67 per week.
it starts from the moment that mark wakes up to the moment that he goes to bed and then even then, i am still worrying he might wake up in the night or need me or something like that.
so you are never off duty.
i haven’ had any respite, so any breaks from mark at all for eight, nine years since he has been diagnosed.
i haven’ gone off and had a weekend with friends or anything like that.
it doesn’ happen.
you know, not even half an afternoon or something like that.
there are an estimated 7 million unpaid carers like katie in the .
it is thought around three in five people will be in this position at some point in their lifetime.
some are spending an average of 50 hours or more per week caring for a relative.
many are struggling financially.
almost half of unpaid carers told us they had to give up work or cut down their hours because of their caring responsibilities.
many struggle to pay their bills, they struggle to make ends meet.
three in ten unpaid carers told us they had to skip meals, they had to go without food.
there are now renewed calls for carer’ allowance to increase and for more respite and support.
the government says it recognises the vital role carers play and that it is investing up to £25 million to improve the existing measures designed to help them.
tim muffett, news.
susanne crosby from brighton is a full—time carer for her 16—year—old daughter mia, who has rett syndrome.
thank you for joining us.
you are living this story, aren’ you?
tell a typical day for you with us about a typical day for you with mia.
the moment because she gets to to school which was not the during the ockdown spot on a weekend a holiday day, then she will get up, wake up at about and from then on, she can’ entertain herself, so she needs tant, somebody with her onstantly, which means that even if i have to leave the room because i have to go to the bathroom, or thing, then your attention is ways a sort of like on her, trying make sure she is safe and verything else.
there is playing er, entertaining her, personal rare, there’ aving to plan meals ause she is quite tiny, so she eds regular meals at certain es.
she also has a tube now which gets ﬂuids through, so it is king sure because she cannot herself or help herself to ything really.
having said that, is a joy to be around but it is austing.
i completely echo what he lady in the video said about, it austing.
the £67 per week is nice that we get something
but it is a joke when you work out, if that was full—time pay, 37 hours per it would be £1.
82 per hour.
and of course, you have to prove you more than that.
mia will go to bed, we put her to bed about 9pm, 8:30pm
but she won’ go to traightaway
so i have to keep going down.
i am lucky so you to do absolutely everything for her.
absolutely everything, yes.
do you get any other help?
is there around to help with mia?
anyone around to help with mia?
there is one person.
of course, you get anyone, you can’ get a yone, you can’ get a general baby—sitter or anything, you get just nyone
so we have a can’ get just anyone
so we have a trained personal assistant who is rful but she is only available certain times.
so we have to plan, like me and my husband, hank goodness, he is incredibly portive but he is also a key worker so sometimes he works 60 a week
so it is mainly me.
all rough the night as well, mia will even when she is asleep, she ill needs personal care during the so
i have stay awake until :30am, sam, and then when she goes school, at ast i can sometimes go back to bed have asleep because i’ exhausted!
0, bless - it is really a full—time job and of course, you want to care for but the is, it is a fact of life you are exhausted as a result.
id you agree with the you said you agree with the charity’ call for greater support cognition from the government but a final thought from you if i could, what would that support and nition look like?
what would be most helpful you?
i think ulnerable people in general, carers upport them, but also disabled peopla, nyone who is you know, pla with brain injuries, stroke ctims, we need to be more visible society.
that is a long—term nge.
but here is a lot that the government can do to help lead that the top to actually say, from the top down to actually say, yes, we are important, we are important as other people cause it definitely does not feel it.
more money absolutely, we esperately need that because i had up a full—time job to care for my ughter.
and things have ver been the same since.
50 yes, oney is tant but also, some money is important but also, some more visibility and understanding be absolutely brilliant.
thank you for joining suzanne crosby, is a ull—time carer for her 16 ear daughter, .
the government told us it recognises the vital role carers play, and that it’ investing up to £25 million to improve existing measures designed to help them.
more new on our top story, a cross—party group of british says the ’ exit from the european union has so far only led to increased costs, paperwork and border problems for businesses.
joining us from brussels is the head of european policy at logistics , which has members from the road, rail, sea and air industries.
thank you for joining us.
along with peopla who businesses, it is the bers members of your organisation, i guess, who are at the blunt end of of ese changes.
what do you all of these changes.
what do you make of he report?
logistic provided dence to the committee, we are glad to see that the ort acknowledges some of our key ncerns.
it acknowledges that rading this new regime is ore expensive to businesses and is an important point.
the ther thing the report does very is to highlight the key points at have to be addressed as a ter of urgency now, to make sure at the next stage of the import ntrol timetable is successful, for tance, all preparations in instance, all the preparations in relation to the border control , where the physical checks on ri- food oducts will take place from july.
at government is lking about potential for erging from the rules that existed when the was in the , but if that happens, the more the diverges from those rules, does it he isk of making life more complicated or organisations like selves?
there will be a case to yourselves?
there will be a rase to be made for each of those decisions erge, for instance, in the transport sector, which is very rtant to our members, the terms of the trade and cooperation ement with the are very agreement with the are very dear, , access to the road transport of rket of the for haulage mpanies is dependent on compliance a number of standards, road fety standards, those sorts of irements, and changing these les and standards would have to gger discussions in the joint vernance bodies of the , the eement, and it has the potential create additional administrative lexities but also changes to the regime that this government has negotiated as part of the meeting with the .
something to ider carefully and we will ctually call on the government to bout preserving flow, the capacity of country to trade ith the , to make sure that the ortunities don’ translate into dditional disruptions for the istics industry and its customers oss across all sectors of the economy.
thank you for joining us.
adele was the big winner at last night’ brit awards, taking home the three top prizes — artist, song and album of the year.
there were also awards for billie eilish and sheeran.
our music correspondent mark savage was watching.
adele!
adele, easy on me!
it was almost inevitable.
adele swept the board at the brits, winning three of the four categories she was nominated for, including artist of the year and best album for her so—called divorce record 30.
i’ like to dedicate this award to my son.
and to simon, to his dad.
this album was all of our journey, notjust mine.
i am very proud of myself for sticking to my guns and putting out an album that was about something so personal to me.
the star also gave a laid—back performance of i drink wine on a set that echoed the las vegas shows she so recently postponed.
how can we both become a version of a person we don’ even like?
but there was no reference to that setback as she took to the stage in london, sometimes with a little difficulty.
what do i do?
how do i get down there with two things in me hand?
thank you.
but not as much difficulty as anne—marie.
luckily, she recovered enough to keep performing and, after she came off stage, she tweeted, "didn’ need my left ankle, anyway.
" meanwhile, sheeran opened the show, playing his number one hit bad habits with the sheffield rock band bring me the horizon.
was also named songwriter of the year, while billie eilish won best international artist.
billie eilish!
thank you, guys, so much.
i am so honoured and feel so lucky to be awarded this — again.
thank you so much.
best new artist went to rapper a little simz and her mum.
mum, look at what you’ve done, mum.
best rap act went to dave.
i want to say thank you to all of the artists that are in the same field as me, the rappers that have suffered for years and years and years and years and broken down so many barriers in this industry that i’ in right now.
and rolling stone ronnie wood gave sam fender the award for best rock act.
my favourite, sam fender!
but the person who appreciated winning the most was becky hill.
she picked up best dance artist.
i was always somebody that nobody really knew who i was and there will still be to this day people who sit on their sofa and go, becky who?
and this, for me, is proper recognition that i’ doing the right thing
and i’ not necessarily wasting my life.
in the first year without male and female categories, women prizewinners outnumbered men by three to one and adele had something to say about it.
i understand the name of this award has changed, but i really love being a woman and being a female artist.
i do.
mark savage, news.
let’ have a chat about how the night went with lisa verrico, musicjournalist for the sunday times.
thank you for joining us.
let’ begin with adele, the three top ds, was it any surprise for you?
no, it was always going to be her and not least when she cancelled the las vegas shows and aid as performing at the said she was performing at the brits, lots of excitement, adele is important to the british music industry so that was great.
i wonder would have won the top three awards if she had not been in the ence?
that would have been quite dull ceremony.
do you think that makes a difference?
0, !
es!
absolutely.
a definite yes from you.
talk about the best new let’ talk about the best new artist, little simz, lovely to see the stage with her mum, tell us a bit more about her, her style ound, for anyone who does not now.
i think she was the big winner he night, she would have got est new artist even though this is fourth album, to it was he her fourth album, to me, it was the best album of last year, it is a nicolour wonder, all kinds of tyles, she is essentially a wrapper album was narrated by emma but the album was narrated by emma corrin from the gran who appeared on in a hat that was like a tent ith her cut glass accent.
little has been around for a few years i think she’ a big winner ause people who know her name or ybe don’ we’ll see her and want heck her out
so i think that bum will be the big winner in of sales and streaming.
i love omment from becky hill in the eport, saying she feels like she’ the right thing, not doing the right thing, not necessarily wasting her life.
she lking about the recognition that the brit awards can bring and viously means a huge amount to her.
how big are the brit awards of that recognition factor, what they ran for an artist’ ea?
rea?
becky hill was the most passionate speech of the night and i think when we are talking about the neutral awards, i thought across the board, we had rock for irst time, dance for the first ime in 16 years, lots of different replaced it, and sometimes it you were in a random spotify aylist generator, going from ele, to grime, to rock, which is actly what music is these days.
so for some artists, lots of pla know adele and sam fender, for somebody like little simz or new brit award winner, holly, opla will see those artist for the time and they will decide in at three or minute that three or four minute performance whether they are going them out or not so the to check them out or not so the recognition factor is huge for sts.
talk to us about your standout moments from last night, ithought nne—marie styling it out hen
she stumbled was one of for me.
good on her.
she coped very well.
anne—marie, the former karate champion
so she had the to get back up.
the astonishing hing about her, if anyone is going rip, it is her, she always says she is not that kind of person, i thought her vocal was the best of ight so to be able to do that, aving fallan, our heart must be ething, if did not have respect for anne—marie before, you inly do ow.
i thought little certainly do now.
i thought little simz and dave’ performance, when ate was essentially on fire he got lots of his mates on, and heeran and bring me the horizon start, i don’ know if other pla knew what that was happening i didn’
and i thought it was a at surprise.
thank you for joining us.
a new exhibition by a british asian photographer documenting a journey with her mother has opened in birmingham.
maryam wahid visited pakistan to see where her mother grew up and to discover what her own life could have looked like.
pria rai reports.
it’ titled zaibunnisa, her mum’ maiden name before she came to the .
it connected me with all those stories that i was told as a young girl about lahore and about her birthplace.
somewhere maryam wanted to know more about.
started to see another world outside birmingham, you know, the family have been able to see lahore in these pictures.
i couldn’ help but really think about what my alternative life could have looked like when i visited lahore.
and so in 2019 maryam made her first ever trip to pakistan and took her mum who hadn’ been to her family home for more than 20 years.
to be able to get that close to where they lived and the bed they slept on, the room that they ate in, was an amazing feeling, to go as far as going to pakistan and going to the border of india and pakistan, taking my mum with me, she swore she would never go back to pakistan, was as close as i was ever going to get to really recording my own story.
it’ not always easy to have a conversation about your past.
maryam’ parents came to this country.
that can mean escaping conflict and leaving family behind, and that’ not always easy to hear or share.
but for maryam it was important to find out.
we come from a very complex land.
for my nan, when i learned that she had migrated from srinagar to amritsar years before partition, that really fascinated me that as a woman she migrated with her mother at a really young age, and she then had to flee the country when the 1910 partition happened.
having had a glimpse of life in lahore, back home in the midlands, maryam wanted to share her story, one lots of migrant communities would relate to and one of the gallery felt was to share.
was important to share.
the is absolutely driven to make sure that, particularty the fantastic diversity of the communities of birmingham, are seen on the screen, on the stage and on the walls of , and maryam was a huge example of that.
we make a polaroid picture and look at also how vague those memories are.
it definitely resonated with so many of my friends to have hardly been back to pakistan.
i’ll never be like people in pakistan.
my cousins that are my age.
but i’ so proud of my pakistani origins.
feel like it’ so much more defined now.
pria rai, news, birmingham.
you’re watching news.
vinyl record sales in the are at the highest point for 30 years — but with only a handful of vinyl manufacturing plants, demand is outstripping supply.
a team of entrepreneurs noticed this gap in the market and launched a new site in middlesbrough, which aims to produce 50,00 records a month.
leejohnson reports.
for many music lovers, vinyl can become an obsession.
but for the team at press on, it’ also the chance to fill a big gap in the market.
recorded quite a few artists, we wanted to put a compilation out on vinyl.
and we’ve looked around everywhere and the lead times were really long back then.
and even in 2019, we couldn’ have got it done within five months which meant it would not have been done in time for christmas.
so that got our brains going, and we thought, how come it’ so hard to get records manufactured and delivered to you?
making records is a complex process.
first, a master cut, grooves and all, is produced.
that is then copied, and moulded, before it’ pressed, and set aside to be packaged.
there are only a handful of plants like this in the .
most records are manufactured in europe.
but demand is outstripping supply.
vinyl is enjoying an incredible revival.
last year, more than 5 million were sold, that’ an increase of 8% on the previous year.
and one in four albums sold last year was on the format.
that’ its highest sales for more than 30 years.
fitting, then, that this new teesside plant is also a nod to the north east’ heritage of making records.
by artists including elvis presley and david bowie.
for press on’ managing director, there was only one place they wanted to be based.
middlesbrough is everything we’re about.
we all care passionately about the area.
it is important that it’ here.
we’ve got a rich heritage and a rich history of manufacturing and creativity whether it be in industry or chemicals or pottery, and now we have got computer game manufacturers, as we’ve seen.
so we are proud of that and we are proud to be a part of it.
and that’ good news for local bands like teesside group comparison, whose debut was the first off the production line.
it’ crazy, to be honest.
to see it physically happening, it kind of set in stone how lucky we all, like, as the band we all are to have this opportunity.
the vinyl revival shows no signs of slowing.
leejohnson, news, middlesbrough.
joanna will be here to take you through to 1pm including prime ster’ questions.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with carol kirkwood.
hello again.
some of us saw some beautiful sunrises this morning.
quite a breezy day that we have ahead.
a colder day for more of us than yesterday as the cold air follows on behind this cold front.
still mild conditions in the south.
this is where we have got the cloud and some patchy light rain.
as that sinks south, it will brighten up behind it.
for most of us, it is a day of sunshine and showers.
intry on the hills of northern ireland and northern england and at lower levels at times in scotland.
as i mentioned, it is a breezy day but we are looking at gusts of gale force across the western and northern isles and temperatures today ranging from four in the north to a mild 13 in the south.
through this evening and overnight, if anything, the weather front sinks a little bit further south, bringing cloud and patchy rain.
a potent area of low pressure is going to cross the north of scotland, bringing in gales, even severe gales, some rain, sleet and snow as far south as the southern uplands.
there is the risk of ice where we have got lying snow and also blizzards in the hills of scotland in the north.
temperatures hanging on in the south, we are looking at about 5—7 but certainly much lower as we push further north.
tomorrow, early on, we will lose the weather front from the south and it will brighten up.
low pressure pushes off into the north sea.
the winds will moderate.
for all of us, a day of sunshine and showers.
most of the wintry showers will be in the hills in the north and temperatures ranging from one in lerwick to about nine as we push down towards london.
but it will feel in the wind more like —3 in lerwick.
as we head from thursday into friday, this ridge of high pressure builds in.
you can see the blues in the charts representing the cold air.
friday morning, it is going to start off on a cold note.
widespread frost and a sharp frost at that.
but there will be a lot of sunshine, just a few showers at times in the west.
through the day, the cloud will build in the west, heralding the arrival of this rain which will arrive in western areas later in the evening on a strengthening breeze.
once again, it is going to feel a bit chilly.
as we head into the weekend, the weather turns more unsettled and another deep area of low pressure crosses us.
you can see from the isobars it is going to be windy.
fronts crossing us, bringing in some rain
but it looks at the moment like on saturday the south—east should stay but generally speaking, this weekend is looking rather unsettled but a little bit milder.
this is news, i’mjoanna gosling.
the headlines at 11 the government’ performance in delivering brexit saying the only detectable impact so far has been an extra burden on businesses, in the form of increased costs, paperwork and border delays.
until it’, our government gets to grip with competence and attention to detail, and not grandstanding and winding the french up, we are absolutely well, i can’ see an end to this, the problems.
the mayor of london, sadiq khan, says the commissioner of the metropolitan police, dame cressida dick, has "days and weeks" to show him she has a plan to restore public trust in her running of the force.
health minister gillian keegan apologises for continuing with a meeting yesterday, despite having tested positive for covid.
a flurry of international efforts, as european leaders to avert war in ukraine and say there is some cause for optimism.
booing on the pitch for footballer kurt zouma, as police confirm they are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
a cross—party group of says the ’ exit from the european union has, so far, only led to increased costs, paperwork and border problems for businesses.
a report from parliament’ spending watchdog, the public accounts committee, found costs for businesses had risen and trade had fallen as a result of leaving the .
the report by the commons public accounts committee also warned there could be further disruption to cross—border trade this year, when new import controls come in.
the mp5 say more must be done to improve border arrangements for businesses.
they say that brexit has led to increased costs for exporters, more paperwork for businesses, and more border delays.
the government says it is continuing to offer help to businesses to trade effectively.
here’ our global trade correspondent, chris morris.
the focus on britain’ borders continues.
this report says trade volumes have fallen partly because of the impact of covid.
the exit from the has clearly had an impact and new border arrangements have added costs to business.
smaller firms with fewer resources have been hit the hardest.
between the delays at the border, the extra costs and paperwork, a lot of businesses are saying it has been a struggle for them.
so we have said to the government repeatedly, before brexit and again in this report, you need to step up and support smaller businesses.
they have concentrated on the volume businesses, the bigger ones, that are doing the most trade with europe.
but that is no consolation for those many people whose livelihoods, and sometimes jobs of other people, depend on their being able to do this trade with europe.
the committee notes that a brexit support fund, worth £20 million, was initially created for small businesses.
but only 6.
7 million was paid out, because it was so hard to access the money.
more, the report says, needs to be done.
outside dover, long queues of lorries have become the norm.
the committee says it could get worse.
it says there is potential forfurther disruption, as more people start travelling again and passenger volumes at key ports like dover increase.
introduces new passport controls and the starts checking the import of food products.
the mp5 want more transparency from government about the problems businesses are facing.
the government says it plans to create the most effective border in the world by 2025.
the committee says that is a noteworthy ambition, but optimistic given where things stand today.
chris morris, news.
and our global trade correspondent, chris morrisjoins me now.
any factors involved situation, so many factors involved in the situation, what is your assessment things are?
its interesting of how things are?
its interesting first of all this came from a -party ommittee of mps, ncluding ome who supported brexit.
not sure they would i agree with interpretation we hear from illier nevertheless there is ncern and that’ partly because ’ not just out the roblems it’ not just about the problams peopla are experiencing at the der but the overall volume of rade has gone down.
the is doing rade with europe and that has not unced back from the worst of covid pandemic related problems way that trade between other countries has.
the government onse last night, statement late night saying we are doing all an help businesses trade with europe and i’ re they are, but it so said don’ forget all these new ade deals we have done around the rld, 70 new trade deals.
many of ose are rolled over from what we before four are to be saying sinesses who used to trade with their need is neighbours without aucracy or controls, trade with ustralia and new zealand instead it’ not the same thing.
there ess trade to be had there and ’ much more difficult.
i think ticularty or the smaller particularly for the smaller companies that have grown used to tionless trade, with all our nearest neighbours, moving from that different situation especially in the middle of the pandemic, has been immensely llenging.
thank you very much.
let’ speak now to rod mckenzie executive director of the road haulage association.
thank you very much for joining us, i know that you have been seeing drivers may have to get used to queueing for hours at dover on days.
what is the situation currently so this year?
it has a tough start to the year for eryone hauling freight across the dover calais short straights.
and i think we are now seeing a kind of ormal.
we had teething troubles start, caused by all of the new tape and eaucracy.
also a couple of ferries were out of action had some roadworks at dover hich caused delays.
now we are ing things settle down, people king wer mistakes on the making fewer mistakes on the paperwork what its complex and that till happen.
those delays will will still happen.
those delays will continue.
it’ a bit like being in a market queue and the person supermarket queue and the person front of you suddenly pulls out all coupons, 3 checkout person of their coupons, a checkout person has to go through them all and that tes a delay and then the queue uilds up behind you on the eckout.
the problem is with dover, upermarket you just open more tales but in dover, it’ a very lace, to navigate around and ere is no way to open up more ales as it were.
we heard that rall trade is down.
this is happening at a time when it’ not the same level of trading going .
how does that factor into the ation for hauliers?
yes, that’ ther important thing and we know at as chris was saying in uly they are ing to be plant and nimal checks which will create her friction.
00 of those everyday september
, the metric passport checks.
added to the extra traffic with people ing on liday and so forth, it oes mean that things will be tough.
it’ important to say that long queues that we have seen at are the new normal, but it dover are the new normal, but it doesn’ necessarily mean to say that day will be bad.
at peak times, we will probably be looking at three hour delays but that won’ be the picture everyday
and i think need to and work out is how to best manage that going ard
and it has been very tough or small businesses, this whole nsition period that we are now .
what ould make things better?
simplast, the simplest, easiest thing i suppose would be around checks, checks.
if we can have an the food checks.
if we ran have an agreement between the and the , asically getting rid of these checks because we have very high ards of food in europe and the standards of food in europe and the
and we could and should trust other that would make a each other that would make a difference.
that would be one thing ould be important and also we eed to have a very, lighter touch hese border controls in the nse of it’ about going back to heckout person, if you could eal with it quickly and get through, then you can deal with the ue.
light ch, i think the queue.
light touch, i think the borders would be helpful.
thank you uch.
this a conservative party donor has told news that borisjohnson’ leadership is "past the point of no return.
" john armitage, a billionaire financier, said the current situation in government was "tremendously upsetting" and that the tory party needed to "remake itself".
armitage has also donated money to three labour mps.
in response, a conservative spokesperson said, "the government remains fully focussed on delivering for the british people.
" this is what armitage told us.
if you do something or say something, which on the front page of the sunday times, looks terrible, and you do that consistently, and you betray a sense of not really caring, i think you should leave.
and i find the lack of honour inherent in modern politics incredibly distressing.
earlier, our political correspondent iain watson, explained what impact john armitage’ comments could have among conservatives.
he donated £3 million to the conservative party, £500,000 under borisjohnson’ leadership and now he says he will not be donating again at this time, so he is withdrawing the financial support for the time being.
but of course it is likely to have a political consequence as well.
we know that various conservative have been wondering about whether to submit a letter of no confidence in borisjohnson, some have told me they are waiting for various events to happen, the police investigation to conclude, for example, or to see if there is an electoral consequence to the so—called partygate allegations and investigations at the local elections.
now it looks as if there may be a financial consequence as well so it may well be something which concentrates minds.
you asked me to tell you a little bit more aboutjohn armitage.
he is not somebody who would be a classic borisjohnson supporter in any case.
he helped to fund the remain campaign, on brexit, he wasn’ a brexiteer unlike borisjohnson.
as you mentioned, he has given small amounts to the labour party, some ex—labour politicians, about £12,500, nothing of the same order he gave to the conservative party.
he does have deep pockets, he’ pretty wealthy, he is a hedge fund manager.
it has to be said, though, he did say he will continue as a conservative party member.
he is not resigning from the party.
so it looks at this stage that he is simply withdrawing his financial rather than political support.
that said, he did sound pretty critical about how things have been handled.
the health minister, gillian keegan, has apologised for continuing a meeting yesterday after testing positive for covid.
keegan said she found out as she was listening to three fathers who had lost their daughters to suicide.
after getting their consent, she stayed on for a short period, but admitted it had been an error ofjudgment.
in a tweet she said "i should have immediately ended the meeting and on reflection this was an error ofjudgment on my part.
i fully recognise the importance of following the letter and spirit of the policies, so want to be upfront about what happened and to apologise for the mistake i made.
" mayor of london sadiq khan says the metropolitan police commissioner dame cressida dick, has only weeks to address his concerns about her running of the force.
a report by the independent office for police conduct revealed highly offensive language used on whatsapp and facebook chats by officers from a now—disbanded team based in westminster, primarily at charing cross.
1a officers were investigated by the watchdog, nine remain serving, and two officers have been promoted.
here is sadiq khan speaking this morning.
i have been quite clear to the commissioner, my expectation is, the next time i see her, i want to see what her response is to the examples, not of one officer, 01:14 officers being involved in racist, sexist misogynistic, homophobic, anti—semitic, islamophobic and the like behaviour, nine of whom are still serving.
and secondly, what her plans are to win back the trust and confidence that has been both knocked and shattered as a consequence of these cases.
and i make this point, in the words of the , the independent office for police conduct, these cases are not historic, they are not isolated, and that is it is important for the commissioner, when i next see her, to answer me those two big questions.
scotland yard’ commissioner has come under mounting pressure of her handling over key events during recent years.
this includes a man who was a serving metropolitan police officer who abducted, raped and strangled sarah everard.
the force faced severe criticism over their policing of a vigil held in clapham common, london.
a pair of met police constables, who took photos of two murdered sisters, nicole smallman and bibaa henry.
they shared the images on whatsapp groups.
both officers were jailed for 33 months each.
and anthony walgate, jack taylor, gabriel kovari and daniel whitworth, four gay men were killed by stephen port.
a coroner’ report identified "basic investigative failings" by the scotland yard into their deaths.
our correspondent greg mckenzie has more on this story.
is sadiq khan clear on exactly what he wants to hear from cressida dick?
he is.
in those cases you i think he is.
in those rases you mentioned, the commissioner had to gise on each and every one of hose cases and she has apologised ologised again only last week when the revealed their ings of their investigation, the officers they were investigating looking nto between a period of years, since 2018, and scovered that there was sexism and and defended in a way that was all just nter.
so she apologised.
the mayor has come today saying that she has days eeks to reassure the public, or estore the public’ faith in the opolitan police.
of course met olice is the biggest force in this ntry, 42,000 officers
and i think ’ funded 25% of all money in gland and go to is a england and walas go to is a policing limit, so their budget huge responsibility
but ultimately he has given her an matum.
but when you look into it, it’ actually the home secretary patel who can hire or , so priti patel who ran hire or fire, so in terms of the mayor, his opinion regarded, and she would sten to him in terms of his ewpoint, but it was only last year the commissioner was granted a -year tension, her contract was ming to an end two months’ coming to an end in two months’ time, so the met, i have called them , and they have not without a statement yet in relation to the of london’ request for the ommissioner to act on this report and basically he wants to review.
he wants to know what she is going to wants an action plan immediately as to how she is going ckle racism and misogyny within the tropolitan police.
is there word on the government were on is?
does she have government pport?
that’ the question.
not yet.
this only happened a few so one is expecting statements entially from the metropolitan lice, potentially the commissioner lf, home secretary priti patel might get a statement from ernment shortly, but ultimately, mayor has said that she has days eeks to come up with this action plan and he has said he is actually to meet the commissioner.
when pushed this rning about when that uld he, he ust said i will be would be, he just said i will be meeting her very soon.
so we don’ whether that has this week, ext week or the week after.
you keep us updated, thanks, greg.
borisjohnson will travel to poland on thursday and liz truss will visit moscow as part of a concerted effort to address the ukraine crisis.
a top russian diplomat has told the the european initiative to resolve the crisis has been positive, and there is still time for a political settlement.
vladimir chizov said meetings in moscow this week could be key.
european leaders said they’ll continue talking to russia to to avert a conflict that follows two days of shuttle diplomacy by the french president, emmanuel macron.
mosocow has denied any plans to invade ukraine, but it has assembled more than 100,000 troops near its borders.
and military exercises are continuing, these pictures show russian air defence systems in the brest region of belarus, which borders ukraine.
chizov told the ’ europe editor, katya adler, that the military build—up could be reduced later this month.
those exercises, joint russian—belarusian exercises, that are taking place there, they had been preannounced since last year.
and, of course, after they are finished, the troops will return to their own permanent stations.
separately, there’ talk of more than 100,000 russian soldiers.
can we expect to see fewer than are present at the moment?
isn’ anybody speaking of ukrainian soldiers?
they have an army of more than 250,000, and more than half of it is placed directly facing russia.
is russia interested, though, in diplomacy?
we certainly believe there is still room for diplomacy.
russia is preparing a formal reply to answers that we received from the united states and nate, on russia’ concerns over european security.
the focus appears to be in preventing nato’ expansion further eastward, preventing ukraine becoming a member state of nate, and the west has already said, "gorget it.
"
so where can diplomacy go now?
we are not going to forget it, first.
and we cannot afford to forget it.
susi dennison is a senior policy fellow at the european council on foreign relations.
thanks for joining us.
hearing from the the russian ambassador to the that they don’ have any intention ading ukraine.
it’ a message have heard repeatedly.
emmanuel on says he has been assured by adimir putin that there will be no terioration or escalation but sia says any suggestion of a arantee is not right.
how do you ad all of this?
where do you think are?
is progress being made on diplomatic front?
i think from work we have been doing, public inion polling in six member ates, it’ clear europeans are not vinced by the russian guarantees they are not going to invade.
asked the question of how likely ple felt it was that russia would nvade raine during the coming onths and we ask this question in ary, and on january, and on all of the six member states we surveyed apart from nd, a majority felt it was finland, a majority felt it was likely to happen and therefore, and in finland it was around 4496.
so i think here is a real sense in the gain now that war is possible.
erefore the high—level efforts we seeing rom emmanuel macron and he meeting of weimar ministers in france, germany and poland over 24 a hours are very important for showing at europeans are king this threat seriously and are ing to respond if necessary.
russia has repeatedly said it has intention of actually invading and obviously what is seen border does potentially tell a different story.
the president of has said that he doesn’ ukraine has said that he doesn’ trust words, he will believe ons.
can you envisage russia actions.
“an you envisage russia actually oing something in a crete way to back—up its words action?
may be moving troops ?
there has been a suggestion i think it came out of the talks emmanuel macron that those ips would be pulled out of belarus urned to russia.
i think for the major reason to think that it remain possible is that what russia asking of the west, uarantees that circumstances will to expand to include ukraine, these are not demands for going to ceptable to european leaders and therefore it seems that as long re in this situation that if either side can back down i think does main a distinct possibility.
it is clear from the we’re doing that the threat osed by russia is not only about itary action, what europeans are orried about is the impact of the tinuing tensions around ukraine cting on energy supply to europe, the possibility of rattacks, economic consequences following on from the major ssure on europe’ eastern borders from migration over the last month i think this is something also that peans are very worried about oo, so think it is the package of eats that we are seeing at the oment from what russia may tentially do, goes much further an military action.
thank you very or joining .
thank you for much for joining us.
thank you for having me.
one of the fathers who met health minister gillian keegan yesterday has said she did not need to apologise to them for continuing a meeting, despite being told she’ just tested positive for covid.
mike palmerfrom sale in greater manchester, one of the three dads walking, who raised £500,000 for a suicide prevention charity, confirmed that the minister told the three fathers that she’ just received news that she’ tested positive in the middle of a meeting with them.
he said "she put her coat on and started to prepare to leave.
"we were already at a social distance, but decided to move "a little further away to be even safer.
"we agreed to keep talking to her as she waited for her car, "and as she stood in the doorway.
"she has nothing to apologise for as far as we’re concerned.
"it was a very positive meeting, and she was charming.
"it was an important meeting for us, particularly as it came "during children’ mental health week.
" that reaction through from one of the fathers that gillian keegan was yesterday when she meeting yesterday when she discovered that she was positive for .
the manager of the english premier league team west ham david moyes, has defended his decision to select kurt zouma against watford last night while police are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
the french international was booed by fans at the london stadium, following the release of a video showing the 27—year—old, hitting, dropping and kicking the animal across the ﬂoor.
we aren’ broadcasting the footage.
the club says it "unreservedly condemns" him for his actions, but said it was a separate matter from the match.
i’ a human being and i’ also a great animal lover, so i understand how people feel.
but again, as i said, i am the football manager here
and i have to find a way of getting the results here.
and kurt zouma is one of the key players to us.
i’ joined now by sue watson, chair of the west ham united supporters’ trust.
what do you think about the fact that he played last night?
good ing, thank you from inviting me nto your programme.
we don’ think hould have played last night.
simple as that.
for a host of ons, him being on the pitch ends a message.
it sends a message he youngsters, it sends a message to the other players, it a message
and i think it was he wrong message.
just for example, of under 6 last night a group of under 16 last night chanted kurt zouma kicks what he .
it’ not funny.
it’ not ething that anybody should be of.
west ham is a family club.
pets are part of a .
those two pets are part of a family.
those two rats are part of kurt zouma’ lies.
lies.
i think the fact that here was a young child there as is of concern.
you can hear the little one in background.
they were laughing, it’ not funny.
i accept that the club are now looking started internal to have started internal investigations and disciplinary sses, but it’ almost like i’ not sure if he should be back on the until they have concluded hose.
obviously sorry and essex ice are in liaison so i cannot iscuss that, the are also considering what they need to do.
i hope those cats are , all i can is if you kick the cat, say is if you drop kick the rat, they have lots of soft organs, they hey feel fear, they are sent ight beings, they feel pain.
i can imagine -- are sentience only imagine -- they are sentience beings.
iran only imagine those creatures.
we don’ think you ould have been on the pitch.
the thing i would say about the oing and it’ possible that he as, but ctual chant, which a was, but his actual chant, which a few have several thousand people that, it kind of sounds like a lue
but he’ get did get a very ong response and from the watford orters as well.
the big shame of it really is west ham is meant to be ily club and we were a family club and we were recognising and honouring the memory pporter who passed away with neuroblastoma at the end of january.
as a eally special time for this was a really special time for the west ham family that had orted her amily for ive ears supported her family for five years
and so we tried to focus it on that.
’ what it should have been .
the west ham family coming ogether.
briefly, you said that you ’ ink you should play again ntil all of the investigations are ded up, but if he is sort of nsored in an official way for is, ran you see him playing for dub again?
this, can you see him playing for the club again?
would you want him lay for the again?
will he?
probably is he honest answer for a of financial reasons?
think it needs to be more than and i hope the club are looking his, not ust a fine or wrap on the knuckles, i think there needs ome sort of education programme, possibly from the or the cats protection league and a very sizeable donation to the cats protection league
but i think educational opportunity
so hat he actually understands are, although he has people are, although he has apologised, people are taking a a view that they are.
cause i am a cat person, there was still photo i thought i cannot atch at.
at that point, i turned, was not interested.
i think there to be some sort of education ll, not just traightforward as well, not just a straightforward sunday match ban or slap on the .
it needs to be meaningful.
thank you very much for ning us.
hank you very ch.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with carol.
hello again.
for many of us today, it is going to be a colder day than it was yesterday.
the exception to that is across the south, where we have got a weak weather front producing some cloud and some patchy light rain.
but for most of us, we are looking at a day of sunshine and showers, some of those showers wintry in the hills of northern ireland and northern england, some of those snow showers getting down to low levels across parts of scotland and gusting to gale force across the northern and western isles.
tonight, 3 weatherfront continues its journey south.
a potent area of low pressure across this northern scotland bringing gales, even severe gales, some rain, sleet and snow as far south as the southern uplands, and potentially blizzards in the hills.
and where we have got lying snow, there is the risk of ice as well.
tomorrow, that will all track of into the north sea.
the winds will moderate, the front clears the far south of england and then for most of us it’ a day of sunshine and also showers, but it’ also going to feel cold.
the temperature range 3—9, but it will feel colder than that if you are exposed to the wind.
until our government gets to grip with competence and attention to and not grandstanding and inding the french up, we are olutely.
i can’ see an end to problams.
the mayor of london, sadiq khan, says the commissioner of the metropolitan police, dame cressida dick, has "days and weeks" to show him she has a plan to restore public trust in her running of the force.
a flurry of international efforts, as european leaders to avert war in ukraine, and say there is some cause for optimism.
health minister gillian keegan apologises for continuing with a meeting yesterday, despite having tested positive for covid.
booing on the pitch for footballer kurt zouma, as police confirm they are investigating footage of him kicking his pet cat.
sport and for a full round up, from the sport centre, here’ olly foster.
good morning.
team were hoping that this was the day that they broke their medal drought in beijing.
the reigning world champion charlotte bankes was the favourites in the snowboard cross, but she was knocked out in the quarterfinals.
joe reports.
snowboard cross is knock out racing through the ramps.
even for the best , there is eopardy.
that was riders, there isjeopardy.
that was brutal!
so to start as favourite with onditions.
britain’ harlotte bankes is the world mpion.
since being in , she has ccelerated.
look at this speed!
she in hemel hempstead and move to france when she was four.
battle ned in the alps, she said the rench team lacked good support.
50 ith a to , she became a with a move to , she became a nation’ hopes for gold, but icting the spot comes with risk.
don’ know if she is going to do !
her quarterfinal had bunched through the corners and came down line.
the top two go through and she was ust third.
just to me away
ike this is tough and we bounce back, but we came here helping to do a good race few would begrudge the day’ ile for gold.
as waited 16 smile for gold.
she has waited 16 years for redemption.
drama!
she is look at her!
up to now, that down!
look at her!
up to now, that trick had cost her olympic gold.
now she made the most of her last at 36, she made the most of her last chance.
in one of these games most thless spot, a clean run can’ breathless spot, a clean can’ mean so much.
a fantastic event but pointment for charlotte bankes.
in the women’ slalom great britain’ charlie guest finished in 21st place.
she was in 15th after her first run but a small mistake near the end of her second cost her time, and despite recovering well she was never going to get close to the podium.
the games aren’ going well for double—olympic champion mikaela shiffrin either.
two days after falling near the top of the giant slalom course, the american aborted her first run in the slalom.
she’ due to comepete in three more alpine skiing events, but on this form, she says she’ considering whether she should continue.
slovakia’ petra vlhova.
took gold in the slalom.
chelsea are playing their first match at the club world cup in abu dhabi later.
the champions league winners come straight in at the semifinal stage and face hilal, the african champions league winners.
the brazilians palmeiras are waiting in saturdays final.
the blues lost the 2012 final to corinthians.
it’ the only trophy the captain hasn’ yet won with the club.
it hurt a lot, losing that in 2012, and this is the only competition the club didn’ win.
not myself.
i think to win it for the first time for the club is huge.
we have to make everything that we have it out on the pitch.
i think to put it out on the pitch.
i think it has a great meaning for rybody, the fans, we are representing europe.
formula one driver lando norris has signed a new deal that will see him stay at mclaren until the end of 2025.
the 22—year—old brit finished sixth in last season’ standings, with four podium finishes and he also claimed his first pole position as the team finished fourth in the constructors championship.
norris said that his new contract was a "a very strong message" about his faith in mclaren, despite approaches from other teams.
that’ all the sport for now.
i’ll have more for you in the next hour.
let me go back to the news we were just bringing you a few moments ago.
ollowing on from the news hat gillian keegan tested positive erday while she was in a meeting.
she has apologised for .
she had been meeting three fathers whose children had died by de.
they have become known as the three dads walking.
one of them in the meeting has put out a statement this morning after she ogised, following on from that meeting yesterday.
mike palmer said dn’ need to apologise to them or continuing the meeting.
she had when news of the positive test me hrough whether she could ontinue.
she said that she would the meeting
and they said it as fine for it to continue.
here he detail now from mike palmer from in greater manchester of what happened.
he said she put her coat started to prepare to leave.
were already at a social distance ecided to move a little further way to be even safer.
we agree to talking to her as she waited her car and she stood in the for her far
and she stood in the doorway.
she has nothing to ogise for as far as we are concerned.
it was a very positive ing and she was charming.
it was important meeting for us, icularty as it came through children’ mental health week.
that ion to that story from one of fathers who met the health nister gillian keegan yesterday.
the main suspect in the trial over the 2015 paris attacks — salah abdeslam — is set to be cross—examined for the first time.
130 people were killed and many more injured when the city was hit by multiple gun shootings and suicide bomb explosions, including at the bataclan music hall.
it was the deadliest ever attack seen in peacetime france.
our paris correspondent hugh schofield is following the case.
salah abdeslam will appear in court this afternoon.
it won’ be the first time he has spoken.
in september he was quite forthright in atement that he still considers himself a soldier of .
this is the first time he ill be cross—examined about the up to the ttacks.
salah run—up to the attacks.
salah abdeslam has been dubbed the tenth he came with the attackers and is believed that he was intended attack himself but pulled ut, either because his belt failed plode ari had a change of heart.
he smuggled himself back and rested later.
so he is keen to of this.
he is the only one used of taking part and a co-author, anything he says will nteresting.
until now in the cross—examination by investigators not been very forthcoming and sorts of questions remain swered about his role, and so .
some may be answered today or in the trial, but it all epends whether he will speak.
thank ery much.
hugh schofield you very much.
hugh schofield reporting from paris.
the winner of the people’ choice wildlife photographer of the year has been announced.
the winner is italian photographer cristiano vendramin, whose photo of a frozen italian lake touched the hearts of over 31,800 wildlife and nature enthusiasts who voted online for his breath—taking landscape to win from a shortlist of 25 images.
the shortlist was chosen by the natural history museum in london, from a record breaking 50,000 images from 95 countries submitted to the 57th annual competition.
i’ joined now by ashleigh mccord, ‘highly commended’ for wildlife photographer of the year people’ choice.
her picture was of two male lions.
if we take a look at your beautiful now.
it is stunning.
there is much tenderness captured in that .
“an you tell us, was it a eeting image.
can you tell us, was it a fleeting moment?
this is another you ok shortly after.
the image you took shortly after.
the first image is the one that has got he accolade.
tell us about how raptmed a ured a particular moment?
what was the scene?
we had been hing one the male lions who watching one of the male lions who had been on a kill from a prior day ran see the horizon a huge thunderstorm approaching and uickly it made its way towards very quickly it made its way towards us, and as it did we saw at a tance and another male lion tarted to approach and it was sweet to see the two males art to nuzzle, which is common males, but in this specific ation when it was pouring down ith rain, the embrace and watching the rain started to pick up where we could hardly even see any more and they sat them any more and they just sat together waiting out the storm, it most as if one of the brothers was almost as if one of the brothers was trying to protect the other as hunder storm approached.
how were you to them?
we were ably 20 close were you to them?
we were probably 20 feet away.
it was pretty .
they came pretty close to us, it was ncredible to be that to wildlife in the special oments like this.
and it is mpting to read so much into that ticular image and you’ve escribed something of the nderness that you felt you picked you were there.
you could ally feel that love between these two lions together, more so then i have ever felt.
i think the scene by being dark and cloudy and aining, but it was a really special between the two of them.
when took the cture, did you think, his is going to be an award—winning graph?
what point
did you photograph?
at what point did you decide to submit it?
it was initely one of those moments here you say that was something redible that we experience, ing something like that.
i was re with my mum, and we both said, it pretty great, and as we got hack and looked at the photos i thought, this is something that is pretty valuabla
and i thought i would submit it and see if other felt the same way, and thankfuuy thankfully they have
and i appreciate that.
it is a perfect , but would either side of that moment of not being quite right, how get that particular moment?
if you could see in the background is really going on, the car is what is really going on, the far is starting to leak rain, water is ting to come in.
there was a rson next to me who lost her ramera the event because there re so much water.
i had me protective gear on my camera, a long lens, so you are umbling with big equipment and is coming in and trying to lance, do i want to capture this mazing ment or save my camera?
50 at that point it was —based decision this was something i wanted to and capture as well as , hankfully i could save i ran, and thankfuuy
i could save my ramera and have a great image as .
and when did you actually anage to look back and realise how special the photograph ?
i think even looking at the of my camera right after when were going back to camp, it was ning
so i was king back at my raining
so i was looking back at my photos as we were going back
and this was something really moving.
it moved something inside pretty soon after, getting back to the camp and sharing it with hers, they it was pretty others, they felt it was pretty great also.
50 it was pretty quick.
are rare and special they are really rare and special images.
thank you so much and ratulations.
thank you having .
many families have been forced to cancel half—term trips to spain, because of a rule change which means children over 12 must now be double vaccinated to enter the country.
hoteliers in the islands say the restrictions have lost them millions of pounds’ worth of trade.
katy austin reports.
ben and his family have great memories of the canary islands.
they were looking forward to making more last year, but restrictions forced them to postpone to this february.
now, children over 12 need two jabs to enter spain, so the holiday is off.
unfortunately, the 12—year—old has onlyjust turned 12, so doesn’ have his second vaccination yet.
so we cancelled, only cancelled a few days ago, we thought we would hold out until the of february in case anything changed.
but unfortunately we had to pull the plug.
ben is far from alone.
travel agents say lots of people want to go away at the moment, but they’re having to keep their customers informed of an ever—changing international patchwork of covid rules.
spain, including the canaries, is usually a half—term hit.
you can get a little bit of heat, wear your shorts, sit outside and eat.
the rule barring over 12 with only one or no vaccinations is having a big impact.
50% of our bookings were moved because actually, it’ for families.
they’ll move destinations or move dates and plan for easter.
it’ a headache for tourism businesses in the canaries.
they want the spanish government to relax the restrictions because many brits are heading for places like turkey or mexico instead.
in tenerife, we have 2.
5 million british citizens every normal year.
when we talk about christmas, when we talk about february, we are talking about nearly 30% of the business.
so that brings this loss to be nearly 1,000 million euros if we do not take those measures out.
from friday, it will get a lot easier to come into the .
fully vaccinated travellers no longer to have to take any covid tests to enter this country.
but people planning trips overseas still really need to know what the rules are at their destination.
because every country has its own requirements.
and notjust for entry.
in france, over 16 need a pass showing proof of vaccination to access certain activities, including getting a ski pass.
unvaccinated 12 to 15—year—olds can take daily tests.
tour operators still expect a bumper easter and summer, but many families who hoped for winter sun are having to wait a little longer.
katy austin, news.
a standoff between truckers and the canadian government over restrictions shows no sign of ending.
the city of ottawa has called for reinforcements asking for 1800 additional police officers to assist those already on the ground, with concerns the demonstration is now getting out of hand.
tanya dendrinos reports.
they are used to hauling across the country but now they are packed up, ding an end to a clean mandate.
i think it is just a fact that they you have to have a andate, that you have to have a shot.
that roblem because ever since ovid started truckers have been back forth across the going back and forth across the border and across canada, the united , hauling things to first esponders, emergency is, masks, all tuff.
when the truckers this stuff.
when the truckers couldn’ it, they were getting to other people.
the protest oing into its ond week has seen around 500 trucks lining the streets ntown ottawa.
some have been of downtown ottawa.
some have been blockaded altogether, including the land crossing between canada the busiest and crossing between canada and the united states, which was for hours on tuesday.
it has urned into an occupation.
they have their tyres off their big mcks, they removed their tyres off their big trucks, they are putting fuel and have up temporary shelters.
this is no longer a peaceful onversation or attempt at tiation.
this is a hostagetaking tuation.
canadian prime minister in deeau situation.
canadian prime minister justin trudeau was heckled in iament as he defended the use of estrictions to fight the pandemic.
clear patience is running thin on many fronts.
junction has been granted to stop the truck is king their ns.
they have honking their horns.
they have quietened the scene but are rmined not to be silenced.
home secretary priti patel said: "being a police officer is a privilege which has been abused by these sickening officers.
"it has been clear for some time that there are problems "with the culture of the metropolitan police, "which is last year "i tasked the angiolini inquiry and the police inspectorate "with investigating these deeply concerning issues.
"i expect the metropolitan police and the mayor of london to implement "the recommendations of this report as soon as practically possible.
"the public expects the behaviour of the police "to be beyond reproach — standards must be raised.
" adele was the big winner at last night’ brit awards, taking home the three top prizes.
the singer was named best artist, and also claimed awards for song and album of the year.
women took 9 of the 12 awards for solo artists, after the organisers scrapped specific male and female categories.
well done to adele.
we’re nowjoining our colleagues on politics live on for coverage of prime minister’ question time in the commons.
right now we will join we can welcome he was on news.
are coming up to midday.
time for prime minister’ questions, going to the chamber.
it is starting to fill up.
it’ been an mely lively and eventful time, rime minister’ questions on nesdays over the last few weeks.
will wait to see what happens ay.
we talked a little bit earlier about the reshuffle that was undertaken by the prime minister.
he has been criticised for making mark er, who was the chief whip, spencer, who was the chief whip, leader of the house of commons in erdays reshuffle.
that’ because he is still being estigated for islamophobia ment that he made, which he nies but an investigation is oing into the matter.
peter, is ppropriate for mark spencer to made leader of the commons, which ole which would give him is a rola which would give him oversight of omplaints made by when he himself is being estigated for comments he allagedly made to nusrat ghani?
it is very interesting.
we have a her becoming the gamekeeper for he gamekeeper becoming a poacher, hief whip you do everything government business.
my question bout whether he should have that whilst he is being investigated imself?
call me old—fashioned, but ’ everyone cent until proven otherwise?
ithink it is crazy.
i think the reshuffle, a tiny little shufﬂa, all men, one woman.
it was ally women many ppss.
’ say all when it’ not.
let me dear clear this up.
it is true, some men have been promoted but oline noakes, conservative , aid peter?
she would say that.
why, because she is a woman?
no, because not like boris.
it’ as imple as that!
there is also that.
come ack to who has been can i come back to who has been promoted.
it does seem people who failed have been promoted, hat’ what happened.
i wouldn’ barclay and jacob rees—mogg steve barclay and jacob rees-099 have failed?
if we focus on mark cer, we’ve talked a lot about rust today and how we can have on -- those who govern us, trust on -- in those who govern us, how ran we have a man who we know is investigation for islamophobia ment, alleged, but under nvestigation at this point.
we also he was at the heart of the owen aterson situation, which again he was not at the heart of it.
it did so much damage, so the idea he is promoted to a position what i don’ understand more than anything if you are prime minister you would want someone like that.
surely must be others out there that ould do the job.
re we are discussing this as we are now and has been something of a there has been something of a backlash, do you think they were decisions?
i think reshuffle is good decisions?
i think reshufﬂa is normally assed me by because i don’ really watch my phone because on’ invite me in.
but this is actually for the first time a good uffle.
we’ change things, we reshufﬂa.
we’ change things, we got a brexit minister, chief of in downing street, we got an in research in downing street.
things are bringing the vernment closer to parliament and iament closer to the government hich is a good ing.
he says he as another reshuffle up his sleeve may time.
he moment he’ for may time.
at the moment he’ done just about enough, not to ape government but to please the right wing of the party and be later be or maybe not or maybe or maybe not something might happen.
the chief whip is omed across let me the leader of the houses supposed to be dian of propriety and a guardian of propriety and standards.
to put someone i so with alison.
i am trying to bring you in, inaya.
i’ sure you’ve istening to all of this.
been listening to all of this.
stepping back a minute, do you think eset as it’ been dubbed by government has worked or is rking?
i think caroline noakes’ ments are a bit questionable when she uggled to define what a woman
and i think she is not in the position to comment on gender sues in politics.
but when it mes to this, i think it’ not very optis for he government to be iving some in is position that is lso in an investigation right now hese allegations of over these allegations of islamophobia.
sorry what on earth saying bout caroline are you saying about caroline noakes?
she’ been a fantastic aigner or women, what are campaigner for women, what are you saying?
that’ pathetic, that ent.
that’ the sort of nasty it is not pathetic.
what are you ing bout her?
she is the chair the women select committee and at the head of advocating for reform act and she has been shutting many women down.
there was net discussion only last week that she shut down many mothers issues.
ithink ’ it’ absolutely right to raise those ents.
i think it is extremely nfair to raise the transition, 3 ntroversial issue, where we are ing to navigate in a way to build consensus, to raise that to undermine and criticise a woman who ell you, and is on the i ran tell you, and she is on the other side of parliament, she is a ervative, who consistently and arliament has backed and promoted terests of women.
that is eally rotten politics.
no, it’ , it’ mportant for many women it’ important to bring out cause it’ one of the most talked out issues right now.
inaya, does prive caroline noakes to make a mment about the reshuffle in the ay she did, tioning whether it way she did, questioning whether it was as she called it a he shuffle her an a reshuffle?
i think we rather than a reshufﬂe?
i think we are at a stage in our society where nnot described reality, i think oes to the heart of many uestions about women in politics women within society.
i actually hink it is quite a central issue.
essential to raise it.
it is you have to accept it is tentious issue.
what we have got and do on trans issue is ild a consensus, based, i agree you, on isting law and with you, on existing law and existing rights.
but to then because ody disagrees with you on a ontentious issue, to then allege she has absolutely no right or agitimacy to on behalf of legitimacy to talk on behalf of women as she has done incredibly essfuuy and effectively and successfully and effectively and parliament, as a conservative woman, say this is a labour woman, i think actually the belt and you shouldn’ have done it.
all inaya, 0, briefly, right inaya, 0, briefly, respond.
i strongly disagree and a contentious issue because it goes to the heart of many questions women and what it means to be human.
i think it’ right it was
and she is held to account in position.
we are going into ime minister’ questions in a ment or two, what should sir keir starmer go on, alison marco today i think we will be looking at energy.
be looking at the cost of we will be looking at the cost of living.
when you talk to real people real world, our readers, the issue is about how they are going to when the energy bills, 500- £700 ncreases, people are very ied.
hat is what keir starmer ast week effectively in terms of of living?
cost ving, cost of living?
cost a living, reducing council tax is a great , reducing energy is a good hing but looked at long—term utions because this is the thing will be talking about week after week as we go forward.
that is i think people are concerned about, out parties but the cost of iving.
concerned about parties as well.
they are not.
they are.
i spend hours and hours knocking on and they are not concerned.
eople who think the normal rules ’ apply to .
you go and don’ apply to them.
you go and knock on doors for ten hours
and you the people saying its cost will get the peopla saying its cost of living, even the licence fee.
on that note, after the half term recess to present our strategy for living .
provided the current encouraging trends in the data inues it is my expectation that will end the last domestic trictions, including the legal irement to self—isolate if you est positive, ull month earlier, speaker.
morning i had speaker.
this morning i had meetings with ministerial colleagues hers and in addition to my and others and in addition to my duties in the house i shall have her such meetings later today.
the northern ireland protocol has rated business, is undermining he belfast agreement and is tricting the free movement of ods and people within our united ngdom.
action will my right honourable friend the minister for ion now take to reunite the nited kingdom and uphold the erests of all residents, ncluding those living in northern and?
my honourable friend is ite right, because the protocol not require, contrary to the he is being applied by our friends, it does not require that oods and medicines and plant hould be systematically checked in ay that they are and we must it and with good will and common
i believe we can, but if our riends ’ show the requisite mmon sense, we will trickle ticle 16.
—— trigger article 16.
artida 16.
-- trigger artida 16.
was the article 16.
—— trigger article 16.
was the business secretary right to at fraud is not something that peopla experience in their day to lives?
of course this government is country despises those who efraud people which is we cked down on fraudsters and trengthened our anti fraud task who are bringing forward an economic crime bill, but we also huge importance to tackling eighbourhood crime and crimes of nce
and i’ very pleased that hose crimes are down 17%.
the prime ister’ wer has got a big hole minister’ answer has got a big hola in it.
we’ve had lockdown for the two years and the two crimes hat people could commit what online and rowing parties, and as fraud and throwing parties, and as far as i ran see the numbers for of of those have gone through the oof.
but i was asking the prime ister about the 1a,000 cases of fraud per day.
older people fraud per day.
many older peopla duped out of hard earned savings.
he business secretary casually gests on , don’ worry, it’ real crime.
there is a crime in manchester nicking cars and ping them around the world all inanced by loans from the taxpayer.
hat is the chancellor’ and what is the chancellor’ response?
write off £4 billion in and block an investigation by national crime agency.
his abinet turning a blind eye to mmers.
is it any wonder that he antifraud minister realised no in government seems to care and hrew in towel?
no, because what are doing is tackling crime the board.
and that is we investing more in tackling aud, but we are also tackling the ighbourhood crime that is of such ive damage to peopla in this country, tackling crime, tackling burglary and of violence in the street ith tougher sentences which they against, by the way and utting more police out on the eet and the street and the reason we are able to afford it is because we have a economy and we are coming back strongly from and that is to the big calls that this ernment got right.
he is antifraud minister quit saying the re of government to tackle failure of government to tackle fraud was so egregious that he had these were his works, smashed some crockery to get people notice.
when it seems that the prime nister hasn’ noticed broken plates or shattered glass him.
it’ almost as if he’ een completely distracted four ks.
talking of scams, households are going to to fork out an are going to have to fork out an extra £19 billion on their energy .
the government is insulting peopla is intelligence by pretending giving them a discount.
but ’ not.
it’ a con.
now, pay later eme, a dodgy loan, not a proper lan.
he shakes his head, so let me his in language he might understand.
when his donors give him fund his lifestyle and tell him he as to pay it all back ter, are they giving him a loan or a ount?
our plan to tackle the discount?
our plan to tackla the cost of living is faster, efficient and more generous than anything that they have set out.
we have lifted the living wage by record amount, we have cut the effective tax for people on ersal credit and we are now etting out a fantastic plan to help with the cost of energy, and is more generous and more ffective than anything the labour have out on the only party have set out on the only reason we can deliver.
it’ £9.
1 lion.
’ huge sums we are using billion.
it’ huge sums we are using to help peopla across the country he only reason we can afford it because ave a strong economy, the fastest growing in the 7 as i think i may have pointed out to the honourable gentleman and not just last year, this year as ll.
the prime minister clearly doesn’ he first clue what the doesn’ have the first clue what the chancellor has signed him up too, so help them out.
his plan is to let me help them out.
his plan is to hand billions of pounds of taxpayer energy companies and then force amilies to pay it off in talments for years to come.
if it like he’ forcing people to sounds like he’ forcing peopla to take out a loan, and it looks like forcing people to take out a loan, isn’ it forcing people to take a loan?
we are giving opla in band council tax houses cross he country, that is 27 llion homes, we are giving them equivalent of a rebate of their tax.
their offer is for £89 council tax.
their offer is for £89 and ours is faster, more generous ore effective and what they would do and this is a global lem caused by the spike in gas ices, but what they would do is bber the oil and gas companies now with a tax that would deter investment in gas just when country needs gas as we ransition to green fuel.
it would otally ridiculous and it would aise prices for consumers.
i was ays worried that the prime nister was one for not reading and conditions and did not nderstand what the chancellor has him up to and he’ just confirmed my worst fears.
there is ernative.
can ijust say if an alternative.
“an ijust say if you want to arry on, carry on side.
i am not ving this outside.
i am not having this perpetual noise from the front .
the secretary of state should better
and i expect better and ertainly don’ need to put up it any more.
there is an lternative.
you could stand up to ancellor, tell him to support his chancellor, tell him to support families rather than loading them ebt.
tell him to look at those mper profits of oil and gas iants.
shell’ profits up £14 ion this year.
’ profits up £9.
5 illion this year.
every second day they have made £750 extra rofits from rising prices and at same time households are facing extra £700 a year on their bills.
earth is his government on earth is this government forcing loans on british families hey should be asking those with an unexpected windfall to pay a more to keep household bills little more to keep household bills down?
the labour plan, it’ an ovement what i thought he improvement on what i thought he stood for, which was nationalising ergy companies.
maybe he has dropped that one now.
i can’ whether he has dropped it or not.
hat he would be doing is hitting the energy companies are isely the moment when we need to courage them to go for more gas, ause we need to transition now to eaner fuels and what this overnment is providing is £9.
1 lion worth of support.
it’ more enerous than anything labour is ering i will complete my oint.
the only reason we can do it because our economy is because we kept our economy moving in those hard times when they he wrong decisions and we came out of lockdown in when he opposed it year
but we kept ing over christmas and new year they opposed it and that is ave the fastest growing economy 7, not ust last year, but this year as ell, as i never tire aying.
he can bluff and bluster all he kes.
the reality is this.
top of the tory tax rises, on top the soaring prices, the loan chancellor and his unwitting kick have now kicked up a buy ow, pay later heme.
it leaves axpayers in debt while oil and gas panies say they’ve got more money than they know to do with.
it’ the same old story with this rnment.
getting a mess, protect their mates and ask working people ick up the .
but isn’ he to pick up the bill.
but isn’ he worried that everyone can now see with is prime minister and that with this prime minister and this chancellor, it’ all one big and people across the country scam and peopla across the country are paying the price?
what they can is a vernment that is see is a government that is absolutely committed to doing the thing for the people of this ountry and ing the tough country and taking the tough decisions when labour is calling for the easy way out and us to take the easy way out and spend more taxpayers money and it his government that decided to going in when he wanted to tay in ockdown.
we kept going over ristmas and new year and by the , it occurs to me, that we also re able to use those brexit doms to deliver the fastest roll-out of the vaccine.
yes, speaker, when he not only voted 48 to go back into the , yes he , but he also voted to stay in european medicines agency, and lan for obs is working, our plan forjobs is working, speaker.
we have a record low youth loyment and our plan for the in care is working stop they no all.
our plan for the have no at all.
our plan for the country is working.
we have a great to unite and level up across vision to unite and level up across our country.
they have no plan ever.
and i say to him, plan eats no plan.
we have a great plan our country
and they play politic.
the overnment’ £9 lion lion support to help with rising ergy bills is most welcome, but the prime minister assure the eople of anglesey and beyond that is steam ahead for new nuclear and that this government is at pace on the future nuclear nabling fund so the has energy rity, jobs and investment right on these shores?
yes, and it only last week i was ongratulating her on her astic stic advocacy for clear and don’ rget that labour allowed a nuclear city to ecline by 11% on their capacity to decline by 1196 on their watch
maybe they had forgotten .
we want to get back up there that is there will be at ast one big nuclear project of parliament, at least one, and the clear financing will support hat objective.
i am sure and the entire house will want join in welcoming the emembering sabra nature campaign launched in parliament last that hunched in partiament last night and we must continue to strive going peace in bosnia —— sabra the flurry of changes in downing treet in the last few days is a to behold.
it is amazing how energy this prime minister can sum up when it to saving his skin.
whilst he has been busy rranging deck chairs, in the rearranging the deck chairs, in the real world, people continue to be ished by tory cost of living punished by the tory cost of living crisis.
yesterday open democracy as a direct result of the found as a direct result of the chancellor’ national insurance like urses will on average take a that nurses will on average take a £275 yearty pay cut in april.
that will hit at the very same oment that soaring energy bills .
bills that have shot up £1000 the space of a year.
it is a bill they are the rest of the public nnot afford, so rather than the ime nister and chancellor prime minister and chancellor scrapping over the tory leadership, hey do something useful and scrap their regressive hike in onal insurance?
it was interesting the gentleman opposite didn’ mention that because everybody can see how vital i think everybody ran see how vital this is.
we have to clear our covid logs, speaker.
we had 6 backlogs, speaker.
we had 6 million people already on the ting st.
i am afraid that will waiting list.
i am afraid that will go up and we need to be recruiting taff now.
that is we are ecruiting 50,000 more nurses, 00
more this year than last ear.
to his point, we have creased their starting salary for ses by 12.
8%, in addition to rsaries and other help we give em.
we value our nurses, we love and we are paying for it.
ions speak louder than words and he wants to reward the nurses, they are the backbone of the rvice, the very people he is hitting with the pay cut in april.
i shouldn’ have to remind the prime ter that at the same time that those nurses were going into work day to fight the pandemic, 16 ifferent parties were happening in overnment.
the public know what ses sacrifice during the pandemic they know exactly what this rule breaking inister and his breaking prime minister and his government were up to.
so are the minister and the chancellor eriously telling those nurses their for seeing us through the pandemic is a £270 wage cut?
speaker, what we are telling the of this country now, our peopla of this country now, our fantastic nurses, is we back them he way.
what they want is more urses.
at is there are record umbers in training.
that is we 11,000 more in the now, is year, than there were last ar, speaker.
and those i think fantastic investments in our ountry and our society.
i must say ink it is peculiar the scottish tional party’ approach to health is to cut off the bottom of ors in schools in scotland in to improve ventilation.
ank you, speaker.
as a proud vary
and i am proud my city is ront and centre of the government met levelling up.
getting job—seekers of all labour ages ing the kills they need will be ital in wolverhampton and the city lverhampton college is already doing this at their brand—new ege of entley bridge in my college of bentley bridge in my constituency foster while the prime ter ster join in congratulating minister join me in congratulating the college and when he meets with my honourable neighbour and friend, preferably at wolverhampton ge, so we can discuss how more collage, so we ran discuss how more job-seekers ran get access to skills otentially through the city learning quarter and that final bit ding that we need?
of funding that we need?
i congratulate my honourable friend olverhampton.
she is truly a from wolverhampton.
she is a modern day resident of verhampton.
she is completely ght, wolverhampton and the black untry were at the heart of the industrial revolution and at heart of the current 2ist ntury green industrial lution.
century green industrial revolution.
i’ very glad that since april 2020 seen 125,000 starts to we have seen 125,000 starts to sector work —based programme, in thanks to programme and part thanks to her programme and wild horses won’ keep me from erhampton.
wolverhampton.
74—year—old janet had £25,000 stolen audsters.
told the the by fraudsters.
she told the the money was my mum and dad’.
ifelt them down.
for and for i’ let them down.
for janet and for the 4 million people who fell victim udsters and online scammers to fraudsters and online summers last year, , fraud is a crime.
50 does prime ster understand the the prime minister understand the hurt he and his ministers because victims like janet when they ite hem out of the crime figures dismiss fraud as something pla don’ experience in their day ives?
speaker, will be prime ister correct the record on crime ures and apologise?
speaker, i direct you to what i have already said to my right urable friend the member for arﬂepool.
honourable friend the member for hartlepool.
he knows very, very well overnment hates fraud and this government hates fraud and onune fraud.
we are tackling the ammers helping people to come forward they get an —mail, they get ped.
of course we will help them in any way we can.
we re also cutting the crime that affects people up and down but we are also cutting the crime that affe the neighbourhood own me, country, the neighbourhood crime, dealing with the county lines drugs
and i think that is something i think he should support as well am proud those numbers had
and i am proud those numbers had come down by 17%.
it is derful news that the first person commonwealth heads of rnment meeting for four years ill take place during her majesty’ inum jubilee.
can prime platinum jubilee.
can the prime minister ensure that the global ning crisis is high on their enda and will he ask his amazing plomats to ensure that every der in the commonwealth signs up the kenyatta declaration on ucation?
education?
i thank you very much.
everything oes to support education for iris.
i think 12 ears of quality ducation for every girl in the is single most world is the single most transformative thing we could do to the world.
i remember improve the world.
i remember working on the declaration and we certainly ensure that everybody the commonwealth signs up to it.
speaker, at the height of the ckdown restrictions in 2020, my stituents, who has worked for the for over 30 years was diagnosed a tumour on her spine.
whilst hospital dergoing painful rgery, her mily obeyed he ules surgery, her family obeyed the mles and didn’ visit her.
speaker, in few minutes, a photo has emerged of the prime minister in ing street on the 15th of december 2020, surrounded by hol, food and people wearing alcohol, food and peopla wearing tinsel.
it looks like a lot like one christmas parties he told us ever happened.
for the sake of my stituent and the sacrifices she will be prime minister be ferring this party to the police not one of the ones already being investigated?
afraid irst of all, first all i am very sorry about his stituent and for the difficulties she’ been through and i understand i understand very much elings, speaker.
in her feelings, speaker.
but in what he has just said i’ afraid he mpletely error.
is completely in error.
thank you, speaker.
on the 30th ptember 2020 the prime minister oined me on a building in dudlay on hat is now the new nstitute of technology, delivering ills for future jobs and creating opportunities across the country.
will he join black country.
will hejoin me in congratulating the delivery team who ered on this amazing project, delivered on this amazing project, including stakeholders like thomas and udley college and will dudlay and dudlay college and will he actually come and join me in on in doing so at the nearest pportunity?
speaker, i thank my honourable nd.
he is a great champion for dudley and for the black country, speaker.
i’ delighted to hear the country and institute of black country and institute of technology is now open
and i will his kind invitation in mind.
keep his kind imitation in mind.
prime minister, the immortal words, are not listening, you if you are not listening, you probably don’ understand us.
and if ’ understand us, you are probably not listening.
the fact of tter is the protocol has zero support from unionists.
the fact of tter is, i hope the prime the matter is, i hope the prime minister is listening to this, in a society, the solution that attracts the support of one tion of that community will never nd.
will the prime minister herefore take the opportunity to to the irish government, whose speak to the irish government, whose ambassador is running around ington demanding running around washington, demanding further mentation of the protocol on the basis that it will bring further upon the people of northern ireland?
the prime minister ccept that he has a responsibility ing forward a solution that nites the people of northern land and bring forward a solution saves the union that has been ndermined by it?
es, speaker.
iagree him ompletely that there must be a ution that commands cross mmunity support.
and at the nt, there is no doubt that the alance of the good friday agreement ing upset by the way the protocol is being operated.
and ing to fix it and that is what re going to do and if our iends won’ agree, then of course , as i said earlier on, we we will, as i said eartier on, we will implement article 16.
hank , speaker.
a compulsory windfall tax favoured by the sition, would my right opposition, would my right honourable friend take an ernative view, some on a igh-level eting with oil and gas ompanies the aim of a voluntary agreement to bring more gas onto the wholesale oil and gas onto the wholesale market to reduce oil and gas prices, hard—pressed people deal to help hard-pressed peopla deal with the cost of living problems?
i will do what i ran to take forward his est for a meeting with them.
but just remind him and the house, we frozen fuel duty 12 years in a ow, saving people £15 in the cost filling up tanks compared of filling up their tanks compared to 2010.
hank you, speaker.
i understand rime minister has been heard inging i will survive in recent .
iwould ggest he would be days.
i would suggest he would be better off singing careless whisper .
in 2017 there nazanin zaghari—ratcliffe was given a longer nce because of the weather this rime minister.
now in 22 this week, iend, the leader of the my friend, the leader of the opposition, was hounded by thugs ide this parliament because of he reless disgraceful words of this ime minister.
so will the ime minister do the decent thing, he reconsider his words, repent esign?
and resign?
speaker, i don’ think that she either let the thugs and yobs bullied and harassed the right nourable gentleman off the hook, use they are culpable, any more than she should let the iranian rnment of the hook because they are culpable.
thank you very much speaker.
since 2017, referrals for ren’ mental health has gone up by 5095.
children’ mental health has gone up by 60%.
eating disorders among young has gone 400% since girls has gone up 400% since lockdown.
we know social media anies play a huge part in this.
iven that social media platforms tiktok are providing crack for ids in terms of negative content, ive imagery and predictive gorithms, will my right honourable end consider implementing a 2% 96 levy ocial edia companies which would raise 100 million to fund health resilience programmes children?
for children?
speaker, i know my right ourable friend has campaigned on issue assiduously and he is uite right about the that social media can do.
i’ve eard what he’ had to say ently about tiktok.
we will see hat we can do to address all these sues in orthcoming online issues in the forthcoming online harm’ bill.
speaker, bradford is a ’ nger city and has the tenth rgest city economy with a of .
6 billion and is bidding to be capital of culture.
now it comes hat no detailed analysis of the long-term nomic benefits of nvesting in adford and the north rough the integrated rail plan was out.
this government’ failure has robbed bradford of 30 ion worth of growth over the next four years.
when will the prime ter match action to rhetoric in levelling up and give bradford the tment it deserves?
investment it deserves?
speaker, i’ afraid she’ wrong at she says because we are not only investing massively in shire, investing in police in orkshire, 640 more police, esting in education, she isunderstood what we said in the plan.
what we are saying is we look ways in which we can nsure at we protract the eastern high-speed rom north of of high-speed rail from north of birmingham on the eastern leg to ford.
what we are not doing is coming up with heme before we ave decided exactly what to do and to fund it but we are not ruling out, speaker.
speaker, i served ountry with pride in the royal green kets.
i will always rifleman and veteran and welcome the veteran tegy the prime minister has just out
but i ask the prime minister if veterans will always be heart of this government’ trategy and everything can be done they ways get what they to say they always get what they need and are honoured?
one of the things i did when i became me minister and it’ we made ure veterans receive particular port and encouragement in ployment.
we encourage employers on veterans, as well.
to take on veterans, as well.
in the panicked downing street uffle at the weekend the prime nister pointed to a senior role a who cently lobbied the government on the behalf of huawei ologies.
i hostile vendor that this house legislated to exclude entirely from our country’ networks.
given the number 10 ctor of communications is by efinition access to some of the sensitive government information, can the prime minister the use whether his present told the house whether his present role requires advanced strategy rance and if he has gone through he necessary checks to provide for level of clearance before he took up his post?
a curious question to come from the benches that contain someone who £586,000 from the chinese vernment.
but what i can tell him that is government took the ave and necessary step of making re that we excluded huawei from critical national frastructure, and that was the thing to hatever he said.
right thing to do, whatever he said.
“an i ask he prime minister stion can i ask the prime minister question about sue gray’ report?
eagues groan, i’ only colleagues may groan, i’ only asking this question because i asked the prime minister last week and i didn’ get a straight answer.
it is tant because it’ about those important berause it’ about those who make the law obeying the law.
rime minister wants to be ged on the facts, and that is ight, so can i ask him to commit at dispatch box upon the dispatch box that upon conclusion of the metropolitan investigation, will he ensure gray’ final report is that sue grays final report is published immediately and in full
?
reat espect to my right honourable friend i do believe i answered this last week or whenever , but i will repeat for the it was, but i will repeat for the benefit of the house that as soon as all of the inquiries are concluded i will immediately publish in full whatever sue gray gives me.
i understand that the government an agreement with the iranian uthorities last summer that would esulted in the payment of the have resulted in the payment of the £400 million that would see the ase of my constituent.
that reement fell through and the debt till not been paid.
this case has still not been paid.
this use urgently needs the prime minister’ tion and personal intervention, will he meet personally with me richard radcliffe question like don’ want to meet as colleagues, to meet with him personally i want to meet with him personally the agreement fell through and is still not home after six long years?
i thank you very much lso for the hard work she does on behalf of huawei.
we remain itted to securing the release of aunin azanin and all of the difficult ular cases in iran —— nazanin.
consular cases in iran -- naunin.
as she knows, , the debt is icult to settle and two square ay for all sorts of reasons to do sanctions but we will continue work on it
and i will certainly sure that we have another eting with richard radcliffe in course.
dover is once again be by milas of raffic ams across otorways, ffecting residents and businesses alike.
not because rexit.
but because of brussels ureaucracy.
my right bureaucracy.
will my right honourable friend the prime minister ith me to discuss how we can meet with me to discuss how we ran invest in our local roads in the 2, 20 and over tunnel to the 20 and the dover tunnel to unplug the roads once and for all lso to get rid of the unnecessary red tape for a trading, britain.
she is absolutely right in what she says and as the omy rebounds we are seeing all orts of pressures but we do need to sure that we clear bottlenecks everywhere in system and that is hat we will do.
i’ like to refer he prime minster’ answer to my onourable friend the member for north east.
the photograph ferred to is all over social media veryone can see the photo and the prime ster is in the photo, so will he refer the matter to the because this is not one of he party is already being vestigated by the metropolitan ?
that’ precisely the point.
ready has been.
that event ready has been submitted for vestigation.
that ends prime nister’ questions.
i will let pla leave before we start the ext debate.
two important developments, the first coming right at the start when ime minister said that he is anning to lift all covid rules in ngland a early.
as things currently and, they are due to end the 23rd of march, so that would the 23rd of february would be when there is no need to —isolate after a positive covid .
50 that very significant evelopment obviously, and i want to bring in a tweet that was put ut.
it was referred to in prime ister’ questions.
it is a new otograph in the mirror.
it is an clusive.
the paper tweeting about latest mirror exclusive on rties at downing street, this ferring to a party at downing street on the 15th of december, i think.
it is not one of the event is investigated by police, but at image they’re showing the prime nister ngside an open bottle of champagne and some crisps and as we eard already, that is leading more questions about what was on and what the police are nvestigating.
let’ go back to the restrictions.
our health correspondent is here.
a big uncement there from the prime inister said that he is thinking he like to bring forward the end would like to bring forward the end of the legal restrictions by a .
that would mean weeks — month.
that would meanjust weeks -- two weeks“ time.
no need to lf—isolate after a positive covid .
test.
where are the statistics?
he mentioned encouraging data and by means things like the number of rases in last seven days have llen by 2096, the number of ients fallen by 20%, the number of patients admitted to hospitals llen by 10%, and the number of has fallen by1096, and the number of in entilated beds is around 440 ple at the moment.
so that is the ontext.
they failed this data is ing in the right direction.
they ere already thinking about removing egal requirement to the legal requirement to self—isolate at the end of march, earty they are thinking of but dearty they are thinking of bringing it forward.
he is going to nce what happens on the 2ist of febmary, and it would probably mean ngland, february, and it would probably mean that england, because the devolved have their own rules, nations have their own mles, but england would be one of the first tries in the world to do this.
south africa have removed it for ptomatic cases, but not for positive cases in general.
50 it eads to of questions, because leads to loads of questions, because you then think, where does that testing?
where does that leave ple needing to test when they me into this country if there is no requirement to self-isolate?
we don’ know the answers but it is rtant to think through what it ill mean.
exactly, it would mean ating it essentially is like you with flu.
it is down to people’ retion what they do.
one of the really interesting tions is, what does that mean testing?
that mean they’re wholesale dismantling of the testing we have got used to?
presumably, people would still want rcise some discretion when they are around vulnerable family and certainly earlier this members and certainly eartier this month at the world health anization, they were asked about he wisdom of doing this and one of officials said i think it is remature.
our guidance is still to is, to prevent onward spread.
there could be some pushback from organisations about the wisdom doing this.
and you mention south already stopping isolation for cases.
south africa ahead of us in omicron and has obviously provided a very ful guide as to where things ight go.
is there any evidence yet, ’ know when they removed that need for isolation, but is there any nce yet?
it is only last week hey did that
so we don’ fully know ffect it might have but they are thinking there was that the ron wave went up very sharply and felt very sharply and self ation has a massive impact on economy, and so that is part of thinking here.
but we would be ertainly doing it in england if we to do it ahead of american states.
what about my squaring?
my squaring at the moment in england, port for london still mandate on their trains and buses tubes.
but otherwise my squaring has tially been the legal demand to wear them in public places anyway.
isolation would be one of so this isolation would be one of the remaining restrictions which be removed.
50
it is an would be removed.
so it is an interesting aspect to think about in of the mask wearing terms of the mask wearing requirement has gone generally, but are obviously areas where we still have to wear them.
could that tially happened with isolation, in that some organisations and businesses might at they don’ want staff to come in if they test positive?
i think that is almost certain to because businesses would be happen berause businesses would be probate, particularly the obvious ple is hospitals who might example is hospitals who might be worried about stuff coming back prematurely.
we have already to work prematurely.
we have already seen that disconnect between what vernment is suggesting but what businesses suggest.
part of is to keep confidence up in the rkplace, so there may well be departures from this and as i mentioned before, scotland, wales, ern ireland managed to do their northern ireland managed to do their own thing also.
just because england it.
oris ohnson has said is doing it.
boris johnson has said that he wants to show the world how ive with covid.
so this is definitely a litical decision to me extent to go down this route here may be others who isagree.
thank you very much, mi.
let us know what you think.
ran get in ouch with us via itter.
you can get in touch with us via twitter.
the conservative conservative mark spencer has stood by whis comments that the prime minister would "not have lied about any parties".
the newly appointed leader of the house of commons didn’ comment in detail on the parties due to the ongoing police investigation but suggested people wanted to move on.
here he is speaking to radio nottingham.
let’ focus on the real world.
people are worrying about their , the , going through that global pandemic and that has given a backlog to overcome.
and think we have to focus on the real issues here.
borisjohnson will travel to poland on thursday and liz truss will visit moscow as part of a concerted effort to address the ukraine crisis.
a top russian diplomat has told the the european initiative to resolve the crisis has been positive and there is still time for a political settlement.
vladimir chizov said meetings in moscow this week could be key.
european leaders said they’ll continue talking to russia to to avert a conflict, that follows two days of shuttle diplomacy by the french president, emmanuel macron.
mosocow has denied any plans to invade ukraine, but it has assembled more than 100,000 troops near its borders.
and military exercises are continuing, these pictures show russian air defence systems in the brest region of belarus, which borders ukraine.
chizov told the ’ europe editor, katya adler, that the military buildup could be reduced later this month.
those exercises, joint russian—belarusian exercises, that are taking place there, they had been preannounced since last year.
and, of course, after they are finished, the troops will return to their own permanent stations.
separately, there’ talk of more than 100,000 russian soldiers.
can we expect to see fewer than are present at the moment?
isn’ anybody speaking of ukrainian soldiers?
they have an army of more than 250,000, and more than half of it is placed directly facing russia.
is russia interested, though, in diplomacy?
we certainly believe there is still room for diplomacy.
russia is preparing a formal reply to answers that we received from the united states and nate, on russia’ concerns over european security.
the focus appears to be in preventing nato’ expansion further eastward, preventing ukraine becoming a member state of nate, and the west has already said, "forget it.
"
so where can diplomacy go now?
we are not going to forget it, first.
and we cannot afford to forget it.
scientists say they have made a major breakthrough in their quest to develop practical nuclear fusion, the energy process that powers the stars.
the —based laboratory has smashed its own world record for the amount of energy it can extract by squeezing together two forms of hydrogen.
the experiments produced 59 megajoules of energy over five seconds.
this is more than double what was achieved in similar tests back in 1997.
our climate editorjustin rowlatt is with me to tell us all about it.
it sounds really important, so please explain exactly what it .
we have the two nuclear reactions that are used to generate .
fishing, which powers most ear reactors, and that is about splitting the atom, a splitting uranium atoms and generating energy and fusion is the energy from the sun and the stars it involves forcing together two gen atoms so they fuse together create a helium atom along the ay, a lot of energy and a little of short lived radiation.
much adiation.
the fuel for ion lass radiation.
the fuel for fusion reactors is abundant ause hydrogen is all ound us, so it holds out the prospect, the holy of power generation.
all of our energy needs?
yes, unlimited pretty much whatever.
an unbelievable prospect.
but it is ly, really difficult.
this is obviously a big leap in terms king things where we need to get.
proof of the design of the reactor we have in oxfordshire.
it is a five second reaction they are rested in, generating 60 megajoules, enough enough to power tles.
but it is proof that the design seems to work and if you do five minutes, maybe you uld do may be a week.
so scaling ooks like it could be possible.
jet fusion close down so jet fusion will close down and then there is a new, much bigger on reactor in the south of fusion reactor in the south of france run a consortium of uropean ernments and the idea is that the batting patches from rdshire to this new reactor sed on the same principles as jet, opefully that will fulfil the dream of unlimited energy.
it is not yet, so how can this be there yet, so how ran this be factored into what their future ill not get us out of the this will not get us out of the climate fix we have at the moment may, before the end of this entury, the next 50 years, it may omething that could provide an lternative source of energy and mately may be all the energy we need.
and if we have the kind of ues ies of energy, they have said that before about cheap technology, we had it it would be truly but if we had it it would be truly transformative for human society.
50 ential but still quite a a huge potential but still quite a long way away.
thank you.
pope benedict has acknowledged errors were made in the handling of sexual abuse cases before he assumed the papacy.
in a letter released by the vatican, he asked forgiveness for any "grievous fault", but denied personal wrongdoing.
the cases date back to his time as archbishop of munich more than a0 years ago.
he stepped down from the papacy in 2013.
the ’ tim allman reports.
long before he was pope, joseph ratzinger was archbishop of munich.
during his time there, several priests were accused of sexually abusing young boys.
it is claimed he knew what was happening and failed to stop it.
now, many years later, he denies any cover—up but admits mistakes were made.
: i have had great responsibilities in the catholic church.
all the greater is my pain for the abuses and the errors that occurred in those different places during the time of my mandate.
it was this report published last month that laid out a series of claims against the pope emeritus.
not only was he accused of overlooking the alleged abuse, he denied attending a meeting to discuss the matter in 1980, a denial he now admits was wrong.
: amid the massive work of those days, and oversight occurred regarding my participation in the meeting.
this error was not intentional and i hope may be excused.
the issue of child sexual abuse has dogged the catholic church long before and long after pope benedict took office.
he has talked of his profound shame and deep sorrow, making a heartfelt request for forgiveness and he admits soon he will find himself before the finaljudge of his life.
tim allman, news.
are rising prices a present to the so called gifting economy?
as the cost of living soars in america, so has the use of gifting platforms such as the buy—nothing project.
buy—nothing is one of a number of social media driven schemes to help people give away things they don’ need.
it also enables people to pick up many essential items for free.
michelle fleury reports from the local buy—nothing group in her neighbourhood of brooklyn.
these cushions were all from buy nothing.
that end table, this chair.
this man moved into his new apartment last month.
i got a book about gothic cathedrals, which i love, which i was able to scrap and start turning into an art installation piece.
when he saw how much it would cost to furnish it, he joined his local buy nothing group on facebook, where people offer unwanted items for free.
being a part of this group has been incredible because all the basic necessities are there and then some.
he saved a lot.
inflation in the has soared and the price of living room, kitchen and dining room furniture like you hope to buy has jumped more than 17%.
you got a lot.
i did get a lot.
huge savings.
when i did some calculations, it ended up being about $2000 worth of stuff.
full disclosure, i belong to one of those groups where members give things away for free.
maybe like me you have tonnes of stuff you are not necessarily using any more that could be useful to somebody else.
and with inflation in america at levels not seen in nearly a0 years, these groups are seeing a surge in popularity.
the buy nothing project certainly acts as a social safety net for families and entire communities.
the buy nothing project has seen its membership double over the last two years to more than 5.
3 million.
it added an app to cope with demand.
people are getting much more comfortable with it.
it is becoming a behavioural change we are seeing within communities.
a lot of people are saying, i don’ know how i survived without this.
with soaring inflation and the stresses of the pandemic, gift—giving services like these have become a financial and emotional lifeline for some.
we probably have seen about a 15% increase in posts every day.
deron bealfounded freecycle, where members offer some 20,000 items each day.
freecycle and the sort of community spirit that you have for freecycle is a good alternative for folks to save a little bit of money and also may be re—gift items instead of throwing them away, to help others out who might be in need.
a real wood frame and real glass in, it’ a painting.
as a protection from inflation, finding free items online has its limits.
there is no guarantee that what you want is available when you need it.
but that hasn’ stopped this man being amazed by what people are offering.
there is another dining table set.
michelle fleury, news, new york.
vinyl record sales in the are at the highest point for 30 years, but with only a handful of vinyl manufacturing plants, demand is outstripping supply.
a team of entrepreneurs noticed this gap in the market and launched a new site in middlesbrough, which aims to produce 50,000 records a month.
leejohnson reports.
for many music lovers, vinyl can become an obsession.
but for the team at press on, it’ also the chance to fill a big gap in the market.
recorded quite a few artists, we wanted to put a compilation out on vinyl.
and we’ve looked around everywhere and the lead times were really long back then.
and even in 2019, we couldn’ have got it done within five months which meant it would not have been done in time for christmas.
so that got our brains going, and we thought, how come it’ so hard to get records manufactured and delivered to you?
making records is a complex process.
first, a master cut, grooves and all, is produced.
that is then copied, and moulded, before it’ pressed, and set aside to be packaged.
there are only a handful of plants like this in the .
most records are manufactured in europe.
but demand is outstripping supply.
vinyl is enjoying an incredible revival.
last year, more than 5 million were sold, that’ an increase of 8% on the previous year.
and one in four albums sold last year was on the format.
that’ its highest sales for more than 30 years.
to the north east’ heritage of making records.
by artists including elvis presley and david bowie.
for press on’ managing director, there was only one place they wanted to be based.
middlesbrough is everything we’re about.
we all care passionately about the area.
it is important that it’ here.
we’ve got a rich heritage and a rich history of manufacturing and creativity whether it be in industry or chemicals or pottery, and now we have got computer game manufacturers, as we’ve seen.
so we are proud of that and we are proud to be a part of it.
and that’ good news for local bands like teesside group comparison, whose debut was the first off the production line.
it’ crazy, to be honest.
to see it physically happening, it kind of set in stone how lucky we all, like, as the band we all are to have this opportunity.
the vinyl revival shows no signs of slowing.
leejohnson, news, middlesbrough.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with susan powell.
lots of sunshine across the this wednesday afternoon, but quite a cold feel as the majority of the now sits in arctic air.
this line of is a boundary between the rctic air and milder air, still nging on in the southernmost unties of the .
that front will southwards overnight and is area of low pressure will land a into scotland.
the strong inds, widespread gales and heavy a time.
ice likely to be an issue on thursday as we see frost loping across scotland and in northern ireland and england, patchy south, quite chilly.
further south, but quite chilly.
this low still in place by thursday ng’ rush hour.
some difficult conditions early on across scotland.
now the high ground but even the snow in the high ground but even at lower levels, a wintry mix, some winds of 50 to 60 mph.
the ice and winds of 50 to 60 mph.
the low goes into the north sea by the afternoon so it will be quiet.
a blustery day to come.
early cloud ars to south, 3 lot of sunshine through the afternoon and howers into the north—west.
these are he temperatures you would a thermometer.
you have to actor in the strength of the wind hursday and in aberdeen it will closer to —a.
overnight thursday friday the wind will all, because a ridge of high ssure builds as that low pulls way toward scandinavia.
light ds, still conditioned setting up a hard frost into friday, temperatures as low as —10 in parts scotland, a risk of freezing of rural scotland, 3 risk of freezing fog in some places on ay and a lot of early sunshine friday and a lot of earty sunshine turning hazy the day goes on.
a little bit milder on friday.
eratures don’ up, but with temperatures don’ jump up, but with a lighter wind it will be iceable.
a little milder he for the weekend but certainly not feeling will be quite stormy, a deep rea of low pressure bringing in rain and strong winds again.
programme?
as this transpires.
she will act rdingly, i’ absolutely sure.
at is all we have time for, the last covid restrictions in england are set to end within weeks and a month earlier than had been expected.
laws requiring people with covid—19 to self—isolate will be lifted as long as the improving situation continues.
provided the current encouraging trends in the data continue, it is my expectation that we will be able to end the last domestic restrictions, including the legal requirement to self—isolate if you test positive, a full month early.
it will be almost two years since the first covid restrictions were imposed — we’ll be live at westminster.
also this lunchtime the mayor of london tells the head of britain’ biggest police force she has just days and weeks to show she can restore public trust in the force.
booed by his own supporters — kurt zouma, the footballer filmed kicking his cat.
two, one, zero.
and getting a reaction — british scientists break the record for creating energy from nuclearfusion.
and coming up in the sport later in the hour on the news channel: team were banking on a first medal at the beijing games but charlotte bankes failed to reach the final in the snowboard cross.
good afternoon and welcome to the news at one.
the prime minister says the last remaining legal restrictions on covid—19 in england should be lifted within weeks — a month earlier than expected.
borisjohnson told the commons 3 short time ago that as long as the data continues to be encouraging, england’ rules requiring people with covid to self—isolate will come to an end.
it will be just under two years since the first restrictions were imposed at the start of the pandemic.
our political correspondent iain watson reports.
there has been big changes behind the black door in downing street but the question in an here is the question in an attempt to stave off further icism from his own boris hnson has rained some ministers staff today he also changed some of his policies.
it is my ntion to return on the first day ter the half term recess to sent our strategy for living with id.
provided the current encouraging trends in the data inue, it is my expectation that will be able to end the last estic restrictions including the gal requirement to self—isolate if est ositive a full month you test positive a full month earty.
from the 24th of february in you you will not have to england you will not have to self—isolate port covid any more if you ad a cold or as then ifyou had a cold orﬂu as long as the data on infections ’ get worse.
this is likely to duce staff shortages but may have done something for the prime inister’ job ospects.
some boris nson’ are calling on him to .
covid trictions were go.
covid restrictions were unpopular with parts of his party weeping them away early will help his mpaign to stay in downing reet but labour say perhaps this nouncement is not entirely driven he science.
we would want to see he scientific advice on this and we heard what the prime minister said and we know he has vations that are all to do with protecting his position to get red or his backbenchers.
but the of self—isolation has come late is health minister.
gillian keegan said she made an error of ment by staying in a meeting after receiving a positive covid lt.
the health secretary has expected her apology and she is not ted to resign.
ending expected to resign.
ending restrictions will be popular with onservative but what about heard that news this morning.
we have seen infections dropped ceably in recent days especially children where numbers are pping quickly so at some point we be wanting to remove the need elf—isolate but i think we would eed a more days of data yet to sure that the recent