the very hottest parts of the country on monday may well push into the high thirties.
temperature record is under threat, with the current record standing at 38.
7 degrees celsius.
of course, we’ll be monitoring computer-model outputs over the next few days to see if there are any indications of just how close we’re going to get to that figure.
binge-watch brilliant shows.
this @ massive.
2 retlge i find your next big ebsession.
nice to meet you.
a pleasure.
just press red this is nice, isn’ it?
my place?
it’ doing what do best.
beth mead blows the roof off
i my place?
it’ breaking new ground.
northern ireland have a goal in international competition football!
welcome, welcome.
sir farah 3 not the man millicns think hey know.
lking about it, let one coming out in public tell people talking to my family felt vulnerable imes, lonely.
how can hare with the whole world?
he to 2 shot to national and national fame by winning 0\ international fame by winning two olympic gold medals in don 2012.
he is one of itain’ london 2012.
he is one of britain’ most decorated olympian is.
he was knighted in 3 for services to athletics 2017 for services to athletics and 8 become a reqular on and has become a regular on ens and newspaper and has become a regular on screens and newspaper front pages.
this is the reader to to the but a come to the but ina documentary, he reveals ¥ real name is hussein documentary, he reveals his 1 documentary, he reveals his real name is hussein abdi kahin was illegally trafficked the as a child and he was illegally trafficked to the as a child for the rposes of domestic servitude.
day one, lady, what from day one, the lady, what i id was not right.
wasn’ treated as part of family.
was lways that kid who did erything.
someone who works for someone who works for you, that space, that’ our space, that’ our space, this hat you do.
if this is what you do.
if this is what you do.
if wanted food in my mouth, my job look - wanted food in my mouth, my job i ook after those kids, was to look after those kids, to 4 was to look after those kids, to shower them, cook for them, for them.
and said, clean for them.
and she said, if you ever want to see your ily again, don’ say anything.
you say anything, they will take it away.
he eventually confided teacher helped alert ocial services, move to a new ily and become a british aidra .
family and become a british citizen as farah.
it was hat he discovered running.
what was it like for iving this double life and ecoming globally famous?
there lot could ay.
in my a lot could say.
in my mind, as a kid, often tried ink about that moment to think about that moment where made to think about that moment - to think about that moment where made a decision for elf.
used lock myself used to lock myself in 4 a bathroom, and every in that bathroom, and every day.
please, someocne, me out of here.
no one came to you, so you learned to lock it told myself, i’ not up.
told myself, i’ not going to get emotional, i’ to lock inside and going to lock it inside and just carry on.
it was hard for admit what has happened.
the has spoken to the home today, and they said, office today, and they said, they told us, no action tsoever will they told us, no action whatsoever will be taken against sir and to suggest rwise is wrong.
how does that make you feel?
it makes me eved.
this is my country.
to the golf, and tiger woods has criticised some of his fellow professionals who’ve abandoned the tour speaking ahead of this week’ open champienship at andrews the 15-time major winner made his opinion about the event clear.
disagree with it.
think they’ve done is they’ve egcd what they’ve done is they’ve 4 their back on what has allowed them to turned their back on what has turned their back on what has allowed them to get to this ition.
some players will get a chance to play major championship, never get a to xperience this right here .
just don’ understand hat these players are deing for quaranteed oney hat is doing for guaranteed money wwhat is no ncentive to actice?
what is no incentive to ctice?
to go out there and earn the dirt?
some bad luck for kids in mainland china who love spending all their time playing online video games.
tech giant, tencent, says it’ not relaxing strict rules on the number of hours they’re allowed to spend playing.
you have been watching newsday.
just time for a reminder of our top story: sri lanka’ president has arrived in the maldives after fleeing the country following weeks of protests.
it in the rajapaksa political dynasty that has ruled for ades and who dynasty that has ruled for a and who sri lankans decades and who sri lankans blame for mismanaging the nomy, leaving millions truggling to buy food, fuel edicine.
that’ it struggling to buy food, fuel i struggling to buy food, fuel and medicine.
that’ it for us, for joining us.
i a tuesday was a we had much more cloud around.
it was thick enough even to give a bit of but despite the cloud, here in london, it was hot.
temperatures over 30 celsius again.
much further north, preparing for the open at andrews, it’ cooler.
temperatures were in the low 20 despite the sunshine.
that cooler, cleaner, fresher air is moving down from the north, following this band of cloud that’ comfortable night.
still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the southeast of england.
and across southern parts of england, could start quite cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots of rain left over.
that’ slowly moving away.
we will see one or two showers ela much more sunshine, though, arriving across england and wales than we had on tuesday.
those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slightly, but still another hot day in the southeast and east anglia, and in london 30 degrees not out of the question.
heading into thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly northern ireland, scotland, perhaps a few inte northern into wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
but those temperatures continuing to just drop away a little.
highs of the more manageable 27 celsius in the southeast of england.
in across the , where we’ve got this weak weather front for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for northern ireland pushing across scotland, perhaps northern england, that should move away, skies will brighten.
it is going to be fine and with light winds.
typically into the mid-20.
still only around 19-20 through the central belt of scotland.
it’ into the weekend that really things start to warm up, not so much for scotland and northern ireland, and the far north of england, temperatures typically into the mid-20, but for many other parts of england and into wales, we are going to find some extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend we’ve got that extreme heat warning from the met office.
so in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will really be shooting up.
temperatures could even get higher than that.
news.
we will this is news.
we will have he headlines and 1 tories for you at the the headlines and all menu stories for you at the top of ours after this programme.
this week, we’re at wimbledon to find out if can predict the winners, although spencer’ concentrating on the more important parts of the event.
choose my blanket design.
got to get the food sorted first.
lara gets her trainers on to put some of the latest fitness devices through their paces.
like an elephant.
the question is, is it true?
probably!
it’ men versus machine 4 off against the robots.
and we check out the tools hoping to make sports more accessible.
it’ one of the biggest events on the sporting calendar.
the players, powerful light of foot lightning-fast.
that is centre court and it’ 3 for exactly 100 years.
a centre court centenary.
know how much you love wimbledon, but are you like my aunt who shouts at the absolutely love it, and absolutely am like your aunt.
my heart rate goes through the roof and i’ just watching the thing on .
oh, you need one of my activity trackers.
oh, yes.
how did you get on with those?
yeah, wimbledon has been a new tech, both on and off the court, and we’ve been lucky of it over the years.
so there is no better place to anchor our sports tech-themed show.
and we’re going to start with something for the fans.
tech giant has partnered with wimbledon for more than 30 years, and this year, it’ upgraded the official wimbledon app to tell the future.
so for each singles match here, match insight is going to and predict the outcome of that match, who’ going to win,
yeah?
it’ using, of course, the players’ performance, but it’ also looking at what the media buzz is.
like the player tracking and ball tracking that hawk-eye are doing, players’ form, momentum, performance in the lead-up to and now during the championships.
the brains behind this app belong to watson, ’ artificial intelligence.
and after absorbing all the data and the chatter, it’ll make a prediction that’ totally separate from the official seedings.
these predictions are not going to just favour the person who’ the highest ranked.
no, and that’ where it actually gets interesting 1ta of the moment, it’ updated daily, so it enables us to surface ones to watch.
and your raducanus.
but that’ not going to stop me from using the app to make my own match prediction.
burridge versus tsurenko.
oh, blimey, that’ versus ukraine.
it’ eurovision all over again.
the trusted media, the experts think that tsurenko is going to win.
the fans predict that burridge is going to win.
no surprise there.
i think burridge has a better chance, slightly, and watson says that tsurenko guess we’ll see.
now, sports like lawn tennis can seem like they’re mainly aimed at older spectators, which, of course, is nonsense.
look at me, for example.
but wimbledon has always tried to engage with younger audiences, and this year, that means putting this is the first time that a built for digital tennis on the platform, which means its 54 million daily active users can knock up on the world-famous grass.
nearly half of roblox users are under the age of 13, so this could catch young meanwhile, if you can’ get one of the prized courtside seats, or even if you can’ be here in person, you can still choose my blanket design.
i challenges while they learn i’ wandering around now.
refreshing drinks are not included, sadly.
and have to say that wimbledon’ digital fans do appear odder than their real-life ones.
there’ someone there with an ice cream on their head.
right, so, earlier, used the app to make a match prediction, and so did ’ watson, and the results are now in, and well, hope didn’ jinx it, but tsurenko just beat burridge 6-2, 6-3.
which means that prediction made earlier.
4 beating me one-love.
and throughout the fortnight, that should get even smarter because it’ going to be reading all of the discussions and the media coverage about injuries, players’ health and their general performance, and that means we can do something quite exciting.
now, i’ filming this quite early in the wimbledon fortnight, but we’re putting the finishing touches to this programme just before the singles semifinals, and that means that we can put on screen for you who watson thinks is going to win those i’ve got no idea what you’re looking at now, but by the time you watch this, you will know how it did.
now, some might find apps like this a bit gimmicky, but if they can get fans of all ages engaging with tennis, well, that can only be a good thing aol 8 but let’ change sport completely now, because omar number five, going for a kick at the goal, but they lose full ball control, and the second attempt : every year, robot football teams from more than 40 countries compete in rebocup, with different leagues for different types and sizes.
and tries to pass to this is tech united - home of , the five-time roboecup champiens from i 1 of technology.
now, everyone knows how much of a football fan 1 am, so can’ wait to see how these little guys fare and also of the sport.
but first up, penalties.
: match of the day by barry stoller.
oh, hey!
i’ not saving with the left hand any more.
0olel
a mirror helps these robots to see the pitch in 360 degrees with cameras for object and colour recognition.
right
and then relative to that, you can see, for example, where, absolutely on the field, their position.
wheels spin to pull in and held the ball while a magnetised we can move it up and down to give a lob shot or move it all the way up to give a flat pass over the ground.
is it the case that you preload a certain tactic based upen your opponent, oris it that these bots just completely make up whatever they want as soon as they get we do prescribe them what we think are good strategies, but at the time during a match, they determine themselves what they should do.
but we’re also looking into using machine learning to find faults in the play and before we actually go at what point do you think that they probably would be ready at some time to face humans competitively?
so, hopefully, we can ils from the human world champion in football in 2050 not too far away, then!
so i’ve flown in a couple of people to help me out, namely paul carter.
i’ here, man.
i’ here to save the day.
nice to meet you.
paul, nice to meet you.
how are you doing?
i think we’ll manage this as we have some good the bots kick off with some swift striking.
oh, my!
that came out quick!
oh, ho-ho-ho!
only the goalie differs in form compared to as it has extendable arms.
but it couldn’ stop sharpshooter carter.
questionable moves.
but between fresh hatteries andbananas, i learned this isn’ just about man versus machine.
a 0 - integration of robots and humans within the same team remains limited nowadays.
but if we look at the future, we will see more and more collaboration between robots and humans at team level.
this type of set-up could allow us to develop techniques, methods, algorithms to make interaction meaningful.
as tasks into other robots easier than you think!
really?
yeah, have a robot that needs to recognise balls on a field, and if have a service robot, it needs to recognise faces in a home environment.
they are both computer vision tasks and the methods that the open source project has already helped inform this home health assistant, modifying with a handy gripper.
tech united branded cola.
and after some refuelling, did eventually find but given how fluid these robots are getting, it’ good to know, in homes, work or play, we’ll be on the same side together soon enough.
the european parliament has approved two bills, designed to strengthen the rule book for tech giants like meta and google.
it includes standards to tackle the spread of illegal content online, with firms facing huge researchers in finland say this battery could crack the problem of how to store renewable energy long-term.
the special ingredient is sand.
it stores the cheap energy as heat, which can warm people’ homes in winter.
if we have some stations that were just there for a few hours and weeks in the wintertime, when it’ the coldest, it will be extremely expensive.
if we have solutions providing flexibility for the storage of heat, that would help a lot.
a ukrainian tech start-up has launched its metaverse educational platform, despite having to staff move out of the country .
will use the platform as a virtual classroom, silicon valley-based firm mojo vision says it has of a smart contact lens.
the prototype contains a micro display that the wearer controls with eye movement but the biggest challenges for designers is making sure the power and communication several years back, tested what were then four of the leading activity trackers.
even though i’ wearing them all, all the time, they don’ have the same view of how many footsteps so decided it was time to put some of the latest devices to the test to see how they fare.
i have the apple series 7 watch, the fitbit sense, and the oura third-generation ring.
i’ going to focus on steps, sleep and calories.
but of course, devices can a and judging how stressed or ready for the day they think we are.
it’ day one.
i thought the two smartwatches were going to feel a bit bulky but actually, i slept really well - didn’ even it’ too early for me to think too much about the data but already, throughout the day today, there has been quite a difference in the number of steps that the apple watch and fitbit think i’ve done.
the apple watch thinks i’ve done fewer, and this does seem to be a bit of a theme with people that know who wear both the devices.
knew that my husband’ fitbit was counting too many steps!
even swapped the apple watch to my dominant wrist and changed the settings suitably.
it did reduce the discrepancy, but the fitbit and the oura were still a bit more generous on step count.
it’ day three now
and i’ like to talk about sleep.
the oura ring seems to think that i’ve had a similar amount of sleep to the fitbit - just about a ten or 15-minute difference.
but the apple watch thinks i’ve had nearly an hour less, so there is quite a substantial i similarly, the oura ring thinks that i’ve done the same amount of activity as the fitbit.
it’ the apple watch that thinks that i’ve all three of the devices break down your sleep quality.
the fitbit’ timing and scoring on deep and sleep, really clearly presented.
but the oura took this to another level, warning me to pay attention and adding a sleep score.
apple tracks all of this too, but digging out the data retrospectively did it’ day five now and definitely feel like need to do more activity than usual because you’re watching!
but the results do seem a little bit more consistent between devices than the last time did this experiment about seven years ago.
so i’ really able to compare them, and the thing which is particularly similar is the number really, the differences between them on each device 1 6 even if sleep and steps do vary a little bit more.
and one thing i’ rather enjoying is the readiness score that the oura ring gives me.
it’ based on all of that data and effectively just tells you how much energy you’re likely to have, but it seems pretty realistic.
and by the end of the week, the data told the story that sensors have improved over the years, as have seven years back, there was a difference of 3,000 calories between devices rather than a whole packet something similar, that that is pretty accurate.
overall, the fitbit counted around 4% more steps than the apple watch.
and the oura ring, another 1-2% on top of that.
the sleep data had adding it all up over the course of a week, there was a two hour, 17 minute discrepancy between the fitbit and the oura, with apple somewhere in between.
the fitbit sense’ electrodermal sensor it correctly - yes, correctly!
- found me to be very calm.
meanwhile, the apple watch is keen to tell me every time that need to breathe when may knowingly feel this time around, i’ve come away from the experiment feeling a little bit different.
instead of it being a question of are they accurate or not, it’ more a matter 0 you rather wear?
it’ definitely easy to track your sleep in a ring, whereas if you want to see your data throughout the day, well, rather than my phone for it.
the apple watch, well, it’ a perfect player in the prism that is the apple ecosystem, so if you use apple, well, it fits very well with that.
but can’ really knock a die but not all wearable trackers are where you think they’ be.
on their steps and their step.
tracking for everyone.
beyond wristbands and wearables, artificial intelligence is often now used to also help athletes understand and improve their game.
app to make this kind of training more inclusive.
can you tell me a little bit about what teamsportz is and what it is that you do?
grew up playing basketball in a very deprived envirenment, so built a technology for anywhere else in the world where you might have very limited access to technology.
training is for individuals and teams, using artificial intelligence to detect disabled and non-disabled users.
where are your arms, where are your legs, and where your torso?
and if you don’ have the arms or the legs or the movement on those limbs or whatever it might be, the model will still be able to render a human body.
movements are then interpreted as activities like squats or push-ups.
you don’ suffer from the same bias that often brings.
so guess the big question , do you reckon the system i’ confident that it will.
it’ got me!
helpfully, the app can link to a big screen.
so, those targets will appear randomly, so you can’ guess where they are, so you actually have god, wish could - i rep counts, speeds and a to gamify the experience, with new possibilities for schools, too.
for the first time, they can give homework kids across this country are going to love you!
wheelchair user karina has been testing the app in exercise sessions with disability sports .
eldhfe a music lover, karina certainly has the moves, though i’ not sure lul coach emma’ classes combine all kinds of movement, dance and ball activities with this new technology, and settings can be adjusted to suit each person’ motor or cognitive needs.
a lot of members, when they first come, are quite in their shell and not very confident, but using that technology, we could see even playing it a couple of times, actually, how it improved.
and with hopes for this - nea and members at home, & 0 bringing physical games.
honestly, different things like this that our members get a chance to have a go at really makes a big difference just to their overall outloock and their belief in what they can achieve.
yeah, that’ the ideal.
technologies like the ones seen today aren’ the answer for everyone, but for disabled people who traditionally have been excluded from access to sports and fitness, the benefits are ocbviocus.
i it’ doing something right!
and the class does seem to think so, too.
when you hard, you can keep getting better, better, better.
lovely to see everyone getting involved.
now, i’ a keen runner but i’ not particularly good or fast - although i have been running about 5 five or six times a the issue is, though, if anybedy runs with me, they do say that run like an elephant.
performance by tracking how your feet touch down.
with 32 sensors, your power, step length, pronation - that’ the way your foot rolls inwards - training load and more are being measured.
any runner knows the importance of wearing the right trainers, so always wear ones i - that’ what was told needed, and thought that they’ level things out.
but it seems that i’ still a bit wonky.
the app confirmed, if not overstated, how absolutely awful my balance and foot-roll are, whereas it suggested my cadence - the number of steps take per minute - the app also provides real-time data through your phene or a smartwatch, 4 i’ always in the challenging or extreme zone, whereas i’ never close so, guess i’ve discovered that need to work was more interested in the post-exercise data, though, but can i really change the way run?
like other foot-worn running trackers out there, the data is useful, and these ones were surprisingly a and the results do come with some tips for better running and fewer injuries.
but when it comes to improving style, even when making a concerted effort, the moment get even just a little bit weary, the elephant is back in the room, or on the running track, straight away.
can just say, doesn’ run like an elephant.
no, but it’ not about what it looks like, iit’ the risk of injury.
oi gay you’re going to hurt yourself.
see, right.
meanwhile, i avoid running injuries by not running.
shall we leave it there?
thanks for watching.
i a tuesday was a we had much more cloud around.
it was thick enough even to give a bit of but despite the cloud, here in london, it was hot.
temperatures over 30 celsius again.
much further north, preparing for the open at saint andrews, it’ cooler.
temperatures were in the low 20 despite the sunshine.
that cooler, cleaner, fresher air is moving down from the north following this band of cloud that’ comfortable night.
still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the southeast of england.
and across southern parts of england, could start quite cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots of rain left over.
that’ slowly moving away.
we will see one or two showers ela much more sunshine, though, arriving across england and wales than we had on tuesday.
those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slightly, but still another hot day in the southeast and east anglia, and in london 30 degrees not out of the question.
heading into thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly northern ireland, scotland, perhaps a few inte northern into wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
but those temperatures continuing to just drop away a little.
highs of the more manageable 27 celsius in the southeast of england.
in across the , where we’ve got this weak weather front for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for northern ireland pushing across scotland, perhaps northern england, that should move away, skies will brighten.
it is going to be fine and with light winds.
typically into the mid-20.
still enly around 19-20 celsius through the central it’ into the weekend that really things start to warm up, not so much for scotland and northern ireland, and the far north it of england, temperatures typically into the mid-20, but for many other parts of england and into wales, we are going to find some extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend we’ve got that extreme heat warning from the met office.
so in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will really be shooting up.
temperatures could even get higher than that.
our top stories.
sri lanka’ president flees the country, he’ promised to resign today.
him for the economic eo1 the country, leaving it desperately short of funds .
lia 1 investigating the storming of the capitol lays out how extremists, in a last-ditch bid i raiel the race begins in earnest prime minister - eight candidates prepare for the first round of veting.
i the golfer who has won more professionals who’ve joined a saudi-backed tour.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
sri lanka’ president gotabaya rajapaksa has left the country amid mass protests i rajapaksa left aboard a military jet, ending a family dynasty that has ruled the country for decades.
he had been in hiding, after crowds stormed his residence on saturday.
sources have told the his brother, former finance minister basil rajapaksa, has also left the country.
president rajapaksa had promised to resign, from prosecution.
many sri lankans blame him for the economic crisis which has crippled their country, leaving it short of funds our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan was with protestors outside the presidential palace in colombo when the news of president rajapaksa’'s departure was made public.
there is a real party atmosphere here at colombo seafront, which has been a protest site for many weeks, one of the main demands protesters had was for gotabaya rajapaksa to go.
their slogan, their chant was "go home, gota".
we now know that president gotabaya rajapaksa has left the country.
he fled on a military jet with members of his family.
i in hiding for the last few days, ever since his home, his official residence, was overrun by protesters.
it wasn’ just his official residence, in fact over there his presidential secretariat, his offices, 0 by protesters.
you can see the aftermath now.
days on, the protesters here are sleeping on the grounds and on the steps.
we also know that the president’ brother the former finance minister basil rajapaksa has also left the country.
he’ believed to be heading to america.
he still hasn’ as of now stepped down from his post.
he’ due to hand in his resignation, that being expected on wednesday.
if he does, then that 18 2 for a president to run this country, and there will be a process in parliament to decide who his replacement is.
all of this is part of a wider concern, we are still in the middle of an economic this queue, you can see it going all the way down here, for free bread and curry because they are struggling to get a hold of the basics.
but news of president rajapaksa’ departure from the country, that is still filtering in here.
spoke to one person who said he was relieved and pleased.
but another woman said she felt - by the man she blamed for this crisis, who has gone without offering a solution.
akhil bery, director at the asia society.
thanks very much for jeining asked.
wonder if it matters says he’ resigned or " not, if he has fled the ’xd ntry?
do you think this is the last of rajapaksa?
i 14 think it is the last of president rajapaksa and the paksa dynasties in sri rajapaksa dynasties in sri lanka.
rajapaksa dynasties in sri
i rajapaksa dynasties in sri lanka.
tremendous anger about ismanagement of the economy and to the family for advantage of ordinary taking advantage of ordinary i lankans.
people are ustrated with economic i a1 frustrated with the economic crisis is not improving, and sought crisis is not improving, and & crisis is not improving, and they sought to push him out of .
we have heard time and again from a variety of people ng, look, we just want a saying, look, we just want a handful of honest politicians this on and handful of honest politicians to take this on and start making a difference.
how listic is that, even as an idea, given the dynasty of the paksas, the nature of the rajapaksas, the nature of the political establishment in sri a ?
it’ going to be lanka?
it’ going to be slailatlid lanka?
it’ going to be difficult for anyone, any litician navigate sri politician to navigate sri lanka out of this economic sis.
because a lot need to 1 crisis.
because a lot need to one in order for crisis.
because a lot need to aayel be done in order for sri lanka to be on a pathway to fiscal vency.
so even if the person oured solvency.
so even if the person rumoured to be the next president when parliament nvenes to elect someone, don’ forget, in 2019, that on lost by 10%, so he’ not person lost by 10%,
so he’ not very popular with the general lace.
it’ not going to be populace.
it’ not going to be easy for any politician to ner the support of the eople needed to implement the orms ecessary to get sri 5ri lanka ack to fiscal solvency.
presumably they will have to do the bidding of the if they want funding.
they the right people to do that?
all ticians and political parties are in agreement that is needed, and that i ¢ will unlock further tilateral inancing which multilateral financing which 3 lanka desperately needs.
lanka its sri lanka its estimated needs 153 illion sri lanka its estimated needs 1 $6 billion in additional this year to bridge the finance this year to bridge the current account deficit, and won’ come unless they gree terms with .
does agree terms with the .
does i lanka agree terms with the .
does nka have the agree terms with the .
does sri lanka have the sort of hnocrats might be best laced to fill the role complying with the likes of the do those people exist?
yes, lanka as been in the programme before.
the evious president, under him, recognise they needed to uth plement the reforms in gain access to implement the reforms to gain to more foreign exchange to be able to pay off their ts, also to be able to pay off their 0
= i debts, and also afford the port sri needs.
one import sri lanka needs.
one ther point, import sri lanka needs.
one i point, with regard to president rajapaksa again, a people feel they lot of people feel they have een let down government, and 41 government, and they want some ice.
can you see rajapaksa 0
eing held ccountable for the he has run way he has run the country, given that he is now in maldives?
on’ think , and his is one of the reason protesters are protesters are upset with rrent i a atiae current prime minister wickremesinghe.
there is lief he has shielded rajapaksas from prosecution.
he was prime ister, when he was prime minister, after when he was prime minister, the former president lost is re-election bid, there was me they could have prosecuted the rajapaksas for their war crimes especially, 4 refused to go ahead with but he refused to go ahead with .
on social media, people ferring him in generally 1 way they believe he 1 a propensity to shield the rajapaksas from justice.
it remains a complicated and perate situation.
thank you much indeed.
let’ take a look at some other stories the security council has voted to allow cross border aid deliveries to millions in rebel held syria from turkey for six months after intense diplomatic wrangling.
the aid for another year - a proposal which russia vetoed.
lendon’'s heathrow airport has told airlines to reduce the number of tickets they sell for the remainder of the summer the airport is limiting the number of daily passengers who can depart toe 100,000 - 4,000 less than scheduled.
several wildfires have swept across portugal’'s central region, forcing the evacuation of hundreds of people some houses have burned down, and three main highways the country is suffering a heatwave, with temperatures of over 40 degrees in many parts.
in washington, the committee investigating the storming of the capitol has laid out how donald trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid tec remain in office.
members of his inner circle told how during a stormy meeting, trump ignored - and instead summoned a mob to washington.
jason van tatenhove, a former spokesman for the oath keepers, described the group as violent, dismissive of the rule of law, and capable of swaying people through lies and deceit.
a - a3 a = ale for what the oath keepers are happened january 6th, when we saw that stacked military formation going up the stairs of our capitol.
our correspondent nomia igbal has been following the hearing, and talked us through what’ happened so far.
there were two parts to today’ hearing.
the first part revolved around something that was referred to as an unhinged meeting which happened in mid-december, in which denald trump’’ advisers were telling him to concede the election, but he was listening to a group to continue with his baseless claims the election was stolen.
the next day, which is where part, he put out a tweet in which he said to his supporters to come and protest on january 6th -
= and then the committee focused on people that did turn up.
who has now pleaded guilty to obstruction charges that day.
he talked about how he deeply regretted listening to donald trump.
we also heard from a former member of the oath keepers, an extremist group which the committee says turned up that day, along with another group called the proud boys, who fomented the chaos that happened.
he’ criticised the hearings, he described them as a witch hunt and called the panel, which is made up of seven democrats and two republicans, a bunch of thugs and hacks.
presidential historian and distinguished professor of history at american university in washington.
thanks very much indeed for joining us.
think the line of that report is most = significant, that donald trump gain described this as a has again described this as a witchhunt.
how is it perceived her field?
point is, further afield?
point is, whatever testimony before the ings, does stick?
hearings, does it stick?
think hearings, does it stick?
4 hearings, does it stick?
think it does stick to some ent, think it does stick to some a think it does stick to some extent, for the following sons.
number one, it is a masterful production.
eason they didn’ certain republican members on the mittee is they would have turned it into a circus, tead of this carefully repared presentation.
kersley, donald trump can say atever he ants, he always does, but the facts speak for selves.
the telling thing themselves.
the telling thing , it’ not trump’ gialo critics representing these ela , it’ his loyalists, including his own white house sel, who counsel, who said these 0 eories about a stolen lection were ense, and election were nonsense, and crump should concede.
pat also , so tellingly, that at any i me during this bloody surrection, that crump could walked to the podium called upon his followers to .
instead, he delayed more three hours.
-- trump i could have walked to the ium.
this something that asn’ been aid march.
the emendous damage trump has a1 tremendous damage trump has done not to advance a nciple, but to advance his own elfish will to stay in wer.
-- hasn’ been said 1 power.
-- hasn’ been said march.
we talked about power.
-- hasn’ been said march.
we talked about the damage done to police officers, 140 injured, several dead.
we haven’ talked enough about the done to his own damage done to his own llowers.
that, to me, was the ling oint of ayres’ estimony, this ordinary guy went to the capitol and has who went to the capitel and has who went to the capitel and has had his life ruined because he ndicted.
art apply that was indicted.
art apply that many hundreds of times.
that the guestion many hundreds of times.
that 018 many hundreds of times.
that raises the guestion about what ple, what trump supporters ake of what they are hearing, 8 their hero shows these when their here shows these people are turncoats, stand position, the election by my position, the election was stolen.
by my position, the election 11 olen what is was stolen what is the general among his supporters, 8 pport base, as to where the support base, as to where 13 3 the support base, as to where trump really stands?
you , it’ remarkable.
in seven ears, trump’ approval know, it’ remarkable.
in seven years, trump’ approval rating hasn’ moved an inch.
for all ondents, it’ generally in he low 40% range, as it was in today.
a poll today.
very high among blicans.
but we have seen republicans.
but we have seen ome erosion republicans.
but we have seen a 2 osion of republican some erosion of republican support some erosion of republican for donald trump support for donald trump running again.
a lot of ublicans are now getting tired of his act.
they don’ to run in 2024 on want to run in 2024 on grievances want to run in 2024 on 0 evances about 2020.
they want to grievances about 2020.
they nei grievances about 2020.
they want to run on the economy and ’ leadership.
we will see tliks biden’ leadership.
we will see if that built into enough of a cendo against the former crescendo against the former president to make a difference.
you ery much.
thank you ery much.
thank you being with stay with us on news - still to come.
tensions in the west bank - palestinian militant groups after months of talks and missed deadlines, a deal has been struck to keep greece within the euro zone.
the immediate prospect of greece going bust emergency services across central europe are stepping up their efforts to contain the worst floods the century.
way by americans.
it is a timely reminder to all americans of the problems the energy crisis have brought to them.
leaders meet in paris for a summit on pollution, inflation, and third world debt.
this morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations for a show of military might on the champs-elysees.
wildlife officials in australia have been coping with a penguin problem.
fairy penguins have been staggering ashore and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge shoals their favourite food - pilchards.
some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
to the now, as eight contenders have made it to the first round of the leadership here’ more from our political editor, chris mason.
the early skirmishes like all the other candidates against sunak.
he pointedly repeated his critique today of what he sees and that means honesty and responsibility, not fairy tales.
once we’ve gripped inflation, will get the tax burden down.
of when, not if.
so many of your colleagues have sought to demolish your record as chancellor.
do you have the stomach 4 i’ standing here today surrounded by friends chris, that’ what gives me the optimism, the confidence, to do this.
thank you all very much.
here’ one of the reasons sunak sounds chipper - tempting a fellow candidate to give up and back him instead.
while two senior ministers dashed out of the meeting to here, to endorse rishi sunak, another and straight away endorsed liz truss.
i’ve sat with liz in cabinet for some long time.
very aware that she’ probably a stronger she’ consistently argued for low tax policies.
liz was always opposed to rishi’ higher taxes.
that again is proper from barbs in downing street from backers of the foreign supporting the former minister kemi badenoch.
i tell the truth, 1 fight for change, stand up for people and stand up for the causes and the country love.
some might say this is no time for novices.
i think this is no time for steady as it goes sinking inte decline.
it’ time for change.
kemi is bright, brilliant and brave.
it’ only very rarely in politics you come across talents like that.
kemi is undoubtedly, think, a phenemenon.
she’ got the right stuff.
to another lectern, more applause and another this time for tom tugendhat.
a we’ve retreated into the pettiness of politics that is more about personality than principle.
when our nation needed our party to function, when the moment demanded service, we delivered scandal.
also on the ballot paper tomorrow, the new chanceller, nadhim zahawi.
suella braverman, the attorney general for england and wales.
and former cabinet minister penny mordaunt, whose launch event is in the morning.
in the occupied west bank this week - a near daily occurrence since a wave of deadly attacks by palestinians against israelis in the spring.
the focus has been on the city of jenin where palestinian militant groups have been rearming, as our middle aty tom bateman reports.
a mother’ grief echoes around the grave of her daughter.
"he burned my heart”, she says.
"i didn’ believe you’ hanan was hit by a bullet as she headed home from an english class.
one among dozens of palestinians killed in the west bank this year.
the bullet hit her here.
it left five holes in her body.
her schoolwork full of promise for her family.
now all they have left are the fragments of a life.
there are stories like hanan’ and every day there is a story.
hanan’ taxi was hit during an israeli army raid into jenin.
there were gun fights examining the case.
it’ not clear how ¢ as the raids have stepped up, rights groups accuse israel of using excessive force.
it follows a series of deadly attacks by palestinians.
a1 a gunman opened fire at a packed bar, killing three israelis.
it was one in a string of attacks in which 18 people were killed.
israelis were facing the worst spate of violence on their streets in years.
meanwhile, in jenin refugee camp, there militants have been rearming.
shows of force on a scale not seen in two decades.
a huge amount of weapons, -16, automatic people are letting loose.
it really feels like, and you can hear that, things are ramping up we were taken to the home of these so-called jenin brigade.
it’ part of the palestinian armed groups - all listed by israel and the west as terrorist organisations.
: we got out as armed resistance in the camp.
when we find the soldiers, we shoot at them.
the west sees groups in the camp as terrorist organisations so are you doing this, don’ you leave it to the official palestinian authority?
: the palestinian authority sold us out from the beginning, we don’ they don’ protect us.
during a raid in may, the veteran palestinian evidence suggests she was hit by an israeli bullet, something the army dispute.
her case has become a symbol for palestinians.
these raids are happening a a of the time they are simply just not well documented.
& the dangers involved.
the same month, an israeli officer was shot dead in jenin.
in the raids and many fear a further descent into violence.
"hanan, can’ reach you", her mum cries.
her daughter tried to get to a class and never came home.
just having hope here meant paying with her life.
tom bateman, news, jenin.
golf, and tiger woods has of his fellow professionals for switching their allegiance to a new saudi-backed golf tour called golf.
he is one of if not the biggest name in he is one of if not the biggest 18 he is one of if not the biggest name in the history of name in the history of his sport, so when tiger woods aks, goal listens.
here he practising ahead of the olds was practising ahead of the 150th open champioenship andrews, but his focus to elsewhere, namely the nili roversial golf tour and he players who have left the and european tour behind.
disagree with it.
is they’ve turned their back on what has allowed them to get to this position.
crllel the people behind it say that golf is an exciting new pter in the history of the chapter in the history of the sport, exciting, dynamic and ative.
ery, very lucrative.
the saudi lucrative.
the saudi government ing undreds of millions of dollars into game.
but its ialo dollars into the game.
but its \ ics say it is sportswashing, a controversial sportswashing, a controversial regime trying to improve its on the back of golf, and tiger woods believes there is a i problem if players can huge problem if players can earn big money not from nning but ust from ning up.
what is no incentive 4 1 and earn in the dirt?
you you are getting paid a lot of money but if you events and 54 _ it is the idea greg holes.
it is the idea of greg norman, a two-time winner he open, who has been the open, who has not been vited to the open, who has not been & invited to this week’ championship or hampions dinner, a decision tiger woods was the right one.
thanks for watching.
i a tuesday was a we had much more cloud around.
it was thick enough even to give a bit of but despite the cloud, here in london, it was hot.
temperatures over 30 celsius again.
much further north, preparing for the open at andrews, it’ cooler.
temperatures were in the low 20 despite the sunshine.
that cooler, cleaner, 3 down from the north, following this band of cloud or two spots of rain.
comfortable night.
still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the southeast of england.
and across southern parts of england, could start quite cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots of rain left over.
that’ slowly moving away.
we will see one or two showers ela much more sunshine, though, arriving across england and wales than we had on tuesday.
those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly, but still another hot day in the southeast and east anglia, and in london 30 degrees not out of the question.
heading into thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly northern ireland, scotland, perhaps a few inte northern into wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
but those temperatures continuing to just drop away a little.
highs of the more manageable 27 celsius in the southeast of england.
in across the , where we’ve got this weak weather front for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for northern ireland pushing across scotland, perhaps northern england, that should move away, skies will brighten.
it is going to be fine and with light winds.
typically into the mid-20.
still only around 19-20 through the central belt of scotland.
it’ into the weekend that really things start to warm up, not so much for scotland and northern ireland, and the far north of england, 2ol 0 into the mid-20, but for many other parts of england and into wales, we are going to find some extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend into the start we’ve got that extreme heat warning from the met office.
so in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will really be shooting up.
temperatures could even get higher than that.
sri lanka’ president - gotabaya rajapaksa - has fled the country with members of his family - following months of protests lat 1 the understands his military jet has after protestors stormed his residence on saturday.
in washington - the committee investigating the storming of the capitol last year has laid out how donald trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid tec remain in office.
members of his inner circle told how during a stormy meeting trump ignored - in britain - the race to replace boris johnson as leader of the governing party and the country’ prime minister has narrowed to eight fellow conservative mps.
the field will be narrowed down to two in a series of votes.
the part at large will then now on news, the travel show.
this week on the travel show: outdoors for a close encounter with some grizzly bears.
we’re heading to australia to wish a very happy birthday to one of the most iconic bridges in the world.
and in mexico, we meet the people breathing life into an ancient ballgame that predates football by around 3,000 years.
hello, and welcome to 51 this is one of the oldest national parks in the world.
11 its 150th this year.
now, this is a vast and mesmerising place.
a little later on in the show will be coming up close to one of yellowstone’ = and fearsome residents, the grizzly bear.
but we’re starting this week somewhere where you definitely won’ need bear spray to visit.
now, the famous film director baz luhrmann once said then sydney is the city of fireworks.
that is certainly the case every new year’ eve when the global party really gets started with pictures like these beamed around the world from sydney harbour bridge.
= 1 6 2
and we’ve been to wish it a very happy birthday.
the best place to appreciate the size of the sydney harbour bridge is to stand right underneath it.
i’ at milsens point on the north side of sydney the bridge stretches 503 metres across to dawes point an extraordinary 52,000 tons.
it was made 90 years ago, but it’ still one bridges in the world, it is just extraordinary.
: his majesty’ message is as follows, have learned with great pleasure that the sydney harbour bridge has now been completed.
cross the bridge twice a day 1 & it doesn’ matter whether i banged up or not, because the slower the traffic the more time you have to appreciate the bridge as you go over it.
it is just a wonderful structure.
and you just see the unfolding series of girders, it is just beautiful.
there are think three, four eight lanes of traffic.
two of those take up the sydney harbour bridge gave sydney, and actually australia, a very identifiable icon, i you could immediately recognise with one graphic image that this was sydney, sydney harbour, or australia.
whereas before it was just flocks of sheep that signified : words are futile things with which to describe the might and majesty of this wonderful structure, even pictures can hardly do it justice.
the sydney harbour bridge represents modern australia, and has done since it was built in 1932.
the first big celebration of white australia if you like, was in 1938, 150 years since governor phillip turned up with the first fleet.
the bridge was there in posters and souvenirs black australia had been here for many thousands it never gets old.
this i1 amazing.
i’ a tour guide at sydney, at bridge climb.
do all kinds of tours.
i’ not sure how fast 014 it’ blowing a gale.
you can see everything, that of the best part about this bridge, you see a 360 view of sydney, the opera house sits.
i do a special tour called the burrawa, which means upwards above, get to explore, take people up on this iconic bridge and take them back 230 years ago, pre-colonisation.
230 years ago the first fleet arrived right here 1788, we had 11 large ships, big white sails, captained as australia today.
just an abundance of convicts.
when the first fleet arrived, it did bring disease and unfortunately they did wipe out more than 70% of the indigenous people here in and i’ve only been out of school for 11 years, was never taught any of the indigenous history.
feel like that was a lot throughout the older generations as well.
luckily, today we do have a coming into our school curriculum which is perfect, we really want.
in 2000, the bridge became a symbol of something quite different because thousands of people walked rigl symbolised the spanning of the gulf between black and white australia, troubled waters and all the rest of it.
it became a wonderful symbol of reconciliation, whereas once it had symbolised something that was quite exclusive.
this is the aboriginal flag created by harold thomas in july 1971.
aboriginal culture, the black is for the people, the aboriginal people of this land.
the red is the earth, ole that is used in ceremony.
the flag represents the sovereignty of aboriginal people on aboriginal land.
think over many years that the sydney harbour bridge should the flag 365 days of the year and not just one week during reconciliation this land always was and always will be aboriginal land.
think importantly it will show that the history of this country, the history of the continent dates back to over 65,000 years and not just that report there from what truly has to be one of my favourite nra a
and if you are heading there, here are things we think you should look out for.
where better to host one of the world’ largest boat shows that in a city known for its harbour?
over the course of five days from 28 july to 1 august, the sydney international boat show will provide a line-up of entertainment and events, with something for everyone to enjoy.
with over 240 exhibitors, up to 900 boats and probably thousands of pairs of deck shoes, expect to see from super yachts to paddle boards.
if you want to stay or cannot afford a million dollar boat, maybe the sydney fringe festival is one for you.
throughout the whole of september, cultural creators will come together to present 450 events, hosted by 70 unique and emerging venues throughout the greater sydney area.
expect music, comedy, dance, and genre-defying performances in one of australia’ largest independent arts festivals.
much, then the blue mountains are only two hours’ drive from sydney.
you’ll find ancient aboriginal art nestled within this craggy sandstone ridged wilderness and an abundance of walking trails will take you into the heart of the mountain range.
or, if you are feeling less energetic you can glide past the iconic rock formations on the 545 metre scenic cable way.
still to come on the travel show - we head to mexico for a ballgame that was first played around 3000 years ago.
and get some tips on how to deal with an encounter yellowstone nati 5 one of this year’ big sporting events will undoubtedly be the fifa world cup, that kicks off in qatar in november.
but over in mexico, playing a much older ball game that predates soccer by 3000 years and we’ve been i of the star players.
of the gateways to 1 national park, yellowstone.
the park attracts millions of visitors each year and one of its main draws are potential bear sightings.
driving along, just saw loads of people parked up, looking in a certain direction.
asked them what they’ve seen and right over there in the distance is a grizzly bear!
from what understand, it’ quite rare to spot a grizzly in the wild, 82 special moment.
mean, this is you come to yellowstone, right?
the bear is yellowstone’ « ¥ 1 but it wasn’ too long ago that
i 2 1
i alike like took a very different approach to these furry fellas.
: by the late 1800, bears had figured out that where there were people, there was food.
for the next 80 years, i yellowstone visit was looking for bears begging along on food scraps at the hotel garbage dumps.
thanks to research, we’ve come a long way since then.
while close encounters are rare, with over 700 bears in an area that is becoming increasingly randy!
hi.
good to meet you.
randy runs courses in bear safety, but he does not work yep.
talk to me about how you use this to teach people about their safety.
well, if you’re not able 0la 0218 is the most effective thing you can use to change if you get this hot pepper oll into their face, they’re going to forget about you and forget that you might be a threat to them and they’re going to want to go somewhere else.
most of the encounters we have with grizzly bears around here, they’re defensive encounters, so they’re going to growl, they’re going to drool, they’ll huff and make different noises, so, it’ good to have this strapped on your belt at all times?
the nice thing about this trading device is it goes a8 a real bear does about 35 miles an hour, which is quite fast.
very fast!
so, this really gives people an idea about how quick they have to be to get their bear spray out, the safety off and deploy it.
oh, yes!
alright, we’ve assessed what the bear’ doing.
looks like he’ gonna charge.
we’ve stood our ground.
we’ve got our spray out.
yes.
spray down in front of him.
do a couple of seconds bursts until he changes his behaviour.
alright, here he comes.
even though know that’ - it gets your bleod flowing.
my spray where i’ going next.
down the road, a group of dedicated individuals are working on methods of the bears themselves.
helps keep the bears away from people, so when camping, = to stash your food safely.
now, here on the outskirts of yellowstone, they’re actually testing the sturdiness of food containers by putting them up against actual bears.
and, uh, needless to say, these ones didn’ quite pass the test.
we’ve put some dog biscuits in there so that it rattles there’ peanut butter in there and there’ actually it’ got to withstand 60 minutes of direct
but if it does, it can be certified as bear-resistant by the interagency grizzly bear committee.
0
you can see they’re pretty deep.
yep.
so, tell me, where did these hears come from?
grant is actually from coram is from glacier national park.
so, they were wild bears that got into trouble with people.
that doesn’ just happen out of the blue.
food rewards, and his last act as a wild bear was to climb 0 1 to 1ol 30
oh, my god.
driveway in the middle of the day while they were trying to unload their groceries.
bears can be rehomed here and around 40 are put down each year.
so, in the case of the eight grizzly bears that live here at the grizzly & wolf discovery center, we’ve provided an alternative but maybe, you know, we give visitors to the area a chance to learn from their stories.
with people over food, the population 1 than it has been in the past and a lot of that is because of what we’ve learned about how important it is in bear country like bear-resistant i securing that food.
so, i’ve seen a live bear, i’ve seen a remote-controlled bear.
believe it or not, next up, i’ going to see a defrosting bear.
111918 this is the draper specimen preparation it is an extension of the natural history museum itself.
today, we’re going to be working on a grizzly bear.
what are we doing here?
we are going to remove the organs.
but think might have to walk away in a moment.
volunteers preserve birds, wildcats and thousands more species.
an average specimen that comes into the museum, we collect data with it.
so, we collect a co-ordinate, and that gives us things like habitat as things shift and change, these become snapshots in time.
yellowstone, the greater yellowstone ecosystem, has the complete complement of wildlife that was here pre-european colonisation - and we can’ say that about a lot of places in the world.
as the grizzly bear in particular begins to recover into its historic range, it’ going to come into conflict back outside, catch up with randy to get so, i’ve got a few days left here, so what are your top tips to help me stay safe?
so, number one is use aveidance technigues - you know, make noise, travel in groups, carry bear spray, just be really number two, if you do see a bear, you don’ ever - i’ll be ready.
and you’ve got to see 8 if the bear doesn’ see you, you can leave.
don’ bring a bunch of attention to yourself, just take off while the bear is not looking.
if the bear does see you, don’ start waving your hands - "hey, bear,” - don’ do any -4 could actually perceive that as a threat.
so, to see what the bear is going to do.
if they get defensive and make a lot of noise, like kind of how but just awareness is key.
being armed with the knowledge a yourself if a potential encounter happens.
i’ ready.
very good tips, randy.
111918 you got it.
next week, we’re in senegal as the world’ biggest hospital ship prepares to embark on its first-ever mission.
strange because when you’re walking on the floor, of course, we’re not you get the odd movement every so often.
and emmaline’ on board to meet the travelling helping to make it happen.
we have, like, 20-40 nationalities we’re always posting on instagram and facebook, too, so make sure you check us out there.
all you’ve got to do i until next time, i’ off to - very carefully - make friends with some more grizzlies.
see you next time.
i a tuesday was a we had much more cloud around.
it was thick enough even to give a bit of but despite the cloud, here in london, it was hot.
temperatures over 30 celsius again.
much further north, preparing for the open at saint andrews, it’ cooler.
temperatures were in the low 20 despite the sunshine.
that cooler, cleaner, fresher air is moving down from the north following this band of cloud that’ comfortable night.
still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the southeast of england.
and across southern parts of england, could start quite cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots of rain left over.
that’ slowly moving away.
we will see one or two showers ela much more sunshine, though, arriving across england and wales than we had on tuesday.
those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slightly, but still another hot day in the southeast and east anglia, and in london 30 degrees not out of the question.
heading into thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly northern ireland, scotland, perhaps a few inte northern into wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
but those temperatures continuing to just drop away a little.
highs of the more manageable 27 celsius in the southeast of england.
in across the , where we’ve got this weak weather front for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for northern ireland pushing across scotland, perhaps northern england, that should move away, skies will brighten.
it is going to be fine and with light winds.
typically into the mid-20.
still enly around 19-20 celsius through the central it’ into the weekend that really things start to warm up, not so much for scotland and northern ireland, and the far north it of england, temperatures typically into the mid-20, but for many other parts of england and into wales, we are going to find some extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend we’ve got that extreme heat warning from the met office.
so in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will really be shooting up.
temperatures could even get higher than that.
our top stories.
sri lanka’ president flees the country he’ promised to resign today.
that’ crippled the country, leaving it desperately short of funds to buy a .
lia 1 investigating the storming of the capitol lays out how extremists, in a last-ditch bid i raiel and as europe bakes in the sun, are we taking the heatwave seriously?
an issue we’ll explore in our climate critical series.
sri lanka’ president gotabaya rajapaksa has left the country amid mass protests i and he’ landed in the maldives.
rajapaksa left aboard a military jet, ending a family dynasty that has ruled the country for decades.
he had been in hiding, after crowds stormed his residence on saturday.
they are still there.
sources have told the his brother, former finance minister basil rajapaksa, has also left the country.
a = promised to resign, from prosecution.
many sri lankans blame him for the economic crisis which has crippled their country, leaving it short of funds our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan was with protestors outside the presidential palace in colombo when the news of president rajapaksa’'s departure was made public.
there is a real party atmosphere here at colombo seafront, which has been a protest site for many weeks, one of the main demands protesters had was for gotabaya rajapaksa to go.
their slogan, their chant was "go home, gota".
we now know that president gotabaya rajapaksa has left the country.
he fled on a military jet with members of his family.
i in hiding for the last few days, ever since his home, his official residence, was overrun by protesters.
it wasn’ just his official residence, in fact over there his presidential secretariat, his offices, 0 by protesters.
you can see the aftermath now.
days on, the protesters here are sleeping on the grounds and on the steps.
we also know that the president’ brother the former finance minister basil rajapaksa has also left the country.
he’ believed to be heading to america.
he still hasn’ as of now stepped down from his post.
he’ due to hand in his resignation, that being expected on wednesday.
if he does, then that 18 2 for a president to run this country, and there will be a process in parliament to decide who his replacement is.
all of this is part of a wider concern, we are still in the middle of an economic this queue, you can see it going all the way down here, for free bread and curry because they are struggling to get a hold of the basics.
but news of president rajapaksa’ departure from the country, that is still filtering in here.
spoke to one person who said he was relieved and pleased.
but another woman said she felt - by the man she blamed for this crisis, who has gone without offering a solution.
earlier, spoke with akhil bery, director of south asia initiatives at the asia society.
began by asking him how sri lankans have reacted to gotabaya rajapaksa’ departure from the country.
tremendous anger about the mismanagement of the economy people are frustrated a ¢ improving, and they sought saying, look, we just want a handful of honest politicians to take this on and start making a difference.
how realistic is that, even as an idea, given the dynasty of the rajapaksas, the nature of the political it’ going to be difficult for anyone, any politician to navigate sri lanka out on a pathway to fiscal solvency.
so even if the person rumoured to be the next president when parliament reconvenes to elect someone, don’ forget, in 2019, that person lost by 10%, so he’ not very popular with the general populace.
it’ not going to be easy for any politician to garner the support of the people needed to implement the reforms necessary to get sri lanka back to fiscal solvency.
iif they want funding.
are they the right people to do that?
all politicians and political parties are in agreement that the is needed, and that will unlock further multilateral financing which sri lanka desperately needs.
sri lanka it’ estimated needs 1 finance this year to bridge the current account deficit, eyl unless they agree terms does sri lanka have the sort of technocrats who might be best placed to fill the role of complying with the likes of the ?
do those people exist?
yes, sri lanka has been in the programme before.
the previous prime minister and president, under him, they recognise they needed to implement the reforms to gain access to more foreign exchange to be able to pay off their debts, and also afford the imports sri lanka needs.
in washington, the committee investigating the storming of the capitol last year has heard how donald trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid tec remain in office.
members of his inner circle explained how trump ignored their advice to concede the election, and instead summeoned a mob to washington.
our correspondent nomia igbal has been following the hearing.
there were two parts to today’ hearing.
the first part revolved around something that was referred to as an unhinged meeting which happened in mid-december, in which denald trump’’ advisers were telling him to concede the election, but he was listening to a group to continue with his baseless claims the election was stolen.
the next day, which is where part, he put out a tweet in which he said to his supporters to come and protest on january 6th -
= and then the committee focused on people that did turn up.
who has now pleaded guilty to obstruction charges that day.
he talked about how he deeply regretted listening to donald trump.
we also heard from a former member of the oath keepers, an extremist group which the committee says turned up that day, along with another group called the proud boys, who fomented the chaos that happened.
he’ criticised the hearings, he described them as a witch hunt and called the panel, which is made up of seven democrats and two republicans, a bunch of thugs and hacks.
well, earlier, spoke to the presidential historian allan lichtman and asked him what the general view was among trump-supporting republicans over where the former president now stood.
you know, it’ remarkable.
in seven years, trump’ approval rating for all respondents, it’ generally in the low 40% range, as it was in a poll today, and very high among republicans.
but we have seen some erosion of republican support for donald trump running again.
a lot of republicans are now getting tired of his act.
they want to run on the economy and biden’ leadership.
@ ¢ i show host jake smith, who joins us from delaware.
i i 10 thanks for your time.
we will 4 to the validity of the aring in a moment, ust onder what you of he wonder what you made of the testimony we heard today?
well, more of the same.
most it was more of the same.
most of my listeners, myself luded, trump supporters, people who generally vote here as conservatives see this entire charade as a 14 sident trump says, as a witchhunt.
it has no validity law.
the act of the in law.
the fact of the matter is, what nancy pelosi uns i the ruling who runs the ruling junta in washington, what she has done together a committee of people who put together a committee of people who tried to get sident trump people who tried to get iol people who tried to get president trump twice through impeachment, and now they re trying he january the fast.
it has two purposes.
st, donald trump’ first, donald trump’ endorsements, saw the fessor, and everything he 10 said to you was total rubbish.
4 insisted that the he even insisted that the people who went to the capitol nuary the 6th were on january the 6th were responsible for several police
i i i officers being killed.
there no police officers killed, they killed a protester, an force veteran who was but they killed a protester, an a1 air force veteran who was shot 3 nthe head.
sorry, jake, ink here is a point - think there is a point nonetheless that there was a ming of the capitol, and there are those prepared to up now to say donald trump incited that, and isn’ the gist of what they are ayihl that the gist of what they are trying to get to?
well, yeah, ously that’ what liz obviously that’ what liz cheney, a phoney republican, is to say.
trying to say.
was in washington on january the sick, there with was there with close to a a1 lion people they say, don’ know, uldn’ say, but eryone there peaceful.
everyone there was peaceful.
04 not everyone.
everyone would accept that a large onstration, even a million ople, if carried out eacefully, people, if carried out 18 people, if carried out peacefully, that’ their test, it’ a democracy, that ould be llowed, but there ere hundreds people who stormed the capitol building urely that is a stormed the capitol building and surely that is a moment or hame for any democracy?
well, liy here’ shame for any democracy?
well, here’ the thing.
heard sident trump say, go to the pitol peacefully.
what they trying to ay by this tweet that are trying to say by this tweet president trump was that president trump was inciting violence, it wouldn’ up a court of hold up in a court of law because president trump cannot have his own legal even have his own legal representatives present to -examine any of these witnesses_ cross-examine any of these cross-examine any of these witnesses.
that would not pass in any court, it wouldn’ pass english courts, ish law, nor scottish law.
english law, nor scottish law.
so is president trump owed be destroyed like allowed to be destroyed like this when he has no legal representation present to cross-examine witnesses who representation present to a cross-examine witnesses who are claiming all types of things?
your view also that the lection, still, was stolen?
use many electoral ila because many electoral officials have because many electoral ila - because many electoral officials have been pretty 4 ant that officials have been pretty officials have been pretty adamant that that had simply een the case.
er, not been the case.
er, believe the election stolen, would say 99% of my eners think he election listeners think the election was stolen.
many of them stion he election question the election 1 edibility going into our id-term elections on november 8th.
and hat’ not a good thing or a emocracy, to have election system that is spect, and an election system that is i a 1 an election system that is suspect, and the people who had and vote, from the to go and vote, from the electorate.
it remains deeply a sive as an issue.
thank you divisive as an issue.
thank you or joining us.
have a good rning.
let’ take a look at some other stories the victims are believed to be a seven-year-old boy and a woman in her fifties.
around a dozen people near manhattan, a number of them are being treated in hospital.
president biden has boarded he travels to israel and the occupied west bank before heading to saudi arabia on friday.
israel-palestinian conflict, this one is likely to draw attention to a recent shift in regional alliances.
twitter’ filed a lawsuit against billionaire elon musk to and force him to go ahead with a deal to buy the social media platform.
the billionaire’ exit strategy "a model of hypocrisy" and has asked for a four-day hearing in september.
musk pulled out of the deal citing concerns stay with us on news, still to come.
as europe bakes in the sun, 1 heatwave seriously?
an issue we’ll explore in our climate critical series.
after months of talks and missed deadlines, a deal has been struck to keep greece within the euro zone.
the immediate prospect of greece going bust emergency services across central europe are stepping up their efforts to contain the worst floods the century.
way by americans.
it is a timely reminder to all americans of the problems the energy crisis have brought to them.
leaders meet in paris for a summit on pollution, inflation, and third world debt.
this morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations for a show of military might on the champs-elysees.
wildlife officials in australia have been coping with a penguin problem.
fairy penguins have been staggering ashore and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge shoals of their favourite food - pilchards.
some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
after fleeing the country following weeks of protests.
lia 1 investigating the storming of the capitol lays out how every week at this time, i the state of our planet, and in climate critical this week, you may have noticed that europe is in the middle for celebration, and people made the most of it, cooling off in the sea, or in fountains, or relaxing with ice creams.
these images still appear in the media, but now there are warnings that extreme heat comes with great costs.
the heat brings with it the danger of wildfires - the combination of vegetation, strong sunshine by a third within the next two decades, with human-caused like droughts and floods.
at the university of colorado.
he’ been looking into how media images of warming global temperatures influence people’ attitudes.
erhaps one of the questions that is perhaps one of the key questions of our time, are we dure the climate change moments or enjoy them?
people to find hat a very difficult conundrum to seem to find that a very i dta a difficult conundrum to resolve.
yeah, thank you much for ving me, david.
there are ose who continue to having me, david.
there are rias having me, david.
there are those who continue to frolic in un, to the sea, find a the sun, go to the sea, find a =11 ain to cool off, but when fountain to cool off, but when we focus on those media images through mainstream media, television and newspaper ographs, we actually a1 photographs, we actually overlook some of the very aging and dangerous features heat waves.
such as the high iae ity -time temperatures, and hose that vulnerable, the those that are vulnerable, the elderly and children, in that elderly and children, in homes that don’ cool down at night.
we also ok at those when we also look at those hikinis and children having , we are not taking a look 4 at those at the forefront of i imate impact, those suffering these conditions.
there is se, ean we are getting it this week in the , but if you at france, where look at france, where they almost have like a heat waves, given what they ave experienced in the in particular a lot of people ying.
there is mething changing, re is a something changing, there is a 301% story now about, this is extreme, this is dangerous ould welcome back?
yes, you would welcome back?
yes, absolutely, 2003 was traumatic larta 0 absolutely, 2003 was traumatic
i 0 in continental europe.
in the i ast handful of years, through earch have done more research have done more broadly, sasser and ’neill at university in the , a = blda climate imagery, there lot of important work on climate imagery, there has been away from the solely a shift away from the solely positive imagery associated heatwaves and extreme vents.
in that sense, how much at tilting the general ublic public perception that that tilting the general public perception that climate is real?
this is another onundrum, isn’ it?
we have reme heat, temperatures, i =1 extreme heat, temperatures, weather, and that link directly imate change is always one are very sensitive to.
yeah, mate change is real, it’ here, it’ serious.
what a lot is eing done to of work is being done to alleviate those dangerous itions.
and alleviate those dangerous a - alleviate those dangerous conditions.
and when you point ose conditions, there is to those conditions, there is increasing research being done tribution increasing research being done tribution science.
we can in attribution science.
we can i a heatwave, we know it’ 1 detect a heatwave, we know it’ going down, we can feel it.
but a1 to link it to human ntributions to to link it to human 88 loittal to link it to human contributions to climate change mproved considerably in last has improved considerably in 1018 has improved considerably in the last handful of years, that us to ake the allows us to make the connection between these reme events and the probabilities of it being 0 latkla probabilities of it being attributed to human activities.
can throw one thing back, not icularly at you, max, but ah particularly at you, max, but 18 particularly at you, max, but the scientific community and : 8 the scientific community and the ability to communicate some ese messages?
there is a major gap tween what the ublic can understand and what entists like to plain.
scientists like to explain.
absolutely.
one of the absolutely.
one of the arenas do research and where do my research and where my research and a4 where do my research and where work is to open up registers of knowing and erstanding and learning the changing climate around us.
it’ not merely a ntific issue, about reading he most recent peer-reviewed erature, the most recent peer-reviewed 1 the most recent peer-reviewed the most recent peer-reviewed literature, the report, about experiencing these hings.
it can be visceral emotional, our hopes and ams, our fears and concerns.
can be through aesthetic it can be through the aesthetic and the arts, understanding the ate is changing around us.
climate is changing around us.
one need not be a card-carrying cientist to something scientist to have something to say and understand what’ on around us.
think going on around us.
think i’ right in saying you were an iser or don’ right in saying you were an i kao 4 right in saying you were an adviser for don’ look up, the rical movie effectively 0
i satirical movie effectively about climate change.
what is 3 ole of that side of mass the role of that side of mass media, perhaps even of comedy, king people up?
yes, in waking people up?
yes, rked more in waking people up?
yes, more on the platform worked more on the platform that followed up on the field, a lot of ways in which individuals and collectives can quidance, important find gquidance, important find gquidance, important actions that can find gquidance, important find guidance, important actions that can be taken, and to engage.
but absolutely, gain, in those spaces of again, in those spaces of climate science and policy, the to everyday is not bridge to everyday is not through peer reviewed erature and through peer reviewed ature and reports, the bridge is through media resentation through bridge is through media 1 representation through the news, and through entertainment a_ films like don’ look up have ade an impact reshaping considerations, putting on earle - these considerations, putting it on the table.
in the , unfortunately, just 35% of american adults talk i climate change occasionally to their family and friends.
so ese conversation pieces that ompt considerations orompt discussions prompt considerations and i 1 prompt considerations and prompt discussions are ways in we can open a pathway 374 which we can open a pathway 59% not a lot, a long way to .
thank you much.
thank you, have a good morning over if you’re a regular watcher of newsday - you might remember we told you about the james achievements on tuesday.
well, here are some of the first images released by nasa, european and canadian space agencies from the world’ most advanced telescope which was launched into space last year.
view of the universe we’ve ever seen.
our science editor rebecca morelle reports.
captured by the james webb space telescope.
these are the cosmic cliffs of the carina nebula.
amidst the dust, stars are being born.
this is a new view of stephan’ quintet, 500 million light years away, where vast galaxies are caught and the deepest ever view of space.
it’ teeming with galaxies.
some from just a few hundred million years - to have worked on a mission for this long, to be able to finally see it come to fruition, to do what it’ supposed to do, is just absolutely incredible.
the images are amazing, themselves, just as images, to do, and what we can learn from these images, the telescope blasted off last year on christmas day, and over the last six months, it’ been getting ready for its mission.
the james webb space telescope is an engineering marvel.
at its core is a 6.
5-metre wide mirror made up of 18 hexagonal segments, each perfectly aligned to act as a single surface.
it also has a sun shield las to protect it from the heat and light of the sun.
before, showing us the light from the very first we’ll also be able to see how they came together to form the earliest galaxies.
and it will study other planetary systems, revealing beyond our world.
11 13 like a time machine.
kt4 into the far distant past and so we can begin to answer 018 how did the first galaxies and stars form.
in real time, as it were, a history of the & captured this.
2,000 light years away, it’ a star going through its death throes.
in some strange way it is a pretty view of something decaying and dying but we’re able again to look at the material as it flows away from the star and understand something about the evolution of the star, so going from star birth in the star-forming regions, all the way through to star death.
but this is just the start for the telescope.
over the coming days and months, more and more images will be captured.
our knowledge of the universe and our place in it 1 about to be transformed.
rebecca morelle, news.
after fleeing the country following months of mass protests over the island’ economic crisis.
his departure ends the rajapaksa political dynasty which has ruled the island for decades_
i a tuesday was a we had much more cloud around.
it was thick enough even to give a bit of but despite the cloud, here in london, it was hot.
temperatures over 30 celsius again.
much further north, preparing for the open at andrews, it’ cooler.
temperatures were in the low 20 despite the sunshine.
that cooler, cleaner, 3 down from the north, following this band of cloud or two spots of rain.
comfortable night.
still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the southeast of england.
and across southern parts of england, could start quite cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots of rain left over.
that’ slowly moving away.
we will see one or two showers ela much more sunshine, though, arriving across england and wales than we had on tuesday.
those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly, but still another hot day in the southeast and east anglia, and in london 30 degrees not out of the question.
heading into thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly northern ireland, scotland, perhaps a few inte northern into wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
but those temperatures continuing to just drop away a little.
highs of the more manageable 27 celsius in the southeast of england.
in across the , where we’ve got this weak weather front for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for northern ireland pushing across scotland, perhaps northern england, that should move away, skies will brighten.
it is going to be fine and with light winds.
typically into the mid-20.
still only around 19-20 through the central belt of scotland.
it’ into the weekend that really things start to warm up, not so much for scotland and northern ireland, and the far north of england, 2ol 0 into the mid-20, but for many other parts of england and into wales, we are going to find some extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend into the start we’ve got that extreme heat warning from the met office.
so in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will really be shooting up.
temperatures could even get higher than that.
sri lanka’ president - gotabaya rajapaksa - has fled the country with members of his family, following months of protests lat 1 the understands his military jet has after protestors stormed his residence on saturday.
in washington, the committee investigating the storming of the capitol last year has laid out how donald trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid tec remain in office.
members of his inner circle told how, during a heated meeting, trump ignored - in britain, the race to replace boris johnson as leader of the governing party and the country’ prime minister has narrowed to eight fellow conservative mps_ the field will be narrowed down to two in a series of votes.
the party at large will then an independent inquiry has found that more than a thousand children were sexually exploited over at least 30 years in the shropshire town failings by the police and the local authority.
the report found that unnecessary suffering, and even west mercia police "done its most basic job".
it says that child sexual exploitation went unchecked because of failures to investigate offenders, amid fears that investigations tensions”.
mackie reports.
- a town where more than 1000 children have been a town where more than 1000 8 children have been sexually i ploited since the late 1970.
ung girls were groomed often gangs and subjected to some the most appalling abuse.
three years the findings an independent inquiry are ning.
countless children re sexually assaulted and ed.
they were deliberately miliated, degraded.
they were ared, trafficked, they were bjected to violence and their milies ere threatened.
they ived in fear.
their lives were ver changed.
they have asked over the years, forever changed.
they have forever changed.
they have asked over the years, how was allowed to happen?
the answer, he believes, is that uthorities had ignored ious signs of child xploitation and blamed the ldren is exploitation and blamed the i children is not the ig5 perpetrators and, in many 4 , would not investigate cases, would not investigate because of nervousness ahout .
the problems came to light during operation challis seven of light during operation challis 0ida light during operation challis when seven men of south asian iwe descent were convicted of ffences against teenage girls he inquiry has spoken to but the inquiry has spoken to victims of exploitation from ladl i many victims of exploitation from many more communities.
this rnoon many more communities.
this ternoon spoke to one who as raped and trafficked.
tead help, she got a instead of help, she got a instead of help, she got a criminal record.
her words have revised to otect her been revised to protect her identity.
victims were being tified 0 identified as child prostitutes.
once you have been icted that label never leaves you.
prosecutions are ging to your life.
some children went to prison for not fines.
convictions paying fines.
convictions should be completely expunged.
are 47 recommendations 10 there are 47 recommendations which are made in the report, uding that the borough including that the borough council including that the borough 01 0 tals including that the borough council and police should set oint tax force which up a joint tax force which 1 up a joint tax force which should report back annually, counselling should be that counselling should be provided for victims and that for specialist teams money for specialist teams should be ring fenced.
do a should be ring fenced.
do hope it will bring closure for of people but a lot of people
but i also %1\ a lot of people but also really hope it will open a lot ors for other people.
of doors for other people.
another survivor, known olly archer, has set up 17 holly project in telford to other victims of child help other victims of child sexual exploitation stocking ikes of the likes of myself and other a0 i ers who have sort of gone survivers who have sort of gone quite far on their journey now, that it a form for us that it is a form of osure but also a form of fight or what happens next.
4 tonight west murcia police elford and wrekin borough uncil apologised to all the victims.
phil mackie, news, telford.
now on news, talking movies: godfather anniversary special.
a warning this programme 4 50 years ago, a roberta flack song topped the record ever saw your face we are today seeing the progress of modern china.
president nixon made a historic visit to china and in britain, there was a 47-day miners strike.
momentous event.
what many claim is the greatest movie ever made was launched - a portrait of an italian-american it was, for a time, the highest-grossing film ever made, a blockbuster i’ going to make him an offer he can’ - hello from new york, to our talking movies godfather half a century on, reassess the landmark classic, directed by francis ford coppola, starring movie greats marlon brando, pacino, robert duvall, james caan and for justice, we must go to don corleone.
the opening scene in the godfather takes place in the office of crime hoss don vito corleone, played by marlon brando, on the wedding day of his daughter.
they beat her like an animal.
an undertaker, bonasera, is pleading with corleone to use extralegal means to punish men who attacked and disfigured his daughter.
they’re going to suffer, then, as she suffers.
it is a scene that signals what is to come - what this iconic film is really all about.
i’ll call upon you to do until that day it’ also very deliberate.
accept this justice as a gift on my daughter’ wedding day.
but also, that scene is really important.
mean, what’ the - what are the first words - mean, the whole movie’ about the american dream.
america has made my fortune.
now, she will never be beautiful again.
so, right there, that opening a encapsulates everything who should give this job to?
this grand three-hour opus was the product of many different talents.
robert duvall appeared family lawyer and advisor tom hagen.
have a special practice.
handle today, at the age of 91, he firmly believes the epic bears the handiwork and stamp of one individual in particular.
jojsher francis ford coppola.
although in the beginning, they were trying to fire him and i’ gained a lot of respect for him.
it was his vision from a to and they tried to have a standby director, to fire him, in case they fired him, then this guy would take over.
vision and his film-making and his casting that made it all work, mean, for me - for everybody.
the inspiration for the godfather came partly from the bestseller of the same name by american author mario in an interview decades ago, coppola, who ultimately worked with puzo on the godfather screenplay, revealed he didn’ have much initial enthusiasm for the project.
anyone who remembers the original godfather book, were cut out for the movie and didn’ like it very much for those reasons and was very frightened of getting once again co-opted into another project, like, low budget - it was a very inexpensive film and in those days, and did turn it down, actually, once or twice.
much of the action in the godfather takes place at this house on longfellow avenue in staten island in new york.
it served as the home to the don corleone family.
the narrative that unfolds from this house provides audiences with a portrait of an italian-american crime family in the 1940 and ‘50.
it tells a story of one family member’ transformation - don’ ever take sides with anyone against the family again.
obviously, it’ about family, obviously, it’ about power but think it’ also, in many ways, a film of one’ identity because, you know, if you look at the character of michael corleone, you know, he starts off the film as the one person in the family who’ self-aware, who’ really aware of what the family does.
that’ my family, kay.
and over the course of the film, he loses don’ tell me you’re innocent.
my intelligence.
it makes me very angry.
he no longer has the sense that what the family deing is wrong.
thought you weren’ going to become a man like your father.
that’ what you told me.
my father’ no different than any other powerful man.
any man who’ responsible for other people.
well, i’ve always felt that the godfather was really less about gangsters than about power and powerful families and the succession of power and the machiavellian way that real power works in the world and, you know, but those themes could apply to a shakespeare play or to any piece that deals, you know - greek drama, even, really, - with those bigger themes, had my intention.
it’ a very dark period for america and think that darkness is reflected in the film.
what do you think this is, the army, where you shoot ‘em a mile away?
this is the era of viethnam.
you know how naive you sound?
why?
who’ being naive, kay?
the country’ coming out of the ‘60 and a lot of people are wondering if the american project can really continue.
corleone is @ man who insists on hearing bad news immediately.
and the country and their family - which, in many ways, @ microcosm of the country - is heading towards a very dark place.
look how they massacred my boy.
marlon brando was cast in the pivotal role of don corleone.
he had a reputation for being difficult and the studio didn’ want him, but coppola prevailed and his performance ended up defining the film.
them, as you can see.
1 should listen.
he was 47 years old when shooting began, at a low point of his career.
he did a screen test he put paper handkerchiefs what is the interest for my family?
during filming, he wore this dental plumper, now an exhibit at the museum of the moving image, to make him sound and lock different.
how did things ever get so far?
mean, coppola said he wanted - he’ get for - olivier wouldn’ have been good for that part.
but brando, he took certain chances with a certain mouthpiece and so forth, but it worked because he could bring an inner sense of intensity and truth from within himself, you know?
within quotation marks for the part, you know?
although he read his lines!
he put up billboards, he put lines here, he’ read ‘em, you know?
so, he had his own way of working.
when you say he read his lines, he relied on cue cards?
not all the time but, like, the scene with, quess, pacino in the gardens he’ lean back and look up he had his lines written in a tree.
or down here, you know?
so, he claimed it he made it, you know, spontaneous but don’ think he needed to do with that way
but he worked that way and that’ fine, you know?
brando was brando, you know?
this is my father.
the other crucial role to be = don corleone’ youngest son.
luca brasi held a revolver against halley’ head.
coppola went for pacine - a i a the studio wasn’ impressed wal te3
it was described as "anaemic”.
are all these people bothering your father on a day like this?
oh, that’ because they know.
that no sicilian can refuse any request but ultimately, pacino’ performance was mesmerising and ignited his career.
i’ with you now.
i’ with you.
thought, "there’ no way i’ going to get the part!
“you can’” - you know what mean?
they’re all these big movie stars out there and thought "what do they want?
i’ doing all right.
@ mean, simple.
play the piano sometimes, go do theatre, read, have - you know, i’ in new york.
you get everything.
new york feeds you, you know?
you don’ need anything else.
island and elsewhere in new york, and in fact as far the godfather comes together extremely smoothly i but behind-the-scenes it was anything but smooth.
there was a lot of friction between the director, francis ford coppola, on a number of matters.
there were fights over budget, location, setting.
at one point there was even an insurrection about among coppola’ own crew, that they wanted him replaced as director.
won’ sit still for all-out war!
then they hand me sollozzo!
this is business not personal.
the mayhem, coppola managed to remain a steady hand, working well with the actors.
the thing that was good about coppola, he didn’ say you had to do it, like certain he wanted to see what you brought to the table.
he would watch he would go with it if he thought it was valid.
so, you know, he had - without, you know, being totally arbitrary.
a a causeway, he’ dead.
that’ a thing do remember.
coppola said, "do you want to do another take?
™ said yeah, and then think he got what he wanted.
he’ not one of the directors that does 25 takes.
you know, if he gets it in the beginning, that’ it with coppola.
he’ not one to beat a dying horse, you know.
godfather came frem the italian-american community would display them all as a bunch of mafia hoodlums.
at first the italian-american civil rights league, led by joe colombo, who was reputedly also the head of one of the five families of new york, they were trying to stamp out what was perceived as stereotyping of italian americans in popular of that campaign.
the league wanted it to be stopped.
but ruddy, the producer, met with the league and joe colombo to ruddy, only wanted one thing and that was no mention it had enly been mentioned at one point in the screenplay.
and so ruddy agreed that that would be taken out.
and for that one simple deletion, a world of cooperation opened.
and some reputedly connected individuals were allegedly cast the godfather is memorable for its violence, some of it highly choreographed.
what about the violence about that?
well, think it’ well choreographed.
some of the stuff today, some but there was a reason for it in the godfather.
coppola knew how i a violent to make the picture more sellable at the box office rather than just have an artistic sensibility which they feared coppola might deliver.
the godfather is in many ways a classic new york movie, and francis ford coppola made ample use of locations much of the shooting was done down here in lower manhattan in different areas of little ltaly.
think it’ a really important new york film because in some ways it traces the important spots for, certainly in new york, where you’ve got little italy that features prominently there, and you’ve got staten island where the opening wedding sequence was shot.
i’ from staten island i 1 up with references to the godfather having staten island is alse a preminent location in terms of the history of organised crime and the sort of, new york’ landmark radio city music hall michael
and kay, played respectively by pacino and diane keaton, are seen leaving the music hall and learning of the news that don corleone has been shot in little italy.
is he all right?
we don’ know yet.
in fact, diane keaton is one of very few women in any significant role in the godfather, it’ a very male story, an incredibly patriarchal crime family.
in fact, the movie has been accused of being misogynistic, even holding back the progress of women in the film industry.
emma jones has been investigating.
daughters, lovers, wives, mothers.
can’ hear you.
some go without a first name, like mama corlecne.
what place do its women have?
you just told me to make you dinner.
apart from in the kitchen elge watching it as a woman there is always the sense of, what are female characters?
there are some, but who are they, and are they really as fleshed out as the male characters in the film?
don’ ask me about my business.
enough!
diane keaton played kay, the american graduate who marries michael corleone.
it was keaton’ breakthrough acting role.
kay, for all her faults in the film, as a character what was that?
but nobody was hurt.
and think it’ interesting because you see the mafia and the world through her eyes.
we are the outsider curious = a a that is one of the strong points of the film but it’ unfortunate, they could have how long have you been back?
think she is often presented as this sort of lovesick, weeping, distressed women who is just in love = to be a main character in this film, if you are going to reboot the godfather that is what you should do, that is what should happen.
in the world outside the godfather in 1972, there were waves of feminist protests seeking equality.
a year later, roe wade granted abortion rights times have changed.
in the godfather, set in 1945, it is a rigidly patriarchal system.
hate you!
john corleone’ daughter connie, played by talia shire, fleshed out as a character by the horrific depiction of domestic abuse she suffers.
michael corleone’ sicilian first wife apollonia is filmed topless on her wedding night.
the actress, simonetta stefanelli, was a teenager at the time.
she is topless, you know, he is not.
there is no male nudity at all.
and, you know, it’ like, previously in the film you have seen her basically being bartered over.
she has very few lines, very little opportunity to give any kind of character.
think the actress herself described her role as, "i met him, married him, died.
”
she has some power.
and yet is quite helpless.
it was my fault!
she’ another character that is squandered in my view.
the film was hugely successful so a lot of studio execs would have looked at that film and thought, "fantastic, let’ replicate that.
” and think the 1970 was the age of the male anti-hero.
i 2 gto that you’re not a happy person.
that was a period where you have robert niro in taxi driver, there were a lot of misogynistic men whose characters were explored.
don’ think the godfather should exist at all, i think it is a great film, felt completely destroyed by the cinema, the popular perhaps coppola’ lens on italian and american women they existed to please, may have been fairly accurate.
and fleshing these women out into fully dimensional a an opportunity missed.
this new york crime family epic a i and cinematography.
there wasn’ enough there just wasn’ enough time.
we’ll get there, pop.
we’ll get there.
50 years after its launch, it’ clear that in many ways culture, particularly with the way in which mobsters are portrayed.
a man who doesn’ spend time with his family can never be a real man.
whether it be in the popular real ’ series the sopranos.
someday soon you’re gonna have family of your own.
and if you’re lucky, you’ll or in director martin scorsese’ celebrated new york gangster film, goodfellas.
do think the godfather change the way the mafia after the godfather, gangsters were seen as almost noble.
they were seen as quiet, calculating, certainly intense, but not the kind of cartoonish % you would have seen before.
so that brings this special godfather anniversary edition of talking movies to a close.
we hope you’ve enjoyed the show.
please remember you can always reach us online at bbc.
com/talkingmovies.
and you can find us on twitter.
from me, tom brook, and the rest of the talking movies team here in new york, it’ goodbye as we leave movies ever made.
this heart bring you.
have but one dream, that can cling to.
you are the one dream pray comes true.
hello, there.
wednesday could be a little bit cooler still, but there’ going to be more sunshine on the way.
westerly breeze in scotland and northern ireland will bring sunny spells and perhaps one or two light showers.
for england and wales, generally dry.
cloudy start in the far southern parts of england - one or two spots of rain to move through - otherwise, lots of sunshine.
those temperatures continuing to drop away a little bit.
it’ cooler and fresher it’ another hot day in east anglia in the southeast - could make 30 degrees again in london.
heading into thursday, and the west-to-northwesterly breeze brings more cloud and more showers to scotland, northern ireland, perhaps into northern england.
but, again, it’ through wales, the midlands and southern england.
again, it’ very warm - temperatures heading and around 18 or 19 for much of scotland and northern it really is going to warm up, though, this weekend - sunday into the beginning of next week.
we’ve got this extreme heat warning from the met office for much of england and most of wales.
our top stories.
sri lanka’ president flees the country - along with other members of his family - he’ promised to resign today.
demonstraters blame him for the economic crisis that’ agfoo i leaving it desperately short of funds to buy a .
lia 1 investigating the storming of the capitol lays out how extremists, in a last-ditch bid i raiel the race begins next prime minister - eight candidates prepare for the first round of voting.
and the first extraordinary images from ’ new telescope - distant galaxies and light from 13 billion years ago.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
sri lanka’ president gotabaya rajapaksa has left the country amid mass protests i and he’ landed in the maldives.
rajapaksa left aboard a military jet, ending a family dynasty that has ruled the country for decades.
he had been in hiding, after crowds stormed his residence on saturday.
sources have told the his brother, former finance minister basil rajapaksa, has also left the country.
a = promised to resign, from prosecution.
want want to show you some pictures from the presidential itself in colombo.
office itself in colombo.
people expect a a resignation be announced.
we have heard that the speaker of parliament nothing , but there saying nothing yet, but there should be something official by evening colombo time.
this evening colombo time.
quite 3 quite a few hours still to this evening colombo time.
quite a few hours still to wait at is the case, but crowds iia 11 if that is the case, but crowds expectant in anticipation of resident’ resignation.
the president’ resignation.
57 2 2 they blame him for the econemic is which as crippled the crisis which has crippled the country, and it has left it of funds for critical issues, buying medicine, fuel ood.
there is a real party atmosphere here at colombo seafront, which has been a protest site for many weeks, one of the main demands protesters had was for gotabaya rajapaksa to go.
demands protesters had was their slogan, their chant was "go home, gota".
we now know that president gotabaya rajapaksa has left the country.
he fled on a military jet with members of his family.
for the last few days, ever since his home, his official residence, was overrun by protesters.
it wasn’ just his official residence, in fact over there his presidential secretariat, his offices, 0 by protesters.
you can see the aftermath now.
days on, the protesters here are sleeping in the grounds and on the steps.
we also know that the president’ brother the former finance minister basil rajapaksa has also left the country.
he’ believed to be heading to america.
he still hasn’ as of now stepped down from his post.
he’ due to hand in his resignation, that being expected on wednesday.
if he does, then that 18 2 for a president to run this country, and there will be a process in parliament to decide who his replacement is.
all of this is part of a wider concern, we are still in the middle of an economic this queue, you can see it going all the way down here, for free bread and curry because they are struggling to get a hold of the basics.
but news of president rajapaksa’ departure from the country, that is still filtering in here.
spoke to one person who said he was relieved and pleased.
but another woman said she felt - by the man she blamed for this crisis, who has gone without offering a solution.
earlier, spoke with akhil bery, director of south asia initiatives at the asia society.
began by asking him how sri lankans have reacted to gotabaya rajapaksa’ departure from the country.
immense anger towards him about the mismanagement 0 and to the family for taking advantage of ordinary sri lankans.
people are frustrated a ¢ improving, and they sought saying, look, we just want a handful of honest politicians to take this on and start making a difference.
how realistic is that, even as an idea, given the dynasty of the rajapaksas, the nature of the political it’ going to be difficult for anyone, any politician to navigate sri lanka out on a pathway to fiscal solvency.
so even if the person rumoured to be the next president when parliament reconvenes to elect someone, don’ forget, in 2019, that person lost by 10%, so he’ not very popular with the general populace.
it’ not going to be easy for any politician to garner the support of the people needed to implement the reforms necessary to get sri lanka back to fiscal solvency.
iif they want funding.
are they the right people to do that?
all politicians and political parties are in agreement that the is needed, and that will unlock further multilateral financing which sri lanka desperately needs.
sri lanka it’ estimated needs 1 finance this year to bridge the current account deficit, eyl unless they agree terms does sri lanka have the sort of technocrats who might be best placed to fill the role of complying with the likes of the ?
do those people exist?
yes, sri lanka has been in the programme before.
the previous prime minister and president, sri lanka was in an programme because they to gain access to more foreign exchange to be able to pay off their debts, and also afford the imports sri lanka needs.
one other point, with regard to president rajapaksa again, a lot of people feel they have been let down by this want some justice.
can you see rajapaksa being held accountable don’ think se, and this is one of the reasons the protesters are upset tlae ety minister wickremesinghe.
there is a belief he has shielded the rajapaksas from prosecution.
when he was prime minister, after the former president mahindra rajapaksa lost his re-election bid, there was a time they could have prosecuted the rajapaksas for their war crimes especially, but he refused to go ahead with that.
1 1 2 referring to him in a generally angry way they believe he has a propensity to shield the rajapaksas from justice.
in washington, the committee investigating the storming of the capitol last year has heard how donald trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid tec remain in office.
members of his inner circle explained how trump ignored their advice to concede the election, and instead summeoned a mob to washington.
well, earlier spoke to the presidential historian allan lichtman and asked him if any new information or accusations levelled at trump by the congressional committee will actually stick.
think it does stick to some extent.
think it does stick to some a nt.
certain republican on tatian extent.
certain republican on extent.
certain republican on the committee would have ned 3 into circus rather the committee would have turned leo it into a circus rather than this presentation.
secondly, resident trump can say what he ts, he always does, but the speak or themselves.
and the telling hing here, it’ his critics not his critics presenting facts, it is trompe ’oeil ists, including his own ite house counsel, who said theories about a stolen election.
these theories about a stolen a ection —-- trump oyalists.
any time during this bloody urrection, trump could have alked to the podium and lled pen his followers to stop.
nstead he delayed more than hours.
this is something hasn’ been id very much.
he tremendous human mage trump has done, not to ance a principle, but to 3 advance a principle, but to advance his own selfish will ay in power.
we’ve talked a about the damage done to lice officers, 140 injured, several deaths resulting.
we haven’ talked enough about the done to his own damage done to his own llowers.
that, to me, was the ling oint of ayres’ estimony, an ordinary guy who to the capitol and had his ruined because he was ndicted.
multiply that many dreds of times.
at raises hundreds of times.
that raises he question about what trump porters ake of what they re hearing, when their hero , these people are says, these people are says, these people are turncoats.
stand by my ition, the election was stolen what is the general now among his supporters, hat view now among his supporters, 0 08 view now among his supporters, that support base, as to where 3 ump really stands?
you know, it’ remarkable.
in seven years, trump’ approval rating for all respondents, it’ generally in the low 40% range, as it was in a poll today, very high among republicans.
but we have seen some erosion of republican support for donald trump running again.
a lot of republicans are now getting tired of his act.
they want to run on the economy and biden’ leadership.
tensions in the west bank - palestinian militant groups after months of talks and missed deadlines, a deal has been struck to keep greece within the euro zone.
the immediate prospect of greece going bust emergency services across central europe are stepping way by americans.
it is a timely reminder to all americans of the problems 3 has brought to them.
leaders meet in paris for a summit on pollution, inflation, and third world debt.
this morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations for a show of military might on the champs-elysees.
wildlife officials in australia have been coping with a penguin problem.
fairy penguins have been staggering ashore and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge shoals of their favourite food - pilchards.
some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
after fleeing the country following weeks of protests lia 1 investigating the storming of the capitol lays out how in the occupied west bank this week - a near daily occurrence since a wave of deadly attacks by palestinians against israelis in the spring.
the focus has been where palestinian militant groups have been rearming, as our middle east correspondent tom bateman reports.
a mother’ grief echoes around the grave of her daughter.
"i didn’ believe you’ hanan was hit by a bullet as she headed home from an english class.
one among dozens of palestinians killed in the west bank this year.
the bullet hit her here.
it left five holes in her body.
her schoolwork full of promise for her family.
now all they have left are the fragments of a life.
there are stories like hanan’ and every day there is a story.
hanan’ taxi was hit during an israeli army raid into jenin.
there were gun fights examining the case.
it’ not clear how ¢ as the raids have stepped up, rights groups accuse israel of using excessive force.
it follows a series of deadly attacks by palestinians.
a1 a gunman opened fire at a packed bar, killing three israelis.
it was one in a string of attacks in which 18 people were killed.
israelis were facing the worst spate of violence on their street in years.
meanwhile in jenin refugee camp, there militants have been rearming.
shows of force on a scale not seen in two decades.
a huge amount of weapons, -16, automatic people are letting loose.
it really feels like, and you can hear that, things are ramping up we were taken to the home of these so-called jenin brigade.
it’ part of the palestinian armed groups - all listed by israel and the west as terrorist organisations.
: we got out as armed resistance in the camp.
when we find the soldiers, we shoot at them.
the west sees groups in the camp as terrorist organisations so are you doing this, don’ you leave it to the official palestinian authority?
: the palestinian authority sold us out from the beginning.
they don’ protect us.
during a raid in may, the veteran palestinian evidence suggests she was hit by an israeli bullet, something the army dispute.
her case has become a symbol for palestinians.
these raids are happening a a of the time they are simply just not well documented.
& the dangers involved.
the same month, an israeli officer was shot dead in jenin.
in the raids and many fear a further descent into violence.
"hanan, cannot reach you", her mum cries.
her daughter tried to get to a class and never came home.
just having hope here meant paying with her life.
tom bateman, news, jenin.
1 contenders have made it to the first round of the leadership race to become the first round vote happens on wednesday.
candidates with fewer than 30 here’ more from our political editor, chris mason.
the early skirmishes like all the other candidates against sunak.
he pointedly repeated his critique today of what he sees and that means honesty and responsibility, not fairy tales.
once we’ve gripped inflation, will get the tax burden down.
it is a question of when, not if.
so many of your colleagues have sought to demolish your record as chancellor.
do you have the stomach 4 i’ standing here today surrounded by friends chris, that’ what gives me the optimism, the confidence, to do this.
thank you all very much.
here’ one of the reasons sunak sounds chipper - tempting a fellow candidate to give up and back him instead.
while two senior ministers dashed out of the meeting to here, to endorse rishi sunak, another and straight away endorsed liz truss.
i’ve sat with liz in cabinet for some long time.
very aware that she’ probably a stronger she’ consistently argued for low tax policies.
liz was always opposed to rishi’ higher taxes.
that again is proper from barbs in downing street from backers of the foreign supporting the former minister kemi badenoch.
i tell the truth, 1 fight for change, stand up for people and stand up for the causes and the country love.
some might say this is no time for novices.
i think this is no time for steady as it goes sinking inte decline.
it’ time for change.
kemi is bright, brilliant and brave.
it’ only very rarely in politics you come across talents like that.
kemi is undoubtedly, think, a phenemenon.
she’ got the right stuff.
to another lectern, more applause and another this time for tom tugendhat.
a we’ve retreated into the pettiness of politics that is more about personality than principle.
when our nation needed our party to function, when the moment demanded service, we delivered scandal.
also on the ballot paper tomorrow, the new chanceller, nadhim zahawi.
suella braverman, the attorney general for england and wales.
®: minister penny mordaunt, whose launch event is in the morning.
candidates, then do head over to the news website, as you can see there’ plenty of coverage and analysis there.
that’ also where you’ll find the results of those ballots and the news app.
you might remember we told you about the james achievements on tuesday.
we now have the second batch of 0 otos released.
view of the universe we’ve ever seen.
our science editor rebecca morelle reports.
these are the cosmic cliffs of the carina nebula.
amidst the dust, stars are being born.
this is a new view of stephan’ quintet, 500 million light years away, where vast galaxies are caught and the deepest ever view of space.
it’ teeming with galaxies.
some from just a few hundred million years - to have worked on a mission for this long, to be able to finally see it come to fruition, to do what it’ supposed to do, is just absolutely incredible.
the images are amazing, themselves, just as images, to do, and what we can learn from these images, the telescope blasted off last year on christmas day, and over the last six months, it’ been getting ready for its mission.
the james webb space telescope is an engineering marvel.
mirror made up of 18 hexagonal segments, each perfectly aligned to act as a single surface.
it also has a sun shield las to protect it from the heat and light of the sun.
before, showing us the light from the very first we’ll also be able to see how they came together to form the earliest galaxies.
and it will study other planetary systems, revealing beyond our world.
11 13 like a time machine.
kt4 into the far distant past and so we can begin to answer 018 how did the first galaxies and stars form.
in real time, as it were, a history of the & captured this.
2,000 light years away, it’ a star going through its death throes.
in some strange way it is a pretty view of something decaying and dying but we’re able again to look at the material as it flows away from the star and understand something about the evolution of the star, so going from star birth in the star-forming regions, all the way through to star death.
but this is just the start for the telescope.
over the coming days and months, more and more images will be captured.
our knowledge of the universe and our place in it 1 about to be transformed.
rebecca morelle, news.
some bad luck for kids in mainland china who love spending all their time playing online video games.
tech giant tencent says it won’ relax its restrictions on the hours children in china can play games - even during their summer break.
at the moment, they’re only allowed to play for an hour a day between friday and sunday.
just time for a reminder of our top story.
after fleeing the country following months of mass protests over the island’ economic crisis.
his departures ends the rajapaksa political dynasty which has ruled the island for decades, and who sri lankans blame for mismanaging the economy, leaving millions struggling to buy food, fuel and medicine.
we have heard from the speaker of parliament saying he expects that resignation letter tee i8 to get that resignation letter from the president by the i a tuesday was a it was thick enough even to give a bit of but despite the cloud, here in london, it was hot.
temperatures over 30 celsius again.
much further north, preparing for the open at andrews, it’ cooler.
temperatures were in the low 20 despite the sunshine.
that cooler, cleaner, 3 down from the north, following this band of cloud or two spots of rain.
so, for much of the country, a more comfortable night.
still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the southeast of england.
and across southern parts of england, could start quite cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots of rain left over.
that’ slowly moving away.
we will see one or two showers ela much more sunshine, though, arriving across england and wales than we had on tuesday.
those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly, but still another hot day in the southeast and east anglia, and in london 30 degrees not out of the question.
heading into thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly northern ireland, scotland, perhaps a few inte northern into wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
but those temperatures continuing to just drop away a little.
highs of a more manageable 27 celsius in the southeast of england.
in across the , where we’ve got this weak weather front for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for northern ireland pushing across scotland, perhaps northern england, that should move away, skies will brighten.
it is going to be fine and with light winds.
typically into the mid-20.
still only around 19-20 through the central belt of scotland.
it’ into the weekend that really things start to warm up, not so much for scotland and northern ireland, and the far north of england, 2ol 0 into the mid-20, but for many other parts of england and into wales, we are going to find some extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend into the start we’ve got that extreme heat warning from the met office.
so in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will really be shooting up.
temperatures could even get higher than that.
sri lanka’ president - gotabaya rajapaksa - has fled the country with members of his family - following months of protests lat 1 the understands his military jet has after protestors stormed his residence on saturday.
in washington, the committee investigating the storming of the capitol last year has laid out how donald trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid tec remain in office.
members of his inner circle told how during a heated meeting trump ignored - in britain, the race to replace boris johnson as leader of the governing party and the country’ prime minister has narrowed to eight fellow conservative mps_ the field will be narrowed down to two in a series of votes.
the part at large will then now on news, hardtalk.
welcome to hardtalk, i’ stephen sackur.
25 years ago, almost 1.
5 million christians now there are around a quarter of a million.
and after years of war and sectarian violence, many of them have been displaced from their ancestral homes.
can anything be done to reverse this trend toward extinction?
well, my guest is archbishop bashar warda of erbil, home to the largest remaining christian community 1 a christianity has deep roots.
archbishop bashar warda, welcome to hardtalk.
111918 welcome, thank you.
it’ a pleasure to have you here, but have to ask you, archbishop, how demoralising is it for community getting smaller and smaller year after year?
yeah, would say it’ dangerously low in number.
there is no one reason for our family to stay.
i cannot convince them unless we do something for them.
yes, we live in a safe environment in kurdistan, in erbil and duhok, but still, challenges, it’ everywhere and especially when it comes to the whole region as middle east, christians a i it’ not just about iraq.
speaking about syria, lebanon and the number of the christians declining.
so everyone is thinking how to get out safely, while as church leaders, we are trying our best, really, the qualified, because over 14 years also of trafficking and all of these kinds of atrocities alse happened.
a challenging, frightening, to be honest, that we wake up one day and to be called to serve in another country where my community is there being uprooted from that history.
let’ talk about security.
the so-called islamic state were vanguished in 2017.
by then, they had done terrible things to christian communities across the north of iraq.
the nineveh plains, communities destroyed, people forced to flee a a 3 enough to survive.
that’ over now.
but isn’ the truth that christians in iraq still feel deeply insecure?
yes, the culture, the culture have not really raised to a level of what we call, we say,
yeah, they speak about tolerance, which hate.
mean, haven’ done anything wrong.
when you say they speak of tolerance, you mean and the muslim community?
yeah, they speak about tolerance, tolerance.
and keep telling them, please do not use this word.
speak about co-existence, speak about respect, which, luckily, some people in the government is picking up on this
and they really to say, , co-existence.
as said, lack of trust.
eight months, nine months after the election, there is no government.
messages 1 everyone.
and, mean, there is no government in baghdad.
and this also has its impact on the old people when it comes to poverty, unemployment, security.
the difficulties between baghdad and erbil, you could tell, you could tell.
it is a country in chaos.
it’ alsoe a country where it seems christians who even dream of recovering their homes, because tens of thousands were forced to flee and were displaced from their ancestral homes, if they attempt to go back, for many of them, it is impossible to reclaim their properties.
so with whom you are going to deal?
and there are lots of mediators, corruption.
and so,
yeah, it’, we’ve lost over 10,000 properties and some people would say more of this.
you said in 2019, christians in lraq are, your quote, is that a trajectory which is now inevitable, extinction?
if we do not do something as a government and people, civil societies, ngos, it could be, it could be.
as said, there is no one reason that could speak to a family to tell them, please stay.
yes, it’ a historical land.
it’ the land of cur ancestors.
blood was shed because our faith, you could tell, but they would say, ", bishop, "how am going to feed my family?
extraordinary work in and arocund erbil?
because you, unlike many very senior church people, you’ve got your hands dirty, not just with matters of faith and theology and the church, you’ve been involved in founding and operating a university, a hospital, shops, commercial ventures.
you seem to have a finger in all sorts of pies.
are you doing that?
well, i’ doing that for the whole country.
the jewish community.
have asked themselves dalfo they think it’ something older.
mean, they have a land they should go.
but we lost qualified people.
we lost musicians.
until today, the most popular music is being conducted from the ‘30 not their medina, not their yazidis, definitely christians.
so what i’ doing is not just doing it for my people, which love them, and do a0 creating jobs, creating qualified centres, yes.
but i’ doing it for the whole country because the diversity otherwise you could imagine other scenarios.
in your christian community, but other communities too.
mean, believe your university has, what, roughly 800 places for students, your hospital has kt4 we are 280 and next year we are expecting so you’re hoping to expand?
definitely.
and then your hospital has beds, what, for 100 people?
well, i’ exaggerating then.
mean, let us be honest.
and again, i’ just wondering whether it is only faith seems like you are up against a challenge
almost yeah,
but that’ what makes life meaningful.
a hope that it’ there and we, all with the people who are helping me are part of people who are building and strengthening that hope.
it’ not a hope that comes like a dream.
no, we have to work hard, knock doors.
not everyone is listening, but those who are listening are really making it much, much easier on me.
the ventures mentioned are in a specific neighbourhood, a quarter of a wider - &~ and i’ just interested, and this applies not is it wise to, in a sense, encourage christians to gather in concentrated communities in one particular place?
one could argue and fear that those places might become ghettos and might become easy targets for those extremists who want to continue a1 violence and persecution.
no, that’ not my plan.
that’ not my wish.
because socially speaking, whenever there is a christian community, yazidi community, people tend to gather this is a social fact.
what i’ saying, , ankawa is one city of three, four big spots.
let’ work on strengthening all of this together.
not really, mean, the danger is there, but what am doing always in my work and when go out, i’ not talking just about ankawa, i’ encouraging everyone, please, there are certain areas which needs help.
please go there.
but just to be specific, is ankawa, as you envisage it, a fully and completely christian community, or do you want muslims, yazidis, others to be integrated in that community?
we do have, we do have christian community we have also muslim communities living peacefully with our yazidi community.
also is open to all, schools, open to all.
see, the reason i’ asking this is because you’ve reflected about things you’ve said, you’ve appeared to reflect about islam which inevitably leads christians to feel like, even if they are accepted, even if they’re peaceably living side by side is that what you believe?
i always being honest with my brothers, muslims and imams and telling them when it’ based the constitution on islamic sharia, this is just the fact.
if you based the whole constitution on any sharia or any religion, those who are not of the same religion will be so, my question is, how can christians, in your view, ever feel fully equal and free, in predeminantly muslim society.
they will never?
no.
muslims think this way.
gay the sharia, to your religion.
the natural, the logic will be those who are not muslims would not be considered as first citizens.
see, i’ just looking at the words of another interesting and influential voice in the middle east christian community, harry hagopian.
he’ an international lawyer.
in jerusalem, assistant general secretary of the middle east council of churches, based in beirut, in lebanon.
harry hagopian says we shouldn’, as christians, the work we do.
he says, quote, "today, perhaps more than at any other time, "christians and muslims are condemned to solidarity.
hope to vanquish tyranny, barbarity and fanaticism.
”
do you agree?
there was never in the history that christians have been sectarian when it comes to their schools, hospitals, anything like that.
mean, you could go to, mean, i’ sure you travelled to lebanon and you’ve seen what the christians a to the whole country.
yes, we have to unify all the efforts in fighting extremism.
but do you work with muslims or do you regard your work as entirely in the christian lis& every day.
whenever see any, meet any imams, i’ addressing these issues friendly and without, really, i mean, attacking just to tell them this is the truth and this the result of 1,400 years.
we have to learn 2 do you think then, do you agree with hagopian, who worries that sometimes the international christian supporters of christians in iraq and in the wider the muslim community.
they see things, according to hagopian, in an exclusively christian prism, focusing on christian persecution, when the fact is, of course, that many other groups, muslims, yazidis, many others, are also facing persecution across the middle east region.
he says, "let’ remember that.
”
do you remember that?
well, speaking of my experience, the people and bishop conferences, knights of columbus, all the people who have helped me, they never said whoever comes to the door, looking for help, we are offering that help.
of course, of course, there are some donors, for example, who would be interested, but this and that’ we made good friendships during a time of crisis and with many people who are in need from all the communities.
because i’ve said it many times, yes.
if 1sis was behind displacement of 125,000 christians, displacement of three millien sunnis from mosul and anbar and salahuddin.
i’ve said that have done damage to islam and to muslims in these governorates more than, but of course, i am a bishop, so have to speak for my people.
very sensitive subject, and that is conversion.
some muslims, particularly islamists and more extreme muslims, accuse christians of actively seeking out converts, undermining the muslim community.
- on conversion?
do you encourage, welcome, 10 iragi muslims converting to christianity?
well, lived with, mean, my community lived with islam for more than 1,400 years.
and according to islamic there is no conversion, no evangelisation.
once you start this activity, you are waging a war against islam and jihad would be justified.
so we respect this, mean, all the way.
however, however, if anyone would come to my door, muslim, asking about christ, christianity to tell, will tell him who we are.
see, that’ very diplomatically put.
your boss, guess, that is the chaldean patriarch, 3 we must love them.
if christians want to convert to islam, that is fine.
and if muslims want to convert to christianity, that is also , guess" but it’ not with the constitution that’ what i’ getting to, suppose.
is it responsible to say to the world, if muslims want to convert to christianity, & understand he said it.
but the truth in irag, and you know it much better than me, is that any muslims who do convert, they face and will be endangering my community.
mean, that’ the fact.
mean, we have to say as it is, we are not blaming anyone.
change it, then we could speak with muslims.
listen, there is nothing a3 aiatial prevents us from this.
but once it’ there, have to respect,
otherwise
yeah, i’ just wondering about the reality on the ground.
mean, there you sit in erbil.
but there have been cases, christianity today reported being reported as ousted by their families, removed from their homes, threatened, "to the point of death that’ a fact.
that’ a fact.
we are surprised with this?
this is the islamic sharia, which says, as long as you live under the islamic authority, respecting the principle of sharia, you live in the land of islam and land of peace.
01 a 8 to evangelise, you are raging a war against islam and jihad would be justified against you.
i’ not, i’ not making up.
this is the fact which our ancestors have respected in a certain period of history.
they were paying jizya.
thank god there was nothing of that.
it was a condition for , but that’ what, where we are.
so here you are in london in defence of religious freedoms around the world, but in particular, in countries where religious freedom you, in the past, have seemed quite disappeinted by some of the lack of support and assistance you’ve received from western churches and western governments, and you appear to ascribe that of upsetting islamic governments and islamic communities, a sort of fear of islam, being accused of islamophobia.
do you still think that is present?
yeah, still some governments feel it would be showing favouritism if they would help.
you don’ get the help you feel you need?
from the government?
europe will not deal directly, except hungary.
ade an example.
they said, , those are persecuted people.
christians and yazidis, we’ll go and help them there, where they are, but others have, are reluctant.
that the government here will follow also the example probably of hungary.
with churches, condition that they are qualified to receive the help bureaucratic issues.
that’ fine.
if we are ready to receive help and be within the mandates.
this is difficult, isn’ it?
mean, the west has a complex recent relationship with iraq, and we all know what happened with western
so i’ not sure that many in your own country necessarily from the united states, the united kingdom and other western countries, do they?
but if you check the date, mean, the numbers it still is there, and still iraq is seeking loans and grants.
that’ much more about = interests and geopolitics than it is about a desire 1 8 communities like yours.
being there and maintaining these cultures, these i =1 of the security, part of the building of security of the whole country.
it’ a large picture that should be, it’ a holistic approach that the government should take into consideration.
showing favourites.
and if you help a christian school, which has 90% and the same thing when it comes to hospital, clinic, you could tell.
interesting, you talk about that helistic approach.
and just wonder, as we close this interview, do you feel it matters so much that a christian community, a christian presence is maintained in a country like iraq, where, of course, it has a long, long history, but it may not have a future.
yes, because first, do believe in the words that people, muslim people will tell me, we like you, we love you, we want you to stay.
they say it, , i’ll take it.
qualified doctors, nursing, teachers, professors.
like it
and i like it more because the future of the country depends on the diversity.
it’ wonderful, wonderful.
everyone have contributed in making iraq what we know as iraqg.
the mosaic must be maintained.
it should be and we are responsible for it.
archbishop bashar warda, thank you very much indeed 111918 hello, there.
i a tuesday was a we had much more cloud around.
it was thick enough even to give a bit of but despite the cloud, here in london, it was hot.
temperatures over 30 celsius again.
much further north, preparing for the open at andrews, it’ cooler.
temperatures were in the low 20 despite the sunshine.
that cooler, cleaner, 3 down from the north, following this band of cloud or two spots of rain.
comfortable night.
still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the southeast of england.
and across southern parts of england, could start quite cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots of rain left over.
that’ slowly moving away.
we will see one or two showers ela much more sunshine, though, arriving across england and wales than we had on tuesday.
those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly, but still another hot day in the southeast and east anglia, and in london 30 degrees not out of the question.
heading into thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly northern ireland, scotland, perhaps a few inte northern into wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
but those temperatures continuing to just drop away a little.
highs of the more manageable 27 celsius in the southeast of england.
in across the , where we’ve got this weak weather front for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for northern ireland pushing across scotland, perhaps northern england, that should move away, skies will brighten.
it is going to be fine and with light winds.
typically into the mid-20.
still only around 19-20 through the central belt of scotland.
it’ into the weekend that really things start to warm up, not so much for scotland and northern ireland, and the far north of england, 2ol 0 into the mid-20, but for many other parts of england and into wales, we are going to find some extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend into the start we’ve got that extreme heat warning from the met office.
so in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will really be shooting up.
temperatures could even get higher than that.
i’ sally bundock after months of mass protests against his rule, the first round of voting takes place later in the race to be more details emerge about last year’ storming of the capitol, and how donald trump tried to cling on to power.
1 7 running of the bulls festival in pamplona.
sri lanka’ president, gotabaya rajapaksa, has fled the country with members of his family, following months his formal resignation expected to be announced at some point today.
the understands the president’ military jet has landed in male, the capital of the maldives.
he had been in hiding after protestors stormed his residence on saturday.
our south asia correspondent rajini vaidyanathan sent this report from colombo.
many sri lankans feel that leaving is their only defined by endless waits.
hundreds queue for passports.
a chance to leave their of something better.
many trying to make it to the middle east, like vasana, whose hoping & - 1 to support her six-year-old.
how do you feel about wanting to leave sri lanka?
she says she’ going because she’ struggling to even get food and that’ one of the reasons she’ trying me, i’ planning to go to .
we don’ see any future.
so that’ basically we want to move on this country for our kids, not for us.
there’ been a lot of pressure for president rajapaksa to step down.
did you vote for him?
and we never expected this.
vin and it’ not just these crowds who are trying to leave the country.
the very people who are blamed for creating this economic crisis, president gotabaya rajapaksa and his family members, are also trying to flee the island.
this video is believed to have been recorded at the airport as former finance minister basil rajapaksa was stopped at immigration.
he finally left, said to be heading to america.
his brother, president gotabaya rajapaksa, has now also fled.
a ruthless politician accused of brutality and corruption, part of a family dynasty which has ruled sri lanka for decades - once popular, now parodied.
gotabaya rajapaksa is blamed for the country’ he’ brought this country to its knees.
we have no food to eat.
we have no food.
and that’ thanks to these people and this one family, which has been basically draining all the sources - - lining up for a peek inside the presidential palace days after gotabaya rajapaksa fled his home, he’ now left the country.
we will be live in colombo in half half an hour to assess the political crisis and the lat a1 political crisis and the economic consequences.
conservative will today to vote for which of the eight candidates they want as the party’ leader, and british prime minister, as balloting begins to find his successor.
after nominations for the contest closed on tuesday evening, the eight leadership hopefuls took part in a candidates and the contest, to the news website, as you can see there’ plenty of coverage and analysis there.
that’ also where you’ll find the results of those ballots and the news app.
in washington, the committee investigating the storming of the capitol last year has heard how donald trump incited far-right extremists in a last-ditch bid tec remain in office.
members of his inner circle explained how trump ignored their advice to concede the election, and instead summeoned a mob to washington.
piecing together the events that led up to the riot at the capitol.
this latest hearing focused on the role donald trump played election to joe biden, including claims the former chaos on capitol hill.
donald trump, his legal team 1 hours later, trump urged his supporters in a tweet to descend on washington on january 6th for what he promised would be a wild rally.
that, according to one committee member, was a call to arms for some of trump’ supporters.
at 1:42am on december 19th, 2020, shortly after the last participants left the unhinged meeting, trump sent out the tweet with his explosive invitation.
the panel then heard from this man, a ene-time supporter of trump, who face criminal charges over his actions on january 6th.
he said he went to washington and illegally entered the capitol building because he thought the result of the election for me, personally, was pretty hardcore into the social media - facebook, twitter, instagram.
followed president trump, all of the websites, you know.
he basically put out, come to stop the steal rally, you know?
and felt like needed i another former ally of the president told the committee he was worried about what could happen at the next election.
as tragic as it is what we saw on january 6th, the potential was so much more.
again, all we have to look at is the iconic images of that day, with the gallows set up for mike pence, for the vice president of the united states.
a political witch hunt.
this latest hearing ended with a statement by one of its leading members, the republican liz to contact a witness whose name has not been made public.
she said the committee would take any effort to influence witness testimony very seriously, but only the department of justice has the power to prosecute any individuals suspected of breaking the law.
11 news.
well, we can speak to the political analyst max kutner.
max, welcome to the programme.
yitae ery day goes by, there are more revelations, more imony.
talk us through this latest testimony that we’ve hearing, and what impact has_ .
think the big keaway today was regarding 14 esident trump in that these legations of witness ampering, if we can call it .
apparently tampering, if we can call it i that.
apparently former i 14 president trump had attempted to intimidate a president trump had attempted eil to intimidate a future witness of testifying.
trump has out of testifying.
president trump has denied this, or 1 trump has denied this, or his esperson has denied it, but 14 think this major for two easons.
first, this brings the that the committee is talking about to the present .
the i committee had talking about to the present date.
the committee had come gid a8 113 date.
the committee had come under some criticisms by trump orters, he republicans, aying that, re talking saying that, we are talking about events from a and a half ago, we should move on about more relevant things the economy.
talk about more relevant things i 1 a 101 talk about more relevant things like the economy.
but like , this brings these issues nto the present day, talking something president trump pparently did , very very recently.
" recently.
the her reason this tters, sally, is because ere had been a this matters, sally, is because had been a lot of debate ver hat the point of this over what the point of this committee.
the committee was rtedly split on what it should be doing, whether it redl should issue criminal referrals or just acting a legislative or just acting for a - or just acting for a legislative purpose.
which is ritten reason the written reason these a i ittees exists, to come up committees exists, to come up with legislative commendations.
but apparently tatian recommendations.
but apparently the committee referred i 14
the committee referred president trump to department of justice for ential prosecution, and a iminal referral, over this leged witness tampering.
this \ ally shows this committee 4 just about legislative tion, -1 it really does have eeth.
in terms of people are digesting this in the ted states, is split, olarised?
do you have those re anti-trump who think his who are anti-trump who think i committee and the daily coverage is critical and very rtant, and then do you have important, and then do you have he trump followers who just to move on?
are seeing want to move on?
we are seeing something interesting after this this hearing in particular.
the hearing was in prime time first hearing was in prime time a couple of weeks ago, a lot of i 10
i trump allies came out of the 4 work to defend the woodwork to defend the president and say it was old .
today noticed it was news.
today noticed it was radio silence, it seems the allies re taking trump allies are taking the position of just ignoring ’ happening in what’ happening in these hearings.
was recalling might be taking a page out they might be taking a page out of the trump playbook.
call seeing that uld only say, seeing that he would only say, you never want to comment on thing, because that makes a two day story, it let it pass.
it seems ’ what republicans are doing after the ing in recent hours.
nti-trump folks have been eating this news as major ews, earth-shattering, orld stopping news.
that the tic they have taken hroughout these hearings, ughout the russia throughout the russia investigation, the impeachment trial.
these democrats and anti-trump folks think everyone pay attention to what’ appening at these hearings.
ltimately, as you , the but ultimately, as you say, the ittee itself has been committee itself has been looking into its purpose and 1 foh aims, what will be the end 3 1 4 aims, what will be the end result, but will the end result at former president trump 8 lal is be that former president trump cannot run in be that former president trump election?
is that the ultimate 1 ?
that could be a pie in the ream of some people in hearings, don’ think hat is the goal of this i committee.
these committees come up with ecommendations 1a an issue that happened, investigate the issue figure how the congress uld deal with this issue.
hat’ a very different goal people who might say this uld stop president rump tee i8 should stop president trump ¥ running.
it’ important to a 4 that president trump still lot support in the , has a lot of support in the , maybe not all republicans but a don’ think that’ many.
so don’ think that’ he goal of this, but the news of the alleged witness today of the alleged witness tampering, that is certainly resting and goes beyond the gislative function.
we shall a close eye the , keep a close eye at the , thank you for your time.
stay with us on news, still to come.
as the open championship nears, we’ll hear from one after months of talks and missed deadlines, a deal has been struck to keep greece within the euro zone.
the immediate prospect of greece going bust emergency services across central europe are stepping way by americans.
it is a timely reminder to all americans of the problems 3 has brought to them.
leaders meet in paris for a summit on pollution, inflation, and third world debt.
this morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations for a show of military might on the champs-elysees.
wildlife officials in australia have been coping with a penguin problem.
fairy penguins have been staggering ashore and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge shoals of their favourite food - pilchards.
some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
after months of mass protests against his rule, the first round of voting takes place later in the race to be hundreds of protesters gathered in pamplona following multiple complaints of sexual assault, as well as one rape, during the city’ bull-running festival.
local police have said they are investigating and that no arrests have yet been made.
these latest allegations are reminiscent of the notorious wolfpack case, when a woman was gang-raped at the same festival in 2016.
the ’ azadeh moshiri has this report.
hundreds of whistles sounding the crowd’ anger as, yet again, pamplona’ famous bull running festival is marked by sexual assault.
: we’re here because a hig aggression has been committed, a rape, - ale and we’re here to tell this woman that we weren’ able to stop it.
spanish authorities confirmed that a woman said she was raped during the event and that several other women spain has been here before, and these latest attacks have brought back a case that sparked outrage across the country.
the so-called wolfpack case.
six years ago, five men gang-raped an 18-year-old but a spanish court ruled they were only guilty of sexual the court ruled neither violence nor intimidation had to the case was the fact the defendant hadn’'t said "no” in the video her assailants filmed while they raped her.
though the supreme court eventually convicted the men of rape, it was only a few months ago that, after years of public pressure, a draft bill was approved victims would only have to prove that they never said yes”, and therefore never consented.
: we owed it to each of the victims.
we owed it to curselves.
and most likely it would be one of the most important rights that we can leave to our daughters for the present and future.
only yes is yes, and long live the women’ fight.
prime minister pedro a i rights a central issue for his government.
but these latest attacks are a reminder that that work is not over, and this crowd will be watching how azadeh moshiri, news.
the president joe biden is starting his first trip to the middle east since taking office.
as our middle east correspondent, yolande knell, for joe biden’ first visit to he holy for joe biden’ first visit to !
for joe biden’ first visit to the holy land as president, the arpet is being rolled out.
wants to straighten out relations in region.
he has coming here for five 0 ecades.
but a lot has changed.
srael, the backed formula for making peace with alestinians now gets ittle attention.
when hear little attention.
when we hear the american administration i including the american administration including the president saying state solution, everyone akes a a two state solution, everyone 1 1 makes a kind of smile, what solution?
makes a kind of smile, what tion?
it is completely off he table here in rael.
but i different peace deals could 1 different peace deals could be different peace deals could be on the table.
in a big regional , israel has new shift, israel has made new alliances with arab states who a0 concerns over iran.
share concerns over lran.
01 others may soon llow.
with saudi arabia think ething ill happen, regardless to den.
a lot will happen, regardless to a en.
a lot of peace biden.
a lot of peace agreements recently, and the more, the merrier.
while sident trump aled those president trump sealed those agreements, palestinian saw his on is for peace iased vision is for peace as biased against them.
the biden inistration against them.
the biden against them.
the biden administration will to ild ties when the president ets to bethlehem.
rebuild ties when the president rebuild ties when the president gets to bethlehem.
hope biden take serious and will take serious and courageous steps towards roving this relation, and a a considering united states is one of the most important & sponsors of one of the most important sponsors of the peace process.
i i and think this is the last nce.
close to the nativity rch, the resident is sure church, the president is sure to see palestinians say is running out to have a time is running out to have a tate of their time is running out to have a a i state of their own.
so much of he land lay claimed for it has taken up by israeli settlements.
and is is that illside used be.
the landscape has changed matically ver the years joe iden has been coming here.
but isn’ pressing for a new peace initiative.
i’ not expecting anything from him.
use he’ just going to come because he’ just going to come and visit the church because he’ just going to come slge = 1a because he’ just going to come tlee a1 and visit the church and other places, and he’ going to ve.
palestinians leave.
palestinians feel excluded, but washington argues eventually all could that eventually all could iie fit as it pushes the new steps towards a wider piece in let’ get some of the day’ other news.
the ukrainian authorities say they’re increasing the export of grain through formerly disused ports and canals on the danube river delta between ukraine and romania.
ukraine’ recapture from russia of snake island, in the black sea, means it’ now safe for ships to pick up several wildfires have swept across portugal’'s central region, forcing the evacuation of hundreds of people some houses have burned down, and three main highways the country is suffering a heatwave, with temperatures of over 40 degrees in many parts.
the victims are believed to be a seven-year-old boy and a woman in her 50.
around a dozen people near manhattan, a number of them are being treated in hospital.
let’ get all the latest sports news.
helle, i’ mimi fawaz, and this is the latest sports news.
it was a winning start for erik ten hag as manchester united boss as his side thrashed a pre-season friendly in bangkok, thailand.
salah came close as he hit the post for liverpool.
so a great result for their new manager.
you see, liverpool is a brilliant team, and when you make mistakes in defending, you get beaten.
we had some situations, - and immediately they have 6 many speed they play through, and so we conceded i really good chances against.
so we have a lot of work to do.
former manchester united and england forward wayne rooney has been appointed head coeach of side united.
the 36-year-old, who played for the club from 2018 to 2019, stepped down as manager of derby county last month.
united are second from bottom in the eastern conference, with 17 points from as many games.
and germany are through to the quarterfinals of the women’ euros after beating spain 2-0, while denmark remain in third after a 1-0 win over finland.
late on wednesday, the netherlands will play portugal, and they’ll be without all-time record goalscorer vivianne miedema, who has tested positive for covid and will be in isolation for the next few days.
their head coach admits she’ll be missed.
we just care about her now in isolation, taking care of herself like jackie is.
we look ahead to the challenge tomorrow against a very organised portugal team.
india’ cricketers have the advantage after winning their first one day international with figures of 6-19, as england were bowled out for just 110.
rohit sharma and shikhar dhawan knocking off the runs in just 19 overs.
india, who won the recent 20 series, take a 1-0 lead with two matches to play.
and you can get all the latest sports news at our website - and the rest of the sport team, goodbye.
staying with sport, and in golf tiger woods has delivered a rebuke for some of his fellow professionals for switching their allegiance to a new saudi-backed golf speaking ahead of this week’ open championship at andrews - he said the players had "turned sport, so when tiger woods speaks, golf listens.
here he was practising ahead of the 150th open champioenship at andrews, but his focus seemed to be elsewhere, namely the controversial golf tour and the players who’ve left the and eurepean tour behind.
disagree with it.
is they’ve turned their back on what has allowed them to get to this position.
the people behind it say that golf is an exciting new chapter in the history of the sport - exciting, dynamic and lucrative very, very lucrative.
the saudi government is pumping hundreds of millions of dollars into the game.
regime trying to improve its image on the back of golf, and tiger woods believes there is a huge problem if players can earn big money not from winning but just from turning up.
what is their incentive 4 1 and earn in the dirt?
you are getting paid a lot of money for a few is the idea of greg norman, a two-time winner of the open, who has not been invited to this week’
championship was the right one.
a lot more to come, we will be live in jerusalem shortly to more about president biden’ trip to the middle a and one of the idea is ¢ discussed is a - i be discussed is a new economic i a tuesday was a we had much more cloud around.
it was thick enough even to give a bit of but despite the cloud, here in london, it was hot.
temperatures over 30 celsius again.
much further north, preparing for the open at andrews, it’ cooler.
temperatures were in the low 20 despite the sunshine.
that cooler, cleaner, 3 down from the north, following this band of cloud or two spots of rain.
comfortable night.
still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the southeast of england.
and across southern parts of england, could start quite cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots of rain left over.
that’ slowly moving away.
we will see one or two showers ela much more sunshine, though, arriving across england and wales than we had on tuesday.
those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly, but still another hot day in the southeast and east anglia, and in london 30 degrees not out of the question.
heading into thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly northern ireland, scotland, perhaps a few inte northern into wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
but those temperatures continuing to just drop away a little.
highs of the more manageable 27 celsius in the southeast of england.
in across the , where we’ve got this weak weather front for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for northern ireland pushing across scotland, perhaps northern england, that should move away, skies will brighten.
it is going to be fine and with light winds.
typically into the mid-20.
still only around 19-20 through the central belt of scotland.
it’ into the weekend that really things start to warm up, not so much for scotland and northern ireland, and the far north of england, 2ol 0 into the mid-20, but for many other parts of england and into wales, we are going to find some extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend into the start we’ve got that extreme heat warning from the met office.
so in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will really be shooting up.
temperatures could even get higher than that.
this is news with the latest business headlines for viewers in the a new era of economic cooperation in the middle east?
that’ the promise as president biden arrives in israel later as part of his tour of the region.
we are live to jerusalem.
the only way is up at the moment for prices in the - the latest inflation numbers are out today and will signal an end to a family dynasty - sri lanka’ president flees the country following mass protests over ettt and the gap that just won’ close - the world economic forum has released its latest data on the pay divide hetween men and women.
i’ll talk to the managing director of in this programme.
so let’'s get down to business.
and we begin with president biden’ trip president to visit the middle east since 9/11 without american troops engaged the white house has said the visit’ aims include "expanding regional economic and security cooperation”.
israel’ finance minister says its hoped the visit includes saudi arabia.
with businesses on all sides poised to make the most of the opportunities.
well, let’ go live to jerusalem and discuss this with jon medved - chief executive and founder of our crowd - a global equity funding platform for investors.
orwarm
i or warm welcome to the programme.
what are programme.
what are your hopes his visit?
think it is incredible at the president the united states has incredible that the president 1 of the united states has come to the region and is focusing how to build a better lat a1 now on how to build a better economic future.
in the past always been conflict and war and looking at the middle ¥ a1 as a source of trouble, but now the middle east is actually fulfilling its destiny i ource of blessing, and as a source of blessing, and when you look at what is going ppen, what is already happening, as a result of the am courts, where israel abraham courts, where israel and already at four arab ions are trading, investing, owing conomic ties growing economic ties remarkably, as we ony a1 remarkably, as we begin to open ircle including incredibly achis the circle including incredibly important part like saudi bia in this effort, think is quy is the limit.
let’ i 0
this guy is the limit.
let’ talk about the abraham a rse.
it was seen as course.
it was seen as ground-breaking to odv 1 ground-breaking to normalise relations between israel and he among a few other untries in he middle east.
countries in the middle east.
what impact has that had for conomies such as yours?
the economies such as yours?
extraordinary.
not only has been over half a million israeli tourists flocking to eaches and of the beaches and malls of dubai during the pandemic when they it, but during the pandemic when they = needed it, but there are 2 lions of dollars of deals being transacted.
right after cords predicted $10 2 the accords predicted $10 billion of activity people hought was nuts.
my team in gulf said was too i 1 01 conservative and that should be 100 billion over the next ade is 100 billion over the next decade and is now the minister of economy of the has ked about $1 trillion.
when bring the saudi flu doings you bring the saudi flu doings income in our you bring the saudi flu doings 1ol
you bring the saudi flu doings income in our crowd we invest chnology ompany, undreds them and they range from od, the clouds, cyber urity, transportation, these - 1 all areas the saudis and he rest of the golf partners crazy interested in because look at at the saudis if you look at what the saudis are building, that incredible ity on the red sea coast.
when you look at new city on the red sea coast.
new city on the red sea coast.
when you look at how quickly are putting into they are putting into technology, when you look at of israel as a start it the of israel as a 4 the of israel as a 1 start it does want to briefly rrupt you because we interrupt you because we are tight for time and want to you this.
ask you this.
you are explaining all the potential, ich here is huge of which there is huge otential, and you are talking saudi arabia coming in.
ant your take on how quickly a1 want your take on how quickly this economic cooperation could into being stop president den is going to saudi arabia riday.
what about biden is going to saudi arabia a1 on friday.
what about the political challenges?
the tical divide and political divide and the religious challenges.
think political challenges are ting better, much better, you see the fact that not \ is their free but cooperation on common threats, think that’ the and think that’ the politics, the religious llenges, you noticed who the audis hose this ear to deliver the most important on.
there are lots deliver the most important a deliver the most important sermon.
there are lots of very tive igns that are going positive signs that are going and positive signs that are going positive signs that are going on and think that we are at the brink of a new 1 a.
it won’ happen immediately, don’ expect a big headlines in the ext 11 great big headlines in the next couple of days but there is a ess under way which think inexorable.
the curtain is coming coming down and think 1 coming down and think the ple’ of middle east people’ of the middle east be working together in better way.
jon medved, eally good talk to you, and we were very much keep a close president biden’ it, visit, that’ for sure.
thank you.
whilst biden is in the middle east news at home will dominate today as the latest inflation i in may, inflation hit 8.
6% - the highest in 40 years.
supply chain disruptions paying the price as samira hussain reports from new york.
outdoor markets have long been a way for new york city’ urban to connect with upstate eig inflation is hitting the finances of every american.
everything has gone high.
to the green markets.
gone through the roof.
this man is a fourth-generation farmer.
going to make more money.
it’ going to be a hard year.
profits are going to be down.
what have you had to pay more for?
everything - mean, from our containers to our inputs, the fertiliser, plants, think, gas - all of our products are up.
the price increases are hitting the pocketbooks have two girls.
they’re home now.
they eat like crazy.
so, mean, everything is like and the bad thing about it is that the salary is the same pay you’re getting.
so if prices are going up for everyone, but no-one is making any more profit - well, that spells danger for the economy as a whole.
little wonder, perhaps, that even as they fret about higher inflation, many in the are starting to worry that a potential i 8 arcund the corner.
samira hussain, news, new york.
chief economist and asia at berenberg capital markets.
welcome to the programme.
know you and others watching very closely indeed.
ile the fed very closely indeed.
your thoughts on the inflation ers today, what they will tell us numbers today, what they will 2 tell us and how the fed will respond?
the inflation numbers be high and one of the will be high and one of the things would emphasise here is not just energy prices is it is not just energy prices and prices, it is very vasive.
and food prices, it is very 1 asive.
if you look at over 00 components of the consumer index, about two thirds components re experiencing nflation of components are experiencing a ion over 5%.
this is the inflation over 5%.
this is the highest since the late 1970, it is pervasive and you can’
and so it is pervasive and you can’ just blame it on the ian invasion of ukraine or \ upply chain problems.
ave to eni supply chain problems.
you have to blame it on demand driven by ssive monitoring fiscal stimulus in sponse to the andemic.
stimulus in response to the stimulus in response to the pandemic.
if that is the case what the fed then what the fed is doing, raising nterest rates, by significant amount each month, hould sort that out, that should sort that out, shouldn’ it?
that should sort that out, a that should sort that out, shouldn’ it?
it depends what ean by should sort it out.
you mean by should sort it out.
0 1 you mean by should sort it out.
i in terms of.
you say mean in terms of you say is about consumer demand is demand it is about consumer demand is the demand is there.
that will under pressure or it reduces cost of horrowing oes the cost of borrowing goes up 4 the cost of borrowing goes up more and more?
that’ right but !
emphasise even though i would emphasise even though the fed has begun to move i aggressively, the inflation sted federal fund raise still adjusted federal fund raise still negative and so it has a ificant amount too high.
mphasise sort it out.
the faces this extraordinarily ilatlid fed faces this extraordinarily a a difficult situation where it has to raise rates enough to down the conomy, to slow down the economy, to dampen inflation, but without rates too ch.
that hiking rates too much.
that be very difficult task.
re do you see the cost of borrowing by he end of this =1 ar, do year, do you think?
think borrowing by the end of this year, do you think?
think the ral funds ate has to go federal funds rate has to go probably to the underlying rate flation probably to the underlying rate a i flation and the markets are expecting fed to 418 are expecting the fed to continue to hide.
are expecting the fed to i a4 continue to hide.
think the funds continue to hide.
think the 8 continue to hide.
think the funds rate eventually has to go above %, which is not yet well above 4%, which is not yet built in to markets.
that is, aala 0 built in to markets.
that is, 18 a a0 raise rates here the underlying of inflation and a little i rate of inflation and a little !
re, and once again, that monetary policy with a lag, 1 a0 monetary policy works with a lag, so what you have been ing so far is the higher flation which is reducing purchasing power, real disposable incomes, it’ just nning to bite into consumer spending patterns, and so add at the higher cost of borrowing, to buy an omobile, home mortgages and like, that will start iting in with
ike so the biting in with a like so the rate of economic growth will nitely slow.
we shall see, ickey levy, thank you very .
as you’ve been hearing president gotabaya rajapaksa has fled the country and is now in the maldives.
his departure early on wednesday morning comes just ahead of an expected resignation following dramatic developments in the i ast few hours.
where does this the political and lat a1 leave the political and economic situation?
leave the political and yot a8 - 12 leave the political and economic situation?
cecilie big tical developments overnight since political developments - 1 political developments overnight and since the small the crowds gathered hours the crowds have gathered here.
this is the president 1 4 tariat behind me, and secretariat behind me, and protesters and citizens have lining here with flags been lining up here with flags and slogans which roughly nslate to "victory to our struggle”.
this is something testers have demanding protesters have been demanding or a long time and as gotabaya apaksa and his brother have ved out of the country, it eads now moved out of the country, it 4 leads now to the next development which will be formal resignation of president baya rajapaksa, that will 4 is gotabaya rajapaksa, that will put the country understand to look for a new political era and new political movement in ountry, but in the interim ook for a political vacuum cause at this point in me
ime
it is not because at this point in time - because at this point in time it is not clear who takes up next roll.
according to the 8 haohates the next roll.
according to the tlge - constitution the current serving constitution the current serving prime minister becomes resident when the post is 1018 the president when the post is vacant but there are also cess against the process against the prime ister for him leave his minister for him to leave his seat, so if that happens there = 0 olitical vacuum in the is a political vacuum in the country.
opposition parties are ling ogether to form a huddling together to form a majority which would be proven next few days and that leaves he country its lat a1 yot leaves the country and its economic revival plan also alled as of now economic revival plan alse a installed as of now because until there is political bility in the 14 1 stability in the country the omic revival programmes and he conversations with the conversations with the international lending agencies 0 likely not go ahead.
but despite all the major political lopments, current developments, the current situation on the ground as far of essentials concerned, it will continue for ple more weeks.
you a couple more weeks.
thank you or keeping us up-to-date.
chana for keeping us up-to-date.
a0 4 for keeping us up-to-date.
archana shukla there in a ombo let’ now bring you up to date on the saga over elon musk’ and is suing musk.
the social media giant has i 0la to order him to honour the terms of the agreement.
last week, the world’ richest man announced he was backing to provide him with enough data on spam accounts.
there i1 much more etail on that there is so much more detail on 18 story on our website that that story on our website that 3 tay with us on news 4 cause it still to stay with us on news and the gap that just won’ close - the world economic forum has released its latest data on the pay divide hetween men and women.
i’ll talk to the managing director of in this programme.
after months of talks and missed deadlines, a deal has been struck to keep greece within the euro zone.
the immediate prospect of greece going bust emergency services across central europe are stepping way by americans.
it is a timely reminder to all americans of the problems the energy crisis has brought to them.
leaders meet in paris for a summit on pollution, inflation, and third world this morning, they joined the reveolution celebrations for a show of military might on the champs-elysees.
wildlife officials in australia have been coping with a penguin problem.
fairy penguins have been staggering ashore and collapsing after gorging themselves on huge shoals of their favourite food - pilchards.
some had eaten so much they could barely stand.
this is news - the latest headlines.
after months of mass protests against his rule, the first round of voting takes place later in the race to be later today we’ll find out how the economy fared in may.
you may remember in april it unexpectedly shrunk by 0.
3%, adding to concerns of an economic slowdown.
though disappointing, that fall was driven by a reduction in the covid = aes programmes - without that impact the economy would have expanded by 0.
1%, according to the office national statistics.
janet mui is investment director at brewin dolphin.
good morning.
we are talking / a 0.
1%, 0.
2% there.
took - us three or outlet for the economy.
what will a1 10 economy.
what will the economy.
what will the numbers be like today?
good ing.
thank you for having .
today’ data is pected to be very dull.
it’ ntracted in april.
it’ ontracted in march, as well, today it is likely to have 3 and today it is likely to have a bit of growth but generally talk about the trend it can ctually fall into negative growth territory.
we expect growth to slow going rward, you growth to slow going 1 forward, you can see the weakening from a number of veys that we are tracking.
nufacturing and services ector usiness surveys have slowing down and also the aaca been slowing down and also the latest retail sales are also weakening year latest retail sales are also weakening year on year 1cd weakening year on year so there enty of evidence is plenty of evidence suggesting it is weakening and arily that is because of a primarily that is because of a squeeze in the real income of umers.
we are seeing rises food and energy prices and we are going to see egative impact of the rise in ional insurance rate.
the pact will felt more from may onwards so we will see a weak economic picture.
say 1 pretty weak econoemic picture.
a you say week
but will we see the going into recession, ich is a two quarters of egative growth?
yes, think the expectation is that 10 we are not going to see that.
already mentioned this a1ds as you already mentioned this i is likely going to be month is likely going to be flat, potentially, and you need consecutive quarters of growth so think right here is more support coming rom the government, for tance 15 billion coming from the government, for i 10 instance 15 billien announced - the government instance 15 billion announced & instance 15 billion announced by the government to support in terms of their energy lls, so that could be uite helpful incrementally.
ink i xpectation is that owth the expectation is that growth be around busy rail line, line, but likely going to flat line, but likely going to some marginal growth that 0 elps avert that recession.
but 8 isk is still pretty much to he downside
and we may tentially see a to the downside and we may ntially see a recession but think it is potentially see a recession but bg4 ink it is not still the 1 i think it is not still the basis of case.
what do you about basis of case.
what do you 1ol basis of case.
what do you atlae-ta1 think about the current leadership think about the current - 1 leadership race that is ongoing, the eight candidates ould llike ongoing, the eight candidates who would like to be the next prime minister, leader of the party?
many them are tory party?
many of them are saying we will cut taxes.
liz says on day one will truss says on day one will i taxes.
your thoughts on who get that job and what that ight mean going forward the economy.
don’ 4 think can for the economy.
don’ ree 4 for the economy.
don’ think can comment on for the economy.
don’ think i can comment on that.
it 3 going to be a very tough .
race.
there is a lot of a1 uncertainty at the moment.
here are uncertainty at the moment.
i re are still eight ndidates going so don’ hink can candidates going so don’ me candidates going so don’ think can comment on candidates going so don’
amee a1 candidates going so don’ think can comment on that but re is a very lear chance that there is a very clear chance that the upcoming prime minister would propose for more iiey uts going forward that tax cuts going forward that would appeal to the population hat was certainly helped a1 atiiol alae nas with the economic environment 4 - but we have to bear in mind that
but we have to bear in mind i
but we have to bear in mind
but we have to bear in mind that the office for budget is responsibility have been warning that, actually, a tax not going to help with the situation cut is not going to help with a i ituation
and it is going 1 to be fiscally unsustainable.
don’ how much roem really don’ know how much room here is going to be for the prime minister.
he or she promise a can promise a lot before they elected but i’ really not how much room there actually sure how much room there fla 0% va1 sure how much room there actually is for tax cuts.
olutely.
we are very amiliar with the premises and reality, the reality, they are often very different.
thank you very indeed, janet.
thank you.
the global gender pay gap has been closed by 68% so far this year - that sounds pretty good, doesn’ it?
but at the current rate of progress, it will take 132 years for that gap to be closed altogether.
and the global gender pay gap report from the world econoemic i are still disproportionally impacted by conflict, climate change, the rising cost of living and accessibility to care and education.
we are on the back foot.
to talk us through the issues we’re joined by the managing director forum, saadia zahidi.
good morning, good to see you.
produce good morning, good to see you.
1 produce this report reqularly and have say, in ntire career, have overed this story and the progress cotcito progress is so slow and wol to progress is so slow and the demic pandemic has progress is so slow and the pandemic has made it worse, ’ it?
yeah, that’ exactly over the last couple of ears he fairly meagre process at was taking place just ecame lower.
it has not yet eversed.
it has not yet reversed.
it has not yet - 10le installed but there is much slower progress than planned han originally envisaged and it is understandable ause over the last couple of we have seen at the years we have seen that the industries that tended etg3 industries that tended to be the largest employers of women been disrupted.
the care rt3 netle have been disrupted.
the care a i 1 have been disrupted.
the care infrastructure that was already erely adequate for most not merely adequate for most families became worse when urther disrupted.
in some was further disrupted.
in some was further disrupted.
in some countries rules have still not ack to normal.
caregiving esponsibilities tend to fall omen the high-growth on women and the high-growth a sectors that are still i 0 tinuing to have growth tend to be he largest employers of women.
that is how we have ded up in this ituation.
iceland once again shows to be ning light this a shining light on this issue, 3 has reached the highest vel of gender pay equality, hat is iceland getting right?
in terms of health gaps ducation gaps they are doing xtremely well, just like nordic countries but the ason this country as tended to sentially beat its score every single year and 8 inue to stay at the continue to stay at the top having close 90% of its gender because of the changes gap is because of the changes they have made in the workforce hat is when it comes and that is when it comes to the pay gap, labour force icipation, participation in enior roles and weight comes articipation in senior roles and weight comes 1 to participation in technical roles, that to participation in technical tde at country overall roles, that country overall vir0 very well and roles, that country overall a a , does very well and similarly when it does very well and similarly 1 comes to politics at when it comes to politics at parliamentary level at isterial level parliamentary level at parliamentary level at ministerial level and of course - having female heads of state the way.
it is critical, ’ i a along the way.
it is critical, - isn’ it, that there is collaboration between all collaboration between all of society, between aspects of society, between government, business, other of government, business, other a of society, for this to \ really change going forward.
it not up to one bit country or is not up to one bit of a country or another, is it?
no, think first country or another, is it?
no, country or another, is it?
no, and think first and foremost care infrastructure, hat what fundamentally has hange a3 cross most to change across most ountries.
even to change across most a to change across most countries.
even before the emic in 2019, out of the pandemic in 2019, out of the pandemic in 2019, out of the total number of hours are spent paid work, ferment that was about 20% of their .
for women was about 20% of their time.
lid was about 20% of their time.
014 was about 20% of their time.
for women it was about 55% -- for men that was 20% for men that was 20% of their time.
for men that was 20% of their ime.
for care responsibilities, because they shifting home there are not shifting in home there needs to are not shifting in home there to be much are not shifting in home there - omt needs to be much more care rt3 netle needs to be much more care infrastructure provided and rnment eeds to see it government needs to see it as an investment, the same way they see physical i - 1 infrastructure as an investment.
that is working towards the future industries that are going to be the gest we are out of time but is really good to talk you again.
thank you for ing on programme.
saadia being on the programme.
saadia zahidi, the managing director of the world economic ferum.
hello, there.
i a tuesday was a we had much more cloud around.
it was thick enough even to give a bit of but despite the cloud, here in london, it was hot.
temperatures over 30 celsius again.
much further north, preparing for the open at andrews, it’ cooler.
temperatures were in the low 20 despite the sunshine.
that cooler, cleaner, 3 down from the north, following this band of cloud or two spots of rain.
comfortable night.
still, that uncomfortable warmth, though, in the southeast of england.
and across southern parts of england, could start quite cloudy in the morning, even one or two spots of rain left over.
that’ slowly moving away.
we will see one or two showers ela much more sunshine, though, arriving across england and wales than we had on tuesday.
those temperatures continuing to slide away ever so slowly, but still another hot day in the southeast and east anglia, and in london 30 degrees not out of the question.
heading into thursday, we’ve got this west-northwesterly northern ireland, scotland, perhaps a few inte northern into wales, it is still sunny, it is still dry.
but those temperatures continuing to just drop away a little.
highs of the more manageable 27 celsius in the southeast of england.
in across the , where we’ve got this weak weather front for more cloud and maybe a bit of rain for northern ireland pushing across scotland, perhaps northern england, that should move away, skies will brighten.
it is going to be fine and with light winds.
typically into the mid-20.
still only around 19-20 through the central belt of scotland.
it’ into the weekend that really things start to warm up, not so much for scotland and northern ireland, and the far north of england, 2ol 0 into the mid-20, but for many other parts of england and into wales, we are going to find some extremely high temperatures developing over the weekend into the start we’ve got that extreme heat warning from the met office.
so in the strong sunshine, those temperatures will really be shooting up.
temperatures could even get higher than that.
ambulance emergency - is the patient breathing?
: he’ dead.
i’ve killed him.
do know you?
who was it, gabriel?
no idea.
don’ you remember?
well, she knows you.
what’ going on?
no!
where were you for that first stolen kiss?
illicit, illegal.
haven’ got a demon.
electric skin to skin.
when they first stood up to shout.
if you haven’ had enough, have!
have courage.
don’ come back unless you bring an army!
have pride.
we’re going to seize the power.
where were you when you saw your story for the very first time?
there’ less danger of us your journey in your own words.
only do what you love.
and where were we when jaws dropped to all these firsts?
we’re here, right where we’ve always been.
the original home of british drama.
and we’'re just getting started.
britain’ greatest athletics olympian, farah.
there’ something about me you don’ know.
it’ a secret that i’ve been hiding since was a child.
there was lots of missing pieces to his story.
where had this boy come from?
behind the smile, there was something there.
it’ not the reality.
let’ see what’ on the menu today.
great food ooh, i love it!
great company give me mandem energy.
great laughs woo!
what’ wrong with me?
i’ve got a proper little shimmy!
kick-start your weekend good morning.
welcome to breakfast with nina warhust and sally nugent.
our headlines today and then there were eight - the remaining candidates for conservative leadership prepare to face their first round of voting.
fiurhe am in a vegan food factory, seeing how businesses are bearing.
new res the economy later on.
trading standards says it’ worried the market is being flooded with illicit vaping products, and the ease with which children can access them.
an "inspiration” after revealing he was trafficked into the ge:-tsl toc work as a servant.
and you every day.
you tell them, "please, someone, no-one comes to you.
with just 24 hours to go until the start of one of golf’ biggest events, how tiger woods is taking aim at more it may look more like an rig and an oil painting but this former sea platform standing more an 100 feet high is being brought to weston-super-mare to become a ikig jor art installation.
a pleasantly ay for many, feeling a good irt 1 1 warm day for many, feeling a good deal more comfortable than of late.
tinues in 0 it continues in the south east of england.
the full forecast coming up it’ wednesday, the 13th of july.
our main story.
conservative will cast their first vote today for who they want to replace boris johnson as party leader.
eight candidates are left in the race to become the next prime minister - they have to secure 30 votes in the first round to stay in the race, as our political correspondent, lone wells, reports.
can report that we have eight candidates, duly nominated.
and then there were eight.
one of these candidates will be the next prime minister, having secured the backing of at least 20 tory mps.
the former chancellor, rishi sunak, the attorney general, suella braverman, the foreign secretary, liz truss, the chancellor, nadhim zahawi, minister penny mordaunt and kemi badenoch, jeremy hunt and tom tugendhat.
things heated up last night quite literally, as they crowded inte a hot, sticky room in parliament one by one to encourage colleagues to back them today.
backing him so far, securing it ministers, dominic raab and grant shapps, among others.
actually, was delighted with the support that got, but i also recognise that what we need more than anything else is somebody lay their support
if and when they are eliminated.
neither the former health secretary, sajid javid, who withdrew %18 7 who they will support instead.
publicly backing her.
she’ kept a lower profile so far, but launches her campaign this morning.
but today, support for all candidates will be put to its first test.
tory will vote this afternoon, and anyone with fewer than 30 votes votes will be knocked out, until only two remain.
those two will go to a vote among conservative party members.
the winner will be announced this bit is key, as whoever wants to be the party leader to their tory colleagues but also etg up and down the .
lone wells, news.
we’re joined now by our political correspondent, ben wright.
ben, voting begins today.
yesterday was a bit like declaration day with saying who they are orting.
how is it looking so far?
cantankerous, hot and crowded tminster.
it would be a 1 in westminster.
it would be a dramatic day.
eight candidates are ng, they got the running, they got the required nominations to running, they got the required i nominations to stand.
after the