and much of my friends.
derbyshire, talking to mark while he was llive in @ hospital bed.
that’s quite amazing.
you know, he’s just one among thousands who’ve been injured and, as you said, laura, you know, millions who’ve left.
lots of russians are having mean, i’ve got a friend spoke to at the end of last week, and he was in a state he was pumped with adrenaline and he was like, "we left, "l grabbed my wife, and my three kids under 12.
”
"we ran for the airport, we got the last tickets, we’re in dubal.
”
"it was like in the movies,™ he said.
why, just because they thought this country is going down no, he’s a journalist, and journalism is effectively now punishable by 15 years in jail, and nobody knows the parameters any more.
before, you knew what you could get away with and where, but now it’s a guessing game.
so he made a dash for it, he was pumped with adrenaline.
in and he said to me, "oh, my god, i’m a refugee.
”
"what happened to my middle-class moscow life?
” "like, it’s gone.
”
ahd he can’t get any of his money out.
he can’t use his visa cards because of the sanctions.
you know, keep thinking if ukraine comes through this with its independence intact, more or less, right?
it’s going to be a stronger country with a great sense go 1 because of this experience.
of it stronger.
because we’ve heard, haven’t we, a lot of concern in the last couple of weeks about ukraine’s nuclear sites, and how safe they are in the current context, in terms of their maintenance, of one of them being being shelled, or at least buildings close to it being shelled.
tell us about that trip.
well, so went to chernobyl, because it’s right on the border with belarus, and it’s pretty much exactly a if you wanted to send a column of tanks down from the belarusian border, which is where the russians have this build-up forces, if you wanted to send a column of tanks down to to take kyiv, that would be the quickest route, you’d pretty much go through chernobyl.
and belarus is close to russia, with lukashenko, an ally of putin, basically on his side, almost like a puppet government, right?
exactly, a puppet government.
so that’s we went there, and it was extraordinary to see this place that had been such a factor in the collapse of the soviet union, right?
it was the fact that the nuclear reactor exploded and that moscow, that the soviet government in moscow didn’t tell anyone about it for so long, because they wanted to cover it up and thereby exposing everyone to radiation, really, think, woke people up in 1986 to the fact that their government didn’t have their becoming an independent country in the first place, and just being there in this place, which obviously was abandoned afterwards, so it’s like a time capsule, right?
you’re there in the middle of this little fairground, a little soviet fairground, with a frozen ferris wheel and a bunch of frozen i 1
it’s like this was the soviet union mid-1980s, and it’s remained that way.
and you really got this kind of strange premonition about which way the world was heading.
russia is heading back to the soviet past.
mean, putin today has been talking about effectively nationalising the foreign businesses and their assets
so i never thought i would use these two words next to each other in a sentence.
he’s talking about nationalising mcdonald’s.
mean, this is mental.
that is spooky on quite a lot of levels.
gabriel, thank you so much, and thank you for joining our podcasting family.
what am , a cousin or a brother?
i’d go brother.
bumped up to brother already!
think we said ukrainecast, we said sister podcast.
it’s great to have you.
well, now we can chat to labour’s lisa nandy, who’s the shadow secretary of state for levelling up.
and like covid times, she’s joining us from from our spare room.
hi, lisa!
hello, good evening.
can say good evening?
when are we?
really, but a lot of people will be watching this in the evening, so that’s .
well, first of all, mean, the big news today on the home front is that the home office is radically changing the visa and join family members.
they will not have to go to one of these processing centres across europe and get in a big queue.
from tuesday, they’ll be able to do it all digitally.
suppose you’re very pleased that that change has been made.
yeah, absolutely relieved.
you know, the reports that we’ve been getting from people who are being turned back at calais are just appalling.
and to ask people who’ve fled putin, who’ve been witnessing bombing, shelling, who have young children, to travel hundreds of miles in order to and make an application, iit’s just unconscionable.
so this change that priti patel announced today, it’s very, very welcome.
but it’s just so achingly slow and piecemeal, when what we really & 1 we’ve just been through a global pandemic.
and these are not ordinary times, these are extraordinary times, and we need to mobilise in extraordinary ways in order to get help to people now.
i hear your critique about what you describe as the government being far too slow in the last few days.
but given what we now are hearing from the government in precise terms, how are you in a different place from what they are advocating, other than your critique about their slowness as you see it?
so the first thing is we’ve got to drop the onerous visa requirements, because as well as being very, very difficult for people who are applying for family reunion, who are trying to come here through the family visa, who still have to upload a whole series of documents that often they don’t have, proving family connection, proving their own identities and so on, it’s more complicated when you get to the community sponsorship scheme, because they have to go through that process before they can even start the next stage of the process, which is being matched with a sponsor.
but, lisa, right now, are you suggesting dropping so people don’t have to show anything, give any evidence apart from very basic security checks or identity checks?
is that what you’re saying?
some of the bureaucracy, and people should be required to provide biometric data, which the armed forces have said they would stand ready and willing to help to =t roteir 1 very, very quickly.
basic identity checks.
we appreciate that some people won’t have documentation, but given the sheer numbers of children that we’re talking about, it is really, really important that we decument who they are as they’re 4y and where they’re going.
the years when used to work with child refugees, you will get child trafficking.
so, you know, dropping all checks and requirements, absolutely not, because that
but we could cut some of the bureaucracy out right now, and the government has privately, think there are some government ministers who are more responsive to that.
think michael gove is actually quite receptive to that but doesn’t seem to have any influence but that’s the first thing that we should do, as well as sourcing eld to source available eld so even if they do announce details of this community spoensorship scheme, they’re a up and running very quickly.
it’s just simply not good enough, for me.
on that specific around accommodation, where could they just find accommodation just like that?
i’m just thinking about the practicalities here.
whilst clearly there’s a demand from lots of people for more to be done, in practical terms, these things can take time, can’t they?
whether it be housing, thinking about schooling, for instance.
there’s huge questions here.
but, chris, that’s precisely the point.
this is more complicated than previous cohorts of refugees that we’ve seen.
you know, for example, one of the charities today was telling me that because we’re expecting a lot of older people, and you don’t tend to get a lot of older refugees coming into the , for reasons that are fairly obvious, there’ll be different health-care needs.
we’re not used to providing specialist refugee health so on exactly that point there for years and years on end, and that’s just simply not good enough.
in terms of where you get the accommodation from, the first thing they should do is set up a register etd of all of the people who are coming forward, the members of the public who are coming forward, who can offer accommodation and may act as sponsors.
they could email local authorities.
they haven’t even picked up the phene to council leaders to ask them what accommodation capacity they’ve got in their own areas.
this has been going on for weeks now, and yet not a single person in government has picked up the phene.
and, lisa, would labour basically say that people should, you know, the taxpayer should just stump up however much is required to look after these people?
i know that some people might think that’s an insensitive question to ask, but, you know, obviously if people might come here for the very long term, you’ve just talked about health care needs, all kinds of things.
sadly, ukrainians will not be able to be sure when, if ever, they might be able to go back to their country.
should the taxpayer be willing i takes to look after people who make it here?
look, was listening to nadhim zahawi, the education secretary, on peston the other night, and he said we’ve got he was talking about an uncapped number of people think the british public are way ahead of politicians on this.
i think they know we’ve got to do our bit, and we’re not i a applications have even been processed.
there are apparently 22,000 that are still in the system that they haven’t even started on, and that’s before you even look at people who don’t have family members here in the .
lisa, thank you very much for giving us lots to think about over the next couple of days - if this anncuncement does come.
l= great to have you.
afternoon to think about, to discuss, to to make decisions about this sponsorship scheme - what the speed of it should be, what the scale of it should be, what the eligibility should be.
and, as lisa was suggesting, did a bit of digging around today on the existing sponsorship scheme, and think it’s only taken about 500 or 600 people in the last five years, and it is very onerous.
lots of paperwork, safequarding checks, financial checks, all sorts of things.
so think there’s going to be huge pressure on the government as well, to come up with something that is quicker, bigger of scale, and many people might say bigger but it’s none of this is straightforward.
lovely to catch up with you all.
thank you for listening or watching, and we’ll be back with another one very soon.
the last couple of days, the weather really has been quite good.
beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly across eastern parts of the .
but things are going to turn now - the cloud you can see on the satellite picture a weather front, it’s approaching.
it means rain, wind, and really, that’s how it’ll be over the next few days.
so through the early hours of the morning, the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts of the .
even ahead of it, we have some rain across scotland and parts of england.
but generally speaking, it is a night and early morning.
very, very mild, 8-10 celsius in many areas.
3 through the morning, of england, through wales, the midlands.
southwestern scotland, too, and through the afternoon, it’ll brighten up across wales and southwestern parts of england.
there could be some thunderstorms, too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
think, through friday a1 now saturday, we see another area of low pressure with new fronts approaching us - this, once again, spells heavy rain initially for western parts of the .
but in the southwest, as this low pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it, and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around the isles of scilly and the tip of cornwall.
so really very blustery, even quite stormy weather for a time here.
but elsewhere eastern parts of the country on saturday - look at that, newcastle, hull, london -- fine, sunshine.
breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
and then come sunday, that low pressure really spreads across the country.
it’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some plenty of sunny spells occasionally brought in by those strong winds.
around through the weekend, but there’ll be blustery winds around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering arcund 12 celsius or so.
well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even as high as 17-18 celsius, at least temporarily, in southwestern parts of the .
so the southerly winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
welcome to news - i’m lewis vaughan jones.
our top stories: we witness life on the frontline for ukrainian forces - fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
if these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you have not been paying attention because this is the russian attack playbook, perfected over ten years of war in syria.
forces - they say their spirits are stronger than ever.
we are fighting on our land and protect our families, we fight like lions and they will not win.
ellite images show the 3r new satellite images show the russian military convoy heading kyiv have now dispersed ith artillery deployed in exedus frem sumy as humanitarian corridors are set up to escape the fighting, we meet some and roman abramovich, the russian owner of chelsea football club, is among seven more oligarchs sanctioned by the british government - the sale club 1s now on hold.
welcome to our viewers on y- 0la the globe.
we start tonight with an exclusive report from the city of kharkiv, in the east of ukraine.
the country’s second largest city - after the capital kyiv - has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds of injuries.
most of the city’s one and a half million residents the ukrainian forces fought back a russian armoured column in the early days of the invasion - and have been fighting since to stop a further russian advance.
our correspondent quentin sommerville and camera journalist darren conway are the first journalists to be -0 should warn you their report contains graphic images head to the very eastern edge of ukraine and a ghostly vision in near total blackout, the police in the country’s second-largest city take us on patrol.
shelling happens every night.
no-one escapes scrutiny.
in an instant, everybody’s life here has been up-ended.
has surprised russia inte no man’s land, with the ukrainian army.
here is 21-year-old yevgen gromadsky.
over the sound of shelling, he tells me, "the russian soldiers are standing about 900 meters away from here.
you can hear right now that they’re 1 and we are firing back”.
it’s a grenade launcher, british.
but it’s more than just a grenade launcher - it’s a quided missile.
is it good against tanks?
how are the russians fighting?
they’re fighting like soldiers of 1941.
here, a lot of tanks, a lot of their vehicles and techniques.
but we’re fighting in our land and we protect our families.
like lions
and they won’t win.
this city of a million plus people has emptied out.
lines, just didn’t make it.
we’ve actually come beyond the ukrainian front line, and we know and this whole area’s littered with dead russian bodies.
these men, in fact, and there are two more over there.
there are two more over.
there are chechen, they have 1ds on them.
their weapons have the ukrainians keep telling us they’re really comfortable is their territory, they’re defending their city, their families.
but the challenge from them is what comes from the sky.
they want more aircraft and they want more air defences.
and that might be where this battle, this war, is won and lost.
in a war with russia, the front line is everywhere.
this is what people have been fleeing in kharkiv - endless bombardment for the past two weeks.
:
our administration would like to inform you that a fire this is what russia does to cities, it bombards them, it besieges them, it surrounds them.
it terrorizes entire populations.
and if these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you haven’t been paying attention, because this is the russian attack play book, perfected in over ten years of war in syria.
we know that russia bombs hospitals.
so here at the city’s hospital number four, they keep the wounded in hallways - away from the windows.
miss valentina has been hit by shrapnel.
for you", she says.
: these stupid russian shrapnel pieces will carry all my llife.
but as long as my a3 a - and so too, will eight-year-old dmitri, now that this has been this is the war that russia has fought before and is fighting again.
the rest of ukraine’s fate, but kharkiv has already shown what’s coming next.
: defenders, we will ride together.
we will win this war and all our heroic people will gather to rebuild our beloved ukraine.
quentin sommerville, news, kharkiv, in eastern ukraine.
towards the capital.
more than half the population of kyiv has fled since the invasion began.
the mayor of the city humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have run out of food and are still living without water or gas.
up to the north-eastern edge of the city today.
jeremy bowen has sent this report from kyiv.
when your world is turned upside down, there’s separation, loss, confusion, and relief at getting out alive.
hundreds more have veeie from villages in the firing line outside kyiv in the last few days.
did you see any russians?
yes.
they were mute, mute.
they were mute.
no comments, no words, no.
and nothing.
they were mute.
they stayed like __stones.
medics can help with the physical pain of wounds.
kyiv’s hospitals are ready, expecting many more.
but what do you say to someone who needs the comfort of home?
when everything familiar has gone?
this minibus was from the children’s home, many with special needs, and carers who had spent two weeks in cellars trying to keep them calm.
the police took videos to record who had escaped.
then they checked their bags.
the fear of russian infiltrators is strong.
food is not in short supply, along with plenty of questions what about the russians will do next, and allegations about what they are doing now.
the police commander said they had had many phone calls about violation of the rights of civilians and weapons, injuries and murders.
at another crossing point, hundreds more walking out of the firing line.
and a priest who helped rescue them from the russian army.
there is nothing so, there’s no reason a we are not attack anybody, so we just made decision to have different future, we want to have democracy, soviet union, may god bless them, but we ask them to do it within their borders.
tanks are easy targets when they push forward, bunched up, in broad daylight, but the ukrainians are still outnumbered and outgunned.
at strong points round the city, ukrainian troops are waiting.
they know the russians are regrouping, and will again.
petrol bombs aren’t all they have got.
nato has sent in thousands of modern anti-tank weapons for whatever is coming down the road.
they will have to take this piece of ground and push in.
if they are encircling kyiv, they can probably stay more or less where they are.
the men at this position have to assume that an attack is coming.
for the soldiers who waited, the was bright, and the forest still and lonely.
jeremy bowen, news, kyiv.
our news reporter, mark lobel 1 he began by saying 100,000 people had then evacuated over ast two days which is good news then the last two days which is good etlga news but then turned to the besieged city of mariupol in outh and said that besieged city of mariupol in the south and said that not even 1r 0l the south and said that not even essentials could get in attacking i attacking humanitarian because russian tanks were attacking humanitarian corridor there and he was furious about that.
there and he was furious about that.
he described it as outright terror from erienced terrorists, that a how he put it.
one krainian politician said ndreds may have died already in mariupol and another based in mariupol whose parents lso here said that ussians are killing 1 russians are killing people for he said something else, reh fun.
he said something else, listen.
there are 350,000 ,000 listen.
there are350,000
i listen.
there are350,000 350,000 people without any oys of humanitarian aid, ter, food, medicine, and dies are laying on the treets.
in mass graves ready.
this is in a uropean already.
and this is in a l8’2 already.
and this is in a european city that was totally eful two weeks ago.
stark words there.
and ave some new satellite images which are interesting.
talk guite interesting.
can you talk us through?
you see troops in a here and there you see forest here and there you see 1ee13 forest here and there you see oops and military vehicles in own troops and military vehicles in a town and this is of gnificance because we have focusing on that 40 mile onvoy north-west of iv, the capital, which has been stalled while around capital, which has been stalled i capital, which has been stalled for a while around the airport.
4 it looks like there are manoeuvres, they are dispersing edeploying and so those shots have been going further town closer to the airport elsewhere, some have moved to another and elsewhere, some have moved 181+ and elsewhere, some have moved north to another airport with -range missiles there.
long-range missiles there.
it interesting, given the 10 interesting, given the picture of the movement of the ian side is there.
what is russian side is there.
what is he plan when it comes to ainian forces?
we saw another port of a convoy th-east kyiv recently \ artly destroyed, that was rainian ministry, defence ministry releasing pictures.
also saw quentin it rville’s report the somerville’s report from the line and he somerville’s report from the line and he describes a 4 ifferent type of battle, a ttle of wills.
and different type of battle, a a i - bottle of wills.
and a former retired commanding general of in europe watch that 3ol the army in europe watch that report
and he had this to say.
uman dimension is so much the human dimension is so much ore powerful and important the material or echnical part.
this think that ukraine is going to win in the they have time on their side, the logistical situation tting better the day is getting better by the day and is getting better by the day a and the russians have a manpower shortage, think they an ammunition shortage e3i=1ad have an ammunition shortage will start showing up soon.
ing that the tide is turning.
nother nexpected velopment on russian state as reported that on a ebate it was reported that on a it was reported that on a debate show some people were critical of the war and likening to afghanistan but worse, referring to the iet union ‘s humiliating nvasion soviet union ‘s humiliating soviet union ‘s humiliating invasion in 1989 ere.
so interesting that that was let ugh.
one ast thing to pick through.
one last thing to pick up with you, the issue of mical weapons.
what do we now?
deeply concerning to the rnational community if ussia chemical weapons russia uses chemical weapons and ah russia uses chemical weapons i and the in the who have l1 and the in the who have often spoken about false flag ations in the past have operations in the past have 10 id that they suspect chemical pons may now eing weapons may now be being considered by the russians.
one ical weapons expert thinks is it is likely they will use them and 1 his is his explanation as hy.
people can hide among rubble, the ukrainian military can hide there, jump kill out and kill vulnerable tanks.
04 1 out and kill vulnerable tanks.
but if you use chemical weapons has not stopped by that has not stopped by a0 concrete walls.
it seeks underground and kills people rground.
the russians are ccusing underground.
the russians are elts 0 underground.
the russians are accusing the americans have biological activities inside ukraine and they called la18 ukraine and they called a security council meeting to uss it on friday.
president elensky says you just have to russia’s plans to look at at russia is accusing others and he says here is absolutely such activity on and.
and we absolutely such activity on a i and.
and we will keep an eye for that meeting.
thank , but for coming down and talking us through all those es.
there talking us through all those es.
there is a lot to get issues.
there is a lot to get through, thank you.
you how the sale of chelsea football club is now on hold after owner roman abramovich is sanctioned by the british government.
the numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
irl in less than 24 hours then, the soviet union lost an elderly, sick leader, and replaced him with a dynamic figure 20 years his junior.
we heard these gunshots in the gym, then he came out through a fire exit and started firing at our huts.
god, we were all petrified.
travelled from memphis jail to nashville state prison in an eight-car convoy.
:
paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
it feels fine, thank you.
what are you going to do now?
is it going to change your life much, do you think?
this is news, we’re with ukrainian forces on the frontline, fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
more than 2 million people are said to have fled the capital kyiv, but others have arrived, after escaping from the russian soldiers moving ever closer to the city.
within ukraine, humanitarian lgas a3 within ukraine, humanitarian corridors have been set up in tempt to an attempt to allow hundreds of thousands of civilians to ape the fighting.
is from sumy in the north-west to poltava, almost 200 kilometres away.
that’s one in five of the population - have left sumy.
our eastern european correspondent sarah rainsford has been meeting some of them.
sleeping peacefully at last.
after 15 days of fear.
this little boy arrived from sumy last night.
to a city where i and no fighter jets.
but the children here have brought their memories.
daniel’s poem is about enemies and occupiers and longing for peaceful skies.
escaped sumy squeezed into a car with strangers when the shooting was stopped for a few hours.
: we walked over broken glass, we saw the ruined build, the bombing, the roofs ripped off, it was scary.
that is we are fleeing, running as far as possible from the shooting.
"it is so russia doesn’t kill us,” daniel pipes up.
he is eight years old.
russia is trying to bomb his city inte submission.
but ukraine’s soldiers are still resisting.
and behind the lines there is a giant support effort.
the school that is now housing evacuees is also feeding hundreds of socldiers.
now we are cooking so they can protect our homes, our children, our parents, just two weeks’ ago that was a normal school kitchen, but now all of this is being prepared to feed ukrainian soldiers, and people displaced by the fighting.
the lady in charge told me she can’t believe they are doing this, but it’s a massive collective effort to provide the food and to make this classroom is now home for a family from kharkiv.
safe, but stranded, with nowhere else to go.
svetlana talks of the terrifying sound of russian fighter jets, but also of friends in russia itself, who tell her ukraine provoked this war and whe claim even now that no civilians are suffering.
"that really hurts”, svetlana says.
it is safe for now, but katya’s learned it can be sarah rainsford, news.
the russian owner of chelsea football club, roman abramovich, is among another seven people who’ve been hit with sanctions by the government because of their suspected close links to president putin.
the decision means that although chelsea can still play from selling tickets, players, and any merchandise.
the mobile phone company three has said it is suspending its sponsorship with the club.
the ’s asad ahmad gave this update from i of interest in what’s happening just a week ago, roman abramovich, the owner for nearly 20 years, said he was going to sell the club.
that caught a number of chelsea fans by surprise, they weren’t necessarily shocked, it is because of events in ukraine.
in the days that followed, a number of billionaires stepped forward saying that they’d be interested in buying the club, but then today the government slapped some sanctions on roman abramovich, which means he’s other implications of those sanctions mean the club’s shop you might say that’s not a big deal, the club shop being closed, but it’s the significance of it - that roman abramovich made in that club shop.
so that has to remain closed until further notice.
as far as the team is concerned, as well, travel costs for away games that sounds like a lot of money, but not when you have to move a squad of players, backroom staff, physios and managers, to away games, including to lille in france next week.
lots of people will be wondering, what is happening we will find out soon enough.
in australia, the ukrainian community has been demonstrating, calling for more international support to resist halfway across the world there is worry for families trapped in the conflict, and despair at the worsening : help ukraine, help ukraine!
fear and rage on the streets of australia’s higgest city.
protesters want to stop russia’s attack on ukraine.
some say they could return home to help their families, resist the occupation, despite warnings from australia’s prime minister not to go and fight against russia.
i can do much more being here and helping, but if necessary, have no reservations.
my father is sitting with his rifle, with his hunting rifle, at the window, waiting for the invaders to come so he can shoot them.
my father is over 70 years old.
ukraine is thousands of kilometres from australia, cut deep into the soul of its expatriate community here.
it’s doing all it can to stand in solidarity with friends and family members back home.
this rally here in sydney is part of a loud, global chorus of support.
1 condemnation of putin’s invasion by russian demonstrators.
ukrainian people it’s a massive mistake.
we can see now.
it’s the 21st century.
andrews ukrainian catholic church in sydney has become a beacon of prayer and pride.
for many in the congregation, being so far away from relatives in the conflict i - messaging them every day via social media, hearing from them, i’m waking up every morning happened over there.
it’s excruciating.
it’s been terribly hearthreaking.
can’'t even begin to imagine what they are all going through over there.
what little comfort they can find has been through faith and raising funds for humanitarian support & or the millions that have fled to neighbouring countries.
halfway across the world, the pain of war is felt among the ukrainian diaspora, but where there is despair, phil mercer, news.
the american actor, jussie smollett, has been sentenced to 150 days in prison for staging a fake hate crime.
the star of the show, 'empire’, claimed to be the victim of a racist and homophobic attack i prosecutors said smollett had paid two men to arrange the attack, in order to raise his acting profile.
that is all frem me, plenty ore online.
you can reach me ocial media.
i’m the last couple of days, the weather really has been quite good.
beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly across eastern parts of the .
but things are going to turn now - the cloud you can see on the satellite picture a weather front, it’s approaching.
it means rain, wind, and really, that’s how it’ll be over the next few days.
so through the early hours of the morning, the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts of the .
even ahead of it, we have some rain across scotland and parts of england.
but generally speaking, it is a night and early morning.
very, very mild, 8-10 celsius in many areas.
3 through the morning, of england, through wales, the midlands.
southwestern scotland, too, and through the afternoon, it’ll brighten up across wales and southwestern parts of england.
there could be some thunderstorms, too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
think, through friday a1 now saturday, we see another area of low pressure with new fronts approaching us - this, once again, spells heavy rain initially for western parts of the .
but in the southwest, as this low pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it, and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around the isles of scilly and the tip of cornwall.
so really very blustery, even quite stormy weather for a time here.
but elsewhere eastern parts of the country on saturday - look at that, newcastle, hull, london -- fine, sunshine.
breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
and then come sunday, that low pressure really spreads across the country.
it’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some plenty of sunny spells occasionally brought in by those strong winds.
around through the weekend, but there’ll be blustery winds around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering arcund 12 celsius or so.
well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even as high as 17-18 celsius, at least temporarily, in southwestern parts of the .
so the southerly winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
the city has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s one and a half million residents new satellite images show the russian military convoy heading towards kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery redeployed in firing positions.
y1golegd the images show armoured units manoeuvring in and through the surrounding towns more than two million people are thought to have fled the capital kyiv - but others have arrived, after escaping from the russian soldiers moving closer to the city.
humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have run out of food and are still living without water or gas.
now on news, the travel show.
this week on the travel show, look back at some of our top g1 0 ips to thailand.
mike gets stuck in.
mike gets stuck in.
am need eep and sinking further.
&gl deep and sinking further.
and carmen tries a tech solution to ution.
i’m cleaning the beach!
ello and welcome to the vel show ere in beach!
hello and welcome to the i a - 0 travel show here in our home city we are back and rummaging through the archives.
we found gold from different and scinating places around the ld.
this week we fascinating places around the world.
this week we focus on - - -1 tried and tested traveller favourite, thailand.
we kick literally, in bangkok off, literally, in bangkok y-y off, literally, in bangkok where in 2017 we convinced to train like a champion his hand at the untry’'s ational sport.
muay hai is said to have been developed by thai thai is said to have been developed by thai warriors on attlefields of the 14th owjpl 0" 1 4 the battlefields of the 14th century.
it became known as the eight limbs because ands shins bows and hands shins elbows and knees are all used as points of welg 10 a contact.
it is really uite octane.
these fighters are olutely astonishing, atching them absolutely astonishing, .
absolutely astonishing, watching them up close and w0 sonal but some smart spark yol personal but some smart spark decided it was a good thing for trade out first hand so lagey me to trade out first hand so tomorrow morning am heading to a muay thai camp that over to a muay thai camp that rains fighters from all over land.
just hope at thailand.
i just hope that i thailand.
i just hope that come out the other end not too sed and banged up.
had bruised and banged up.
so had 45 minutes to the north of gkok to a where some of the country’s top champions and train.
tourists who live and train.
tourists who want to get fit can stay at like this throughout hailand but this place is the known as the country’s toughest.
how has the erience been so far?
good is tough.
they are the st.
back home am training hours a day and that best.
back home am training i l1 two hours a day and that are supposed to be the tough stuff professional.
overhear you train six or seven hours a these 0 uys train twice a day.
these guys train twice a day every day to dig 1ly, they are determined to make me sweat even more.
they are determined to make me at even more.
talk about alance.
1 balance.
you always think of ing in to punch but it leaning in to a punch
but it actually in muay thai you have ay dead centre and keep your to stay dead centre and keep your weight evenly distributed.
weird.
it is llike ing it is weird.
it is like raking abits.
children here start rning from a very young age it takes years to master he practice.
am about to the ring with momo who 3 is a top contender for thai in japan.
he looks ally an.
look at thai in japan.
he looks really & .
look at his abs.
mean.
look at his abs.
that is ridiculous!
have a mean.
look at his abs.
that is e1e mean.
look at his abs.
that is ridiculous!
have a fair way so think so think will have to call it a day.
finely tuned athletes and a - finely tuned athletes and i a have had the tiniest moment of training here.
it is amazing my time here is done.
hope you enjoyed my agony.
a great job there from henry nnelling his inner warrior.
xt, a local community attling save its wildlife.
sent mike to the coast where verse -- have found an ingenious though muddy solution ongoing conservation allenge.
few international avellers challenge.
few international travellers venture here but in a4 cent years the amazing ransformation the ecosystem as begun transformation of the ecosystem transformation of the ecosystem has begun to draw people like hile it may not be one of the most me.
while it may not be one of ost beautiful ecosystems, 3 it is actually full of life.
are snails, crabs, monkeys, birds, all kinds of life here.
as a monkey right re with a crab in its outh!
this place is quite an erience.
the shellfish treams and crabs that thrive ilee airne 4 silce i streams and crabs that thrive in this environment will almost rinks of collapse just a decades ago because of the 1a 1 4l matic loss of one simple hing, mangroves.
industrial imp farming left the angrove forest decimated and, it, a ragile ecosystem with it, a fragile ecosystem that the villages depended on survive.
but the local people began to fight but the local people began to back.
they brought undreds of people from nearby ages to replant the villages to replant the mangroves and eventually there going to pay off and ught the attention of yalty.
when knew was going to be planting mangroves brought boot for waterproof and raction.
hiking boot for waterproof and a 0 hiking boot for waterproof and traction.
you wear these, a on of yoga pants and a woman’s breasts year and put on my feet and we go almost waist deep in the mud hat is how we plant and that is how we plant mangroves.
so, am ready.
ee, two, one.
this is am need deep and still sinking her.
how does it work?
one.
further.
how does it work?
one.
have one.
dig a hole.
and you ted in, just like a normal planted in, just like a normal - ree.
over 32 years since replanting began, the angrove forest has regained third of hat was lost.
r4 fact about one third of what was lost.
a one third of what was lost.
a fun fact about the mangrove .
they are shaped this way a torpedo because when hey fall from the trees they ike this and they are supposed to stick in the grant selves so they can themselves
so they can basically plant themselves.
we go.
a mangrove forest once there we go.
a mangrove forest
n4 it gets bigger.
high five!
d, of course, there is more han one play -- way to get an after a exploring clean after a day exploring mangroves.
i’m told that years ocal kids found another use of hese hoards.
ago local kids found another great to use of these boards.
it is great to give omething back when you travel.
but, hey, it better if you can i is even better if you can have a little fun along the way.
getting good and messy mike getting good and messy there on the coast of thailand.
it be nice when we get to have won’t it be nice when we get to won’t it be nice when we get to have adventures like that in?
followed, of course, by lge again?
followed, of course, by nice warm shower.
stay with us use we have more great because we have more great emories coming up, including learning survival skills he gets lost in the thai ungle.
this, adies and entlemen, is extremely mfortable.
and roger looks some inner calm during a nei for some inner calm during a state of buddhist monastery.
is a feast.
it is only this is a feast.
it is only once a day but it is a good to sew, stick with us for feast to sew, stick with us for that.
time now to head to the us sandy beaches of thailand.
it is a huge draw for ists that does not always een good news for the ironment.
back in 2019
we 214 ent carmen to country south, not to sent carmen to the country = 0n1 sent carmen to the country south, not to catch some ways join a cleanup mission.
but to join a cleanup mission.
cleaning up thailand’s beaches ecome priority for a g’e has become a priority for a & work of volunteers.
the e0e network of volunteers.
the group operates in 25 ies across the country.
cleaning eaches of trash and tiny the beaches of trash and tiny ieces of cigarette seems a ver-ending task.
the never-ending task.
but the trash here could never-ending task.
but the could soon have some trash here could soon have some help.
do we need a robot this?
because there is too uch trash.
his place, to so any tourists come to this ach if the beaches dirty no-one likes to beach and if the beaches dirty - likes to come.
so started this project.
how does tually work?
the robot is it actually work?
the robot is digging in the sand about five imetres deep, checking to eparate the sand out and move trash ack.
and how much o1 the trash back.
and how much rubbish do you actually llect?
efore this in 80 metres about kilograms of ash.
four kilograms and 80 etres?
dying to have a metres?
am dying to have a go to control it.
of course.
it an easy control.
forwards i and is an easy control.
forwards and backwards.
left and right.
his controls the speed.
and if this down it is
and if you push this down it is digging the sand.
this is at.
am cleaning the beach!
he doctor and great.
am cleaning the beach!
doctor and his team are rking on a second prototype 1 separate the shells from the to separate the shells from the trash.
at the moment that needs a ¢ to be done by hand.
it is satisfying to see so much 1s
a1 satisfying to see so much - satisfying to see so much rubbish come in.
there is a big here on getting next focus here on getting the next generation to think differently how they about how they treat the country’'s country’'s beaches, about how they treat the country’s beaches, to protect beautiful landscape for this beautiful landscape for the future.
carmen doing her bit there on the beach.
i bit there on the beach.
now,.
10 into the travel show archives, back to 2014 when we a film with henry, long shot a film with henry, long re he became a hollywood 3% star.
we sent before he became a hollywood .
we sent him to trek in the jungles near kit.
everything was going .
everything was going just fine he got lost.
this until he got lost.
this barefoot explorer is survival david williams.
four expert david williams.
four years he has been teaching ckers basic survival skills hat could trackers basic survival skills a m- trackers basic survival skills i that could mean the difference between life and death.
dave, and need between life and death.
dave, and need your help.
am lost and need your help.
at is e3 first thing what is the first thing should do?
relax.
it’s not big a deal, you cannot be that .
have a mobile phone but battery is low.
one bar and not le1 battery.
we have one hour much battery.
we have one hour of light and one bar, uld of light and one bar, would wait.
the chance of getting ued 2 wait.
the chance of getting 1 8 2 wait.
the chance of getting rescued now are pretty slim.
e:10l a 0 a let’s accept our fate, enjoy ight.
let’s do is and the night.
let’s do this and then tomorrow we will figure we will alk around a out, we will walk around a hair bit find two bars and make the call.
his most elid rtant tip is to keep hydrated.
without water, the and brain go into body and brain to go into shutdown.
and that is what we to sort out first.
need to sort out first.
we are hopefully going to find some in the bamboo.
bamboo holds a lot water in the bamboo.
bamboo 2 a lot of water, during he season it water the season it has water inside the season it has water inside it.
this water is pure, hair bittersweet, and inside it.
this water is pure, little bittersweet, and it tends to be good temperature .
so will take.
i’m going to make myself a straw.
could be his much water they could be this much water 3 here or this much water in 4 re.
it is a bit here.
it is a bit late in the season, so i’m going to ect there to be here.
expect there to be water here.
we can expect there to be water here.
expect there to be water here.
we can cut up in here.
there we ave a little taste.
that go.
have a little taste.
that good, that is very freshing.
dave originally ked in the shipyards of virginia.
can the work they are up he decided to head to sia, is home ever dried up he decided to head to i is home ever since.
-- asia, his home ever since.
-- when the work.
so how did you nvolved with all the get involved with all the survival techniques?
i’ve been wild animal plants and stuff my life, find stuff all my life, 1 just find 3 stuff all my life, just find it very interesting subject.
¢ back in america, if you lived back in america, if you knew a dozen plants, basically home state, you it in my home state, you had it ted.
here i’ve got a dozen plants in my rd.
with sunset approaching, had to sort where was going to sleep the night.
is it so i d1 for the night.
is it so important to build a shelter.
rtain imes of year is a little it cold, the ground is d, it only has to be a cold, it only has to be a few degrees colder than your body erature to literally suck temperature to literally suck any e01 temperature to literally suck the life out of you, but you also getting off the ground i to get are also getting off the ground rgn0 the creepy crawlies, the hings that are going to annoy you keep you from sleeping.
go around omitting as many as you an, make it as tight as can.
check this seems pretty stable.
that 8 pretty good.
now where we to do put some slits have to do is put some slits oss and we are done.
holding my breath, holding my ath.
och.
ah!
that is reasonably comfortable.
hold ust shuffled down a bit.
on, just shuffled down a bit.
you might want to take the off.
and what you might want to take the i -
i you might want to take the knife off.
and what about a low, a bit of a shoulder x4 rub?
no?
there we go!
there’s pillow.
that’s your your pillow.
and that’s your shoulder rub, there you go.
there getting some tips henry there getting some tips tee i8t henry there getting some tips from dave williams, who is there hacking through he undergrowth and teaching vival skills.
well, to survival skills.
wwell, to nish the show this week, it time to something ttle more relaxing, and even sciousness-raising.
across world, thailand is known for its hundreds of buddhist monasteries, where monks and spend their lives and simplicity, contemplation and tation.
simplicity, contemplation and a4 itation.
back in 2014, we 214 sent rajan to get a taste of lifestyle, for a day, at east.
the first duty of the aryl day is least.
the first duty of the new day is collecting alms, from the local community.
third from the local community.
there is a number of utes tee i8t there is a number of routes from this monastery, and the divided into small groups go and go out to each route.
as 1 and go out to each route.
as i’m soon to find out, this is the only of not the only source of sustenance for the monks.
there o.
this is a feast.
it is you go.
this is a feast.
it is i\ once a day, you go.
this is a feast.
it is a vl1 you go.
this is a feast.
it is only once a day, but it is a feast.
next on the nda genda one he of good feast.
next on the agenda 1 of my daily duties.
you one of my daily duties.
you ight have noticed that the of sweeping up is given, lly, to the most enlightened rson here in the monastery.
t’s i’m doing it.
and after that’s i’m doing it.
and r4 ter that is complete, a hance to meet some of the reign monks as they finish jobs.
some, it transpires, have had rather urful previous lives.
colourful previous lives.
used to be a photographer.
colourful previous lives.
i a 1 used to be a photographer.
you used to be a photographer?
yes, velled the world, enjoyed travelled the world, enjoyed myself what kind ictures?
fashion.
really?
h, fashion magazines, that of thing.
and successful?
h, yes, quite.
successful ough.
turns out michael enough.
turns out that michael was also the manager of the a1 was also the manager of the model claudia schiffer for years.
he was then a monk for a short period 2001 and ids returned to the faith a year half ago, and this time, says it is he says it is for good.
mostly mily thinks should have amily, 1 should make ots of money, possessions anymore, ealth insurance, nothing at l.
nothing in bank?
all.
nothing in the bank?
nothing all.
nothing in the bank?
38 nothing in the bank.
no safety net.
the one that is quite ple, you train yourselves ly, seven, eight, nine hours, meditation, and when you ble still your mind are able to still your mind a1 mes peaceful.
becomes peaceful.
this experience has tually it uch better than the money money could have.
money could have.
michael has ompletely forsaken his old not completely forsaken his old life.
he is still curious about nglish the english premiership football scores, arsenal ecially, and then reveals abbot is a especially, and then reveals 4 especially, and then reveals the abbot is a secret lliveable .
months have to rii fan.
months have to w2 fan.
months have to observe 227 strict precepts or s, so really, my efforts were rather pathetic.
rules, so really, my efforts rules, so really, my efforts were rather pathetic.
in truth, eft, realised did as left, realised i did gain something out of the erience.
in a gain something out of the gain something out of the experience.
in a short period eciated the routine, appreciated the routine, simplicity, and the absence of choices you frequently have to make in the outside ld.
the point, though, is most of us that world.
an taking some time to find 4 self back in 2014.
that is all we have time for on this week because my programme.
up next week, rajan is an island, to celebrate the enary of one of the ountry’s centenary of one of the centenary of one of the country’s most famous and notoriously difficult novels.
inding out just how you and finding out just how you ove an move an entire library of very and very fragile books.
look &1 4 this!
he ceiling is ncredible.
and it goes on i incredible.
and it goes on and a long, long way.
this ust on for a long, long way.
this 14 be at least on for a long, long way.
this a1 at least 60 metres on for a long, long way.
this a must be at least 60 metres or something.
if you would like to up more of our recent catch up on more of our recent ntures you can find us on i iplayer.
we are in social media, too.
just search for travel show media, too.
just search for 4 media, too.
just search for travel show on facebook and and you will find us ground and you will find us ere.
until next time, see you the last couple of days, the weather really has been quite good.
beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly across eastern parts of the .
but things are going to turn now - the cloud you can see on the satellite picture a weather front, it’s approaching.
it means rain, wind, and really, that’s how it’ll be over the next few days.
so through the early hours of the morning, the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts of the .
even ahead of it, we have some rain across scotland and parts of england.
but generally speaking, it is a night and early morning.
very, very mild, 8-10 celsius in many areas.
3 through the morning, of england, through wales, the midlands.
southwestern scotland, too, and through the afternoon, it’ll brighten up across wales and southwestern parts of england.
there could be some thunderstorms, too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
think, through friday a1 now saturday, we see another area of low pressure with new fronts approaching us - this, once again, spells heavy rain initially for western parts of the .
but in the southwest, as this low pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it, and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around the isles of scilly and the tip of cornwall.
so really very blustery, even quite stormy weather for a time here.
but elsewhere eastern parts of the country on saturday - look at that, newcastle, hull, london -- fine, sunshine.
breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
and then come sunday, that low pressure really spreads across the country.
it’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some plenty of sunny spells occasionally brought in by those strong winds.
around through the weekend, but there’ll be blustery winds around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering arcund 12 celsius or so.
well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even as high as 17-18 celsius, at least temporarily, in southwestern parts of the .
so the southerly winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
welcome to news - i’m lewis vaughan jones - our top stories - we witness life on the front line for ukrainian forces - fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
if these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you have not been paying attention, because this is the russian attack playbook, perfected over ten years of war in syria.
forces - they say their spirits are stronger than ever.
we are fighting on our land and protect our families, we fight like lions and they will not win.
new satellite images show the russian military convoy heading towards kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery deployed in firing positions.
exodus from sumy - aals 1o are set up to escape the fighting, we meet some and roman abramovich, the russian owner of chelsea football club, is among seven more oligarchs sanctioned by the british government - the sale club 1s now on hold.
we start tonight with an exclusive report from the city of kharkiv, in the east of ukraine.
the country’s second largest city, after the capital, kyiv, has endured russian air attacks, and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s 1.
5 million residents have fled.
the ukrainian forces fought back a russian armoured column our correspondent quentin sommerville and camera journalist darren conway are the first journalists to be embedded with the ukranian army, as they continue to fight the russian advance.
should warn you, their report contains graphic images head to the very eastern edge of ukraine, and a ghostly vision of the country’s fate unfolds before you.
in near total blackout, the police in the country’s second-largest city take us on patrol.
shelling happens every night.
this close to the russian border, there’s another threat - no-one escapes scrutiny.
in an instant, everybody’s life here has been up-ended.
but this young nation has surprised russia and the world we weave our way past the fallen, into no man’s land, with the ukrainian army.
here is 21-year-old yevgen gromadsky.
over the sound of shelling, he tells me, "the russian soldiers are standing about 900 meters away from here.
you can hear right now that they’re firing on our positions and we are firing back™.
it’s a grenade launcher, british.
but it’s more than just a grenade launcher - it’s a quided missile.
is it good against tanks?
how are the russians fighting?
they’re fighting like soldiers of 1941.
so,
yeah, they have a lot of people here, a lot of tanks, a lot of their vehicles and technigues.
but we’re fighting in our land and we protect our families.
so it doesn’t matter how they fight, we fight like lions and they won’t win.
this city of a million plus people has emptied out.
this civilian, so close to ukrainian lines, just we’ve actually come beyond the ukrainian front line, and we know that because look at all the destruction around here, and this whole i these men, in fact, and there are two more over there.
there are two more over.
they are chechen, and they have 1ds on them.
their weapons have the ukrainians keep telling us they’re really comfortable with this type of fight because this is their territory, they’re defending their city, their families.
but the challenge from them is what comes from the sky.
they want more aircraft and they want more air defences.
and that might be where this battle, this war, in a war with russia, the front line is everywhere.
this is what people have been fleeing in kharkiv - endless bombardment for the past two weeks.
this is what russia does to cities, it bombards them, i i it surrounds them.
1 1y entires populations.
and if these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you haven’t been paying attention, because this the russian attack play book, perfected in over ten years of war in syria.
we know that russia bombs hospitals.
so here at the city’s hospital number four, they keep the wounded in hallways - away miss valentina has been hit by shrapnel.
for you", she says.
: these stupid russian shrapnel pieces will carry all my llife.
but as long as my heart still beats, will still and so too, will eight-year-old dmitri, now that this has been this is the war that russia has fought before and is fighting again.
we don’t know the rest of ukraine’s fate, but kharkiv : defenders, we will ride together.
we will win this war and all our heroic people will gather to rebuild our beloved ukraine.
quentin sommerville, news, kharkiv, in eastern ukraine.
towards the capital.
more than half the population has fled since the invasion began.
the mayor of the city humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have run out of food, and are still living without water or gas.
jeremy bowen has sent this report from kyiv.
when your world is turned upside down, there’s separation, loss, confusion, and relief at getting out alive.
hundreds more have been evacuated from villages in the firing line outside kyiv in the last few days.
did you see any russians?
yes.
they were mute, mute.
they were mute.
no comments, words, no and nothing.
they were mute.
they stayed like __stones.
medics can help with the physical pain of wounds.
kyiv’s hospitals are ready, expecting many more.
but what do you say to someone who needs the comfort of home, lril familiar has gone?
this minibus was from the children’s home, many with special needs, and carers who had spent two weeks in cellars, trying to keep them calm.
the police took videos to record who had escaped.
then they checked their bags.
the fear of russian infiltrators is strong.
food is not in short supply, along with plenty of questions about what the russians will do next, and allegations about what they are doing now.
the police commander said they had had many phone calls about violations of the rights of civilians, and weapons, injuries and murders.
at another crossing point, hundreds more walking out of the firing line.
and a priest who helped rescue them from the russian army.
there is nothing which is related to god in the actions.
so, there’s no reason a we are not attack anybody, so we just made decision to have different future, we want to have democracy, may god bless them, -1 ten miles east of kyliv, russia’s tactical blunders tanks are easy targets when they push forward, bunched up, in broad daylight, but the ukrainians are still outnumbered and outgunned.
at strong points around the city, ukrainian troops are waiting.
they know the russians are regrouping, and will again.
petrol bombs aren’t all they have got.
nato has sent in thousands of modern anti-tank weapons down the road.
if they want to come into the city, they will have to take this piece of ground and push in.
if they are encircling kyiv, they can probably stay more or less where they are.
the men at this position have to assume that an attack is coming.
for the soldiers who waited, the was bright, and the forest still and lonely.
jeremy bowen, news, kyiv.
in the last few hours, ukraine’s president vlodmyr zelensky has been speaking - our news reporter, mark lobel gave an update on what zelensky sald including how many people had managed to escape through the humanitarian this is think ukraine win on this is think ukraine 8 in on their end.
this is think ukraine , will win on their end.
they have time on will win on their end.
they ime on the logistical have time on the logistical situation is getting better by ay.
russia a manpower the day.
russia is a manpower shortage and ammunition rtage that will shortage and ammunition a ete shortage that will start showing up soon.
hinting that ide is turning.
another elopment as reported on a debate show that someone being re1l cal of the war, likening critical of the war, likening to afghanistan but much se.
referring to the humiliating invasion.
one last g, the issue of chemical weapons.
what do we know zily deeply concerning for he international community.
russian use of chemical orker weapons and the and ave often alked about have often talked about false flag operations in the and have said they suspect chemical weapens may be a sidered by the russians and chemical weapons expert that it is likely that use them this is his explanation to they ould them.
people can hide ongst he rubble, ukrainian ilitary can hide there, jump their anti-tank weapons and the vulnerable attacks.
if you use chemical eapons, that not stopped by ncrete walls and stuff, it concrete walls and stuff, it seeps underground and kills underground.
the people underground.
the russians are accusing the ricans are biological dltiia- americans are biological i americans are biological activities inside ukraine and have called a security council meeting to discuss that iday.
resident zelensky on friday.
president zelensky y- " that you know says that you know russia’s plans, you just look at what g116 they accusing others of any cissors absolutely no such ivity on his land.
stay with us on news - still to come: on hold, after owner roman abramovich is sanctioned by the british government.
the numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
irl in less than 24 hours then, the soviet union lost an elderly, sick leader, and replaced him with a dynamic figure 20 years his junior.
we heard these gunshots in the gym, then he came out through a fire exit and started firing at our huts.
god, we were all petrified.
travelled from memphis jail to nashville state prison in an eight-car convoy.
:
paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
it feels fine, thank you.
what are you going to do now?
is it going to change your life much, do you think?
this is news, ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
new satellite images show the russian military convoy president putin has claimed that russia will emerge stronger from international sanctions.
in a televised video conference putin said western governments were deceiving their own people = 1, solve its problems.
-d i steve rosenberg, is in moscow.
thinking on vladimir putin’s part, because this tsunami of international sanctions hitting russia threatens to cripple the econemy here.
now, today president putin said, "we will adapt, we will overcome, we will take measures,” he said, against those foreign companies pulling out of russia - raising fears of nationalisation, seizing of assets.
but is that really the solution to russia’s problem right now?
the russian oligarch, vladimir potanin, one of the richest men in russia, wrote today that those kind of measures would put russia back 100 years, back to 1917, the time of the russian revolution.
now, when vladimir putin came to power more than 20 years ago, the one thing that he promised russians the image of stability, the only man in the country capable of keeping russia together.
but that stability is gone now.
it’s been shattered by president putin’s decision to send troops into a sovereign nation, into ukraine, russia have failed to agree on efire to help to agree on a ceasefire to help people trapped in fighting to pe.
both ides indicated a a willingness escape.
both sides indicated a willingness to keep talking but ussian foreign minister made no concessions.
facebook company meta is changing ules on violent parent company meta is changing violent speech because of ukraine.
it says it has porarily relaxed temporarily relaxed policies.
a post saying, temporarily relaxed policies.
a 1 temporarily relaxed policies.
a post saying, for example, death ssian invaders, it would usually break rules, is now wed.
the changes, russia, kraine nearby countries.
roman abramovich, is among another seven people who’ve been hit with sanctions by the government because of their suspected close links to president putin.
the decision means that although chelsea can still play from selling tickets, players, and any merchandise.
the mobile phone company three has said it is suspending its sponsorship with the club.
the ’s asad ahmad gave this update from i of interest in what’s happening just a week ago, roman abramovich, the owner for nearly 20 years, said he was going to sell the club.
that caught a number of chelsea fans by surprise, they weren’t necessarily shocked, it is because of events in ukraine.
in the days that followed, a number of billionaires stepped forward saying that they’d be interested in buying the club, but then today the government slapped some sanctions on roman abramovich, which means he’s other implications of those sanctions mean the club’s shop you might say that’s not a big deal, the club shop being closed, but it’s the significance of it - that roman abramovich made in that club shop.
so that has to remain closed until further notice.
as far as the team is concerned, as well, travel costs for away games that sounds like a lot of money, but not when you have to move a squad of players, backroom staff, physios and managers, to away games, including to lille in france next week.
lots of people will be wondering, what is happening we will find out soon enough.
lviv in the far west of ukraine, has been spared i and if you go out onto the streets, you might imagine that people are going about their everyday business.
but the war is all-consuming and ordinary people are doing - i touched by the violence but this semblance of normality is deceptive.
look beyond it and you find many who have abandoned their daily routines to join the fight against russia.
like olesya.
a clothes designer.
but now it’s not 1 jackets she’s making, for the swelling ranks of the country’s military.
it’s the first time in my life that i’ve been doing this.
are you doing this?
because our boys need this.
because we don’t know what else we can do.
how do you feel about what is happening to ukraine?
we are feeling very angry, actually.
yes.
1 it’s very hard feelings.
we are trying to stop it.
you feel quite emotional?
yes.
this is a city on edge, with people making moves to protect what is precious.
checkpoints manned like oleks, a company executive.
was sitting in a suit in a very comfortable office.
had 50 people under supervision.
are you frightened?
here you are in quite a dangerous situation.
no, nobedy is frightened here.
can easily take my family from ukraine.
this guy has come and given us cars for the army, free.
so the same am doing.
every single citizen in ukraine is trying to do something for the army.
lviv has become a hub for ukrainians fleeing the viclence.
lyana has opened her art centre for those displaced and has and what about you?
what’s the toll on you, emotionally and psychologically?
understand that cannot control decided to take some few ways can help and one of them in this art centre =r this reads, "our own truth, power and will," expressing perfectly the defiance of this city.
so this is the scene in kyiv right now, where the ukrainian government says that not a single civilian was able to leave the besieged city of mariupol on thursday, accusing russian forces of again violating a temporary ceasefire to allow evacuations.
the russian troops sit north of the last couple of days, the weather really has been quite good.
beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly across eastern parts of the .
but things are going to turn now - the cloud you can see on the satellite picture a weather front, it’s approaching.
it means rain, wind, and really, that’s how it’ll be over the next few days.
so through the early hours of the morning, the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts of the .
even ahead of it, we have some rain across scotland and parts of england.
but generally speaking, it is a night and early morning.
very, very mild, 8-10 celsius in many areas.
3 through the morning, of england, through wales, the midlands.
southwestern scotland, too, and through the afternoon, it’ll brighten up across wales and southwestern parts of england.
there could be some thunderstorms, too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
think, through friday a1 now saturday, we see another area of low pressure with new fronts approaching us - this, once again, spells heavy rain initially for western parts of the .
but in the southwest, as this low pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it, and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around the isles of scilly and the tip of cornwall.
so really very blustery, even quite stormy weather for a time here.
but elsewhere eastern parts of the country on saturday - look at that, newcastle, hull, london -- fine, sunshine.
breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
and then come sunday, that low pressure really spreads across the country.
it’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some plenty of sunny spells occasionally brought in by those strong winds.
around through the weekend, but there’ll be blustery winds around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering arcund 12 celsius or so.
well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even as high as 17-18 celsius, at least temporarily, in southwestern parts of the .
so the southerly winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
the city has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s one and a half million residents new satellite images show a large russian military convoy seen heading towards kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery redeployed in firing positions.
the convoy was last seen northwest of the capital, near antonov airport.
the images show armoured units manoeuvring in and through the towns close to the airport.
more than two million people are thought to have fled the capital kyiv - but others have arrived, after escaping from the russian soldiers moving closer to the city.
humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have run out of food and are still living without water or gas.
panorama.
as anybody injured?
yes, loads!
a bomb has gone off.
on 22nd of 017, a bemb exploded at an may 2017, a bomb exploded at an ariana grande concert in chester.
22 people were urdered.
eight-year-old ffie-rose roussos the saffie-rose roussos was the t4 ngest victim.
she just had a 1ed art of love.
just was enthusiastic about everything.
fifth 8 niversary of the is the fifth anniversary of the attack approaches, saffie would 13 years old.
semetimes now be 13 years old.
sometimes 1 mind will go, she has died, it is like a house dropping you.
we talk about her all ime.
she is in on you.
we talk about her all ime.
she is in our hearts, so she’s not going anywhere.
ght, saffie’s parents tonight, saffie’s parents tell her.
tonight, saffie’s parents tell ile3 tonight, saffie’s parents tell her.
read for the first time.
as a family, we need to for us as a family, we need to get to the truth.
want to a get to the truth.
i want to know whether it could have been ented.
find out what happened to saffie, and whether she could have survived.
to i hello, this is saffie, and welcome to my car.
this hello, this is saffie, and a l, welcome to my car.
this is my dad, this is my brother, this , and this is mum.
is me, and this is my mum.
just showed you my family.
that is her bag.
bless her.
that was when yeah, when the nursery teachers came to re started reception,
yeah.
his is the resource family.
1 lisa, dad andrew, mother zander, and saffie.
-- the ssos family.
don’t think saffie ever sat roussos family.
don’t think .
ever sat still.
she saffie ever sat still.
she would be singing and dancing umping around.
very energetic child.
very rgetic.
she loved music that 10l energetic.
she loved music that she could move to an dance everything was ariana grande, so when we knew she was touring, she was coming to the ndrew said touring, she was coming to the 1 =1 touring, she was coming to the , andrew said what do you about if get her some think about if we get her some tickets for christmas?
she dn’t believe it.
could not believe it.
could not 1o couldn’t believe it.
could not believe it, that she is going and to go and see ariana grande ome alive.
on the actual his ht, set her clothes, night, i set out her clothes, got her an ariana grande hirt.
think she t-shirt.
think she got a little lat t-shirt.
think she got a 4lad t-shirt.
think she got a little denim skirt on t-shirt.
think she got a t-shirt.
think she got a little denim skirt on and black ings.
he couldn’t leggings.
she couldn’t believe excited, so happy.
she just anted to get in the ena.
manchester!
saffie!
when the concert was finishing just before 10:30pm.
made all a sandwich, just in case they were hungry, and up to manchester.
arked up there, waiting for m.
think parked up there, waiting for m.
think it was about 28 nutes past n.
we started minutes past ten.
we started going up the steps onto the course, and had got saffie hand with my left hand, but was pulling me, she just anted get out to her dad zander and wanted to get out to her dad 0 wanted to get out to her dad and zander and honestly tell 1 hat an amazing evening she him what an amazing evening
she had had, so she was pulling me.
hen, the next minute, and then, the next minute, just remember hitting the or, eally, like, with a floor, really, like, with a really heavy bank.
-- bang re.
at 10:31pm as the oly =r audience was living, year-old salman 1ly 8 22-year-old salman abedi onated his home-made bomb.
ffie and lisa re just five saffie and lisa were just five etres away.
just heard ople and children run and reaming.
hundreds of people sterical.
saw these three men, and they were just rying, and just said what’s on?
and they just said we think going on?
and they just said we & ink a bomb’s gone off.
sort i 13 think @
bomb’s gone off.
sort of put my arm round zander, and knew that this is serious.
never think knew that this is serious.
a1 you never think in your lifetime you are going to be involved in something like this.
it is a surreal moment to .
spoke to a police iile be in.
spoke to a police aile be in.
spoke to a police officer and are just that ooking my daughter, so they said, have a look around.
and asically, that’s what we , we just went from person on the floor to rson on the rter person on floor.
porter person on the floor.
kept thinking, help us make to come oon, just wait, going to come soon, just wait, i1 us make going to come soon help’s oing help us make going to come soon help us make going to come soon -- help’s going to come soon.
like it was -~ help’s going to come soon.
a i felt like it was a long time
s0y ore some came over to me and asked me my me.
and they asked me my name.
and all 0 uld say was they asked me my name.
and all they asked me my name.
and all could say was saffie.
just saffie.
because wanted to find her.
life-threatening injuries.
ndrew finally tracked her down :30am andrew finally tracked her down 4s at 6:30am the next morning.
so r0 into , and took a ook & at lisa, and ust walked hate look at lisa, and i just walked the bed and just broke behind the bed and just broke down.
they went through the possibilities of amputation of and, her leg, being her hand, her leg, being paralysed from the leg down, asically a 20% chance of surviving.
lisa was put into a .
andrew still dn’t know coma.
andrew still didn’t know where saffie was_ this was coming a nightmare, and it is folding to be real.
one of he nurses that was with 10 said that this is etective.
id need know when my daughter is.
hink he turned 12:30pm, and he \ !
ays, he asked for a room, says in.
make your way out the room.
and hat walk to that is something no human eing hould take.
irl it’s a cruel life
that me and ¥ isa are living.
your whole is just tumbling on the floor, it is just falling.
we just know we’ve got to on, particularly for xander.
lost our daughter, he’s his we’ve lost our daughter, he’s ittle sister.
they were his little sister.
they were ir0 y, very close.
lisa was in pital very, very close.
lisa was in l& pital for three months.
i andrew and xander @ andrew and xander stayed with the family never went back i their home in lincolnshire.
me and lisa couldn’t face what had as a family.
once lisa hospital, we had as a family.
once lisa i = hospital, said, don’t we just move away?
so we asically escaped, a bit like running away.
ing their life behind, hey moved to dorset, and in their new home, at a bedroom for saffie.
there is a bedroom for saffie.
everything in this room is what new, hat she’d seen, and she knew, that she’d seen, and that’s what she knew, that she’d seen, and that’s what we wanted.
we =11 that’s what we wanted.
we didn’t want anything changing.
is was originally in so this was originally in saffie’s edroom.
there are photos, just some of when i some photos, just some of when she was a baby.
my first curl, at that.
macau darker hair as!
have you been able to ing ourself to open these boxes much?
no.
first, done hat one.
has been hard?
i that one.
has it been too hard?
that one.
has it been too hard?
she is here with me.
and wouldn’t ave her anywhere se.
-- wouldn’t have her.
two years ago, enquiry two years ago, a public enquiry began into the manchester arena ck, and began into the manchester arena a a , and each of the 22 attack, and each of the 22 deaths.
listening to the uiry, things went wrong, and shouldn’t gone rong.
they shouldn’t have gone wrong.
can understand the sheer of that note.
withessed panic of that note.
witnessed it myself, you know?
it is an horrendous ordeal.
mean, what me suppose is knowing drives me suppose is knowing he information.
drives me suppose is knowing a 4 drives me suppose is knowing the information.
want to utinise everybody to the lilis scrutinise everybody to the point of getting to the truth.
nquiry is asking recruit attacks have been prevented uld any of the victims been saved?
are not looking for pegoats.
we are searching for the truth.
let’s always ember as we consider the evidence remember as we consider the ence that the person who is a0 irectly responsible for this gedy is salman abedi.
salman edi was born and raised in ids manchester.
his rents south manchester.
his parents id libya in the had left libya in the early 90s to settle here.
in 2014, he the attention to settle here.
in 2014, he a came to the attention of mi5.
he was 19 years old.
soon er, he travelled to war-torn ibya.
whilst he as there, his was closed.
salman abedi two further round trips to bya, returning just days efore the bombing.
we can’t stop every attack, of 8 we can’t stop every attack, of course we can’t, but we can the ones
ere it is just stop the ones where it is just so transparent so transparent where anybody can see what they are up to.
evidence given by the security services to taa security services to the manchester arena enquiry has held in secret, due to been held in secret, due to ell been held in secret, due to national security.
the family has made it hard to know o1 0s say it has made it hard to know if moore could have been done to 0 8 0 8 questions need to be swered.
won’t they preferred, n’t things change from 7-7, is going back many many which is geing back many many years?
do we keep losing oved ones?
andrew, good to eet you.
thank you for having in 2017, lord anderson was asked by the government to iew the handling of salman edi.
he was given access side mi5.
personally have roblem with our government and , mi5, in the handling of the family prior to 2017, and the rtunities missed -- abedi.
i r5 was an appalling atrocity, end £3 billion on we spend £3 billion on counterterrorism a year and 90 didn’t work.
counterterrorism a year and that 90 didn’t work.
mi5 admitted to me at least two they got wrong, and the thing was that when early 2017, first thing was that when early t3 first thing was that when early in 2017, they received elligence, and they nterpret it probably is mething to do with drugs ganised crime and not omething to do with terrorism ational security.
the econd thing was that when man abedi came back from libya four days before the 113 libya four days before the attack, they could have stopped or they could have asked him, or they could have asked he police to have stopped at 1ed irport and question him.
either of those things had different, they not been different, they are not persuaded that the attack would been stopped, and although i n3 a %1 have been stopped, and although respect that view that as far as concerned, that was an question.
after closed heir investigation of abedi in 4, he went on to visit abdul ralph abdullah in prison, convicted of terror offences.
despite this, abedi was still onsidered a despite this, abedi was still 4 not considered a risk to ell not considered a risk to national security.
when you go of our risons in this country, new its of person hat he did, on umber of occasions, plus making phone 1 calls to this person, that should have been a trigger for think should have been a trigger for should have been a trigger for mi5.
think it is perfectly vious to anybody that if a nown terrorist or remist is being visited in prison by eone younger and more pressionable, it would make to see what intelligence uld be gleaned from that counter.
when police nvestigated abdallah in 2014, they seized his phone.
it ntained 1300 messages he had changed with a fellow extremist.
every day on every kneeling, ask extremist.
every day on every 4011 extremist.
every day on every kneeling, ask my lord for tyrdom.
that is totally the of language or expect to coming out of extremist.
14 sages a day, 1000 in a messages a day, over 1000 in a th.
there is an intensity to at at conversation.
although ice had used the messages to convicted abdullah, they told the enquiry they have ver identified his contact.
as ereien never identified his contact.
it was salman abedi.
you have body here who is very i\ busily espousing extremist s, is talking to erson views, is talking to a person under investigation and - under investigation and subsequently convicted for a orist offence, but then - terrorist offence, but then there has been no follow-up.
id they get to a how did they get to a situation, whereby the messages seen by police officers, 4 were seen by police officers, how did it get to a situation whereby the messages were seen but no one followed up?
don’t know what the workload was in the north-west at that time, but imagine it was very, very high.
however, the bit that struggle with is, this is not difficult intelligence to exploit.
we want to investigate their networks.
find that inexplicable.
mi5 say they didn’t receive this intelligence lord anderson’s 2017 report found gaps in the way intelligence was shared between agencies.
organisations working together in an efficient way.
that we made recommendations but in your opinion, do you think that should have been in place, with the history that we’ve had up to 20177 no, do you think it should have been?
have to be careful because a high court judge, sir john saunders of course, absolutely,
yeah.
1s going to decide should be apportioned.
that absolutely wasn’t my job.
it certainly wasn’t perfect prior to 2017 and it’s i was looking for honesty through it all, really, and felt he was being as honest as he possibly could.
mistakes that need adressing.
again, keep hearing off everybody "lessons learnt” but, you know, we shouldn’t lose eight-year-old children to make that point.
the inquiry is also looking at how the emergency services responded on the night.
greater manchester police were running the inital joint however, would also like to acknowledge and apologise for failings by greater manchester police.
the inquiry has heard a breakdown in communication.
failure to establish effective inter-service communications was unacceptable and we apologise for this \ only three paramedics made it in to the blast zone, and it was two hours before after the last casualty had been taken out.
the inquiry is due to begin hearing evidence about saffie, so the roussos family are returning to manchester.
got your stuff packed, xander, that you want to take?
chargers, phones.
dreading it.
really don’t want to go.
it’s giving me sleepless nights, it’s made me anxious.
it’s a horrible, nervy feeling.
going through my statement.
emotionally draining but just keep saying, "it’s for saffie,” obviously, and i’ve got hi, pete, nicola.
very well.
nice to see you both.
nice to see you too.
after you give your evidence then we go straight to start the evidence of the people that were there who tried to help.
stating the obvious, this is very difficult territory for you, i’m 1 evidence disclosed to the roussos’ legal team raised questions about whether saffie the bombing.
at the very start the family’s understanding was that saffie i 1 arel an extended period after she sustained these terrible injuries.
over an hour.
and during that time she was conscious, she was able to talk, she was able to ask questions.
after the bomb exploded there were fears of a second attack.
because of the breakdown a the emergency services, arena workers and members of the public were left to help the injured inside the foyer.
paul reid was selling posters that night.
it was smokey, and there was people running about screaming, you know.
and just stood there for probably a minute.
i think my brain was trying to take in what was going on because there was people on the floor.
yeah,
it was chaos, basically.
and then phoned the police.
i just kept on screaming to send everything and everybody to the arena, to the foyer.
there’s been an explosion.
paul saw saffie and told her not to worry, asked her her name and told her not to worry and that more help was going as time went on, did you think, you know, where are the ambulances?
they’re not here.
was it beginning to worry you?
it was definitely beginning to worry that nobody was there.
there was medics or it was definitely worrying me.
paul helped carry saffie to the street on an advertising board.
saffie was the first person to be taken to hospital after an ambulance heading to the arena was flagged down.
saffie’s main injuries were to her legs, particularly injuries.
unfortunately, or, wasn’t corrected.
is allowed to continue, eventually you run out of blood, and the body the people around saffie, many of them did their best in appalling circumstances.
but the basic medical techniques that could and should have been used weren’t.
at 11:40pm, more than an hour after the attack, saffie died in hospital.
finding out exactly what happened is hard to take because you don’t want anyone to suffer, never mind
do you know what mean?
your child.
it does make you very angry and gets you very upset to know that that little girl did everything she could to keep herself going and the system failed her.
two sets of medical experts 115"2 one group said saffie’s injuries were too severe rinein - the other said it’s possible she could’ve lived if she’d received basic treatment.
we’re going to be left wondering, aren’t we, that’s an inevitable consequence of the experts obviously, don’t know what the chair will make of it eventually.
you may get a very clear conclusion from him one way or the other, or it might be a it’s not like a criminal case where you get quilty or not guilty.
could she have survived?
if she could have survived then you then think about the care so that just throws you into turmoil.
and know that if she was given that chance she would still be here, really do.
today, andrew and lisa will give their statements to the inquiry.
volice.
and, you know, we believe certain aspects of that night were catastrophically wrong so we’re here to make sure it’s aired, for the judge to hear.
it is very important for us to do.
it is going to be a tough day.
the response on that night was shameful and inadequate.
the response of the security services on this atrocity should go down in history as one of the worst failures and that’s what we should learn from this.
111918 want to thank those that tried to help saffie that night and for being with her.
also want to say to the professionals, like the emergency services and mi5, that this inquiry isn’t about protecting your job, your reputation we understand the sheer panic and fear you were faced with that night, but until you admit the failings, a positive change?
during the inquiry north west ambulance service said lessons have been learned, but believe there were "no inadequacies” greater manchester police and fire services accepted failings in their overall response on the night.
counterterrorism police and mi5 have both told the inquiry conclusions are expected to be published later this year.
just hope the whole process of this inquiry does what it’s set out to do, what it’s meant to do.
feel the need to keep pushing for a change, to do the right thing.
before leaving manchester, the family visit the memorial dedicated to the lives lost in the attack, to lay a time capsule for saffie.
to think someone, another mother, could go through what i’ve gone through and still going through and will do forever, is just heartbreaking.
it’s just so sad.
have you got the stuff for it?
what do you want to do?
she’s not here, mate.
we’ll never be who we were, we’ll never have what we had, but saffie is always with us.
our top stories: we witness life on the frontline for ukrainian forces, fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
if these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you have not been paying attention because this is the russian attack playbook, perfected over ten years of war in syria.
the ukrainian army head inte no man’'s land towards lig1 are stronger than ever.
we are fighting on our land and protect our families, we fight like lions and they will not win.
new satellite images show the russian military convoy heading towards kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery deployed in firing positions.
exodus from sumy.
as humanitarian corridors are set up to escape and roman abramovich, the russian owner of chelsea football club, is among seven more oligarchs sanctioned by the british government.
the sale of the club is now on hold.
welcome to our viewers on y- 0la the globe.
we start with an exclusive ro18 of kharkiv, in the east of ukraine.
the country’s second largest city, after the capital, kyiv, has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s 1.
5 million residents have fled.
the ukrainian forces fought back a russian armoured column our correspondent quentin sommerville and camera journalist darren conway are the first journalists to be embedded with the ukranian army as they continue to fight the russian advance.
should warn you their report contains graphic images head to the very eastern edge of ukraine and a ghostly vision in near total blackout, the police in the country’s second-largest city take us on patrol.
shelling happens every night.
no-one escapes scrutiny.
in an instant, everybody’s life here has been up-ended.
has surprised russia inte no man’s land, with the ukrainian army.
here is 21-year-old yevgen gromadsky.
over the sound of shelling, he tells me, "the russian soldiers are standing about 900 meters away from here.
you can hear right now that they’re 1 and we are firing back”.
it’s a grenade launcher, british.
but it’s more than just a grenade launcher - it’s a quided missile.
is it good against tanks?
how are the russians fighting?
they’re fighting like soldiers of 1941.
here, a lot of tanks, a lot of their vehicles and techniques.
but we’re fighting in our land and we protect our families.
like lions
and they won’t win.
this city of a million plus people has emptied out.
lines, just didn’t make it.
we’ve actually come beyond the ukrainian front line, and we know and this whole area’s littered with dead russian bodies.
these men, in fact, and there are two more over there.
there are two more over.
there are chechen, they have 1ds on them.
their weapons have the ukrainians keep telling us they’re really comfortable is their territory, they’re defending their city, their families.
but the challenge from them is what comes from the sky.
they want more aircraft and they want more air defences.
and that might be where this battle, this war, is won and lost.
in a war with russia, the front line is everywhere.
this is what people have been fleeing in kharkiv - endless bombardment for the past two weeks.
- — a our administration would like to inform you that a fire has started in the building.
for that reason, please go to the ground floor and from there, leave the building.
this is what russia does to cities, it bombards them, it besieges them, it surrounds them.
it terrorizes entire populations.
and if these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you haven’t been paying attention, because this is the russian attack play book, perfected in over ten years of war in syria.
we know that russia bombs hospitals.
so here at the city’s hospital number four, they keep the wounded in hallways - away from the windows.
miss valentina has been hit by shrapnel.
for you", she says.
these stupid russian shrapnel pieces will carry all my llife.
but as long as my a3 a - and so too, will eight-year-old dmitri, now that this has been this is the war that russia has fought before and is fighting again.
the rest of ukraine’s fate, but kharkiv has already shown what’s coming next.
: defenders, we will ride together.
we will win this war and all our heroic people will gather to rebuild our beloved ukraine.
quentin sommerville, news, kharkiv, in eastern ukraine.
towards the capital.
more than half the population has fled since the invasion began.
the mayor of the city humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have run out of food and are still living without water or gas.
when your world is turned upside down, there’s separation, loss, confusion, and relief at getting out alive.
hundreds more have veeie from villages in the firing line outside kyiv in the last few days.
did you see any russians?
yes.
they were mute, mute.
they were mute.
no comments, no words, no.
and nothing.
they were mute.
they stayed like __stones.
medics can help with the physical pain of wounds.
kyiv’s hospitals are ready, expecting many more.
but what do you say to someone who needs the comfort of home?
when everything familiar has gone?
this minibus was from the children’s home, many with special needs, and carers who had spent two weeks in cellars trying to keep them calm.
the police took videos to record who had escaped.
then they checked their bags.
the fear of russian infiltrators is strong.
food is not in short supply, along with plenty of questions what about the russians will do next, and allegations about what they are doing now.
the police commander said they had had many phone calls about violation of the rights of civilians and weapons, injuries and murders.
at another crossing point, hundreds more walking out of the firing line.
and a priest who helped rescue them from the russian army.
there is nothing so, there’s no reason a we are not attack anybody, so we just made decision to have different future, we want to have democracy, soviet union, may god bless them, but we ask them to do it within their borders.
tanks are easy targets when they push forward, bunched up, in broad daylight, but the ukrainians are still outnumbered and outgunned.
at strong points round the city, ukrainian troops are waiting.
they know the russians are regrouping, and will again.
petrol bombs aren’t all they have got.
nato has sent in thousands of modern anti-tank weapons for whatever is coming down the road.
they will have to take this piece of ground and push in.
if they are encircling kyiv, they can probably stay more or less where they are.
the men at this position have to assume that an attack is coming.
for the soldiers who waited, the was bright, and the forest still and lonely.
jeremy bowen, news, kyiv.
in the last few hours, ukraine’s president vlodmyr zelensky has been speaking.
our news reporter, mark lobel gave an update on what zelensky said including how many people had managed to escape through the humanitarian corridors.
he began by saying 100,000 people had been evacuated over the last two days which is good etlga to the besieged city of mariupol in the south and said that not even essentials could get in because russian tanks were attacking a humanitarian corridor there and he was furious about that.
terrorists,” that was how he put it.
one ukrainian politician said hundreds may have died already in mariupol and another politician based in mariupol whose parents are also there, said that russians are killing people for fun.
he said something else, listen.
there are 350,000 - 350,000 people without any convoys of humanitarian aid, water, food, medicine, and bodies are laying on the streets.
and mass graves already.
and this is in a european city that was totally peaceful two weeks ago.
and we have some new satellite images which are quite interesting.
can you talk us through?
you see troops in a forest here and there you see troops and military vehicles in a town and this is of significance because we have been focusing on that 40 mile convoy north-west of kyiv, the capital, which has been - around the airport.
but now it looks like there are manoeuvres, they are dispersing and redeploying and so those shots have been going further into town closer to the airport and elsewhere, some have moved 181+ with long-range missiles there.
i a the picture of the movement what is the plan when it comes to ukrainian forces?
we saw another part of a convoy north-east of kyiv recently partly destroyed, that was the ukrainian ministry, defence ministry releasing those pictures.
we also saw quentin somerville’s report from the front line
i and a former retired commanding general of the army in europe watched that report and he had this to say.
the human dimension is so much more powerful and important than the material or technical part.
this is think that ukraine is going to win they have time on their side, the logistical situation have a manpower shortage, think they have an ammunition shortage will start showing up soon.
hinting that the tide is turning.
it was reported that on a debate show some people were being critical of the war and likening it to afghanistan but much worse, referring to the soviet union’s humiliating invasion in 1989 there.
so interesting that that was let through.
of chemical weapons.
deeply concerning to the international community often spoken about false flag operations in the past have by the russians.
one chemical weapons , they will use them and this is his explanation as to why.
people can hide among the rubble, the ukrainian but if you use chemical weapons that has not stopped by concrete walls.
it seeps underground and kills people underground.
the russians are accusing the americans of biological cla they called a security council meeting to discuss it on friday.
president zelensky says to know russia’s plans you just have @ 1rv accusing others of and he says there is absolutely no such activity on his land.
lie1l @0 thank you to mark for that update.
stay with us on world news.
we’ll tell you how residents of one city in the far west helping defend the country.
the numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
irl in less than 24 hours, then, the soviet union lost an elderly, sick leader, and replaced him with a dynamic figure 20 years his junior.
we heard these gunshots in the gym, then he came out through a fire exit and started firing at our huts.
god, we were all petrified.
travelled from memphis jail to nashville state prison in an eight-car convoy.
:
paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
it feels fine, thank you.
what are you going to do now?
is it going to change your life much, do you think?
this is world news.
ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
new satellite images show the russian military convoy heading towards kyiv has now deployed in firing positions.
president putin has claimed that russia will emerge stronger from international sanctions.
in a televised video conference, putin said western governments were deceiving their own people and russia would calmly solve its problems.
our russia editor steve rosenberg is in moscow.
thinking on vladimir putin’s part because this tsunami of international sanctions hitting russia threatens to cripple the econemy here.
now, today, president putin said, "we will adapt, "we will overcome, we will take measures,” he said, "against those foreign
i tr0 "of russia - raising fears of nationalisation, "seizing of assets”.
but is that really the solution to russia’s problem right now?
the russian oligarch vladimir potanin, one of the richest men in russia, wrote today that those kind of measures would put russia back 100 years, back to 1917, the time of the russian revolution.
now, when vladimir putin came to power more than 20 years ago, the one thing that he promised russians was sustainability and for years after, he cultivated the image of stability - the only man in the country capable of keeping russia together.
but that stability is gone now.
it’s been shattered by president putin’s decision to send troops into a sovereign nation, into ukraine, lie1l @0 let’s round up some of the other developments on ukraine.
in the highest level of talks so far since the invasion began, ukraine and russia have failed to agree on a ceasefire to help people trapped by the fighting escape.
both sides did indicate a willingness to continue talking, but russia’s foreign minister sergei lavrov made no concessions.
facebook’s parent company meta is changing its rules the company says it has "temporarily" relaxed a post saying, for example, "death to the russian invaders” that would usually break its rules, is now allowed.
the changes cover russia, ukraine and nearby countries.
roman abramovich, is among another seven people who’ve been hit with sanctions by the government because of their suspected close links to president putin.
the decision means that although chelsea can still play matches, the sale of the club i a from selling tickets, players and any merchandise.
the mobile phone company three has said it is suspending its sponsorship with the club.
the ’s asad ahmad gave this update from i of interest in what’s happening just a week ago, roman abramovich, the owner for nearly 20 years, said he was going to sell the club.
that caught a number of chelsea fans by surprise.
but they weren’t necessarily shocked - - in the days that followed, a number of billionaires stepped forward, saying they’d be interested in buying the club but then, today, the government slapped some sanctions on roman abramovich, which means he’s other implications of those sanctions means that club’’s now, you might say that’s not a big deal, the club’s shop being closed, but it’s the significance of it - that roman abramovich in that club shop, so that has to remain closed itlads a - as far as the team is concerned as well, travel costs for away games is being capped at £20,000.
sounds like a lot of money - not when you have to move a squad of players, backroom staff, physios and the managers to away games, including to lille in france next week.
a lot of people will be wondering will what is happening behind the scenes at the club itself be affecting the players?
we will find out soon enough.
lviv, in the far west of ukraine, has been spared you might imagine that people are going about their everyday but the war is all-consuming and ordinary people are doing -- reeta chakrabarti reports from lviv.
- i touched by the violence of the war, but this semblance of normality is deceptive.
look beyond it and you find many who have abandoned their daily routines to join the fight against russia.
like olesya.
she’s 32
and she is a clothes designer - but now, it’s not fashion but flak jackets she’s making, for the swelling ranks of the country’s military.
it’s the first time in my life that i’ve been doing this.
are you doing this?
because our boys need this.
because we don’t know what else we can do.
how do you feel about what is happening to ukraine?
oh, we are feeling very angry, actually.
yes.
it’s very hard feelings.
we are trying to stop it.
you feel quite emotional?
yes.
yes, yes.
this is a city on edge, with people making moves to protect what is precious.
there are now checkpoints manned by people who last menth spent their days at a desk.
like oleks, a company executive.
was sitting in a suit in a very comfortable office.
had 50 people under supervision.
are you frightened?
here, you are in quite a dangerous situation.
no, nobedy is frightened here.
there is not - can easily get out from ukraine.
can easily take my family from ukraine.
this guy has come and given us cars for the army, free.
see.
so the same, am doing.
and delivering these cars to army.
everybody - every single citizen in ukraine is trying to do something for army.
lviv has become a hub for ukrainians fleeing lyana has opened her art centre for those displaced and has and what about you?
what’s the toll on you, emotionally and psychologically?
cannot help everyone.
decided to take some few ways can help and one of them i this reads, "our own truth, power and will," expressing perfectly the defiance of this city.
reeta chakrabarti, news, lviv.
so, this is the scene in kyiv right now.
it is eerily calm but we are hearing that russian forces are to be making a renewed going to be making a renewed push towards the city, having nced about push towards the city, having i advanced about five kilometres or so in the past 24 hours, t’s according the united that’s according to the united states.
that’s it.
i’m is vaughan jones.
this is the last couple of days, the weather really has been quite good.
beautiful, sunny skies for some of us, particularly across eastern parts of the .
the cloud you can see on the satellite picture tele its it means rain, wind, and, really, that’s how it’ll be over the next few days.
so through the early hours of the morning, the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts of the .
even ahead of it, we have some rain across scotland and parts of england.
but, generally speaking, it is a night and early morning.
3 through the morning, of england, through wales, the midlands.
south-western scotland, too, and through the afternoon, it’ll brighten up across wales and south-western parts of england.
sunshine and showers here second half there could be some thunderstorms, too, and on top of that, the winds will strengthen.
think, through friday a1 now, saturday, we see another area of low pressure with new fronts approaching us.
this, once again, spells heavy rain initially but in the south-west, as this low pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing about gusts of 60-70mph around the isles of scilly and the tip of cornwall - so really very blustery, even guite stormy weather for a time here.
but elsewhere, eastern parts of the country on saturday - look at that, newcastle, hull, london fine, sunshine.
breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
and then come sunday, that low pressure really spreads across the country.
it’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some plenty of sunny spells occasionally brought in by those strong winds.
around through the weekend but there’ll be blustery winds around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering arcund 12 celsius or so.
well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even as high as 17 or 18 celsius, at least temporarily, in south-western parts of the , so the southerly winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
it seeps underground and kills people underground.
ukrainian forces are fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv the city has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens of civilian deaths and hundreds qa3 most of the city’s one and a half million residents new satellite images show a large russian military convoy seen heading towards kyiv has now dispersed, with artillery redeployed in firing positions.
the convoy was last seen northwest of the capital, near antonov airport.
the images show armoured units manoeuvring in and through the towns close to the airport.
more than 2 million people are thought to have fled but others have arrived, after escaping from the russian soldiers moving closer to the city.
humanitarian organisations have warned that many people have run out of food and are still living without water or gas.
now on news, hardtalk with zeinab badawi.
welcome to hardtalk with me, zeinab badawi.
europe’s dependence on russian energy sits uneasily from such exports.
one leader has said russian oil and gas is being bought with the blood of the ukrainian people.
my guest is the prime minister of norway, jonas gahr store.
norway is one of the world’s biggest oil and gas exporters.
what can it do to help ease europe off its addiction to russian energy supplies?
and can this be done quickly enough to starve the kremlin war machine of funds a ukrainians?
now, you’ve been prime minister of norway since october.
you already have a war in europe to contend with.
how worried are you that the war will intensify and escalate?
extremely worried.
this is drama unfolding in europe.
it’s a war from the 19th century being fought in 2022, with iphones available to see the terrible realities of what it does to civilians, what it does to men and women lol / all destructive potential of a military machine that has been building up for over a year and then, until it is unleashed on the neighbouring population.
it’s a dramatic setback for, would say, civilisation in europe and an extraordinary wake-up call to what we all have to face now.
nathalie tocci, who’s an adviser to josep borrell, who’s the european union’s foreign policy chief - now know norway’s not a member of the european union - nevertheless, she says that this is not enly a war in europe, it’s a war against europe.
sn’t it
but it looks like, so far, europe’s not stepping up.
wouldn’t agree.
you know, think europe has been amazingly fast in adopting and voting for sanctions, very comprehensive sanctions.
before this war, people in europe were saying that, you know, putin is pretty he has calculated
that m-
1s sustain the sanctions.
think it’s hurting much more.
there has been a =
but we are closely associated through the european economic contributions frem japan, - it’s not militarily engaging in ukraine.
think it’s important to keep nato out of a war in ukraine.
=1 kind of confrontation, but we are responding in kind with humanitarian aid, and now we are preparing to help and receive a large number of refugees.
so think eurepe has come together pretty well.
you’ve given the three planks there - the sanctions, the military assistance, and also the humanitarian acceptance of refugees.
so, the european union has i by the end of the year.
not so much movement on oil.
so, put it to you that europe is really holding back on the sanctions because it =l tlad well, you know, europe is also responsible for having functioning economies, and think the decisions they have taken on gas is not necessarily a sanction, but it’s a strategic choice of being less dependent from russia, which they see with another major undertaking we all have to do, namely to speed up transition to renewable energy.
so, from a climate change perspective, from a 2030 perspective, you know, fit for cutting emissions, this may spur and accelerate investments in renewable energy, and that is very important, and norway , i’ll come back to that in a moment, but really must -t the european union is still spending more than $1 billion a day on buying russian energy, oil and gas, and that is simply funding the kremlin’s war machine, and it’s being used to hammer the people of ukraine.
you’re trying to fight russian tanks with the banks, as it were, and it’s just not going to be fast enough.
well, you know, think your equation - don’t buy your equation.
europe has to still fuel its economy in one way they’re buying oll at the international market and they are, through a dramatic hike in gas prices and oil prices, hurting their economies, so they cannot kind of take down their own economies and, at the same time, resist what russia is doing.
think, you know, the signals here of quite comprehensive sanctions, quite comprehensive aid, quite comprehensive political unity in europe will make its mark.
and you know, it may be easy for countries not dependent on oil and gas to pass very harsh judgements on that.
can understand that european governments also have a responsibility to keep their economies going.
russia is the world’s second biggest oil exporter norway’s about number seven.
you also are about number three to gas exports.
don’t you pump more oil and supply europe with more gas?
because we pump and supply at the maximum.
you know, norway’s whole way of operating is that we do that effectively and we extract our resources effectively with the lowest possible emissions, and we will always produce at the maximum.
so reassured european leaders that norway remains a reliable, long-term supplier of gas.
there will be some additional gas coming from norway in terms of liquefied gas on ships, which will come on the market oril so that will be a 5% increase of what norway can provide.
but norway’s contribution will go beyond that on energy, because doing this renewable transition that has to be done, both to reach our climate goals and to make ourselves less dependent on energy from russia, we have to make a big push on renewables.
so, you know, there is now a big undertaking in europe of expanding ocean wind, expanding solar energy, anyway, and now we can speed it up, and norway, part of that.
all right, so you’re looking at the fact that the high price for fossil fuels is going to accelerate the drive to use more renewable energy, green sources.
but you don’t know when that’s going to happen because we’re already hearing european leaders saying, "oh, look, italy’s looking at using more coal.
”
the germans are saying - robert habeck, the german economics minister, says, "europe may be forced to burn more coal in the face of russian aggression and spiralling gas prices™.
it’s looking at perhaps reviving its nuclear power.
in the united kingdom, the government is perhaps the moratorium on fracking so, this goes against what you’re saying, that actually it’s going to drive more renewable energy.
you know, this transition towards renewables, would have wished to see that happen in a planned and orderly fashion.
now we have war on the continent, and what you just now say is that, you know, europe has to fuel its economy that they may have to revert coal and maybe - mean, expect if there is nuclear, it has i what norway can do is to say that our gas will come and norway’s also leading the way for what is called which is something europe has g1 we have to capture €02 and store it safely.
is falling out, democracies i replacements.
the production of renewable energy, and then we have a large potential and we all have to contribute.
prime minister, jonas gahr store, but it’s the time frame i’m talking about.
and so both when it comes to not buying russian energy, you know, the is now saying, look, we’re going to and wean ourselves off that by 2030.
that’s quite a while away.
the international energy agency has now said the question of whether to delay the planned retirement of european nuclear plants is a delicate issue which may merit debate and the bloc could increase coal-fired power generation.
so put it to you that in the short and medium term, we’re not going to achieve these goals that you’re setting because of the war, correct?
well, only partly, & you cannot achieve major build-up of ocean wind in a few months.
you know, you need planning for that, but you can german government intends to build wind power on 2% hut it can be accelerated.
and gas, that’’s part of the european planning, will probably not be done in the very short term, but pretty short term.
do this replacement of russian gas at a faster rate than they would have done otherwise, of course, it will take some time, dehelae that’s the point, it will take some time and the war people are being killed and wounded as we speak, and the measures which europe to squeeze the kremlin of finance is going in slow moticn.
and, you know, zelensky, president of ukraine, says, "please don’t buy russian oil, support us.
”
but that’s the point was making to you right from the beginning.
this is a test of european resolve and europe is failing.
but you know, to be honest, if europe were to stop buying oil and gas from russia, it will not stop the war machine fighting in ukraine, regretfully.
but europe is financing the war machine, isn’t it?
you know, it’s an economy taking a major, major blow.
what we have to do is to support ukraine, and norway has made a landmark decision of now providing military equipment to the resistance of the ukrainian people, something we have not dene in the past.
there is humanitarian aid coming in, there is financial pressure put on russia, and there has to be support and messages to ukraine that we will help rebuild ukraine once this war is over and , you know, we still have to hope that it’s not a war that russia going to win.
but let me just be clear, think making this assumption it would be over at the battlefield, unfortunately, that is not the case with this president in moscow.
all right, we’re seeing energy prices go through the roof - you know, oil is at around $140 a barrel, 14-year high - and this is greatly expanding your revenues in norway.
1 with five million people.
your oil fund, your sovereign wealth fund is about, what, 1.
3 trillion?
you’re going to be getting a lot more money now as a result of all this.
can you spend all that money on helping ukraine?
mean, we will take our responsibility for ukraine.
we put this - this money comes into our sovereign wealth fund.
would have wished to have seen half of those prices.
it’s not something norway is calling for, having these high prices, so, yes, they will maybe increase revenues on that side.
on the other side, this fund is reduced in its value from the stock exchange, which is where it has placed most of its money.
but, yes, norway has already made important financial contributions to the humanitarian aid, and we will step up that.
we will do that in cooperation with the united nations, with the leading humanitarian organisations and with european partners.
we are very conscious about our responsibility and our opportunity both to lead on the energy transition and also to follow up a tradition we have you know, forward leaning on humanitarian aid.
because so far, believe you’ve only taken a few you look at countries like poland - ebviously, admittedly in the neighbourhood, near ukraine - are you going to be stepping up your efforts on taking refugees and allowing them to work for three years, as the european union is going to allow them?
we have taken a decision, alongside the european union, to give collective protection to ukrainians, so we will not make individual cases but, you know, as a ukrainian, you can come to norway.
we are not neighbouring ukraine - have welcomed the polish prime minister here in oslo two days ago, reassuring him that, you know, people who come to poland, they can travel on to other european countries, including norway.
and there are already refugees - primarily young women, i have visited them and we stand ready to receive them.
it does not make sense to put a figure on that because this crisis is unfolding, but believe the nordic countries, scandinavian countries and the european countries will stand by to support the bordering countries of ukraine.
you’ve also said that norway is providing ukrainians with some military equipment - anti-tank weapons, protective vests, helmets and so on - but want to put to you what fabrice pothier, a former head of policy at nato who has served under the current secretary general jens stoltenberg, and he says he’s disappointed and that nato needs to engage more.
he says, "not getting involved is not the way "nato needs to get engaged more ela a 11 "on the ground, but through more pressure on putin’s war i don’t want to go through the arguments of the no-fly zone - know that jens stoltenberg has said no intentions of moving into ukraine either on the ground 0 shouldn’t nate be doing more?
you know, think nato’s primary responsibility is to secure the security of 30 nato states.
i is really about.
so, we are reassuring nato members.
norway is sending troops to lithuania.
we are supporting, with part of our navy, to support the security of the military alliance.
when it comes to ukraine, believe it is not primarily nato,but it is nato countries bordering countries that have to step up, contributed by receiving these refugees in a way which is extremely impressive and then, european countries and like norway, we are contributing with humanitarian aid and also with military equipment, which believe is necessary and called for when a neighbouring country in europe is being attacked, 1 1 - but, mean, fabrice pothier says, "if civilian casualties "continue to mount, there will be pressure on western "leaders to do something.
"this can be avoided by being much more engaged now.
" so, do you think there should be greater engagement to put pressure on president putin?
perhaps patrol the baltic sea and and cut him off that way?
there’s got to be something more that’s got to be done.
well, but, you know, this adviser coming out of nato service, he is not very precise what he is calling for.
norway is bordering russia.
6 and eyes in the north.
we have our planes out flying to control and monitor peace and lower tension in our areas, so we are taking that t3 112 but, you know, really think if we think concretely about it, engaging nato inside ukraine, unleashing war between nato and russia, that is not responsible, that’s not going to help ukraine, and believe it will be irresponsible to move 18 that is a pretty common view by european and allied leaders.
all right, you say that norway is the eyes and ears of nato in the north and certainly, norway is one of five nato countries, along with the baltic republics you also have a nearly 200km-long border, as well as a maritime boundary that extends almost to the north pole, we want to maintain stability, predictability and long-term we have no foreign bases in norway.
we have no stationed nuclear arms in norway.
we have a mantra which says, "high north, low tension".
we don’t exercise militarily close up to the russian border.
we have a cooperation, you know, neighbour-to-neighbour we have fishery protection, fishery management to do and norway’s defence and security is based on two pillars.
one, our own defence, which is strong in navy and air capacity, and our nato membership.
so it is really the combination of having allies who train with us and know how it is to operate in norway and norway’s own ability to manage a neighbourhood.
in the north.
they come from other sides, so tension in ukraine spreads not get out of control a i tetgs 18 and about 100km from one of the world’s largest nuclear predictability to manage this.
sure.
and every two years, in northern norway, and they’re going to begin this month, the biggest since the end of the cold war.
wanted to put to you what professor rasmus bertelsen from the university of tromso in norway says.
he says, "conducting such a big a "norway now in light 1aale
so, despite all this, you still believe that you should engage in dialogue with russia.
exercises, but it’s not attending this time round.
but you think that’s a good principle, to maintain this open dialogue, as it were, with russia?
you know, there’s not much dialogue with russia.
was foreign minister for seven years of norway, those were very detailed negotiations and led to a very then we had dialegue.
that was another window of opportunity around 2010.
today, what’s happening in ukraine?
there is little dialogue.
this one has been planned for many years.
and russia has been of nato operating and training under winter conditions.
and if you want winter conditions, you get them if you go to the north and norway.
both sweden and finland, talk now of them joining nato.
and finland, the government there says it’s having a political debate.
the swedish prime minister, magdalena andersson, has said, "look, we don’t really want to join" and so on.
but look, do you think that there is now a bit of momentum towards finland and sweden joining nato?
and would you welcome that?
well, sweden and finland are our closest neighbours, you know, geographically we are very close and also historically and culturally.
and my answer to this is the following - governments of sweden and finland to make that judgement.
it’s one of the very key judgements countries have to make.
finland and sweden are nato’s closest partners outside nato.
and here in the nordic region, we have intensified ocur security cooperation and also military cooperation we can do that under today’s circumstances.
and then, for norway’s security, it is important to say that sweden and finland, as advanced modern states, should have the complete freedom to make their choice.
all right, well, quess you might be saying that.
very briefly now, how do you think this is all going to end?
you started this interview saying this is a fight about european values.
do you think authoritarianism or those european values of civilisation, as you put it, are going to prevail?
think european civilisation is going to prevail.
authoritarian rule based on military power, now what we see is a dictatorship, is not part of the european heritage we have to safequard and take forward.
don’t believe that this a government of the future.
it’s not what people want.
people are turning away from this.
people want freedom, people want human rights, people want democracy.
towards russia, is that they have turned towards these values.
and this is what believe is the core thing of this tragic war, is that russia &1 to stop this political drift towards freedom and democracy.
so we have to really stand by our own values, protect them, support ukraine to the very potential of what we can do, look beyond and see what we can do to help rebuild ukraine a jonas gahr store, prime minister of norway, thank you very much indeed for coming on hardtalk.
the last couple of days, the weather really has been quite good.
beautiful, sunny skies for some of us - particularly across eastern parts of the - the cloud you can see on the satellite picture tele its it means rain, wind and, really, that’s how it’ll be over the next few days.
so through the early hours of the morning, the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts even ahead of it, we have some rain across scotland and parts of england but, generally speaking, it is a night and early morning.
then quickly through the morning, the rain becomes quite heavy in south-western parts of england, through wales, the midlands.
the rain will reach wales and eventually south-western scotland, too, and through the afternoon, think now, through the afternoon or so, it’ll brighten up across wales and south-western parts of england.
sunshine and showers here second half of the day.
of that, the winds will strengthen.
bag, i think, through friday and into friday night.
now, saturday, we see another area of low pressure with new fronts approaching us.
this, once again, spells heavy rain initially for western the south-west, as this low pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it - and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around the isles of scilly and the tip of cornwall, so really very blustery, even quite stormy but elsewhere, eastern parts of the country on saturday - look at that, newcastle, hull, london fine, sunshine.
breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
and then come sunday, that low pressure really spreads across the country.
it’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some of the coasts, but there will be plenty of sunny spells occasionally interrupted by some heavy showers brought in by those strong winds.
so, yes, there’ll be some sunshine around through the weekend but there’ll be blustery winds around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering around 12 degrees or so.
well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even as high as 17 or 18 celsius, at least temporarily, in south-western parts of the , so the southerly winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
headlines for viewers in the 1d new satellite images show the russian military convoy heading towards kyiv has now dispersed moscow requests a meeting of the security council it is something the ukrainian eader denies.
what else have prepare for us?
where were your strike with their chemical 1 ons?
at the maternity hospital weapons?
at the maternity l% pital at mariupol or another ospital in kyiv awe at children’s spital?
we witness life on the frontline for ukrainian forces, fighting to defend the country’s second largest city kharkiv from russia’s relentless assault.
if these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you have not been paying attention because this is the russian attack playbook, perfected over ten years of war in syria.
=1 kharkiv, away from the windows to avoid any future attacks.
: these stupid russian scars will carry roman abramovich, the russian owner of chelsea football club, is among seven more oligarchs sanctioned by the british government.
the sale of the club is now on hold.
and how a teddy bear, donated by an eight-year-old boy in england, has found a new home in poland, with a girl who fled the war in ukraine.
hello and welcome to the programme.
satellite images of a russian military convoy near kyiv appear to show it redeploying to nearby areas, potentially signalling a renewed push towards the ukrainian capital.
which was last seen north-west of the nearby antonov airport, have moved into positions in surrounding towns.
officials also believe that russian forces have moved five 110208 remember that stalled russian convoy heading to the capital?
now seemingly on it is now seemingly on manoeuvres, seen here in a rest in town.
in what may forest and in town.
in what may a renewed push, could it be eadying for action?
further t, a separate russian east, a separate russian a a did not get a warm advance did not get a warm welcome, under attack from the ukrainian military.
it is ukraine’s resistance, even in ily heavily perceived cities mariupol, that many fear will to russia resorting to chemical weapons to win.
people can hide amongst the rubble, krainian military can hide here, the ukrainian military can hide here, and have their anti-tank pons and weapons and kill the venerable tanks.
but if you use chemical ons, that not stopped by 0 weapons, that is not stopped by concrete walls and stuff, it underground and kills seeps underground and kills people underground.
more people leave their homes as fears of even nasty leave their homes as fears of even nasty attacks grove.
ussia accuses america of ological ivities in biological activities in ukraine, unproven claims aired 14 ukraine, unproven claims aired at the security council ting on friday.
america says 1 he claims are laughable and a 14 sident zelensky president zelensky agrees.
: this makes me worried.
because we have een repeatedly convinced, if want to now russia’s you want to know russia’s plans, look at what it accuses of doing.
what else have prepared for us?
will you prepared for us?
where will you strike with your chemical 1 ons?
at the maternity hospital weapons?
at the maternity l% pital at mariupol?
at the 2 tlees hospital at mariupol?
at the church at kharkiv?
hospital at mariupol?
at the a aaeld hospital at mariupol?
at the a a1 church at kharkiv?
or at the children’s hospital?
pessimism a1l leaders who also from leaders who scussed the war of vladimir tin at a former palace in ersailles and putin at a former palace in i versailles and offered ukraine ore words and versailles and offered ukraine and material support more words and material support but no sign they will rush membership through, condemning for having brought war russia for having brought war back to europe.
mark lobel, news.
now to an exclusive report from the frontline of the battle for ukraine’s second biggest city kharkiv.
it has endured russian air attacks and suffered dozens most of the city’s 1.
5 million residents have fled.
the ukrainian forces fought back a russian armoured column in the early days of the invasion and have been fighting since to stop a further russian advance.
quentin sommerville and camera journalist darren conway are the first journalists to be embedded with the ukranian army as they fight the russian advance.
should warn you their report contains graphic images head to the very eastern edge of ukraine and a ghostly vision in near total blackout, the police in the country’s second-largest city take us on patrol.
shelling happens every night.
no-one escapes scrutiny.
in an instant, everybody’s life here has been up-ended.
has surprised russia inte no man’s land, with the ukrainian army.
here is 21-year-old yevgen gromadsky.
over the sound of shelling, he tells me, "the russian soldiers are standing about 900 metres away from here.
you can hear right now that they’re 1 eld it’s a grenade launcher, british.
but it’s more than just a grenade launcher - it’s a quided missile.
is it good against tanks?
how are the russians fighting?
they’re fighting like soldiers of 1941.
here, a lot of tanks, a lot of their vehicles and techniques.
but we’re fighting in our land and we protect our families.
like lions
and they won’t win.
this city of a million plus people has emptied out.
lines, just didn’t make it.
we’ve actually come beyond the ukrainian front line, and we know and this whole area’s littered with dead russian bodies.
these men, in fact, and there are two more over there.
there are two more over.
there are chechen, they have 1ds on them.
their weapons have the ukrainians keep telling us they’re really comfortable is their territory, they’re defending their city, their families.
but the challenge from them is what comes from the sky.
they want more aircraft and they want more air defences.
and that might be where this battle, this war, is won and lost.
in a war with russia, the front line is everywhere.
this is what people have been fleeing in kharkiv - endless bombardment for the past two weeks.
- — a our administration would like to inform you that a fire has started in the building.
for that reason, please go to the ground floor and from there, leave the building.
this is what russia does to cities, it bombards them, it besieges them, it surrounds them.
it terrorizes entire populations.
and if these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you haven’t been paying attention, because this is the russian attack play book, perfected in over ten years of war in syria.
we know that russia bombs hospitals.
so here at the city’s hospital number four, they keep the wounded in hallways - away from the windows.
miss valentina has been hit by shrapnel.
for you", she says.
these stupid russian shrapnel pieces will carry all my llife.
but as long as my a3 a - and so too, will eight-year-old dmitri, now that this has been this is the war that russia has fought before and is fighting again.
the rest of ukraine’s fate, but kharkiv has already shown what’s coming next.
: defenders, we will ride together.
we will win this war and all our heroic people will gather to rebuild our beloved ukraine.
quentin sommerville, news, kharkiv, in eastern ukraine.
airline industry experts have expressed fears that ground-to-air missiles sent to ukraine could end up in the wrong hands.
safety say they could end up on the black market and be bought by militant groups.
the british starstreak missile is just one system being offered to kyiv to help troops there defend against russian attacks.
the international atomic energy agency says the ukrainian authorities have confirmed they’ve lost all communications with the chernobyl nuclear power plant.
on wednesday, ukraine said all external power supplies had been cut to the site, which was seized by russian forces two weeks ago.
chernobyl is no longer a working power station, but it still requires constant management.
and instagram, says it’s changing its rules on violent speech in several countries, including russia, b1 the ukraine invasion.
the company says it’s temporarily made allowances for violent speech that would usually break its rules.
the senate has voted to approve almost ukraine as part of a huge spending bill proposed by the biden administration.
the aid is intended to give support to ukraine’s military, = edy humanitarian assistance.
more than two million refugees have left ukraine and the majority have made their way to poland where ngos and humanitarian agency personnel are waiting with so much chaos at the ukrainian frontier, border guards, police and volunteers are also keeping an eye on who’s offering the refugees transportation from and checking the drivers to prevent people traffickers from taking advantage of the situation.
mike noyes is humanitarian director at action aid, close to the poland-ukraine border, and he jeins me now.
it seems utterly incomprehensible that people seek to incomprehensible that people i 1l incomprehensible that people would seek to exploit the situation.
is there evidence that people traffickers are to pick people up at the border?
good orning.
it is hard to there is border?
good morning.
it is hard to save there is evidence.
at we know at action hard to save there is evidence.
i - 1 hard to save there is evidence.
i i what we know at action aid and as humanitarians is that in cumstances there is a these circumstances there is a ir0 y, very big risk of people yihl to take dvantage of that trying to take advantage of chaos and situation and that chaes and situation and he vulnerability and in this uation what the vulnerability and in this i - the vulnerability and in this situation what we are seeing on order we stand and the border as we stand and watch people coming across from ine is any families, ukraine is many families, headed by women, the men as we are staying behind to upport he defence of their ountry, we are lso seeing country, but we are also seeing ots of young single women ming cross, and they are eta 71 ripe for exploitation and se.
while we have no laalge tel confirmed reports of trafficking yet, everything to the fact there high wrath - at risk and ortunity if steps not opportunity if steps are not made prevent it.
opportunity if steps are not 1 opportunity if steps are not made prevent it.
this is we are working with local partners land to see if we can are working with local partners in poland to see if we can stop that.
is anything countries can i 0 stop this risk?
the big do to stop this risk?
the big thing to say in that regard erhaps too, you now, discourage people who do not what they are doing from ffering to help from just ing ver.
one of the coming over.
one of the challenges our team has faced polish i 14 challenges our team has faced with polish humanitarian action get people turning up aying i’ve come from elgium and how can help?
’s astonishing that people got that and commitment to me and see what can have got that and commitment to a= come and see what they can do but it means that come and see what they can do but it means that the polish but it means that the polish authorities would not have much way of knowing who they were and how could help and were and how they could help and if they were indeed someone hould and if they were indeed someone a and if they were indeed someone who should be watched more sely.
on that point out closely.
on that point about good intentions not necessarily ding the right results, ou’ve had a particular problem und he kind you’ve had a particular problem the kind of things that around the kind of things that have been donated.
around the kind of things that een donated.
tell me more - bout that.
as we say, we are rking with polish humanitarian action, working with polish i - i 101 humanitarian action, our partners, and in their little site here on the border campsite here on the border they have, they have a very what they have, they have a i mall tent and they have very small tent and they have lots a5 lots and lots of baby feod, lots and ots of baby feod, lots and lots of other items donated by people.
they donated by people.
they spend ably more time sorting probably more time sorting their donations to get the nes and hey want to right ones and they want to then going to go and buy the nes in the first place.
right ones in the first place.
0 course, the generosity of ple cannot be underestimated, lol o1 underestimated, the willingness ple to help in these very of people to help in these very slailatlid of people to help in these very laa a a1 difficult circumstances cannot 1y underestimated difficult circumstances cannot i a 0t difficult circumstances cannot a 0l be underestimated
but if our olish partners and action aid orking with them to make ure they have the money to do rather than relying on the odwill of donations, what our am needs are two or three ore 20 metre tents, fuel for - 1 the generators, fuel for - i the generators, fuel for stoves, yeah, hotel rooms for eam that re coming down the team that are coming down tee i8t
the team that are coming down from warsaw.
those are the sort ings that people can put a -1 onsent for themselves.
4 on a consent for themselves.
thank you for talking to us.
stay with us on news.
has made a special journey to a ukrainian girl in poland.
the numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
irl in less than 24 hours, then, the soviet union lost an elderly, sick leader and replaced him with a dynamic figure 20 years his junior.
we heard these gunshots in the gym, then he came out through a fire exit and started firing at our huts and, god, we were all petrified.
travelled from memphis jail to nashville state prison in an eight-car convoy.
:
paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
it feels fine, thank you.
what are you going to do now?
is it going to change your life much, do you think?
new satellite images show the russian military convoy heading towards kyiv has now deployed in firing positions.
moscow requests a meeting of the security council is developing chemical weapons in ukraine - roman abramovich, is among another seven people who’ve been hit with sanctions by the government because of their suspected close links to president putin.
the decision means that although chelsea can still play from selling tickets, players, and any merchandise.
russia has steadily hit back at western sanctions by imposing export bans on more than 200 products.
-- russia has steadily hit back ade economist tyler goodspeed from the hoover institution at stanford university, joins me now from stanford in do you think the sanctions are having any effect?
it’s good to you, ben.
yes, think be with you, ben.
yes, think they are having an effect and probably going to we are probably going to observe the russian economy racted by almost 10-15% year, more than double the agnitude of magnitude of the contraction the 1998 russian financial crisis.
in terms of nary russians, think they are properly experiencing this n1 a asiles are properly experiencing this in the form of much higher lation, the rouble has collapsed in value which means higher inflation and to much higher inflation and to fight the inflationary problem lso to prevent flight but also to prevent the flight of capital, the russian central has had to resort to massively raising interest which is really going to the a russian economy.
ussia has responded, i suppose, in a more muted hion to he sanctions that fashion to the sanctions that could potentially have done.
introduced ese export it is iintroduced these export bands but crucially, it is not ted to the supply of gas to limited to the supply of gas to europe, it has not put export on key commodities like bands on key commodities like = kel and aluminium.
what do you make of russia’s move
so do you think they you make of russia’s move so a 01 far and do you think they could potentially go further?
as you , russia is a huge presence the global commodities rkets, they are about one enth the global supply of minium and copper, about one of the global supply of attery grade nickel.
russia dollars.
they need euros.
ecause for russian mporter to import goods and ices into russia, services into russia, they need to first get dollars and get 3 and get stirling.
ordinarily, would be ordinarily, would be able to their bank and the ank could go to the russian central and get those dollars or furocs or stirling but now, they - have sanctioned the russian & bank and we have denied central bank and we have denied them ccess to the foreign change reserves so russia is perate for dollars, euro, erling, other foreign xchange, so think they will a1 ery reluctant to impose cutter sanctions or be very reluctant to impose cutter sanctions or expert controls cutter sanctions or expert ange cutter sanctions or expert i cutter sanctions or expert controls on some of these modity exports on which they \ ely heavily for hard currency nings.
there’s also been a reat towards western ompanies that have pulled out ussia.
dmitry medvedev, the ormer russian president, said assets in russia former russian president, said a 0 former russian president, said their assets in russia could be onalised, seized from them.
nationalised, seized frem them.
do you think it is realistic hat does it do in terms of and what does it do in terms of 3 i tability of the stability of russia’s economy and the effects it has broadly?
sorry, it’s a more broadly?
sorry, it’s a hair bit vague what exactly the form little bit vague what exactly a 1 nationalisation the form of this nationalisation would be, there i has been some talk that for entities in russia that have than 25% foreign more than 25% foreign 13 more than 25% foreign ownership, they may emporarily acquired by the and then auctioned temporarily acquired by the i and then auctioned off.
state and then auctioned off.
think state and then auctioned off.
state and then auctioned off.
think the end of the day, what it means as there is a risk for western companies operating in or have now left, that russia or have now left, that they will be a lot of stranded because even western assets because even if western companies are compensated for the acquisition by the russians, takeover by the sian state, russians, takeover by the 1 russian state, that compensation will almost tainly be in the form of roubles so certainly be in the form of r4 roubles so it will still be very difficult to get those, capital out.
tyler goodspeed.
lie1l @0 thank you so much.
the plight of ukraine’s refugees has inspired many people across the to send food, clothes and toys to those forced to flee their country.
alison freeman has been following the story of one shipment of aid frem the north of england, which included a very special item donated by an eight-year-old boy.
found a teddy and said give this to one of the ildren in raine so they are frightened.
will’s teddy one of many donations of age the ravel hundreds of les from berryhill age the travel hundreds of eas age the travel hundreds of miles from berryhill in county am to poland to help those fleeing the war in ukraine.
we -1 of these nappies.
have all of these nappies.
yes.
endless amounts.
we’ve got hen holmes, who runs a cleaning firm was one of the who drove there the team who drove there at the weekend team who drove there at the kend after he put out an 8 id ppeal for donations.
an van 3 is full to brim.
with appeal for donations.
the van a1 full to the brim.
with as 1ile1 full to the brim.
with as much stuff as full to the brim.
with as a 0l full to the brim.
with as much stuff as we could get in.
arent, was moved when as a parent, he was moved when 1 a 1 unaccompanied children he saw the reality of war.
unaccompanied children being from the unaccompanied children being a driven from the ukraine border to safety in a small town in th-west poland.
what was it when you the children?
did you feel?
very emotional.
as soon as there, emotional.
as soon as got here, was getting choked up.
have been pulling up with he children on it.
most of have not even rocked up ith bag, they have the 4 with a bag, they have the clothes on their back and maybe ative written clothes on their back and maybe a i a relative written on the hand.
he parents are not going cause the more parents, the wer children.
because the more parents, the i because the more parents, the fewer children.
how do you feel your teddy being out about your teddy being out here now?
good.
stephen gave ’s teddy to ittle girl will’s teddy to a little girl -l rrived on will’s teddy to a little girl arrived on a coach will’s teddy to a little girl 1hds will’s teddy to a little girl who arrived on a coach with 100 children.
when gave it her, other children.
when gave it 1 1 r, she had the biggest to her, she had the biggest smile to her, she had the biggest her face.
little girl smile on her face.
little girl came on my knee and in my eart came and on my knee and in my t4 sunk and came and on my knee and in my came and on my knee and in my a2 sunk and none of them 10 heart sunk and none of them said anything, it was miles a i because they couldn’t % erstand us and understand us and we couldn’t % erstand them so no words were said, it was smiles and ing stickers on each putting stickers on each other and he one who sat on my knee, wanted to give it to her.
it was seeing his own mum getting tions ready to to donations ready to give to stephen that gave will the a to ass on his teddy.
saw her kaging stuff up asked packaging stuff up and asked and she said there is a going on ukraine.
did you want to give your teddy meone who had to leave to someone who had to leave - home in ukraine?
it was a their home in ukraine?
it was a thing to do.
it would not ant that kind thing to do.
it would not that to happen to you and you would just be left with alison freeman, news.
if you want to keep up there, you’ll find a live page which is being continually updated with the latest news and developments.
that’s all at bbc.
com/news, or you can download the app.
you can reach me on twitter.
will have all of the business news for you in a few minutes.
go away.
news for you in a few minutes.
7 news for you in a few minutes.
don’t go away.
will see you very soon.
the last couple of days, the weather really has been quite good.
beautiful, sunny skies for some of us - particularly across eastern parts of the - but things are going to turn now.
the cloud you can see on the satellite picture tele its it means rain, wind and, really, that’s how it’ll be over the next few days.
so through the early hours of the morning, the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts even ahead of it, we have some rain across scotland and parts of england but, generally speaking, it is a night and early morning.
very, very mild - 8-10 degrees in many areas.
then quickly through the morning, the rain becomes quite heavy in south-western parts of england, through wales, the midlands.
the rain will reach wales and eventually south-western scotland, too, and through the afternoon, think now, through the afternoon or so, it’ll brighten up across wales and south-western parts of england.
sunshine and showers here second half of the day.
of that, the winds will strengthen.
bag, i think, through friday and into friday night.
now, saturday, we see another area of low pressure with new fronts approaching us.
this, once again, spells heavy rain, initially for western parts of the , but in the south-west, as this low pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it - and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around the isles of scilly and the tip of cornwall, so really very blustery, even quite stormy but elsewhere, eastern parts of the country on saturday, look at that, newcastle, hull, london - fine, sunshine.
breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
and then come sunday, that low pressure really spreads across the country.
it’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some of the coasts, but there will be plenty of sunny spells occasionally interrupted by some heavy showers brought in by those strong winds.
so, yes, there’ll be some sunshine around through the weekend but there’ll be blustery winds around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering around 12 degrees or so.
well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even as high as 17 or 18 celsius, at least temporarily, in south-western parts of the , so the southerly winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
headlines for viewers in the 1d the economic war intensifies with sanctions against seven more russian billionaires, including roman abramovich.
sowing doubt - consequences if they are not able to plant crops petrol and diesel prices hit record highs as business warn they will have to pass on soaring transport plus, high hopes - were planning a comeback but will the war mean their ambitions are grounded?
we are taking a closer look now at the economic and financial impact around the world we start here in the , where roman abramovich is one of seven more russian oligarchs to be hit by sanctions, all billienaire businessmen believed to be part of vladimir putin’s delsa - the men’s assets will be frozen and they are now subject our business editor, simon jack, looks in more at what the sanctions are and how much they can pictured with putin, chelsea owner roman abramovich, aluminium tycoon oleg deripaska, friend igor sechin - followed the and in sanctioning.
their yachts can be seized and their ability to move money around the world severely restricted.
the last two weeks the most robust, onerous, powerful set of sanctions for cne have ever seen.
have enough time to get & roman abramovich was sanctioned this morning.
until this morning and until the moment he was sanctioned, he was at liberty to legitimately do whatever he wishes given international sanctions, few banks ocutside russia would have handled their money anyway, its armies of private bankers and lawyers, and of course politicians grateful for party donations has long been a favoured haven for the russian i igda 8 and the idea of sanctions is if you make their lives less comfortable, they will bring pressure to bear on vladimir putin to stop the war.
at least, that’s the theory.
but in putin’'s kremlin, the idea oligarchs have power or influence is a fantasy, according to experts.
the oligarchs know that their position in charge of state companies that they run is purely conditional on their relationship, their personal relationship with him.
they are essentially the managers, they’re not the owners, and so if they speak against the war or speak against the regime, they stand to lose this i within russia that they have.
eyl ag: bank said oligarch money should help pay for it.
as a reparation from the aggressor, including funds that are currently i - 1n g4 the super-rich being as the world’s biggest brands abandon russia, ordinary people are seeing the clocks and living standards rolled back 30 years.
it’s hard to tell whether either form of pressure make a difference.
simon jack, news.
stephen platt is a barrister and expert w1 he’s the founder of the international compliance association and author of the book ‘criminal capital: how the finance industry a1 your your take on the sanctions then irst of all?
my take on the sanctions is hat there is a lot of noise that is created by sanctioning oligarchs and it is that we take steps against them and they work in a that that against them and they work in a hat that make us feel sense that that make us feel bhetter bout curselves because are doing something in sponse to he atrocities we are seeing, they really r4 are seeing, but they really don’t land any punches on dimir putin.
there was a lot fast yesterday about chelsea ball club but it football club but it is a a football club but it is a sideshow.
putin doesn’t give a that roman abramovich
damn that reman abramovich has ost his football club or that re seizing lost his football club or that a¢ lost his football club or that we are seizing 20 metre yachts mediterranean.
in the mediterranean.
we have to to understand that the oligarchs do not control putin.
ct, they very much in fact, they are very much his control.
they will ike losing heir western not like losing their western assets but on not like losing their western - not like losing their western assets but on balance, ieve, they will be much more i 01 rried about upsetting, 3ai worried about upsetting, upsetting the kremlin.
in which 18 , what would make sanctions ore effective than?
well, = , sanctioned money is like arco money, it lways flows to weakest point and : the weakest point and unfortunately, there are a lot points.
sorry, what you 1e an by don’t follow.
there a lot of weak points in a nse hat the international sponse
to response to the invasion of russia when it comes to sle tions has not been uniform.
here are notable absences china, india, the united arab ates and they will be welcoming money that we longer want to touch.
as we egraphed to the oligarchs at 18 telegraphed to the oligarchs that the sanctions have been down the track, so they coming down the track, so they ould have coming down the track, so they have been taking steps to ivert assets would have been taking steps to a divert assets to other jurisdictions.
the second point ere has been jurisdictions.
the second point there has been a lack of uniformity as to the , and pean union, on sanctioning european union, on sanctiening oligarchs.
esterday the section seven oligarchs, all of apart from reman them apart from roman lyot ilos them apart from roman abramovich were already ctioned abramovich were already ctioned either by the or the european union, and so, lack of uniformity creates pportunities for them to ploit, by putting their radlr i radlr property into geidr property into jurisdictions their money is ess tad 1 where their money is welcomed.
is what mean weak that is what mean by weak points.
is interesting you ion = that because, before mention that because, before easle some of the sanctions came in, again certain individuals, mber inisters in remember ministers in the re asked would they sanction 4 hat person?
and is that person?
and they and they said they would not speak it in advance.
they said they would not speak oi 01 4 they said they would not speak a - 1 about it in advance.
but any billienaire connected with vladimir putin knows what is down the track so presumably the key to it is ing swiftly, before they ave acting swiftly, before they acting swiftly, before they have the chance to move assets the world?
that is around the world?
that is one of the keys to work, around the world?
that is one - keys to work, as you of the keys to work, as you say but of the keys to work, as you say 8 the other really important hing we need to in mind 3 is that, know, £150 million ses on mayfair and football ubs and yachts, that is the stuff identify easy stuff to identify and i cate.
it is much more lailatlid locate.
it is much more difficult to identify the ership structures through hich they hold many of their - ets and much of which they hold many of their i assets and much of their wealth.
what we’re talking here are shell companies, foundations, trusts, which are blished in jurisdictions round established in jurisdictions around the world.
within my own nisation, together with our artner, we have a list of out 6000 companies connected 40 or 50 oligarchs, through ch, they own their wealth.
entifying the evidence that an nects these individuals to ose those business interests ultimately is very, difficult, and that is what rnments really need to have to nreled governments really need to have era if they want to bear down on oligarchs.
we must there.
thank you so leave it there.
thank you so much.
if russian forces make further advances, it could prevent them that would cause huge food supply implications for the country grg0 ukraine is one of the world’s top five wheat exporters.
’s chairman jehn rich has been speaking to our business editor simon jack about what’s at stake.
the stakes are simple, if it fails in preduction and tribution, fails in preduction and =1 fails in preduction and distribution, it has a astrophic effect he on the 1l to ability of the ukrainian catastrophic effect on the ability of the ukrainian army itself population to population to feed tself and the population to feed itself, and nitarian aid stops.
you are massive producer of wheat and n, this is a critical time 4 3 year, 4 1 grain, this is a critical time of year, the selling season for some of those crops, how i1l some of those crops, how critical are the next 2- three 11 critical are the next 2- three weeks, can a sewing for later on in the year go ahead?
at present we have the ability to thin or three weeks so within two or three weeks 4 the key issue will be the vances of the russian army present we already have of our land is occupied by the russian army.
this continues, the russian army.
if this a 0le the russian army.
if this continues, our ability to be to sow rapidly diminishes, rticularly if move into particularly if they move into a th-western and particularly if they move into south-western and western ukraine.
and the implication hat on ood supplies would for that on food supplies would what?
if you don’t sow in the next 2- three weeks?
basically the complete failure raine to produce anything.
the impact on the army and ulation and wider world?
unimaginable as far as ukraine ncerned, the der world?
is concerned, the wider world?
simple.
the price of wheat will inue to rise, the price of continue to rise, the price of corn, these commodities will significantly, spiralling nflation, as you as a inflation, as you know as a business editor, you understand that means.
in the current ale what that means.
in the current situation where what that means.
in the current tuation where we already have oblems with supply chains with that’s a concern shared by the international monetary it’s predicting soaring food prices will soon start to cause serious problems around the world, particularly in developing countries in the case of food prices in ome parts of the world, pecially for instance in frica, high pastoral but g-term effect will be in 023 ecause there is a lag and at may lead to social unrest parts of the world.
think 10 we are in riod when we have elevated inflation, there are a countries like the where those markets already tight and was lready putting inflationary pressure to build at further.
this will be a challenge for policy makers the world, both monetary licy in terms of interest 1 ates but also fiscal policy use if you re a major because if you are a major because if you are a major important, you have to make you have the financing to pay for hese very high bills - jor importer.
david madden is a market analyst at equiti capital.
how long does it take for us to a effects of rising see the effects of rising mmodity prices like wheat iltering through to things things on supermarket a helves?
good morning and as your previous guests mentioned, it may take several so may not see the months so we may not see the shock to the likes of the price eat and oil that have of wheat and oll that we have =r a =r seen in the last few weeks ter hrough properly to filter through properly to headline numbers for obably around 3-6, months.
but probably around 3-6, nine a hs.
but the bad news is 0 months.
but the bad news is were already talking about high inflation and the levels of inflation and the cost levels of inflation and the ost of living crisis was ready starting to make adlines arocund world, even before we had russian invasion of ukraine and in turn shock to the oil market a sharp shock to the oil market and agricultural commodities as wheat.
the really bad news is such as wheat.
the really bad 14 is that even yesterday in the we news is that even though yesterday in the we saw dline inflation take tee i8t headline inflation take off from 7.
5% to 7.
9%, a new 40 high, the reality is that nething to do with the tual has nothing to do with the i has nothing to do with the actual increase with likes of wheat and corn actual increase with the likes re 1 of wheat and corn and natural gas and all that we’ve seen in ast few weeks.
gas and all that we’ve seen in ast few weeks.
it could the last few weeks.
it could be everal more months, l1 potentially six several more months, potentially six months, before the mpact to headline we see the impact to headline numbers.
in which case, numbers.
in which case, what is your take on the effect of this on potential a0 of all of this on potential interest rate moves by the world’s major central banks?
it 3 made the overall situation le1 worse.
this already talk of a0 of several interest rate hikes tee i8t of several interest rate hikes from the federal reserve, the : 4 ntral bank that is, keeping in that if flation eeps moving higher and quite ressively in with aggressively in step with higher oil and wheat prices, will put more and more that will put more and more pressure on the federal reserve ther central banks to hike and other central banks to hike interest rates but at the same time, it is also the issue of a ould impact on the major negative impact on the overall pean economy and european economy and the trickle-down effect of the economy.
central banks global economy.
central banks b4 1 global economy.
central banks do not want to be in a where they where they are fighting where they are fighting high ation a at the same time inflation and at the same time olliin the risk of heightening interest rates to quickly and la: overall impact interest rates to quickly and in turn overall impact growth.
ecause hiking nterest rates, 3 , it can put because hiking interest rates, i 1 can put the brakes on elale , it can put the brakes on inflation but it can also put rakes on growth and you r4 =1 the brakes on growth and you don’t want to be eventually ling the inflation fight on hand then on the other, hing the economy into recession.
this overall uation has made recession.
this overall situation has made central anks and their life much rder.
high hopes - airlines were planning a comeback after two years of pandemic disruption.
will the war mean their ambitions are grounded?
the numbers of dead and wounded defied belief.
irl in less than 24 hours, then, the soviet union lost an elderly, sick leader and replaced him with a dynamic figure 20 years his junior.
we heard these gunshots in the gym, then he came out through a fire exit and started firing at our huts and, god, we were all petrified.
travelled from memphis jail to nashville state prison in an eight-car convoy.
:
paul, what’s it feel like to be married at last?
it feels fine, thank you.
what are you going to do now?
is it going to change your life much, do you think?
new satellite images show the russian military convoy heading towards kyiv has now dispersed moscow requests a meeting of the security council is developing chemical weapons in ukraine - here in the , average petrol and diesel prices have hit a new record high.
soaring oil prices a since the russian invasion of ukraine are now being felt at the pump and businesses are warning they will have to start passing on those transport costs to consumers, as our transport correspondent
i -v home kerry sharon can clock up 0 miles a day for work in own ar.
she pays 40 miles a day for work in her 40 miles a day for work in her own car.
she pays for the fuel to her first job of the morning.
the business pays 35p ile for per mile for the rest.
but ces at he forecourt of got prices at the forecourt of got prices at the forecourt of got a lot more expensive.
because is rising, 1 am a lot more expensive.
because 1o petrol is rising, am putting more out of own pocket into 1 2 ar.
as before, it was even.
so it’s covered it, basically?
but it does yes, but now it does not.
everything else is going up as and there nothing like
well and there is nothing llike coming in xtra.
business aron works for is trying to educe sharon works for is trying to 1 the miles care is like her have to reduce the miles care is like lat her have to drive.
they are ayihl to do is speak to trying to do
is speak to 0 trying to do is speak to clients and tried to shorten he allocated times in ween he rooms to save fuel osts.
they are the rooms to to save fuel a the rooms to to save fuel costs.
they are worried about ting care costs.
they are worried about i shortages getting worse.
it could be an impact we carers hink about what they want may think about what they want to the future, the home to do in the future, the home are is to do in the future, the home is for them or they can ove on < < < move on to other sectors care is for them or they can move on to other sectors which mpact our business and all i ome-care businesses if we are ing valuable care staff due the rising uel costs.
rae trol and diesel prices at o1 11e13 highs in the past week.
alw-101 highs in the past week.
cerns the war in ukraine and ladle concerns the war in ukraine and ¥ uale concerns the war in ukraine and sanctions on russia concerns the war in ukraine and concerns the war in ukraine and sanctions on russia can affect sanctions on russia can affect a3 upply of oil have the supply of oil have helped to push wholesale prices up her to push wholesale prices up a1 ther in recent days and it’s eding through forecourts feeding through to forecourts here.
it’s feeding through to forecourts e.
it’s the latest squeeze the cost of living.
inflation is already at inflation is already at a 30 year high and energy bills and to go next month.
usinesses want ncreased ransport costs mean consumers the product leg bye go up urther in price migratory this up further in price migratory this wholesaler supplies food rinks to schools and businesses across the country ulk buyers diesel for its lobbies.
our bill has increased atically this dramatically this week, between ten and £15,000, and the rease cannot ten and £15,000, and the irtae i ten and £15,000, and the increase cannot be absorbed by have to look at ways to us.
we have to look at ways to pass it on to our customers.
and drink will pass it on to our customers.
arl a1 pass it on to our customers.
food and drink will become more nsive, only at home but 1 ety expensive, not only at home but a fiscal studies says the chancellor fiscal studies says the fiscal studies says the chancellor will have to decide her to do chancellor will have to decide her to do more to protect a3 households from effects of ising energy ices at households from the effects of 1 rising energy prices at the spring a spring statement.
the rising energy prices at the spring statement.
the treasury the government was already roviding £20 billion to help of living.
sharon will on oing the job she carry on doing the job
she but finds carry on doing the job she carry on doing the job she loves but finds filling up is ing her wallet increasingly katy austin, news.
let’s turn to the aviation industry.
airline bosses had high hopes a of huge pent-up demand from travellers after two years now, they have been hit by another major challenge with the war in ukraine - soaring fuel prices, longer and costlier flights as airliners re-route avoid russian and ukrainian airspace, and a major question mark over whether demand for travel will stand up as the war pushes up living costs.
what can be airlines do, if anything, to cope what can be airlines do, if lry1 anything, to cope with these increased costs they’re seeing 8t he increased prices?
from the increased fuel prices?
good morning.
the first thing a4l some is some of the irlines have hedged so are going into hedged so they are going into this lae a4 situation with a this current situation with a large proportion of their fuel protected and guaranteed, and that’s good for some.
but ably for us as consumers, the unpalatable side of this is to be hat we may well going to be that we may well see significant increases in as we head into fares as we head into the ummer season because they are to pass these fuel i a going to pass these fuel surcharges through to us and =1ad start doing it pretty will start doing it pretty quickly.
do you think etgd to 30 quickly.
do you think they, say it, looking for some "l dare say it, looking for some kind of glimmer of hope and imism in all of this, do you think optimism in all of this, do you hink it could perhaps prompt ter development of more fuel-efficient engines and nologies?
don’t think so.
g118 technologies?
don’t think so.
the evolution of that type of nology probably till a technology is probably still a decade away before we will have sustainable fuel around he world, which is of the things that we are obviously ooking for, things that we are obviously i things that we are obviously all looking for, but i think that, the industry has beyond that, the industry has one a great job of technological advancement.
got carbon fibre we’ve got carbon fibre aircraft, you know, m1l aircraft, you know, they are ter to operate, we have lighter to operate, we have ome really efficient engines ducing 0% more performance for the operators.
producing 20% more performance
i i i operators.
but think for the operators.
but i think are right, we should not too hung up, you know?
this not good news for the line industry but have airline industry
but we do have %1\ strong, pent-up demand.
ere are alternative welts
hat
there are alternative welts that take us away from these of conflict and yes, they add every 15-45 minutes to a time -- routes.
the demand so strong this mmer, australia has opened, here’s lots of family trouble back going back and forth, so here is still a lot to think there is still a lot to 101 think there is still a lot to be positive about and the war rustration, we don’t need it, but we will survive and a4 our way through it’s like i the airline industry always does.
you mention the rerouting ussian irspace being and russian airspace being osed and it is a huge area hat airlines cannot through, western airlines, so at extent through, western airlines, so through, western airlines, so to what extent does that through, western airlines, so i to what extent does that affect them, given to what extent does that affect 1 to what extent does that affect them, given the travel between and asia is fairly limited because of the pandemic ay with the restrictions anyway with the restrictions still in place in china and pan?
it’s an inconvenience, as say it’s about 15-45 inutes on a routeing remember, flying over russian pace was extremely expensive, the most expensive pace to over in airspace to over in the i orld.
the russians were, quite nkly, abusing their privilege of that piece of d.
by flying a southerly land.
by flying on a southerly routeing, the route charges avigation charges are and navigation charges are a3 less so it’s not of approved kwaio pro, we end up ituation a in a situation of a longer journey time, but a1v longer journey time, but the charges will quite route charges will be quite significantly lower -- quid significantly lower -- quid pro pro.
but to significantly lower -- quid pro pro.
but to those significantly lower -- quid pro = significantly lower -- quid pro pro.
but to those carriers but till -- that’s for those lee are still -- that’s for those riers still operating on the art of the world.
people oking their summer holidays have to pay more?
will have to pay more?
potentially.
i’ve said for some 4 now book early get in time now book early and get in here because prices were going crease just by nature of demands hat we are going to the demands that we are going but with the surcharge to see but with the surcharge being added, the airfare will .
and look around being added, the airfare will - being added, the airfare will go up.
and look around for the ain.
there will still be bargain.
there will still be some bargains out there, there y108 some bargains out there, there are still empty seats ilable, people have to ealise he longer they leave 1 , the more likely they are to the fuel surcharge slapped their airfare.
john let’s see how the asian markets are faring today.
asian shares extended a global slump on friday after the fastest inflation in four decades bolstered expectations for more aggressive rate hikes, and as chinese equity markets slumped over regqulatory concerns of -listed mainland firms.
you can reach me on twitter.
think you very a a think you very much for watching.
will see you soon.
-- thank you very much for watching.
the last couple of days, the weather really has been quite good.
beautiful, sunny skies for some of us - particularly across eastern parts of the - but things are going to turn now.
the cloud you can see on the satellite picture tele its it means rain, wind and, really, that’s how it’ll be over the next few days.
so through the early hours of the morning, the outbreaks of rain are reaching western parts even ahead of it, we have some rain across scotland and parts of england but, generally speaking, it is a night and early morning.
very, very mild - 8-10 degrees in many areas.
then quickly through the morning, the rain becomes quite heavy in south-western parts of england, through wales, the midlands.
the rain will reach wales and eventually south-western scotland, too, and through the afternoon, think now, through the afternoon or so, it’ll brighten up across wales and south-western parts of england.
sunshine and showers here second half of the day.
of that, the winds will strengthen.
bag, i think, through friday and into friday night.
now, saturday, we see another area of low pressure with new fronts approaching us.
this, once again, spells heavy rain, initially for western parts of the , but in the south-west, as this low pressure increases, you can see strong winds blowing around it - and we could be talking about gusts of 60-70mph around the isles of scilly and the tip of cornwall, so really very blustery, even quite stormy but elsewhere, eastern parts of the country on saturday, look at that, newcastle, hull, london - fine, sunshine.
breezy, yes, but at least you’ll have the sunshine.
and then come sunday, that low pressure really spreads across the country.
it’ll become windy elsewhere, gale force winds around some of the coasts, but there will be plenty of sunny spells occasionally interrupted by some heavy showers brought in by those strong winds.
so, yes, there’ll be some sunshine around through the weekend but there’ll be blustery winds around, too, and heavy showers, with temperatures hovering around 12 degrees or so.
well, we’re expecting the temperatures to rise even as high as 17 or 18 celsius, at least temporarily, in south-western parts of the , so the southerly winds will bring milder but changeable weather.
the country’s biggest & this is an audition round.
whoa!
steam up!
a really good-looking dish.
a there’s talent, then there’s talent.
it’s time to come together to change lives with an amazing night of comedy.
have a round with jack whitehall.
for the most star-studded red nose day ever.
you have the power to change lives.
join us for take my hand now won’t you follow me?
what is it you see?
: return to a world of power struggles where only the strongest create a lasting legacy.
want to be a good bobby.
it’s important work.
except the moles wear trackies.
what brings you to port devine?
looking for clues, sgt?
we’ll send over our best undercover man.
oh, yes, good idea.
has he discovered your secret?
i’ll show you the inside of a cell in a minute.
och!
ogh!
know you’re dying trying to find me out that’s what signed up for.
good morning.
welcome to breakfast with charlie stayt and naga munchetty.
our headlines today growing international concern that russia is on the verge of using chemical weapons in ukraine, as boris johnson accuses reports of blasts in two ukrainian cities - lutsk and dnipro - that hadn’t seen any shelling in the war so far.
new plans to help those fleeing the fighting.
the government is drawing up a scheme to allow ukrainian refugees daughter are here.
we want to try.
a new a=l a new centre opens today designed to peed up and a new centre opens today designed to 113 up and simplify that these are processed for those in need.
factoring in fuel hikes - when your job depends on it.
as prices continue to break records, we speak to people who have to drive for a living - and ask how they’re coping, and how long this might last.
owner roman abramovich, could this spell the end of the glory years?
two two bands of rain across us at the moment.
two bands of rain across us at the ent.
in between sunshine two bands of rain across us at the i moment.
in between sunshine with
they view showers.
wherever you are oing to be windy.
-- with a it is going to be windy.
-- with a view howers.
all the details in programme.
fears are growing this morning that russia could be planning to use chemical weapons in ukraine.
britain and the have accused president putin of trying to concoct a fake story to justify carrying out a possible attack, weapons for ukraine.
meanwhile, there have been reports of blasts overnight in two cities which until now had avoided direct shelling - lutsk in the north west and dnipro in the south east.
jon donnison reports.
this is what is left of ukraine nd’s city, kharkiv, once home to s1s second’s city, kharkiv, once home to more than 1 lion people.
for two 4 eeks it has been unded by the ssian military, whose forces ntinue to lay siege.
russia has eady bombed hospitals, so here wounded are kept in corridors, from the windows, including his woman who has been hit by apnel.
he stupid russian shrapnel.
the stupid russian shrapnel pieces will carry all my as long as my heart still life.
as long as my heart still 1 ats, will still live and love.
4 the capital kyiv, beats, will still live and love.
o1 1 beats, will still live and love.
near the capital kyiv, the fighting closer, but russians is edging closer, but the russians are meeting stiff resistance stop ideo released by the ukrainian military shows a convoy of russian being destroyed to the east of he city.
in the towns north of kyiv more people feel they have more and more people feel they have choice but to get out.
in the ital itself, mayor estimates capital itself, the mayor estimates 2 million, half the population, have led their homes.
the 2 million, half the populatien, have now fled their homes.
the fear is russia will do next.
a week ago the talk was of this russian military convoy stretched of kyiv.
satellite out north of kyiv.
new satellite images show it has dispersed.
the tion, ether there is now an question, whether there is now an elayod question, whether there is now an to encircle the capital.
speaking again from his office, the nian president remained defiant ukrainian president remained defiant ready and no doubts about the my was capable of.
we are decent ople, am the president of a 4 country, a decent nation and rehe the father of two children.
no chemical weapons or any other ons of mass destruction were eveloped weapons of mass destruction were n1 loped on my land, the whole knows that, you know that and do something like that if you do something like that against us you will get the most re sanctions response.
as the ighting continues, a milar warning about chemical weapons from ime minister here.
the the prime minister here.
the stuff you are hearing about clinical ons is straight out of their laybook.
they start saying there chemical apons that have been