: sweet talker by years & years and galantis take the long route to work!
like listening while teaching my stepdaughter to drive.
you made me believe while being there for stephanie.
every lie was a beautiful sound.
hi.
it’s all right - i’m on the radio.
where are you, where are you now, sweet talker?
of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, will be rather high, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - it’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down into single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here, so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin to rise.
more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the northwest after that cool start, temperatures will reach for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of the , but as we head into the weekend, this area of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential ctae 2 so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine, but alse some heavy showers in the south.
welcome to newsday, reporting live from singapore.
marike o.
sri lanka brings in new shoot-on-sight orders to and quell protests calling for the president to step down.
once again, russia targets the crucial port city of odesa with missile strikes hitting a shopping centre.
last night where we were here was difficult to see full it was difficult to see the - extent of the damage but this morning you can.
the ket has completely ripped into the back of the shopping re here, you can see it has completely folded.
pomp, pageantry, but queen.
the prince of wales stands in for his mother for the first time at the state opening of parliament.
and vardy versus rooney, but this time in the high court.
live from our studio in singapore, this is news.
it’s newsday.
it’s 8:00am in the morning in singapore, and 5.
30am in sri lanka, where security forces have been ordered to shoot anyone seen looting or damaging public property, in the latest attempt to stop anti-government protests.
soaring prices, power cuts demonstrators are calling for the resignation of president gotabaya rajapaksa.
his brother, mahinda rajapaksa, stepped down as prime minister on monday following violent street clashes.
protesters have defied an island-wide curfew and at least eight people have died and 200 have been injured, as our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan reports from colombo.
a capital under curfew.
troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public property or threatens lives.
the skeletons of a bustling city scorched by an economic crisis.
yesterday, supporters anti-government protesters, who until that point had been peacefully demonstrating.
at the city’s main hospital, more this man fractured his leg after a tear gas canister landed on it.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
men who lost their legs in mines &r civil war say they were beaten up by the very people they made sacrifices for.
"they started punching me.
was left with only one crutch.
they pushed me and fell.
”
"when we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
now we’re being attacked.
” with trust in the government shattered, the homes of at least two dozen politicians who backed = this was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
it belonged to a supporter of the government, and this was the bedroom.
it was set on fire.
all you can see now i 188 11 and if we just move into the living room, completely trashed - just look around.
tonight, a resort belonging to the son of sri lanka’'s former prime minister mahinda rajapaksa, who quit yesterday, was set alight.
and clashes broke out in the city of negombo.
protesters want the president gotabaya rajapaksa to resign - as long as he stays, tensions on this island so the prime minister has resigned - but the protests people are demanding the resignation of the president.
but is it as simple as that?
a question put to niro kandasamy, an expert in sri lanka migration at the university of sydney.
think the widespread protests are beyond frustrated with the sri lankan government.
and this is a reflection on the systematic problems within the government itself.
economists have long observed sri lankan governments have been mismanaging the national economy.
the worst we’ve seen since sri lanka gained independence from the british in 1948 - predicable and people are really frustrated at the government.
as you say, it is a deeply rooted economic crisis, but how long will it a especially the likes of the may not offer financial assistance if the political it’s difficult to say, president gotabaya rajapaksa has refused to resign from his position.
its support is pending on sound ecenomic policies - and clearly, the sri lankan government has refused to deliver on sound economic policies.
so, one of the more disastrous economic policies that we’ve seen was the ban on chemical fertilisers, which caused a shutdown on several plantations, as a consequence, the country’s ability to feed itself.
you know, that triggered inflation - so there’s been a lot of challenges the government and is directly responsible for, so it’s difficult to say what will happen.
and largely, they were peaceful.
in your view, what actually made them turn violent?
so think there think the government to listen to its people.
the rajapaksa family remains in power, so, despite the resignation and the dismissal of basil rajapaksa, the president remains.
listening to ernd so, there are still food shortages, fuel supplies are still low, people are dying in queues waiting for fuel because of the heat, as well.
1= in shortage, as well.
so really, people’s immediate needs are not being addressed, and the government does not seem to be implementing adequate measures g- the head of the world health organization has said china’s zero tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
the authorities in beijing have imposed lockdowns affecting tens of millions of people, lasting several weeks, to to prevent any spread of the illness.
but the ’s director general said he had told chinese i when we talk about the covid strategy, we don’t think that sustainable between what have with it is sustainable between what with the virus now and what we anticipate in the ure.
his issue is chinese experts, we indicated the roach, know, would not approach, you know, would not sustainable.
in court in new york, juan orlando hernandez, pleaded not guilty to drugs and weapons charges.
hernandez, who governed from 2014 to january this year, was arrested in february.
this is him being extradited from honduras he is accused of having accepted millions of dollars in bribes during his eight years as president, in exchange for protecting drug traffickers from investigation and arrest.
an international donors than $6.
5 billion to help war-tern syria and its neighbours.
a -backed conference earlier the ’s high commissioner for refugees, filippo grandi warned i i for syrians was catastrophic.
russia has targeted the black sea port of odesa which at five times the speed of sound.
one person is reported to have died.
it comes as the united nations has estimated that the number of civilians killed the official figure of just over 3,000.
from odesa, caroline davies reports.
as russia celebrated victory day, odesa burned.
centres, incinerated, by a missile strike.
missiles were launched at the city yesterday, killing one person and injuring five more.
iniha the smell of burning plastic still hung in the air.
last night when we were here, it was difficult to see the full extent of the damage, but this morning you can.
the rocket has completely ripped into the back of the shopping centre here.
you can see it has completely folded.
there are still fires that the fire brigade here are trying to put out and the electricity wires russia has been targeting the port city of odesa it’s strategically important.
before the war, it was a key international port, taking ukrainian products to the world.
president zelensky appealed again to end the war, so that the port can reopen.
missile strikes don’t only destroy infrastructure.
they shake lives.
this eight-year-old boy lives as we talk, he fiddles nervously "i heard a loud explosion,” he says, "i fell out of bed and started to cry.
then ran down the corridor to find my dog, max.
"mum tried to calm me down, but there were more explosions.
we don’t know what will happen next.
”
the force of the blast smashed many of the windows fortunately, most were unoccupied.
katarina and her two-year-old daughter arina were i of the courtyard.
"we were about to go to bed when the air alert began,” she tells me.
"l heard a very loud explosion, and grabbed two pillows didn’t want her to hear the sound of the explosion and be frightened by it.
the whole house was shaking.
”
the air raid siren?
” "we run,” she says.
i1 young minds already used to living caroline davies, news, odesa.
the first president of independent ukraine, leonid kravchuk, has died.
leonid kravchuk swept to victory in the first round of presidential elections in 1991, but he didn’t even last a whole term, becoming the first post-soviet leader to peacefully hand over power.
the queen’s speech, which sets out the british government’s but the one which happened on tuesday was a little different, because for the first time in nearly 60 her majesty had authorised the prince of wales and the duke of cambridge to open the new parliamentary session.
prince charles delivered the speech on the queen’s behalf, after buckingham palace explained that the queen was suffering from episodic mobility problems.
our royal correspondent nicholas witchell examines of today’s events.
he’s been waiting for his destiny for longer than any other heir - and, while no-one %1 a major change is imminent, the inescapable fact that a transition under way.
and this, today, was the most tangible sign of it.
on the consort’s throne, the imperial state crown, the symbol of the monarch’s authority, was placed on a table beside him.
the prince studied it closely, and then, with lords short of his own opiniens took on the discipline required of a monarch.
reading out the words written by the government.
of the whole of the united kingdom is of paramount importance to her majesty’s government.
it was this, the regency act of 1937, that the palace used suggesting a permanent transfer of the monarch’s powers.
the queen is still busy with her paper work and virtual audiences.
changes are happening, but they are gradual.
very important to carry out all her public duties in public whenever she can.
she’s famously said "to be seen is to be believed,” and she believes the monarchy must be seen, members of the royal family carrying out royal duties on her behalf.
for seven decades, a highly visible head of state.
faced, the burden is shifting.
nicholas witchell, news.
you’re watching newsday on the .
still to come on the programme: game over, one of the most profitable computer franchise deals in history - that’s the essence of the appalling news from rome this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television the man they called the butcher of lyon, klaus barbie, went on trial today in the french town where he was the gestapo chief in the second world war.
winnie mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced to six years in jail.
the judge told mandela there was no indication she felt even the slightest remorse.
the chinese government has i to help the victims of a powerful earthquake - the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
the world chess champion, garry kasparov.
1 has defeated a reigning world america’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking place in massachusetts.
this is newsday on the .
i’m marike oi in singapore.
curfew in sri lanka, calling for the country’s president to step down.
once again, russia targets the crucial port oto
o101 ¢ -0 conference in glasgow, new analysis suggests the world is closer than ever to crossing a key global warming meteorological organisation say there’s now around a 50:50 chance that it’ll warm by more than 1.
5 degrees celsius over the next five years.
temperature first went one degree celsius above pre-industrial levels.
the year that leaders signed the paris climate agreement, where the 1.
5 degrees target was set to prevent dangerous global warming.
governments re-committed to keeping 1.
5 researchers also believe it’s almost 4 on that, the has spoken to john kerry, he said that countries need to "raise ambitions further” people need to remember that 65% of global , economic effort globally, committed to plans that are legitimate that could keep 1.
5 degrees of warming an we don’t know - nothing is possible right now, we will see what happens.
think, to raise ambition over and all of us, the developed world job of breaking the mould, getting away from business as usual, which is dominating at this moment.
what vladimir putin has done, by using gas energy so in fact, europe will 5 renewable energy - wind, solar, etc - much faster than they had originally planned.
the key will be finding greater levels of finance so that investment begins according to the most recent scientific report - it makes it very clear that if we do the things that are available to us, but people need to understand that’s not the crisis to some degree.
the rhetoric suggests we should, which is we call this existential - but as a world, you can find much more on our website, including what it achieved, and how that is being transformed just log on to bbc.
com/news or download the news app elon musk has said he will reverse the twitter ban imposed on donald trump, once he takes over the social media company.
the richest man in the world agreed a $44 billion takeover bid with the twitter board last month, but he said it was not a done deal and that ideally it would be completed our technology correspondent james clayton has more.
he has kind of already intimated that this was going ppen.
this is the first i to happen.
this is the first i
i ettt than-nel toe happen.
this is the first time he has committed to aying he 0 would actually reverse his that he would actually reverse this at banten and donald trump not been able to eet for has not been able to tweet for 15,
16 months now after the itol hill riots he capitol hill riots he was accused capitol hill riots he was cused of stoking.
those that : on musk said that it wasn’t orally reprehensible to have 5 e, that it was a mistake.
the former executive witter as said that regrets that i too sew the door pen for donald rump to come back twitter.
the problem is that trump has said he does not really want to come donald trump has said he does a a donald trump has said he does not really want to come back to ter.
said he would much twitter.
he said he would much
i ther post on his own a i platform.
i platform.
se, would rather post on his own platform.
so, would not cessarily assume that is going to start tweeting.
the thing to mention is that musk has not tually elon musk has not actually bought twitter yet
and he seems nergy about the deal today, thought.
am necessarily 100% sure, don’t elon musk is either, that is going to buy itter.
so, of reasons donald rump ight not come back on trump might not come back on about the door is more ajar it ever has been for the ormer president to make a itter return.
the high court in london has begun hearing a defamation trial brought by rebekah vardy, the wife of the former england footballer jamie vardy, against coleen rooney, who’s married to the former england captain wayne rooney.
the court heard that vardy felt she had to establish her innocence after being accused of leaking personal information about rooney to the media.
reports.
coleen rooney arriving at the high court, accompanied by her husband, wayne rooney, for the start of a much-anticipated trial, which her legal team have summed up as being about betrayal.
one minute later, rebekah vardy, both women very used to cameras, a - rwe ladge lail inside, coleen rooney sat next i i no more than ten feet away was rebekah vardy.
there was almost zero eye contact at the 2016 euros, they had cheered on england together from the stands.
but everything changed in october 2019, when coleen rooney did some online detective work to investigate who was leaking information about her to the press.
she wrote three itasid &1 on her private instagram stories, and their basement flooding to see if they would only then did coleen reveal, a 3 allowed access to read them was rebekah vardy’s.
in court today, we heard the details of rebekah vardy’s case, ida choice but to bring this libel claim to establish her innocence and validate her reputation.
it was stressed that this legal battle was being reported had a hugely damaging impact on rebekah vardy’s life.
and then it was the turn of coleen rooney’s legal team rebekah vardy’s agent had leaked the stories, 1 man - although rebekah vardy hadn’t pulled the trigger, she was still responsible.
they also accused rebekah vardy’s loss of evidence, including a phone into the north sea.
towards the end of the day, rebekah vardy was questioned a history of selling stories to newspapers for money.
the trial may have kicked off, but there’s a long way to go with wayne rooney himself expected a witness next week.
colin paterson, news, the high court.
it’s one of the most profitable gaming franchise deals in history, serving more than 150 million players for the best part of 30 years, electronic arts has enjoyed but now the company says it’s splitting from fifa, football’s governing body.
our gaming reporter steffan powell explains why.
sports - it’s in the game.
since 1993, the fifa video game franchise has been made by one company, sports.
the title has changed immeasurably on the screen and off it - becoming a cultural powerhouse played by 150 million people around the world.
but sports has announced it’s splitting from fifa - it didn’t fancy playing the reported $1 billion price tag to keep the licence from the governing body.
from beyond just gaming.
instead, sports will launch in autumn 2023, with this year’s fifa being the last one.
the move might surprise some, but it makes sense to others.
it’s where we’re seeing games go as a whole, really, moving more into games as a platform and bringing in other brands and entertainment products, such as concerts and other live events into their games.
to assure players the fifa name will be the best one available for gamers, as it’s the only global original title.
they’re working on new games.
when it comes to sports , players might not notice a huge difference to the core game’s offering, with player likenesses and game modes staying the same.
they will, though, see more brand partnerships and experiences beyond games.
just for the popular games studio, but potentially the industry.
steffan powell, news.
lie1l @0 thank you so much for watching newsday.
stay with world news.
tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers - most of those showers were across scotland and there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts of western scotland at times - some of these showers quite heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
for the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy, rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers or even longer spells of rain.
now for wednesday, this feature could bring some significant rainfall to parts of england and wales throughout the day.
now some of that rain really will be quite heavy across parts of wales, south-west england through wednesday morning.
and then, that rain will push in towards the midlands, think the northern extent of it area, not further north than that.
but, as this rain band begins to move southeastwards into east anglia in the southeast, irl to fragment again.
another windy day to come, particularly acress southern britain with that rain band.
quite gusty, as well, of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales as we’ll now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - t’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down inte single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts of the - so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier further so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the north-west of scotland, which will see most after that cool start, temperatures will reach highs of 14-19 celsius across the south.
for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential of some thundery showers across southern i so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine, but also some heavy showers in the south.
we will have the headlines for you at the top of the hour straight after this programme.
coming up this week, there’s something strange in your neighbourhood.
who you gonna call?
also, spot the builder.
by any chance?
spencer, here is a question.
sounds like it can, yes.
don’t say a word.
i’ve got bass in a backpack, this is amazing.
first up this week, we’re going to be talking about drones, which gives us a perfect example to show off our shiny new base here in glasgow.
which is rather picturesque.
= a0 1s are always welcome.
true.
james has been checking out some of the latest tech designed to take drones out of the sky.
commercial drones have the potential to revolutionise a load of industries and rescues, mapping cities, giving information to fire crews after traffic accidents, the possibilities are endless.
flying a drone can be seriously fun.
there are loads of applications in the world where drones can be used for public good.
however in the havoc.
in december 2018, a suspected drone at gatwick grounded flights for days.
flights have been suspended flights were grounded after drones were spotted arrests eventually led to nothing.
tens of thousands of people’s drones have even been used to to assassinate they thought it was fireworks first, but it was a drone bomb.
president maduro of venezuela was targeted in 2018, minister last year.
of a dangerous drone.
and airports to spot and take down drones_ if you have ever flown a drone, you know they are incredibly easy to lose in the air.
they are hard to see until they are pretty close to you.
we have this tracker diamond on the map.
and we can use that to localise that and tell you where it is at.
additionally we implement some radar technology to help verify that.
my camera woman and thought we would to put it our plan was to to low to see if we could go literally under the radar.
problem was we turned the drone on too quickly, which emitted a radio frequency.
and before we even get the drone airborne, we are detecting it.
camera’s looking for it.
trying to find you guys.
how big a scale could you do this?
the beauty of the system is we can scale this.
if you want to cover an entire city or state, it is one thing trying to spot a drone, but how do you actually take it down?
it looks like a gun but it actually scrambles the signal including drones.
it is so powerful, that ben here, by law isn’t allowed to press the trigger.
what does it actually do?
this is the final part.
you simply press the trigger, but we are currently if turn that one step down, it will jam any radio after that, we can do the full which can do that.
drones have been used to and assassinate world leaders.
how would this be used in that kind of context?
you are probably too late.
anytime you are in a situation where you may think that drones might be a threat to somebody, it is important to have the detection technology, assuming you have detected pull this out of the case, hit a button and you can start mitigating a drone within seconds.
such is the importance of drones on the battlefield that there are currently more than 600 of these anti-drone devices used in the military.
but like all technology on the battlefield, this can get into the wrong hands.
to document potential war crimes and atrocities.
if russia had this kind of technology, perhaps it on the ground.
drenes primarily are used for good.
in order for us to maximise the potential of these good drones, we feel that drone technology, airspace security, what we provide, is a necessary step to ensure that good traffic, any conflict involves drones and it is a great equaliser in the battlefield from an offensive perspective, but it is also important that drones be able to people that are injured and do some scouting, all that stuff that goes along with drones for good, even the battlefield.
drones can be used for good and bad.
perhaps the days where you can just whack up a drone are becoming numbered.
as tech catches up with them, it might be more and more difficult to get views like this.
we have a good shot as well.
are we even allowed , question.
which industry is more dangerous than mining, farming or manufacturing?
you are more likely to have an accident on a building site.
could help improve site safety.
i am on one in a remote and barren part of the world.
2 conditicns in the .
there is rain, hail, snow and - only one quarter of the renewable wind energy so here, the teams are building an electricity converter it will connect shetland to the national grid and allow wind farms to export energy south.
it is not just manpower, but new technologies that are making it happen.
it is a big project!
bosses here thought a private 5g network would be a big idea.
we’ve got a fibre-optic just down the valley, we have a microwave link to the site and there is a fibre-optic connection the 5g masts.
what the 5g network does is provide high-speed wireless internet connection, low latency and very high speed, essentially as fast as in coming fibre-optic connection.
a new site inspector.
the aim of the engineers is that spot can connect to the 5g network and much of the work can be done remotely.
how useful has it been to have spot on the site?
it makes our life as engineers a bit easier.
1 is unsafe us to go.
spot has a scanner attached and makes sure the floor poured the concrete.
you the scan we did there.
so, green means ideal for our models, blue is a bit low and red, only a few but that l3n 14 what will you do with this now?
make a report and hand it back to the engineers and we will work out a plan to and solve these issues.
the 5g network just yet getting it up and running to full capacity.
at the moment, itis on a narrow bandwidth, so we have only had a few specialised cards that can connect, but we are working on getting some modems in which will convert the 5g into breadband, but the concept of what might be possible on the network has spurred further information.
--1nnovatiocn.
including getting drones to transmit site footage you can really get a feel of how the site is going to shape up in the future.
good for demonstration purposes then.
of the site in real-time and understand what is going to be built next.
before on a site like this, we would do have to print off drawings, they would do a lot of things around the office, but now if we have to whip up a drawing, we can do it on the fly.
of concrete, but it is clearly no longer just an industry of manual labour.
this is all about future proofing our economy and making in the world when it comes to 5g connectivity.
and all the applications that flow from it, but also and get a competitive advantage on other countries in this space.
everyone have spoken to about and from spot the dog to augmented reality, it is not hard to see why, it is all really cool stuff.
side to it as well - it makes the work faster and more safe, and means with these ever-changing shetland weather conditions.
it is @ win-win, really.
it’s now possible to ask google to remove websites containing personal infermation, like your phone number or e-mail address from search results.
google says it will help protect against identity theft and fraud, but warns that an i iae a1l still exist online.
apple is being forced to explain other technology on iphones.
it’s after the accused it of being anti-competitive by limiting the feature to just applepay.
a 116 from the game, apple has unfairly shielded its applepay wallet from competition.
if proven, this behaviour would amount to abuse of a dominant position, which is illegal under our rules.
we are used to the owners of facebook telling us but this week it is opening its first physical shop.
the metastore in california will sell products like fancy hanging out with your favourite artists on roblox?
these are the possibilities touted by the game’s new spotify island where fans possibly music stars will mingle, make music at virtual beat maker stations and of course purchase merch.
i’m off to see if sheeran fancies a brick battle.
i’m prepped for battle.
wrote this while training for a boxing match, but it ain’t a8 hassle.
this is battle rapping.
=1 =l 2 emotional impact and most of the time, humour.
hashtag date night.
old paso dinner kit.
for years i’ve wanted to rap but i’ve never got past the rhyming perfectly stage, or even being able i § our planet earth fits a million times into the sun.
six months to get to mars if you take the shortest run.
but going from reading rhymes to spitting bars on the stage i’m off the beat already might be some technology which could help me be half as good as that lot.
so i’ve come to abbey road of a team who created brainrap.
conventionally as an artist we need to spend 10,000 hours or sometimes its 100,000 hours, sometimes it’s ten years.
the idea is we take that 10,000 hours and cut it down to ten.
you know that really want to learn to rap and hear that by wearing this and looking at this screen, want to do a disclaimer that it isn’t like dorothy’s magic shoes.
you don’t put it on and away in the sky.
the headset uses something called electroencephalogram, and that is electrical signals from your brain interpreted it pairs with a laptop to combine your brain output with what you say into the microphene.
want to embrace the place where we interface.
and also helps it understand when it’s time to move on.
put your hand down.
breathe and open your eyes.
a crishid testing, resting, digesting, divesting and ingesting.
i’m questioning and suggesting, investing, protesting, contesting and requesting, manifesting, clandestine betting, petting, belting it’s gone very strange.
8 what was happening was you were in a flow state, listening to the beat, you were inside it and then you open your eyes and you just went into flow state.
the machine recognised that civic kept it on screen.
an accomplished rapper would be able to put quite i will use it and show you later.
seen in the part of a swish allows him to be creative on building a story instead of worrying about finding the right words.
on and never be seen.
it’s clear using the headset takes practice, and like most new music tech, there’s a chance it could freak out the old school which, let’s face it, always happens.
when the g- industry was terrified.
think one of the organisations, the musicians union, tried to ban it because they thought it would replace musicians but it just bred a new format of music.
the machine made us breed completely new formats hold on, i’m not at the genre-busting stage yet.
need to practice rgel for example, we don’t script most conversations in advance but to start performing well, we need to stop thinking as much.
in conscious self-monitoring and self-censoring these parts of the brain are shutting down during a lot of creative behaviours, and so it’s almost as if the brain is trying i don’t think this is the kind of thing that amateur musicians or amateur rappers can do right away.
think that’s the difference, that they are so self-conscious they are getting in their way and thinking about so many things that they can’t turn off in the brain.
speaking to a real-time rhyming dictionary a mouthpiece for a machine?
so many musicians struggle with this question when using tech.
technology can be a helpful support, but don’t actually think it can replace the human spirit and the soul.
when play with technology to make sure that it is a support to what i’m doing versus a replacement to the art or the organicness.
with the headset planned for release in july for between $3,000-$5,000, it’s not exactly an impulse purchase.
i will sell separately for a much more palatable $10, which is arguably the most fun part of the system.
six weeks later, i’m back at abbey road.
time is fleeting, goes by quickly.
so think they were all surprised by my improvement.
whether this is due to skill or software, i’m not sure.
thought by now would be wiser but i’m just older.
always resulted in amazing creative leaps.
this concept feels like one of those leaps.
plus, anything that makes creativity accessible to people think they can do anything as a good thing.
next time get a chance to go on stage at the don’t flop battle rap, might just take it.
she’’s good, isn’t she?
brilliant.
that’s not the only outrageous musical behaviour no.
y& i’ve been sent to coventry to the city of culture festival for a trip into the past with a bit i’m heading to an illegal rave.
i’ve just got to find it.
first it’s time to get on a virtual reality headset, some headphones for spatial audio and a vibrating don’t know whether i’m expected to and re-tune on the radio?
'yl
=10 g1l am ahead of the game.
can change the frequency by moving up and down.
we mix motion capture, volumetric data, some of it is 360 video on blue screen and 3-d environments, and we and seamlessly sort of take you through movement i’m on top of the record!
that happens at the very start, when you imagine that you are inside the record player, and then you gradually get taken along this journey even to the point where you are walking along the floor trying to tune a radio.
what we were looking for in terms of interaction, intuitive that maybe it uses your whole body and you get it straight away.
i for the rave at once, including the police.
on at the station.
semething over here.
this is tim, a policeman in the acid house squad.
the responsibility of the squad was to gather intelligence evidence to prosecute individuals involved.
were are you worried about glamorising something that was illegal?
not really, no.
don’t think we glamorise it.
and it’s not really about the illegality of the event.
that wasn’t because they were illegal, it’s because the licensing laws to stop people doing it.
meanwhile i’ve been looking for clues at my friend’s house and out and about.
remember phone boxes?
i’m naturally feeling i need to walk towards this phone.
hello, this is amnesia house.
tonight’s a massive party will be taking place as scheduled.
the rose and crown pub at 10:30pm.
i’ve got bass in a backpack.
this is amazing.
the backpack is called a sub pack and you wear 14 and basically certain frequencies in the soundtrack respond to that survey gives you a deep sort it is really good to build up tension.
when you’re outside the warehouse and you’re ing to find the entrance, you feel that.
that was important to me because remember that feeling of coming up to a club and feeling that sense of trepidation, like, feel nervous as i’m going on but also excited.
the police have found us.
i can’t believe i’m now wanting to run away from the police.
we didn’t focus on drugs at all.
at all those sort of basically what was going ultimately, it’s about finding the rave and then just through you and enjoying the rave and being with people.
was totally and utterly immersed in another world there.
it was fascinating to see what an emotive and important time this was for people who are part of it.
it was a scene that meant so much to people learned something today.
now with this piece - - advanced we’ve ever been.
that’s six degrees of freedom.
we have interactions, we have haptics so we have wind blowing in your face.
you don’t know it’s happening, you just feel it.
you know what to do.
you are at a warehouse party.
the big one!
felt like was living somebody else’s life.
that’s the first time either of us have ever been to a rave.
1989, it was all about kylie minogue for me.
let’s leave it there, shall we?
thanks for watching.
we will see you soon.
goodbye.
tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers - most of those showers were across scotland and there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts of western scotland at times - some of these showers quite heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
for the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy, rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers or even longer spells of rain.
now for wednesday, this feature could bring some significant rainfall to parts of england and wales throughout the day.
now some of that rain really will be quite heavy across parts of wales, south-west england through wednesday morning.
and then, that rain will push in towards the midlands, think the northern extent of it area, not further north than that.
but as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards into east anglia in the southeast, it will begin fragment.
again another windy day a a0 c1a across southern britain with that rain band.
quite gusty, as well, of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales as we’ll now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - t’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down inte single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts of the - so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier further so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the north-west of scotland, which will see most after that cool start, temperatures will reach highs for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential of some thundery showers across southern i so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine, but also some heavy showers in the south.
welcome to news.
our top stories: "shoot on sight.
” for security forces in sri lanka amid viclent protests calling for the president to step down.
a warning for china - the world health organization says beijing must change course on covid.
when michelle jaques zero covid strategy, we don’t sustainable idering considering the behaviour of the virus now and what we anticipate in the future.
we are in the city of odesa as ukraine’s strategic port struggles under the barrage a a last night when we were here, it was difficult to see the full extent of the damage.
but this morning, you can - the rocket has completely ripped into the back of the shopping centre here.
you can see it’s completely folded.
and, going back to the past, the company trying to prove that sailboats are a greener way to transport cargo.
welcome to our viewers on y- 0la the globe.
anyone seen looting or damaging public property in the latest attempt to stop anti-government protests.
soaring prices, power cuts been injured, as our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan reports a capital under curfew.
troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public property or threatens lives.
the skeletons of a bustling city scorched by an economic crisis.
yesterday, supporters anti-government protesters, who until that point had been peacefully demonstrating.
this man fractured his leg after a tear gas canister landed on it.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
men who lost their legs in mines &r civil war say they were beaten up by the very people they made sacrifices "they started punching me.
"i was left with only one crutch.
"they pushed me and fell.
”
"when we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
"now we’re being attacked.
” with trust in the government shattered, the homes of at least two dozen politicians who backed = this was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
it belonged to a supporter of the government, and this was the bedroom.
it was set on fire.
all you can see now i 188 11 and if we just move into the living room, completely trashed - just look around.
tonight, a resort belonging to the son of sri lanka’'s former prime minister mahinda rajapaksa, who quit yesterday, was set alight.
and clashes broke out in the city of negombo.
protesters want the president gotabaya rajapaksa to resign - as long as he stays, tensions on this island the head of the world health organization has said china’s zero-tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
the authorities in beijing have imposed lockdowns affecting tens of millions of people, lasting several weeks, to to prevent any spread of the illness, but the ’s director general said he had told when we talk about the zero-covid strategy, we don’t think that it’s sustainable considering the behaviour of the virus now, and what we anticipate in the future.
with chinese experts, a1 the approach, you know, would not be sustainable.
institute for glebal health.
thanks very much for joining us.
it is fair to peint out, n’t us.
it is fair to point out, i sn’t it, this zero covid roach has ant, relative to approach has meant, relative to i - approach has meant, relative to most other countries, a very essful containment of successful containment of the west of covid, so what is successful containment of the a west of covid, so what is not tainable about it?
well, the olicy had its value at the ginning, even at the - well, you well, you know, if you beginning, or even at the - well, you know, if you months after the start of the pandemic.
after the start of the after the start of the pandemic.
if you are in a tball game and your first ten minutes strategy eing played out in the overtime, will, there is something rong, and so do not it is stainable in light of the ilge- sustainable in the light of the current variant, its w10 a7 taf infectivity, w10 a7 taf n1 a0 current variant, its infectivity, but also current variant, its a 1 current variant, its infectivity, but also the fact there are other tools available.
so, china has has other available.
se, china has other ols at its disposal that can tools at its disposal that can be deployed, and think it ould seriously consider xpanding a little bit of focus & other tools and easing on the so-called zero lerance or zero covid policy.
you talk about the other tools, presume that vaccines aie are one of those.
either the a4 are one of those.
either the a1 8 vaccines are not terribly i ctive in beijing’s mind or they re struggling to get ople to ake them.
what is t?
g1 terms of vaccines, it is a yes not a yes and no question.
it not not a yes and no question.
it 05 1 just vaccines but what ind 3 not just vaccines but what not just vaccines but what kind of vaccines are being troyed - whether they are eploying boosters.
will give an example.
deployed.
you an example.
-- deployed.
china focused on tetaai china focused on the meta i lan inactivated vaccines that were extremely useful in the inning, especially against earlier variance and vere disease, but since then, there been ariance for which you would require additional and perhaps different doses and perhaps different doses and perhaps different kinds of vaccines.
so, there applications pending in ina for vaccines and hink china should focus china for vaccines and uats raa 1s 1ot
acquiring think china should focus on acquiring the technology but producing mrna vaccines also producing mrna vaccines or boosters also producing mrna vaccines osters or reconsidering for boosters or reconsidering the schedules in line with the ance they re facing.
the variance they are facing.
the ther thing is they have a sub imal immunisation tes in optimal immunisation rates in some of the highest risk populations in china, so hey to be a major focus.
and hen coming to the i orry - dust on that peint.
at eems an sorry - dust on that poeint.
2 sorry - dust on that poeint.
that seems an extraordinary, an aly, really, that seems an extraordinary, an a 1 y, really, within china anomaly, really, within china that that is allowed to happen use if they want impose because if they want to impose certain because if they want to impose 3 because if they want to impose certain restrictions as they done with isolating people locking down, can’t hey mpose the insistence at they ave vaccines?
well, they - again, even before & a1 1s are - again, even before draconian mandates or ict mandates, there are a lot of things in the toolbox of mandates, there are a lot of things in the toolbox of public entities, including in hina, for example, soft ndates meaning requiring accination mandates meaning requiring loe - mandates meaning requiring vaccination for certain 'eia 1y dltiia- 'eia 1y activities and vaccination for certain ltit 0la vaccination for certain activities and countries like have shown at using france have shown that using those kinds of nudges or strong nudges can be helpful.
we v-
ave to leave it there, 4 will have to leave it there, = thank you very much indeed - for your expertise as china 1aa a0l for your expertise as china continues to for your expertise as china for your expertise as china continues to battle with challenge of covid there.
the house of representatives 3 deciding whether or not to ove another $40 billion in approve another $40 billion in for ukraine.
we have got me live pictures.
a vote is ected in he course of the t3 4s expected in the course of the next hour expected in the course of the that figure is more than i 14 that figure is more than i biden requested.
president biden requested.
here were casts president biden requested.
re were casts at the sound 33 billion but these funds be used of 33 billion but these funds of 33 billion but these funds would be used to provide itary support ukraine and manitarian assistance to hose civilians affected by the ian invasion.
as we see russian invasion.
as we see there, the debating still goes sooh as we have a vote, on.
as soon as we have a vote, will bring you the results.
fighting goes on, russia has targeted the black sea port of odesa, which at five times the speed of sound.
one person is reported to have died.
it comes as the united nations has estimated that the number of civilians killed the official figure of just over 3000.
from odesa, caroline davies reports.
as russia celebrated victory day, odesa burned.
centres, incinerated, by a missile strike.
missiles were launched at the city yesterday, killing one person and injuring five more.
iniha the smell of burning plastic still hung in the air.
last night when we were here, it was difficult to see the full extent of the damage, but this morning you can.
the rocket has completely ripped into the back of the shopping centre here.
you can see it has completely folded.
there are still fires that the fire brigade here are trying to put out and the electricity wires russia has been targeting the port city of odesa it’s strategically important.
before the war, it was a key international port, taking ukrainian products to the world.
president zelensky appealed again to end the war, so that the port can reopen.
missile strikes don’t only destroy infrastructure.
they shake lives.
this eight-year-old boy lives 300 as we talk, he fiddles nervously "i heard a loud explosion,” he says, "i fell out "of bed and started to cry.
ran down the corridor to find my dog, max.
”
"mum tried to calm me down, but there were more explosions.
"we don’t know what will happen next.
”
the force of the blast smashed many of the windows fortunately, most were unoccupied.
katarina and her two-year-old daughter arina were i of the courtyard.
"we were about to go to bed when the air alert "began,” she tells me.
"l heard a very loud explosion, and grabbed two pillows "l didn’t want her to hear the sound of the explosion "and be frightened by it.
"the whole house was shaking.
”
"the air raid siren?
” "we run,” she says.
i1 young minds already used to living caroline davies, news, odesa.
elon musk has said he will reverse the twitter ban imposed on donald trump once he takes over the social media company.
the richest man in the world agreed a $44 billion takeover bid with the twitter board last month, but he said it was not a done deal and that ideally it would be completed our correspondent james clayton has more.
he has kind of already intimated that this was going to happen.
this is the first time he has committed to saying that he would actually reverse this ban, and denald trump has not been able to tweet for 15, 16 months now after the capitol hill riots he was accused of stoking, said that it was morally reprehensible to have done, that it was a mistake.
that he regrets that too, so the door is open the problem is that donald trump has said he does he said he would much rather post on his own platform.
so, would not necessarily assume that he is going to suddenly start tweeting.
the other thing to mention is that elon musk has not actually bought twitter yet, and he seemed very low energy about the deal today, thought.
am not necessarily 100% sure - don’t think elon musk is either - that he is actually going to buy twitter.
so, lots of reasons donald trump might not come back on, but the door is more ajar than it ever has been for the former president to make a twitter return.
stay with us on news.
coming up in @ moment: flying the flag for their country, ukraine qualifies for the final of the eurovision song contest.
we will have more on that.
that’s the essence of the appalling news from rome this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television the man they called the butcher of lyon, klaus barbie, went on trial today in the french town where he was the gestapo chief in the second world war.
winnie mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced to six years in jail.
the judge told mandela there was no indication she felt even the slightest remorse.
the chinese government has i to help the victims of a powerful earthquake - the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
the world chess champion, garry kasparov.
1 has defeated a reigning world america’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking place in massachusetts.
hello, you are watching with me, david eades.
anti-government protestors defy a nationwide curfew in sri lanka, calling for the country’s president to step aside.
the head of the world health organization has said china’s zero-tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
it’s widely expected that finland will begin the process of joining the nato alliance this week.
finland becoming a nato member would significantly redraw the security map of europe and the prospect is already viewed with undisquised hostility in moscow.
from finland, our special correspondent, allan little, sent this report, which includes some stark images.
finland may be a small country, but it has one of the biggest armies in europe.
defence and security are not just matters for the armed forces here.
1a we have a firm role in society.
we still have a conscription, which means that majority of the finns are somehow part via their conscription and give me some sense of how big the finnish armed forces how many service personnel could you mobilise in the event of a real national emergency?
seai'a that’s huge, isn’t it?
these are mostly conscript soldiers.
they serve full-time for a year, and will then do regular refresher training throughout their adult lives.
for men, it’s compulsory.
some women also volunteer.
so when they were in the army, just thought that if there don’t want them to go, like, and would stay home.
want to go too.
defence as the modern - finland’s thinking about defence is still shaped by this - an attempt by the soviet union to invade and occupy the country in 1939.
finland’s resistance then is an echo of ukraine today.
among the wreckage, the finns found propaganda films, which were to have been shown in helsinki after the russians had taken the capital.
this is also 1940, a yes, during the winter war.
analisa antilla was a teenager in the city of vyborg.
the soviets captured it and made it part of russia.
finland never got it back.
and did you witness some of the destruction yourself?
"yes, of course,” she told me.
"people were fleeing with their belongings.
of course.
finland’s border with russia is 800 miles long.
its accession to nato’s would strengthen the alliance’s lluet on russia’s doorstep.
the trees beyond the frozen lake are in russia.
on the other side of this frontier, this further advance of nato will be seen as more evidence of malign western intent, as a direct threat to the security of russia itself.
this is a british tank taking part in joint training exercises on finnish soil already.
for finland was once part of the russian empire, and the spectre of a resurgent russian imperialism has driven finland into full alignment e1s% alliance, and is redrawing the security map of europe.
allan little, news, finland.
i’ll show you will be aware it’s the revision
i’ll show you will be aware t’s the revision time.
-- furovision.
song contest voted through to the final on saturday, following the first semi-final which has been heldf in the italian city of turin.
the band delivered an energetic performance of their song, stefania, to secure a place in the final.
at the end of the performance, the folk-rap group thanked everyone for supporting ukraine amid the russian invasion.
earlier one of its members told the taking part was so important.
: for our country t’s important : for our country : for our country it’s important to have re it’s important to have victories and always so if we win it’ll be another lie win it’ll be another opportunity to show opportunity to show ukraine to orld and remind the world and remind people a& ukraine and increase orale in he whole country.
well, the executive supervisor of the contest, martin osterdahl, has been explaining the significance of this year’s contest against the backdrop of the ongoing war in ukraine.
: it’s affected all 18 , not all of us in of us, not all of us in a 01 4 of us, not all of us iin eurovision but everyone in the ld.
if anything it’s a broader and the eurovision ly, so to speak, closer to ¥ tes family, so to speak, closer to each other and we realise that when we stand each other and we realise that bril each other
and we realise that when we stand united on the ge, that we uniguely a1 stage, that we are uniquely powerful and it’s a message of across rope and that’s unity across europe and that’s we’re gonna show yet again his year.
that family is a oad ocne.
ustralia, for example, will take part in the semi-final.
their representative is 23-year-old sheldon riley.
his seng is not the same.
he was diagnosed with asperger at just six years old.
joining me now is a eurovision fan in australia.
hayley wilkinson is in wagga wagga, new south wales.
hayley, very good to see you.
thanks for joining us.
before 0 onto sheldon, there will a uge step give it for kraine
but what do you rate in them in terms of their performance and their song?
that by father had the most standout perfoermance of irst semi-final.
he staging, the energy, the crowd ompletely on their feet, not a single person sitting .
you could really feel the nergy all the way down and tralia energy all the way down and 4 energy all the way down and australia at 530 in the ning 3 was a standout perfoermance hey truly deserve to be in final.
the final.
that’s a generous commentary on ukraine.
what your oy, sheldon riley?
about your boy, sheldon riley?
not not the same as the title of he soul and its very much his persona, isn’t it?
yes, eldon stood out from moment hat we found sheldon stood out from the ses sheldon stood out from the moment that we found out that going to he was going to be in a ell he was going to be in a national selection.
think a fan favourite here and is on, who has one of the best locals in whole best male locals in the whole competition this year.
one of tronger, strongest ballads.
and the staging, he mptied up.
ballads.
and the staging, he 1 ballads.
and the staging, he has emptied up.
we are well geet has emptied up.
we are well known for having good staging heldon with his 40 known for having good staging i but sheldon with his 40 dress, he really is going to out.
you are known stand out.
you are well known i stand out.
you are well known for your attraction to ersity and inclusion in terms of eurovision.
sheldon a perfect role model in e1d just a perfect role model in respect, would you say?
that respect, would you say?
absolutely.
he comes from a rse background.
he comes diverse background.
he comes tee i8t diverse background.
he comes from filipino heritage, he is a member of the + proud member of the + ommunity and he also stands for, you know, challenging shion, challenging vocals, know, and fashion, challenging vocals, 8 fashion, challenging vocals, you know, and he really does a message that a lot of bring a message that a lot of people can get behind this year rovision.
at eurovision.
they can be a of politics in he voting.
we know that.
it doesn’t
we know that.
it doesn’t always out that way.
work out that way.
doesn’t %1\ matter, do you really matter, do you think, ins?
you are one of the who wins?
you are one of the big fans.
look, at the end of ay, think it really the day, think it really is out the celebration of more about the celebration of bringing all these different uages, people from 4 languages, people from different backgrounds ogether.
at the end of the day everyone is a winner and i 4 moment in the otlight.
has a moment in the spotlight.
although we would love to see ralia when, think at the australia when, think at the end of the day, other wins is rving of the trophy.
very good.
hayley, enjoy the final hank you for joining us.
t4 each year, billiens of tonnes of goods are transported around the world by sea.
huge cargo ships travel the oceans, contributing to greenhouse gas emissions.
now one company is trying to provide an alternative, and it involves the use of an ancient technology, as the ’s tim allman explains.
in the shadow of a city built trade, the in the shadow of a city built a1 in the shadow of a city built on trade, the president meets ast and in doing so, could lis the past and in doing so, could point to the future?
at this in new jersey, point in new jersey, they are loading a cargo ship, well, nically a boat, that harks ack to an technically a boat, that harks to an earlier age.
the back to an earlier age.
the grand sale is powered by the , goods across the wind, goods across the atlantic, the old-fashioned the mission of grand way.
the mission of grand assail is to reinvent shipping away by doing it with a argo sailboat to reduce the act cargo sailboat to reduce the i cargo sailboat to reduce the impact on the environment so we to produce and sell great gastronomic product and we come 8t far away.
sailboat is from far away.
the sailboat is a 2 foot, to master the ooter, carrying around 50 ons of cargo, a tiny fraction 1gs tons of cargo, a tiny fraction of what a modern transporter can old.
one trip takes ship can old.
one trip takes around 3.
5 weeks, weather mitting.
so patience really virtue for any potential ustomers.
we assure ple that t’s possible to make een transportation with a argo, selling go, just to cargo, selling cargo, just to ake time and it’s possible, there are plans for a sister essel that’ll be about the size of grand assail sle1s twice the size of grand assall and can make more trips.
no-one der illusions that is under any illusions that sailboats are about to replace cargo ships but in the fight against climate change, little helps.
tim allman, news.
a bit of a way to go for that.
it’s progress of a sort, isn’t ’ll join your attention to i it?
i’ll join your attention to our webpage.
there you’ll find and the cost of lliving, ffecting not just the @ worldwide.
our correspondence answers and insights giving answers and insights into many different parts of .
t.
you tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers - most of those showers were across scotland and there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts of western scotland at times - some of these showers quite heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
for the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy, rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers or even longer spells of rain.
now for wednesday, this feature could bring some significant rainfall to parts of england and wales throughout the day.
now some of that rain really will be quite heavy across parts of wales, south-west england through wednesday morning.
and then, that rain will push in towards the midlands, think the northern extent of it area, not further north than that.
but as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards into east anglia in the southeast, it will begin fragment.
again another windy day a a0 c1a across southern britain with that rain band.
quite gusty, as well, of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales as we’ll now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - t’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down inte single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts of the - so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier further so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the north-west of scotland, which will see most after that cool start, temperatures will reach highs for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential of some thundery showers across southern i so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine, but also some heavy showers in the south.
tens of thousands of military personnel have been deployed in the sri lankan capital colombo as the government struggles to contain protests against the spiralling cost of living.
security forces have been given the right to shoot anyone suspected of looting or posing a risk to life.
china has been urged to change its zero-covid strategy by the world health organization.
the virus were unsustainable.
many cities in china have faced lockdown restrictions as the country suffers its worst covid ocutbreak since the pandemic began.
russia has targeted the black sea port of odesa, one person is reported to have died.
it comes as the has estimated the number of civilians killed the official figure 0
tuesday’s state opening of parliament marked the first time since 1963 that the queen didn’t attend.
her majesty had authorised the prince of wales and the duke of cambridge to open the new parliamentary session.
prince charles delivered the speech on the queen’s behalf after buckingham palace explained that her majesty was suffering from episodic mobility problems.
our royal correspondent nicholas witchell examines the significance of the events.
he’s been waiting for his destiny for longer than any other heir - and, while no-one %1 a major change is imminent, the inescapable fact that a transition under way.
and this, today, was the most tangible sign of it.
on the consort’s throne, the imperial state crown, the symbol of the monarch’s authority, was placed on a table beside him.
the prince studied it closely, and then, with lords short of his own opiniens took on the discipline required of a monarch.
reading out the words written by the government.
of the whole of the united kingdom is of paramount importance to her majesty’s government.
it was this, the regency act of 1937, that the palace used suggesting a permanent transfer of the monarch’s powers.
the queen is still busy with her paper work and virtual audiences.
changes are happening, but they are gradual.
very important to carry out all her public duties in public whenever she can.
she’s famously said "to be seen is to be believed,” and she believes the monarchy must be seen, members of the royal family carrying out royal duties on her behalf.
for seven decades, a highly visible head of state.
faced, the burden is shifting.
nicholas witchell, news.
1o the travel show.
making ancient greece more accessible.
this is a part that only we get.
survive through the pandemic.
ps-ps-ps.
and we’re off to spain for a taste of the sun.
oh, my god.
that crushing sound.
history and accessibility can sometimes feel like they’re love a historical site as much as the next person, but with narrow walkways, flights of stone steps and worn-away surfaces, a visit can feel like a herculean task.
i’m making my way up to the acropolis - which in greek means high city - which doesn’t loock nor sound very wheelchair-friendly.
so before covid, it was a proper mission to get up to the acropolis if you had any sort of mobility issues.
basically, you had a 15-minute hike up a load of steep stairs and loads of steep ramps before you came to any sort of accessible pathway.
but since then, things have changed.
the acropolis is greece’s number-one tourist attraction and, pre-pandemic, over 3.
5 million people climbed to the top each year.
one good thing to come was there was finally the time and the space to make the site just seen a sign for a disabled entrance, which way am going?
this way?
111918 remember when said it was a 15-minute hike up some stairs to get to the acropolis?
i’m talking about.
i’d never make it up there.
all i have to do is catch my breath and admire the scenery as wait for the brand-new lift, built to comfortably accommodate two wheelchairs at a time.
but not everyone sees it as an improvement - well, think it beats climbing flights of steps any day this is all right.
lock at this view.
this is just this is a part that only we get.
all the other good old-fashioned two-leggers have to go up the stairs!
and this is what i’m talking about.
after just 40 seconds in the lift, and using the acropolis’ new accessible paths, get to experience the acropolis has a long history, and over its time it’s been used as a fortress, a mosque, and it’s even been blown up.
but its headliner has got a temple dedicated to the ancient greek goddess athena, who gave the city have never been so happy to see concrete.
that is amazing.
this was all rough and gravelly and really hard to push along.
but now get to experience the acropolis, and get this want to take these concrete slabs home!
but improvement is not a word some would use when describing not everyone is happy with the renovations that have gone on here at the acropolis.
now, some people have complained about the concrete slabs being laid down, saying that it’s hiding the original features of the acropolis, and even wounding the stone here.
but i’ve been told that these slabs can be raised, and you’ll still have the original features, and actually, look - this is some of the original stone, and it’s smooth anyway.
rival historians claim the work carried out is @ means to get more tourists to visit, and is disrespectful to the site’s diverse past.
i’m heading down to the acropolis museum to meet a man who knows a thing or two about ancient history, and he believes the ancient greeks themselves would have been with this upgrade.
ancient greek civilisation, culture is an anthropocentric that means they created their gods in the image zeus, hera, aphrodite, and so on.
and between them they had hephaestus, a very hard-working metal smith, and very powerful god.
disabled gods, or gods with disabilities.
i’m learning so many new things.
this i1s amazing.
and i’m also told that accessibility at the acropolis not a new thing.
there were ramps leading up to the temple of athena.
not the parthenon, he exist until the 5th century.
ramp, as well.
and many times it has been interpreted that it was for the animals to be sacrificed.
helping disabled people and older people or pregnant women and so on, so that they have a good and easy the temple of the goddess.
and the conversation has got quite heated.
it’s wounding the rock.
what are your thoughts on that?
come on.
these are politics, and politics it is actually, democratically speaking, different options you cannot look with my eyes and cannot lock with yours.
there are plans in place to make the site even more accessible, with the installation of further paths.
i, for one, think this example to historic monuments throughout the world.
the acropolis now.
soon, here’s a rundown of things to maybe look out for.
you might find yourself paying onto one of athens’ many beaches.
entry fees can push up into the hundreds of euros at somewhere like astir beach during peak season.
vouliagmeni lake is a good alternative.
it has sunbeds, hot springs athens’ open-air amphitheatres are a really special place to go and see a concert or play.
patti smith and diana krall are both appearing this summer at the odeon herodes atticus at the foot of the acropolis.
if you’re a fan of the classics, plays by aeschylus, of epidaurus, with full english subtitles.
many visitors pass through the vast and ancient piraeus and warehouses in surrounding streets.
in recent times, the buildings have become a hub for contemporary art galleries.
a brand-new metro line can whisk you there from central athens in around 50 minutes.
and athens is known for its open-air cinemas.
throughout june, july and august, you can catch classic films and new releases in some beautiful cutdoor squares, museums and parks, and some are totally free of charge.
right, stay with us, 1 on the programme ps-ps-ps.
meet the woman who helped hundreds of her four-legged friends survive the pandemic here in athens.
culinary challenge.
the olive oil is going to be totally different.
they look identical to me.
yeah,
but, you know, promise, it’s going to be a totally different taste.
so don’t go away.
these are just some of the cats of athens.
if you’ve ever visited greece, then there’s a good chance a feline friend has made a cameo appearance in your trip these guys are everywhere.
1 i’m meeting sam beaker, a volunteer at athens-based cat we are a team, nine lives, and we feed every day here in acropolis and in many other places around there are many, many cats in athens.
yes.
we feed around over 500 i - the team at nine lives definitely have their work cut
so i’ve decided to help i shift and get some grub out to these furry athenians.
how did the pandemic affect the work that you were doing, well, suddenly, because the town was empty, you could see s0 many, many cats, revealed a lot of cats were around and we had to feed more because probably some of them were eating around tavernas who were not any more open.
yeah, he lost his eye er, recently.
this isn’t just about keeping these cats’ bellies full.
volunteers to carry out important health checks.
it’s not so, so much food for them.
town is not the physical they don’t have enough food and they wouldn’t be so healthy.
they would be a little bit skinny, sick, and if we didn’t
yeah.
so they would die.
no tourists meant no tavernas.
volunteers, these guys would have gone hungry.
but as athens opens up again, should we all be sharing our meals with the local cats?
and sometimes it can be dangerous for them because usually they give a i always carry now with me cat food so don’t have to take from my plate and give to the animals if am outside.
have something always.
right, next time i’m in athens, i’ll be packing cat hiscuits for sure!
well, to finish up this week, we’re leaving the cat food behind and heading off to spain, where kate hardy buckley is on the lookout for something far more enticing to add i’m in malaga, a sun-kissed port city in southern spain.
now, every summer, normally pass straight through here to another town further along the costa del sol.
sticking around.
with its fertile soll, the sea air, and over 300 days of sunshine a year, this region is perfect for finding the best produce.
jose carlos garcia is one of malaga’s finest ambassadors of gastronomy.
he suggested we meet to explore some local produce that inspired his what are we going to cook together?
for our ajo blanco soup.
first up, visit finca torre - producers of one
i -1 even more.
wow.
victor perez tends to his 34,000 olive trees with such care, his olive oil score at competitions.
the olive oil is going to be totally different.
they look identical!
yeah,
but, you know, promise it’s going to be in a few weeks, they will become a little bit yellow and they will be more tender.
it’s the signal that the olive oil content, it is full now.
that means harvest time, and victor prioritises quality, not quantity.
from this tree, we will get around 30, 40 kilos.
from the moment the olive leaves the tree to the bottle, how long does that take?
the whole process, it
i i two hours?
since we have to be really, really, really, really fast.
there’s no other way.
this estate dates back to roman times, and today we’re pressing the old-fashioned way.
oh, my god.
that crushing sound!
and back?
yeah.
0
i & unlike wine, which often improves with age, olive oil i i’m going to go back to london now and start drinking olive oil in a wine glass!
i’ve also got to bring chef jose carlos something from the sea.
and i’m just in time for the fishermen coming in from their night trawl.
it doesn’t get much fresher than this.
this is absolutely amazing.
the noise, the pace, - literally, your fish is off the boat, into auction, and in a matter of hours onto a plate.
city.
last on my list is the pitaya - the dragonfruit.
this cactus fruit, often associated with southeast asia, originates from southern mexico.
its production in spain has grown exponentially in the last few years.
and now to jose carlos garcia’s michelin-starred restaurant the easy stuff for me, the difficult stuff for you.
ajo blanco soup.
it’s totally changed colour.
it’s a magnificent, creamy white.
jose carlos takes the freshest ingredients and turns them inte something beautiful.
mm!
so fresh.
the crunch of the fruit a of the sardine - absolutely fenomenal!
just before we go, a quick word about next week.
mummies here, vivian.
carmen’s back in chile - where this time she comes for humanity’s oldest examples of mummification.
oh, wow!
it’s quite small.
what can you tell me about this mummy?
so make sure you catch that if you can, and also check us out on social media.
of the travel show team here in athens - where it’s so good to finally be out on the road again together with you guys - it’s goodbye, and see you next time.
tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers - most of those showers were across scotland and there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts of western scotland at times - some of these showers quite heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
for the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy, rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers or even longer spells of rain.
now for wednesday, this feature could bring some significant rainfall to parts of england and wales throughout the day.
now some of that rain really will be quite heavy across parts of wales, south-west england through wednesday morning.
and then, that rain will push in towards the midlands, think the northern extent of it area, not further north than that.
but as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards into east anglia in the southeast, it will begin fragment.
again another windy day a a0 c1a across southern britain with that rain band.
quite gusty as well of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales as we’ll now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - t’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down inte single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts of the - so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier further so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the north-west of scotland, which will see most after that cool start, temperatures will reach highs for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential of some thundery showers across southern i so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine but also some heavy showers in the south.
welcome to news.
our top stories: "shoot on sight” - the orders for security forces in sri lanka amid violent protests a warning for china - the world health organization says change course on covid.
when we talk about a zero-covid strategy, we don’t see it as sustainable, considering =r in the future.
we are in the city of odesa as ukraine’s strategic port struggles under the barrage of russian missile last night when we were here, it was difficult to see the full extent of the damage.
but this morning, you can - the rocket has completely ripped into the back of the shopping centre here.
you can see it’s completely folded.
and going back to the past - the company trying to prove that sailboats a greener to transport cargo.
security forces in sri lanka have been ordered to shoot anyone seen looting or damaging public property in the latest attempt to stop anti-government protests.
since last month, over soaring prices, power cuts a at least eight people have died in the violence and 200 have been injured, as our correspondent, rajini vaidyanathan, reports from colombo.
a capital under curfew.
troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public property or threatens lives.
the skeletons of a bustling city scorched by an economic crisis.
yesterday, supporters anti-government protesters, who until that point had been peacefully demonstrating.
than 200 have been wound many were beaten up.
this man fractured his leg after a tear gas canister landed on it.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
men who lost their legs in mines &r civil war say they were beaten up by the very people they made sacrifices "they started punching me.
"i was left with only one crutch.
"they pushed me and fell.
”
"when we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
"now we’re being attacked.
” with trust in the government shattered, the homes of at least two dozen politicians who backed = this was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
it belonged to a supporter of the government, and this was the bedroom.
it was set on fire.
all you can see now i 188 11 and if we just move into the living room, completely trashed - just look around.
tonight, a resort belonging to the son of sri lanka’'s former prime minister mahinda rajapaksa, who quit yesterday, was set alight.
and clashes broke out in the city of negombo.
protesters want the president, gotabaya rajapaksa, to resign - as long as he stays, tensions on this island will be inflamed.
the head of the world health organization has said 0
i policy against covid isrg the authorities in beijing have imposed lockdowns millions of people, lasting several weeks, to to prevent any spread of the illness.
when we talk about the zero-covid strategy, we don’t think that it’s sustainable considering the behaviour of the virus now, and what we anticipate in the future.
with chinese experts, a1 the approach, you know, would not be sustainable.
saad omer, the director asked him for his view on china’s zero-covid strategy, at the - well, you know, a few months after the start if you are in a football game and your first ten-minute strategy out in the overtime, and so do not think it is sustainable in the light of the current variant, so, china has other tools at its disposal that can be deployed, and think it should seriously consider expanding a little bit of focus on these other tools and easing up when you talk about the other tools, presume that vaccines are one of those.
either the vaccines are not terribly effective in beijing’s mind, or they are struggling to get people to take them.
in terms of vaccines, it is not a yes-no question.
it is not just vaccines, a will give you an example.
were extremely useful , against the earlier variants and severe disease, but since then, there have been variants for which you would require additional doses and perhaps different kinds of vaccines.
and think china should focus on acquiring the technology, but also producing mrna vaccines with the variants they are facing.
the other thing is they have sub-optimal immunisation rates in some of the highest-risk populations in china, so they need to be a major focus.
and then coming back to the sorry - just on that point - that seems an extraordinary, to happen, because if they want to impose certain restrictions - as they have done with isolating people and locking down - can’t they impose the insistence that they have vaccines?
well, they are.
again, even before draconian mandates or strict mandates, there are a lot of things in the toolbox of public health entities, including in china, for example, soft mandates, meaning requiring vaccination for certain activities, and countries like france have shown that using those kinds of nudges or strong nudges can be helpful.
we will have to leave it there, but thank you very much indeed for your expertise as china taking a live now to the house of representatives ause there is a how going on now about approving a gnificant sum of money in aid kraine.
you would know that biden had called on to ukraine.
you would know that 5 5 joe biden had called on $33 billion as joe biden had called on $33 00ad joe biden had called on $33 billion as the amount he nted.
they actually wanted.
they are actually oting on $40 billion of funds, ich could used to provide military support to the ukraine lso humanitarian a assistance to civilians ffected by the russian vasion.
he speaker of the se, nancy pelosi, told llow democrats, it was : mportant to act quickly.
vladimir putin desperately lerates his campaign of orror and brutality, speaker 10 speaker in ukraine, time is of ssence.
this is the essence.
this is we are pleased to hear we could oceed immediately this proceed immediately with this bill.
today.
so go through the and to the senate and to the president’s 4 esk
so the assistance can ach the desk so the assistance can rgn0 desk so the assistance can reach the people of ukraine and ern urope.
that is nancy pelosi talking about the need quickly.
it appears tots that to move quickly.
it appears that the vote is pretty much 1 a vel done and clear 1 a vel re - 1 a vel done and clear that the met ocrats have democrats have the majority of for that.
$40 billion is the figure made available to well, the number of ukrainians who have fled their country since russia’s invasion in february is approaching six million, according to the , making it the fastest growing and there is no let-up in the attacks.
on monday night, russia pounded the black sea port of odesa, from where, using what the ukrainians say, from there, caroline davies reports.
as russia celebrated victory day, odesa burned.
this was one of the city’s shopping centres, incinerated, by a missile strike.
the ukrainian authorities say a at the city yesterday, killing one person and injuring of burning plastic still hung last night when we were here, it was difficult to see the full extent of the damage, but this morning you can.
the rocket has completely ripped into the back of the shopping centre here.
you can see it has completely folded.
there are still fires that the fire brigade here are trying to put out and the electricity wires russia has been targeting the port city of odesa it’s strategically important.
before the war, it was a key international port, taking ukrainian products to the world.
president zelensky appealed again to end the war, so that the port can reopen.
missile strikes don’t only destroy infrastructure.
they shake lives.
this eight-year-old boy lives of blackened metal that he found - shards of the missile.
and started to cry.
ran down the corridor to find my dog, max.
”
"mum tried to calm me down, but there were more explosions.
"we don’t know what will happen next.
”
the force of the blast smashed many of the windows in this fortunately, most were unoccupied.
katarina and her two-year-old daughter, arina, were i of the courtyard.
"we were about to go to bed when the air alert began,” "l heard a very loud explosion, and grabbed two pillows "l didn’t want her to hear the sound of the explosion "and be frightened by it.
"the whole house was shaking.
”
"the air raid siren?
” "we run,” she says.
i1 young minds already used to living with the constant caroline davies, news, odesa.
let’s get some of the day’s other news.
an international donors than $6.
5 billion to help war-tern syria and its neighbours.
a -backed conference earlier, the ’s high commissioner for refugees, filippo grandi, warned that the humanitarian situation for syrians was catastrophic.
the families of eight miners trapped by flood waters in burkina faso say they’re still hopeful they’ll be found alive.
nothing has been heard of the miners, who were working 520 metres, the canadian owners of the zinc mine say specialist equipment has been brought in from ghana and south africa.
elon musk has said he will reverse the twitter ban imposed on donald trump, once he takes over the social media company.
the richest man in the world agreed a $44 billion takeover bid with the twitter board last month but he said it was not a done deal and that ideally it would be completed in the next we can now speak to washington post’s taylor lorenz, who is a technology journalist focussing on social media and internet culture.
he is already creating quite a storm, clearly, in what his osals.
suppose we should proposals.
suppose we should tart, let’s be honest, from the basic point.
easy actually going to buy a?
that is the lien, you know, illien, you know, billion, multibillion-dollar question!
=1 it certainly seems intent on hasn’t given any t.
he hasn’t given any i ale t.
he hasn’t given any indication he is backing down has the support of the annie has the support of the former .
he has talked about ter eing left leaning and twitter being left leaning and coming with his own interpretations as to what is &0 ptable and what good acceptable and what good ite acceptable
and what good moderation is.
do they with he requlators?
o, think with the regulators?
no, hink it has actually shown a ignorance in terms of his views content moderation.
the notion that twitter is eft ring is wrong we seen i me and time again in studies they have —- wing, that they have --
left wing, that that they have -- left wing, =1l right when information is ore likely to amplified and viral on the platform.
and interesting, just today, was it’s interesting, just today, he was certainly spouting off iii uff that banning all the cuff that banning all suites the cuff that banning all the cuff that banning all suites that were wrong and bad, is just a very subjective which is just a very subjective term, so, unclear -- banning weets.
re does have all tweets.
re does have a lilis all tweets.
re does have a point for many, is the a that a permanent ban or an efinite one, which is what nald trump has been nded donald trump has been landed with, seems wrong.
even jack suggests that is wrong.
dorsey suggests that is wrong.
that ban dorsey suggests that is wrong.
a y4 dorsey suggests that is wrong.
but that ban is there?
he said wrong until it is it is wrong until it is right.
we don’t want to rmanently ban meone unless they violate these roles which is what mpeted.
he wasn’t burned out the blue trumpeted.
he wasn’t burned out 04 trumpeted.
he wasn’t burned out of the blue but because he sistently violated committee uidelines for the platform.
sign up for a platform and gree to bide by rules.
if you the rules often break the rules often enough, you will get banned.
whether ust could go back, we will one must could go back, we will sep.
one must could go back, we will - ee.
he wants to bring trump which has political implications but think of spam .
we want to permanently ban ose.
the idea of having permanent an on the phone allow spam and bad actors run rampant.
it will would allow spam and bad actors 1 a vt0s would allow spam and bad actors to run rampant.
it will trump a back?
1 0s to run rampant.
it will trump a a back?
would he come back would he come back that like a flash , he like that like a flash or, he has pursued his own social over it?
he has truth social, ate media over it?
he has truth els media over it?
he has truth social, ate twitter competitor, n’t used much.
it’s a but hasn’t used it much.
it’s a flop.
don’t know, he was iously very addicted to twitter obviously very addicted to ian and said obviously very addicted to ha ter and said he doesn’t twitter and said he doesn’t ant to twitter and said he doesn’t 1 twitter and said he doesn’t want to come back to i
i i want to come back to twitter knows with elon musk but who knows with elen musk and the helm, that was his aphone to tens of millions of eople on a minute by minute is.
the power of twitter to influence american politics is heard, isn’t it?
we have to ave it there.
thank you your analysis.
thanks to stay with us on news.
still to come: we’ll assess the environmental impact of war - the latest in our special series, climate critical.
that’s the essence of the appalling news from rome this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television the man they called the butcher of lyon, klaus barbie, went on trial today in the french town where he was the gestapo chief in the second world war.
winnie mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced to six years in jail.
the judge told mandela there was no indication she felt even the slightest remorse.
the chinese government has i to help the victims of a powerful earthquake - the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
the world chess champion, garry kasparov.
1 has defeated a reigning world america’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking place in massachusetts.
god bless america!
you you are watching news with me, david eades.
anti-government protestors defy a nationwide curfew in sri lanka, calling for the country’s president to step down.
the head of the world health organisation has said china’s zero-tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
at this time every week, in our climate critical slot, we turn our attention to global climate issues.
as we report on the catastrophic damage and loss of life in the war in ukraine, we also need to ask how the conflict affects the entire planet.
we’re joined by neeta crawford, professor of political science at boston university.
she is also co-director i neeta, thanks very much, indeed, for joining us.
let’s t, if we can, with the direct start, if we can, with the start, if we can, with the direct effects.
can we say what arbon emissions and the w3 the carbon emissions and the cost, therefore, of, don’t , a javelin mess would be or other ordnance?
is it at & ear?
yes, you can at lculate the emissions from, say, russian tank let’s say, a russian tank or the operation of personnel iers and so on.
you’d have carriers and so on.
you’d have to know carriers and so on.
you’d have to get a to know to get a full accounting to know to get a full i r0 to know to get a full accounting would be how many of operation and fuel hours of operation and the fuel efficiency of the vehicle, and .
so it’s, you know, tens of tons carbon so on.
so it’s, you know, tens rie of tons of carbon for weapons as 5 hey are operated, yes.
the military structure of our is such at it is a huge consumer world is such that it is a huge onsumer of carbon world is such that it is a huge consumer of carbon products, fossil fuels, saw a figure the military uses that the military uses 1y something like $5 billion of fuel something like $5 billion of fuel are year as a sort of rage.
the scale there is est average.
the scale there is enermous in any case.
but ome onto enermous in any case.
but then i onto the damage.
how we come onto the damage.
how does that, how do you measure amage in it sort of the damage in it sort of vironmental science?
you can ink of it environmental science?
you can i eaian environmental science?
you can a8 think of it in terms of direct 18 think of it in terms of direct consequences, for example, when tary ehicles are operated military vehicles are operated roads, they create dust.
you destroy a weapon with eapon, the explosion of the pon itself releases toxic emicals and then ere is the consequences let’s say, burning a building or a tory.
so when burning a building or a 8 a 0 burning a building or a factory.
so when you do that, an can release asbestos and other particulate matter which can lead to cancer.
then there the destruction of something a fertiliser ant or the like a fertiliser plant or the russians have targeted and so the ukrainians, russians have targeted and so i a1 have the ukrainians, any war in ukraine, targeted fuel depots can elease methane.
and which can release methane.
and those which can release methane.
and hose are direct costs, if you e.
the indirect costs being?
ll, one country has its i well, one country has its infrastructure destroyed, compensate by doing some hings like, for example, king down forests and using ose forests to taking down forests and using those forests to heat their 1 when they have no longer any ccess to electricity.
all could be using wood to burn, to cook food, and all destruction burn, to cook food, and all wals burn, to cook food, and all about destruction not only of orest
but again the burning, adds to the pollution, direct costs of the destruction, indirect our le’s reaction.
in the long n, they will be that run, they will be costs that are caused by the reaction to estruction as ll, for the destruction as well, for instance, environmental costs econstruction.
ht.
let for reconstruction.
right.
let me ask you 13 tad a -1
me ask you then, in for reconstruction.
right.
let me ask you then, in searching ome sort of positive is for some sort of positive is perhaps not the right word here onsolation prize, when you i 0 talk about a ebuild, let’s a city there are take a city and there are cities aplenty at the moment we could point out in a3 various parts of the world.
are ways of, maybe it’s, you there are ways of, maybe it’s, a there are ways of, maybe it’s, you know, circularity, the ular economy, ways of circular economy, ways of reusing damaged materials, of 11 aterials, can we draw comfort new materials, can we draw any comfort from the opportunity, ose, that those rebuilds suppose, that those rebuilds an create?
yes, sadly, you can changes, for instance, hen you repay the road you use when you repay the road you aals .
asphalt alse meant.
you have to use the same kind of asphalt alse meant.
you can ings n’t use hings owered things don’t use things lowered emissions.
building anything as emissions especially if are using standard rlas- - you are using standard ncrete.
then there is a lot he potential to make a ansition and energy systems water transition and energy systems water treatment.
when you are building from rubble, as cities are, you can make those transitions but many cities are, you can make x1 those transitions but sadly happens often is the i what happens often is the contractors will do what happens often is the a what happens often is the contractors will do what they which may be standard know which may be standard building construction hniques.
right.
even the lie techniques.
right.
even the opportunity for passive solar be an improvement.
very eviary briefly because we are of time, but looking at the out of time, but locking at the state of the conflicts in the 1 at the moment, are they world at the moment, are they than a pinprick on our =1ae more than a pinprick on our carbon emission crisis?
itary fuel use and military dustry re an enormous contributor industry are an enormous a8
aalo
i i industry are an enormous contributor to our greenhouse and it’s not a pinprick.
is a significant
and they 3 have 1r have ripple effect it is a significant and they have ripple effect throughout ntire economy.
neeta, thank you.
neeta crawford, each year, billiens of tonnes of goods are transported around the world by sea.
huge cargo ships travel the oceans, contributing to greenhouse gas emissions.
but one company is trying to provide an alternative, and it involves the use of an ancient technology, as the ’s tim allman explains.
meets the past.
and in doing so, could it point to the future?
at this port in new jersey, they are loading a cargo ship, well, technically a boat, that harks back to an earlier age.
the grand assall is powered by the wind, transporting goods across the atlantic the old-fashioned way.
the mission of grand assail is to reinvent shipping in a way by doing it with a cargo sailboat to reduce the impact on the environment so we want to produce and sell great gastronomic product while we come from far away.
the sailboat is a 72-foot, two-masted schooner.
it can carry around 50 tons of cargo, a tiny fraction of what a modern transporter ship can hold.
one trip takes around 3.
5 weeks, weather permitting.
so patience really is a virtue for any potential customers.
we assure people that it’s possible to make green transportation with a cargo, selling cargo, just to take time, and it’s possible, yes.
there are plans for a sister a the size of grand assail and can make more trips.
are about to replace modern cargo ships but in the fight against climate change, every little helps.
tim allman, news.
yes, yes, it may seem like a small everything at this stage but as aid, =1 tim said, everything helps.
’s
news tim said, everything helps.
that’s news.
thanks for watching.
always good to hear from you.
goodbye for tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers - most of those showers were across scotland and there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts of western scotland at times - some of these showers quite heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
for the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy, rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers or even longer spells of rain.
now for wednesday, this feature could bring some significant rainfall to parts of england and wales throughout the day.
now some of that rain really will be quite heavy across parts of wales, south-west england through wednesday morning.
and then, that rain will push in towards the midlands, think the northern extent of it area, not further north than that.
but as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards into east anglia in the southeast, it will begin fragment.
again another windy day a a0 c1a across southern britain with that rain band.
quite gusty, as well, of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales as we’ll now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - t’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down inte single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts of the - so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier further so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the north-west of scotland, which will see most after that cool start, temperatures will reach highs for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential of some thundery showers across southern i so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine, but also some heavy showers in the south.
tens of thousands of military personnel have been deployed in the sri lankan capital, colombo, security forces have been given the right to shoot anyone suspected of looting or posing a risk to life.
china has been urged to change its zero-covid strategy by the world health organization.
the virus were unsustainable.
many cities in china have faced lockdown restrictions as the country suffers its worst covid ocutbreak since the pandemic began.
russia has targeted the black sea port of odesa one person is reported to have died.
it comes as the has estimated the number of civilians killed the has a postcode inequality problem - where you live can determine your chances in life.
getting more money and we’d be making more changes.
transport!
of england
and then there’s everywhere else.
so the government’s on a mission to what it calls "level up the ".
you’ve got to invest in education.
you’ve got to strengthen local leadership.
you’ve got to make sure that the soil is irrigated @ to play its role.
and all of those things together will see lasting change occur.
up cash is handed out.
a beauty contest around who gets the money, that’s not really how would do it.
now, this northern soul is heading to south yorkshire to find out how levelling up is going down.
give us the help, give us the hand up and the government you had community centres, you had youth clubs.
there’s nothing.
breathe, five, six seven and reach out get that emotion going, guys.
17-year-old safaa shreef from barnsley is a talented dancer.
she’s been taking lessons since she was very young.
that’s your homework on the table.
yeah, piles of maths homework.
she’s also a promising mathematician and a climate you find yourself doing what?
you’re recommended to do five hours per week per subject.
know!
do four subjects, so that’s like 20 hours, or two every night.
do you think things might be different for barnsley if you took barnsley just as it is and plenked it down in the south-east of england, somewhere near london?
i do think it would be a massive change because there is a definite divide and see as a young person walking around, we’re not oblivious and see it.
and we will be making more changes.
it wouldn’t still be the best place in the world, but it would drastically be different.
barnsley is a labour-leaning town.
it has two in the council.
barnsley is a post-industrial town.
we used to be a mining town.
the vast majority of employment and the vast majority of businesses in barnsley relied on mining.
most of that disappeared.
economically, reinvent itself socially.
what does levelling up need to look like for barnsley?
for me, it’s three significant facets to that.
one is to make sure we’ve got the business and transport infrastructure we need.
it’s about how we deal with people and their skills and their confidence and their aspirations in life.
and then the third aspect of this is public services.
the poorest communities depend i barnsley is not a one-off.
many towns and cities outside the south-east of england also in london, nearly £1,500 a year of public money is spent per person on transport.
in basingstoke the average salary is more than £36,000.
life expectancy in blackpool is at least eight years shorter after winning the 2019 election, and taking many o= i 1 in the midlands and the north of england, the conservatives allocated billions of pounds for levelling up.
we have a situation where the south-east of england has been the economic powerhouse.
that has been unfair for other the parts of the united kingdom 7t & own admission, this a collossal challenge.
in this document, they say it’ll require the same ambition as putting man on the moon, so how do they ensure that the same opportunities, as people here in london?
to put it bluntly, can they actually do it?
so it’s down hall read, through raw marsh.
and how long does it take you?
show me the way.
for four weeks in december and january, 16-year-old curtis yip, a member of the labour party, had to walk five miles to get to school.
i’ve got economics double,
oh right.
and then i’ve got politics.
a local bus strike over pay meant a 45-minute journey took five miles, that’s i ighle could get to school.
public transport is my main use of travel.
so just decided i disabled, takes priority.
curtis would like to see better public transport.
all the investment’s down south, and there’s a huge lack of investment in provisions, consistent and fair funding in south yorkshire.
really nice to see you.
have a good day.
the strike is now over so curtis can get back but his experience underlines the lack of options in many henri murison, a former labour councillor, is the director of the northern powerhouse partnership, a lobby group for the north of england, set up by senior members of the conservative party.
both getting from here to sheffield, which is just down the road, the nearest next big city to barnsley, or up to leeds, as well as getting across to manchester, getting across to liverpool, is much more difficult and the lack of connectivity means that young people growing up in barnsley don’t have the same opportunities as that someone would have, r0 the construction of the station will be a feat of engineering.
the hs2 rail network will connect london to the north-west of england with high-speed trains.
turning it into one super-hub station.
which is fine if you live in the north west.
northern powerhouse rail i the north of england.
and the proposed northern powerhouse rail, which would have improved the network between northern towns and cities, has been cut back.
nicola headlam is a former recently has been the scaling back of northern powerhouse rail and the eastern leg.
and i’m sure you can find out better than can on earth, a government that wants to unite and level up of the combined nerthern business and mayors and leaders and everybody who were brought business and mayors and leaders and everybody who were bought into a rail strategy that had hs2 in full both sides and across the middle.
1 we’ve been investing in rail, not just through hs2 but more broadly, in rail improvements but there is more that requires to be done.
put simply, through, the eastern leg of hs2 being cancelled, northern powerhouse rail being cut back, that’s just bad news for south yorkshire and it doesn’t look like levelling up to people in south yorkshire.
well, there are other investments that we are making not just in transport, but money that’s gone directly for improvement of education.
the challenge for many employers in barnsley is finding staff with the right skills.
nice to meet you, i’m chris.
pit stop productions produce sound for computer games and films.
these are the titles that we’ve worked on.
as was the persistance.
founder john sandersen wanted to set up in the town set of headphones here.
lots of headphones.
what being here has kind of allowed us to do as pit stop means that kind of initial set-up cost was far cheaper.
at the time, for the equivalent facility, if we’d have set up in sohe, you’re probably talking an initial outlay of about five million, whereas our initial outlay of here was 500,000.
ten times cheaper?
the company employs 54 people, almost all of them with university degrees.
recording studios for music.
5d nice to see you.
john, he’s one of our composers.
what have you got going on in here then?
so this is where we do the majority of the writing that we do for films, video games, whatever we might be working on.
we also mix in this rcom.
it’s a great surround space to work with.
this is just the sort of highly-skilled business the government would love to see thriving across the north of england.
ah, this capacity to transport you.
here we are in barnsley, where do you live?
so live in leeds, actually, just up the m1.
originally from hertfordshire, so down south, just and then moved up to leeds college of music and stayed.
so you’ve been lured from hertfordshire on the edges of london to do the most creative of jobs here in barnsley.
john wants to grow his business, but says he can’t find the staff from the local colleges in barnsley.
we talk about creating better jobs.
we talk about creating skills and a lot of these skills now that are needed are still not on a lot of people’s radar.
where think the government would fail is if they didn’t recognise that, because the jobs of yesterday aren’t opportunities out there.
is that further education colleges of the past have been incentivised to get people in to do a particular set of courses which are easily sellable to students, but not necessarily valued by employers.
well, again, it will depend on the individual location, but we’re setting up and know it sounds bureaucratic which are ways of making sure that either mayors or chambers of commerce can have more of a role in getting the right qualifications.
if successful businesses like pit stop productions don’t keep growing and offering good jobs, there’s less incentive for bright young people to stay and thrive.
ambitious young people are left with no choice but to go down to access genuinely transformational opportunities.
and the sad thing about that is that the thing that holds a place back is a lack of access to talent.
so the north of england can’t continue to bleed graduates, and other skilled people to other parts of the country and the world and expect to change its economy.
challenges of levelling up.
so this is the urban tree film project, also known climate activist safaa is showing me her environmental project.
so, over 450, all different types, you have some whips and willows and fruit trees like plum, pear, apple.
it will be amazing in the summer when you can actually pick them.
fed up with drug dealers what would have to happen for bright, intelligent people like the public transport, it needs to just be better.
our parks need to be better.
the shops we have in town just be better.
everything just needs to be up one notch.
barnsley council has many services,though.
like other local authorities, it had to make austerity cutbacks following the financial crash in 2007.
its daily spending on many services fell by 40% from 2010 to before the covid pandemic.
is there not a paradox here, though?
because you as conservatives have been in power since 2010, were associated with austerity - hugely significant cuts in barnsley, in particular.
i merely rectifying the funding you removed earlier on in your time in government?
who was in power between 2010 and 2015 would have recognised the need for reductions in public spending after the financial crash.
but also think it’s fair to say that the government that took power in 2019 was a different government with a different approach to that which had gone before.
since austerity, some residents have been relying on the goodwill of their neighbours.
holden has tourette’s syndrome.
he has nervous tics and can’t always control his behaviour.
we’ve gone through a million laptops, ipads, because he ticks, and he punches and he breaks them or he head-butts every single thing used to be a hassle and hard work.
ready for bed.
i’ve tried everything.
we’ve got a tiny little park, but it’s not very desirable wyatt and his family’s when he started boxing.
so these are the boots that probably will be fighting in, but my first pair boots were these adidas ones, what does it feel like when you get whacked oh, don’t know.
i’ve never ticked while boxing, and think i’ve had tourette’s diagnosed for three years, ticking every day, and haven’t ticked once.
it’s so weird, don’t even tic while doing it.
it were like something you could see in him straightaway.
and from that second, he stopped, stopped twitching.
and he’s got something happy to get up about now.
so,
yeah,
it’s given him a lease on life.
and this is where the magic happens.
you can see all the energy inside here, you can even smell tell us about the finances, how it works.
i just charge the subs, and then have to pay me rent every month, that is what it costs me.
some weeks i’ll lose money, and some weeks might make weeks when don’t make owt.
have some help really some friends give me sponsorship.
there’s no help from the council, there’s no help from the government?
no.
there were a lot of weeks or days, when i’d come and i’d sit behind the counter, and nobody came through the door.
so i’d be wondering if i’d done the right thing, and then as you can see, it’s built up, and now iit’s really busy.
having on dozens of men here, just how valuable a project this is.
and yet he doesn’t get any help from the council, he doesn’t get government funding, and it’s left me thinking, is this not just the kind of project levelling up cash is being allocated through three main pots.
there’s the towns fund, worth £3.
6 billion.
and there’s the shared prosperity fund, intended to replace funding, worth 2.
6 billion.
barnsley council got 23 million to regenerate a former pit for its town centre.
but barnsley still feels hard done by.
that is tens of millions of pounds of public money coming into this corner of south yorkshire.
do you think barnsley and the surrounding area has had a fair deal so far under the branding of "levelling up™?
it’s @ mixed picture.
we had bids in for the levelling up fund even though we were told they were strong bids.
we weren’t even in the top priority list for the government on levelling up, when we’re in, you know, the top 40 of deprived authorities in england.
do you think that is?
well, who made the formula?
"well, we did.
”
well, you need to change the formula, don’t you?
because you’re not recognising where the real need is.
levelling up is intended to address regional inequality.
we decided to see if the most deprived parts of england iri g+ the government’s most valuable fund.
the first round of the we sent freedom of information requests to 100 councils representing the most deprived areas in england.
we discovered that 34 of those councils, a third, nicola headlam says asking councils to bid against each once you’re in a competitive bidding climate, you’re inviting a much more subjective analysis of where needs the money.
a how would do it.
not?
because in places that are doing better, they have a stronger a i able to write those bids, and therefore those i so those bids get funded, and it’s costing local authorities money to kind of draw down this money.
as a set of premises for funding, would go for deprivation first, worst first, as a kind of principle of seeking to level up an area.
we’re working with local authorities in order to make sure that their bids are as effective as possible.
and we’re deploying people, levelling up directors, sure the bid i1s rebust.
there’s no point giving money to a local authority if the prospectus they put forward will mean the money won’t make a difference.
on the public accounts committee have already criticised how areas were selected for another pot - they said the justification for selection was vague and based on sweeping i without local consultation.
is ten miles from barnsley.
it got £24.
1 million from the towns fund, despite being classed as low priority in the government’s selection process.
property developer mark dransfield was joint chair and this is where the first tranche of the towns fund money has gone in.
there was an advancement of half a millien pounds, which has been delivered here to the leisure centre.
and what difference does it make?
there’s a playground & it’s really made a big difference to everything.
had been a traditionally labour area, but it voted in a conservative , miriam cates, has it made a difference, do you think, to stocksbridge, as far as government levelling up money is concerned, that there’s a conservative here now?
ultimately, the reason the money’'s here is because of the influence of the , obviously.
and think she’s done an amazing job to do that.
our community here in has been starved of investment for many, many generations.
and whichever politician came forward and offered what they’ve offered, would imagine that they would secure the votes of our community, because we just want to see our we crunched the numbers on the allocation of the first two rounds of towns fund money across england.
80 out of the 101 places due to receive the £3.
6 billion including 24 in the seats which the conservatives won from labour at the last election.
nine towns with both conservative and labour you know what your critics say, they say it’s pork barrel politics.
you’re shovelling money if we were interested only in political calculation, then we wouldn’t be spending money and devoting resources as we have to the fate of what’s happening so completely reject the idea that it is driven by party politics.
since the launch of the levelling up agenda, the world has changed.
the cost-of-living squeeze and predictions of an economic downturn?
at a time when inflation is rising, that means that 4y than it was last year.
so it is a tough climate.
it’s tough for everyone.
i think it makes it all the more important think, unless we do everything in this white paper, unless we stick to those missions, then the cost of living issues that we face a will deepen inequality.
and also that little the government for many people.
the desire here to see levelling up remains undimmed.
now they want it delivered.
the stakes are so high.
&1k of the political economy of the country.
it’s just had a bit too much of the attention over the years.
but think it is possible beyond the greater south east, and think that other versions of england are possible.
really nice to meet you.
safaa might take and she’s not prepared to wait.
think it can be better if the people in power actually do something about it.
i’m seeing this affecting every one of my friends, one by one, like an there’s nothing bigger.
definitely, 100%.
it was very showery on tuesday, particularly across the north and the west of the .
it remains quite unsettled for the next few days, thanks to low pressure always being nearby.
it will stay quite breezy too.
now, this tumble brings a renewed area of rain into england and wales through wednesday, and some of this could be quite heavy and persistent pretty much from the word go for parts of wales and socuthwest england.
as we move through the day, perhaps towards greater manchester, leeds area, and it will begin to push 710 into eastern england, southern england.
later in the day, it will begin to fragment and turn a little bit lighter.
sunshine and showers further north once again, a breezy day to come, quite windy across southern parts around this rain band.
temperatures mid-to-high teens for many.
we hold onto to further showers a across the north of the thursday and friday, but as we head on into the weekend, particularly england and wales, with the risk of some thundery showers.
our top stories: "shoot on sight” - the orders for security forces in sri lanka amid violent protests the president to step down.
a warning for china - the world health organization y- "
beijing must change course on covid.
when we talk about a zero-covid strategy, we don’t see it as sustainable considering the behaviour of the virus now =r in the future.
members of the house of representatives vote overwhelmingly in favour of providing an additional $40 billion dollars and going back to the past - the company trying to prove that sailboats are a greener way to transport cargo.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
anyone seen looting or damaging public property in the latest attempt to stop anti-government protests.
soaring prices, power cuts been injured, as our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan reports a capital under curfew.
troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public property or threatens lives.
the skeletons of a bustling city scorched by an economic crisis.
yesterday, supporters anti-government protesters, who until that point had been peacefully demonstrating.
this man fractured his leg after a tear gas canister landed on it.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
men who lost their legs in mines &r civil war say they were beaten up by the very people they made sacrifices "they started punching me.
was left with only one crutch.
they pushed me and fell.
”
"when we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
now we’re being attacked.
” with trust in the government shattered, the homes of at least two dozen politicians who backed = this was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
it belonged to a supporter of the government, and this was the bedroom.
it was set on fire.
all you can see now i 188 11 and if we just move into the living room, completely trashed - just look around.
tonight, a resort belonging to the son of sri lanka’'s former prime minister mahinda rajapaksa, who quit yesterday, was set alight.
and clashes broke out in the city of negombo.
protesters want the president, gotabaya rajapaksa, to resign - as long as he stays, tensions on this island the head of the world health organization has said china’s zero tolerance policy against the authorities in beijing have imposed lockdowns affecting tens of millions of people lasting several weeks to to prevent any spread of the illness.
but the ’s director general said he had told when we talk about the zero-covid strategy, we don’t think that it’s sustainable considering the behaviour of the virus now, and what we anticipate in the future.
with chinese experts, and we indicated that the approach, you know, earlier, spoke to saad omer, the director of the yale institute for global health.
asked him for his view on china’s zero-covid strategy.
at the - well, you know, a few months after the start if you are in a football game and your first ten-minute if you will, there is something wrong, and so do not think so, china has other tools at its disposal that can be deployed, and think it should seriously consider expanding a little bit of focus on these other tools and easing up when you talk about the other tools, presume that vaccines are one of those.
either the vaccines are not terribly effective in beijing’s mind, or they are struggling to get people to take them.
in terms of vaccines, it is not a yes-no question.
it is not just vaccines, a will give you an example.
were extremely useful , against the earlier variants and severe disease, but since then, there have been variants for which you would require additional doses and perhaps different kinds of vaccines.
and think china should focus on acquiring the technology, but also producing mrna vaccines with the variants they are facing.
the other thing is they have sub-optimal immunisation rates in some of the highest-risk populations in china, so they need to be a major focus.
and then coming back to the sorry - just on that point - that seems an extraordinary, to happen, because if they want to impose certain restrictions - as they have done with isolating people and locking down - can’t they impose the insistence that they have vaccines?
well, they are.
again, even before draconian mandates or strict mandates, there are a lot of things in the toolbox of public health entities, including in china, for example, soft mandates, meaning requiring vaccination for certain activities, and countries like france have shown that using those kinds of nudges or strong nudges can be helpful.
the house of representatives has voted to give ukraine a further $40 billion in military and humanitarian it’s nearly $7 billion more than president biden requested.
it’s proposed the funds will be used to provide military support to ukraine and humanitarian assistance to the civilians affected by the russian invasion.
the speaker of the house, nancy pelosi, told fellow as putin desperately accelerates his campaign of or, the brutality is just a1 gt1 1 horror, the brutality is just abhorrent brutality in ukraine, cle % time is of the essence.
that we were so pleased to hear uld proceed immediately with his bill today
so it goes ough to senate the through to senate and the president’s desk, so the istance can reach people assistance can reach the people a& kraine and eastern of ukraine and eastern europe.
what’s the impact of that?
joining us now from washingten, is anna borshchevskaya, a russia expert and senior fellow with washington institute.
$40 billion not the 33 billien, just looking at the way that down, third of four military assistance, weaponry raining, third for humanitarian aid, quite a bit ood shortages as well, but for food shortages as well, but that is a lot of money going %18 ards military hardware, how i it impact on military tuation?
it’s certainly going elp ukraine, the question , with &1 to help ukraine, the question is, with the military part 1 erred to as artillery, at his tage, one of the things aine needs is more artillery particular.
again, of course going to help, act of it’s going to help, the fact of matter is, though, ukraine acing protracted warfare.
way or nother this is not going to end anytime soon.
aine is lready devastated ukraine is already devastated by the war.
think we need repare ourselves for long prepare ourselves for the long this is going to sustain the conflict.
it would appear 14 ident putin the conflict.
it would appear a l1 president putin probably recognises that president putin probably !
president putin probably recognises that and preparing elf for a much longer 811w himself for a much longer conflict?
think if you look he may night speech so many expect that he would unce ither full expect that he would xal ias expect that he would announce either full or partial lisation, perhaps a final eclaration mobilisation, perhaps a final i mobilisation, perhaps a final declaration of war mobilisation, perhaps a final a a declaration of war because as you know this is quote unquote ial military operation i a special military operation rather than war, the fact is, peech was remarkably nremarkable.
the only thing stood out to me was at that stood out to me was that he failed to refer to ukraine way at all, he didn’t & in any way at all, he didn’t call it a war or a ecial operation.
and it could be that ntially sometime down the oad eid could open the ssibility for reframing it at this possibility for reframing it -
but at this stage since he is % imply preparing for more of ame.
when we a the same.
when we have a situation the same.
when we have a 1 situation as we do at the oment, washington pumping tens illions of dollars, we know he european union has tried to together, you can see a1 hether there signs for refs here, i’m just reading half a refs here, i’m just reading about half a million german jobs to go, if the russian gas is axed.
how sustainable route is axed.
how sustainable you think is that sense of - a1 ern unity?
think that is western unity?
think that is of the key guestions, the fact one of the key questions, the elad the one of the key questions, the of the matters in fact of the matters in short-term, certainly, the or that the kremlin has horror that the kremlin has unleashed on horror that the kremlin has 4 horror that the kremlin has unleashed on ukraine has nered unprecedented ympathy, and western licymakers, finally have equn reassessing some of their re assumptions about ussian a i tatecraft in the russian military and so forth.
the n1 stion is as war continues to an a1l question is as war continues to take an economic goal on europe frankly the rest of the and, frankly the rest of the world, the question is, how will principal take over, asically from conflict, and is an open-ended question 1g ince the number of ukrainian ugees is ust under 6 refugees is just under 6 million at this point, million at this point, the lat a1l million at this peint, the yoot at i million at this peint, the economic effects of the war are 1 despread and we are only at he beginning of really.
t4 hank you the beginning of it, really.
=s you very much indeed, $40 thank you very much indeed, $40 hillion being pledged, it is whether loyalties lies at his stage but as you say a elon musk has said he will reverse the twitter ban imposed on donald trump, once he takes over the social media company.
the richest man in the world agreed a $44 billion takeover bid with the twitter board last month, but he said our correspondent james clayton has more.
he has kind of already intimated that this was going to happen.
this is the first time he has committed to saying that he would actually reverse this ban, and denald trump has not been able to tweet for 15, 16 months now after the capitol hill riots he was accused of stoking, those that elon musk said that it wasn’t morally reprehensible to have done, that it was a mistake.
the former executive of twitter has said that he regrets for donald trump come the problem is that donald trump has said he does he said he would much rather post on his own platform.
so, would not necessarily assume that he is going to start tweeting.
the other thing to mention is that elon musk has not actually bought twitter yet, and he seemed low energy about the deal today, thought.
i’m not necessarily 100% sure - don’t think elon musk is either - that he is going to buy twitter.
so, lots of reasons donald trump might not come back on, but the door is more ajar than it ever has been for the former president to make a twitter return.
stay with us on news.
ukraine qualifies for the final of the eurovision song contest.
we’ll take a closer look at their entry.
that’s the essence of the appalling news from rome this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television the man they called the butcher of lyon, klaus barbie, went on trial today in the french town where he was the gestapo chief in the second world war.
winnie mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced to six years in jail.
the judge told mandela there was no indication she felt even the slightest remorse.
the chinese government has i to help the victims of a powerful earthquake - the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
the world chess champion, garry kasparov.
1 has defeated a reigning world america’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking place in massachusetts.
anti-government protestors defy a nationwide curfew in sri lanka, calling for the country’s president to step down.
the head of the world health organization has said china’s zero tolerance policy against covid is not sustainable.
tuesday’s state opening of parliament marked the first time since 1963 that queen elizabeth didn’t attend.
her majesty had authorised the prince of wales and the duke of cambridge after buckingham palace explained that her majesty was suffering from "episodic mobility problems™.
our royal correspondent nicholas witchell examines the significance of the events.
he’s been waiting for his destiny for longer than any other heir - and, while no-one %1 a major change is imminent, the inescapable fact that a transition under way.
and this, today, was the most tangible sign of it.
on the consort’s throne, the imperial state crown, the symbol of the monarch’s authority, was placed on a table beside him.
the prince studied it closely, and then, with lords short of his own opiniens took on the discipline required of a monarch.
reading out the words written by the government.
of the whole of the united kingdom is of paramount importance to her majesty’s government.
it was this, the regency act of 1937, that the palace used suggesting a permanent transfer of the monarch’s powers.
the queen is still busy with her paper work and virtual audiences.
changes are happening, but they are gradual.
very important to carry out all her public duties in public whenever she can.
she’s famously said "to be seen is to be believed,” and she believes the monarchy must be seen, members of the royal family carrying out royal duties on her behalf.
for seven decades, a highly visible head of state.
faced, the burden is shifting.
nicholas witchell, news.
an international donors more than $6.
5 billion to help war-torn syria and its neighbours.
earlier the ’s high commissioner for refugees, filippo grandi, warned i i for syrians was catastrophic.
aid agencies say would-be asylum seekers arriving in britain have self-harmed and attempted suicide because of fears of being sent to rwanda.
more than 28,000 people crossed the english channel last year.
the government plans to send people judged to have entered to combat people traffickers.
each year, billions of tonnes of goods are transported around the world by sea.
huge cargo ships travel the oceans, contributing to greenhouse gas emissions.
now, one company is trying to provide an alternative and it involves the use of an ancient technology, as tim allman explains.
in the shadow of a city built on trade, the present meets the past.
and in doing so, could it point to the future?
at this port in new jersey, they are loading a cargo ship - well, technically a boat - that harks back to an earlier age.
the grand assall is powered by the wind, transporting goods across the atlantic the old-fashioned way.
the mission of grand assail is to reinvent shipping to reduce the impact ilee so we want to produce and sell great gastronomic product while we come from far away.
the sailboat is a 72-foot, two-masted schooner.
50 tons of cargo, a tiny fraction of what a modern transporter ship can hold.
one trip takes around 3.
5 weeks, weather permitting.
so patience really is a virtue for any potential customers.
green transportation with a cargo, selling cargo, just to take time, and it’s possible, yes.
twice the size of grand assail and can make more trips.
are about to replace modern cargo ships but in the fight against climate change, every llittle helps.
tim allman, news.
it’s one of the most profitable gaming franchise deals e"2 serving more than 150 million players around the world.
for the best part of 30 years, electronic arts has enjoyed but now, the company says i football’s governing body.
our gaming reporter steffan powell explains why.
sports - it’s in the game.
since 1993, the fifa video game franchise has been made by one company, sports.
the title has changed immeasurably on the screen and off it - becoming a cultural powerhouse played by 150 million people around the world.
but sports has announced it’s splitting from - it didn’t fancy playing the reported $1 billion price tag to keep the licence from the governing body.
from beyond just gaming.
instead, sports will launch in autumn 2023, with this year’s fifa being the last one.
the move might surprise some, but it makes sense to others.
it’s where we’re seeing games go as a whole, really, moving more into games as a platform and bringing in other brands and entertainment products, such as concerts and other live events into their games.
to assure players the name will be the best one available for gamers, as it’s the only global original title.
they’re working on new games.
when it comes to sports , players might not notice a huge difference to the core game’s offering, with player likenesses and game modes staying the same.
they will, though, see more brand partnerships and experiences beyond games.
just for the popular games studio, but potentially the industry.
steffan powell, news.
ukraine has made it through to this year’s eurovision song contest final, after qualifying from a semi final heat on tuesday night.
the song stefania, by the ukrainian group kalush orchestra, has become the favourite to win the competition.
david sillito was there, and his report contains flashing images.
1014 turin, eurovision, and flag-waving fans and thousands in the eurovision village more in the eurovision village and the most visible flag in rowd?
the blue and and the most visible flag in g, the crowd?
the blue and yellow of ukraine.
he had to cheer the favourites, that along the hot favourites, that "€ orchestra.
strangers nel kalush orchestra.
strangers bonded by a moment.
we met like minutes ago.
we don’t know other.
we are just selling plugs and supporting each r.
it is so much sadness also_
it is a other.
it is so much sadness n1 o.
it is a big unity of the uropean family
so it is european family so it is really a big amily and europe like a big family and europe and ukraine it feels like part of it and if this is really a celebration of it and if this is really a celebration of this eurepean all the values and union and all the values and all the european values all the european values and union and all the values and all the european values and it a lot.
and it went?
seems a lot.
and if it went?
hope that maybe in the future, lies divided wall will families divided by wall will day be able to share this ment one day be able to share this i heg one day be able to share this moment in their home country.
r.
001\
my daughter is five -- war.
my daughter is five years older she asked me, that my grandfather and grandmother are safe but it be really better to see this would be really better to see tib 3 in ukraine.
the night was a& bout ukraine and they remain ila about ukraine and they remain the hot favourite to win on a rday and what happens to the bad if they do en?
well, hey straight back to kraine they go straight back to i they go straight back to ukraine and their agenda is not c.
spoke to the bad’s music.
spoke to the bad’s leader oleh before the show and whatever happens on saturday, on sunday it is back to work.
: we have a : we have a lunteer organisation.
there 35 of us we are helping ople with transport, commodation, medicine, were ing everything possible to people across the ukraine.
back in the semifinals, it was a little furovision moment.
raine!
song, does that ukraine!
the song, does that have come a ukraine!
the song, does that ecome a symbol of hope, have become a symbol of hope, 8 ort, community.
david sillito, news, turin.
and good luck
to ukraine and other contestants, of ourse.
bye the other contestants, of tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers - most of those showers were across scotland and there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts of western scotland at times - some of these showers quite heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
for the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy, rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers or even longer spells of rain.
now for wednesday, this feature could bring some significant rainfall to parts of england and wales throughout the day.
now some of that rain really will be quite heavy across parts of wales, south-west england through wednesday morning.
and then, that rain will push in towards the midlands, think the northern extent of it area, not further north than that.
but as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards into east anglia in the southeast, it will begin fragment.
again another windy day a a0 c1a across southern britain with that rain band.
quite gusty, as well, of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales as we’ll now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - t’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down inte single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts of the - so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here, so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the north-west of scotland, which will see most after that cool start, temperatures will reach highs for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential of some thundery showers across southern i so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine, but also some heavy showers in the south.
tens of thousands of military personnel have been deployed in the sri lankan capital, colombo, security forces have been given the right to shoot anyone suspected of looting or posing a risk to life.
china has been urged to change its zero-covid strategy by the world health organisation.
the virus were unsustainable.
many cities in china have faced lockdown restrictions as the country suffers its worst covid ocutbreak since the pandemic began.
overwhelmingly in favour of providing an additional $40 billien in aid for ukraine.
most republicans joined democrats in supporting the funds will be used to provide military support to ukraine and humanitarian assistance to the civilians affected by the russian invasion.
stephen sackur is in washington, with hardtalk.
welcome to hardtalk from washington, 018 when vladimir putin made that momentous decision to invade ukraine, maybe he calculated that the was too weak, too polarised to offer anything more than ritual condemnation.
if so, he was wrong.
american weapons are now flowing into ukraine.
unprecedented sanctions have been imposed on moscow.
my guest today is the senior is this ukraine war the wake-up call america needed?
thank you so much.
there an attitude in this city, washington, , that you politicians are now prepared to do whatever it takes to ensure ukraine’s victory in the war with well, my sense, stephen, is that this is not enly an attitude that’s reflected by politicians, by the american public, quite honestly, think it is the british government, the british public.
you know, the west, nato have come back together, an organisation that candidly a year ago at the end i think a lot of that was due i alecls intelligence community, along with the british intelligence community, had been very forward-leaning of the conflict about a and made the case that he was going to not only invade ukraine, but invade in @ massive way, as he has.
started being in munich at the security conference i’m chairman of the intelligence committee, sitting down with the head of the german services, and they still didn’t believe that he was going to, so think there is this unity of purpose that we, america and the west, will take on the aggressors.
but you know that zelensky’s message, when asked, "what do you still need?
” is, "weapons, weapons, weapons.
”
so the question is, how far will america go in the arming of ukraine?
so far you’ve talked about defensive weaponry.
you’ve also backfilled - you know, you’ve given new weaponry to nato allies in eastern europe so they can release some of their equipment to the ukrainians.
are you going to go further?
could you envisage in the next few months, maybe even years, giving warplanes, tanks direct to ukraine?
will say that the level oelaa a5 assistance - we are giving american artillery that frankly is real-time, ukrainians are training on out of country.
again, the british government has done some of the same.
and this notion of where what is defensive versus offensive weaponry, think another question which is about how far america goes we know american service personnel are training ukrainians in countries neighbouring ukraine.
there are no operating military personnel inside ukraine.
you phrase that carefully.
people training inside?
that the diplomats that exited the country as the war started are coming back not just to lviv, but going actually back to kyiv, which think is terribly important.
again, we’ve done this done this in concert with our allies.
togetherness, i’m not sure
that president zelensky, no matter how resolute he’’s heen, and we all have enormous respect for the ukrainian forces, but without that total western support?
and that, again, i .
there are many things the biden administration may have not got right, particularly in afghanistan.
but in terms of rebuilding the coalition and keeping the fact that the germans took the lead on stopping nord stream 2 - don’t think any of us could have predicted that three to four months ago.
intelligence committee.
you know a lot of what is going on.
how surprised have you been by the depth, the extraordinary the united states and the ukrainians?
to the new york times, that a dozen russian generals have been targeted by the ukrainians thanks to intelligence.
we believe that the moskva, the black sea flagship russian vessel, was sunk thanks to intelligence cooperation but those items you’ve stated, i’ve seen the public reports, but there’s been no official government confirmation.
but you know the inside story.
particularly on a broadcast show.
but will say this - that leading up to the invasion, one of the things that and again, intel, whether it’s - a 1a intel, you know, by nature those folks in that community information.
one of the things that was remarkable was early on, putin expected not only to be militarily successful, but actually had ideas it was american intelligence leaning forward, saying iif a coup happens, it’s going to be the russians, and then our friends, the british a few days later even identified the individual the russians wanted that has really, think, put putin off his game by that willingness to share intelligence and frankly share, as we had to convince our european allies that this but senator, everything you are talking to me about, that is the incredibly close intelligence cooperation, the feeling that we will do whatever it takes - it feeds into a russian narrative, a narrative that vladimir putin has just repeated on his victory day speech, when he basically says, "we in russia are facing a war with the west, with nato.
”
what lavrov - sergey lavrov, the foreign minister - calls a proxy war.
that’s the truth of what’s happening now, isn’t it?
my belief is this is what putin and his cabal have brought on.
has become much bigger than ukraine versus russia.
think most of us in the west over the last few years, particularly here in this country, have felt, whether it’s with covid, some of the political dysfunction in this country - can liberal democracy be successful against authoritarian regimes and think what at least the ukrainian people have said is they are voting with their lives to say we will give up our lives to have a taste of the kind of freedom that we in the west enjoy every day.
and think we all do need to rise to that occasion.
but is there a danger of going too far?
we’ve talked about the weaponry, the intelligence.
also, we could talk about the unprecedented ecenomic sanctions that you in the have imposed on russia.
what it looks like to russia, outside russia, is that here in washington there is now an intent to effectively neutralise russia and destroy vladimir putin’s regime.
if this was enly an american action alone, even though america is far and away the pre-eminent military power it would not carry near that weight.
the fact that we have nato united, the fact that countries like japan, australia and others are engaged but what matters & when the defense secretary, lloyd austin, said not long agoe, quote, "we want to see russia weakened to the degree that it cannot do the kinds of things that it has done in invading ukraine ever again” - that’s a message to russia that putin has no future.
biden, in an unscripted moment, talked about the fact that he felt putin could not be i is that the prevailing feeling today in washington?
here.
sometimes have the luxury to say things that perhaps senior administration officials should take a bit more care.
but look at, believe liz truss, the foreign we see german leaders, the truth is, potentially in the world of diplomacy, maybe some of these leaders should have been a little more careful with their language.
but when you see the butchery that took place in a community like bucha, how does a 0l now, that does raise the concern of when you’ve got someone like putin who rules with a small cabal, when this individual who’s become more and more disconnected from, leadership, him at one end it speaks a thousand words.
where this allows putin an exit ramp, that’s a valid question to ask, but not being willing to call out the atrocities for what they are think would be a grave mistake as well.
but the point is that on that table you talk about that i of, there is a button - a metaphorical button, but there is a button which he can press to launch a nuclear strike, whether it be i a4 weapon or something very tedle
-0 we are dealing with the leader of the world’s second nuclear superpower.
when you take the stance you are taking, that in essence, putin cannot be allowed to continue, are you risking nuclear war?
and the countervailing risk is to turn a blind eye to the type of atrocities that we in the west have said we will stand firmly against.
think that is absolutely the right question to pose me but the notion that we would suddenly turn a blind eye all is forgiven and we’re going to invite you back in to the to the club of respectable world leadership you know, i’m not sure how that meeting goes.
to quote the director, bill burns, just a couple of days ago, "putin does not believe he can afford to lose.
he has staked so much on this invasion, he is committed to doubling down.
”
the question is what doubling down means, and whether you in the united states have prepared the american public properly for the degree to which there is now perhaps a greater danger of an escalating conflict between nuclear superpowers than there has been since 1945.
we live in a very, very dangerous time, and an aggression that was purely started by putin’s grand design of recreating the greater russia and whether we stand with democratic-elected nations.
aggression to go unchecked, we all know putin would not have stopped with ukraine.
you not only sit there as chair of the intelligence committee, you’re also, believe, a co-chair of the cybersecurity - - you keep tabs on what russia is up to.
do you believe, having seen what they tried to do in 2016, that russia is going to to make a concerted effort to disrupt american democracy in this year of midterms, 20227 well, having led the investigation when russia massively intervened in our elections in 2016, think the american system, the western systems have gotten but on the capacity of the russian cyber operations, this has been the dog that hasn’t barked.
the russian military may be a bit inept, but we’ve seen there was a cyberattack called solarwinds where russia got into 18,000 companies.
luckily, they only used it to take out information rather than shutting down those companies.
but as we saw in the notpetya attack, where russia launched against ukraine in 2017 and that rebounded around the world because the malware knew no network boundaries, that we know they’ve got these capabilities.
and quite honestly, it has been probably the greatest surprise getting out, that they’ve not launched a more massive cyber attack against whether it be is it coming, in your view?
i’ve been remarkably surprised that we’ve not seen it to date.
and think we should assume that at some point there will be a more massive russian cyber effort, i against ukraine, whether it’s directed against eastern europe, whether it’s directed against the or america.
but think we have to keep what’s called, in a sense, if it comes against the united states, will it be regarded as an act of war?
that is, again, one of the things that diplomats term in strategic ambiguity.
my fear was at the beginning of this conflict that putin would’ve shut down circumstances in ukraine, it would’ve bled over into poland, and whether it to shut down, that is an area that has not ever been tested yet.
like marco rubio and lindsey graham, want biden to be even tougher, send more weapons, impose tighter sanctions and they say not just because we have to win this fight in ukraine, but also they say it has huge ramifications for our wider struggle, particularly with they say that unless putin is defeated and seen to be defeated, president of china will see it as some sort of green light to invade taiwan.
do you agree?
well, first of all, would take issue with your notion matter of fact, senator rubio is my vice chair on my intelligence committee.
i work regularly a1 114 of stance against putin, now, again, some of my colleagues may want to go quicker, faster, sooner, but think we do stand united.
on the question of china, china is the true economic challenge, technology challenge and long-term military challenge.
you would china an adversary?
i would call china’s goals, with their authoritarian capitalism model, a model that, frankly, the soviet union, russia, was a military threat and an ideological threat.
the whole size of russia’s economy is smaller than ltaly’s, but china is the first nation post-world war that in technology domain after technology domain i was an old telecom guy, the huawei chinese company, we’re seeing that kind of same chinese advancement in artificial intelligence, quantum computing and a whole series of areas.
and one of the things that we’re launching right now is this alliance of democracies, so that we can on a technology competition basis to maintain both innovation and that technology lead.
because as we’ve known, china has been stealing close to $500 billion of intellectual product a year from western companies all over the world.
so, let me now turn inward hefore we end this discussion and just discuss whether america has the strength, the internal coherence right now to meet these challenges.
look at a united states, see deep political polarisation.
1t i1 well-equipped to meet this challenge - do you?
it’s never been a good bet to bet against america.
are we going through enormous challenges?
i think, frankly, again, this goes back to the question you know, we’ve seen liberal or elsewhere in many ways have some level of disarray.
we’ve seen disinfermation tools, but what i think has showed us in the battle in ukraine and russia is this notion of moral ambiguity.
think most of us in the west have realised we need to get rid of that moral ambiguity.
well, hang on and think we will rally to the rally to the occasion.
you speak as though things are clear-cut.
you’re a democrat.
you have your guy in the white house, joe biden.
romised to rebuild america.
what we see today is that his build back better programmes and $1.
7 trillion of new tax-and-spend measures stuck, not least because people in your own party, in the senate, your own colleagues, manchin, sinema, they won’t vote for it.
and the public is thinking - where’s the leadership here?
guess were there aspirations that were beyond what a 50-50 senate could provide?
do think if president biden had said a year ago when he came in, you know, let’s see if we can get let’s make sure that we do, for the first time in 40 years, can we end up reunifying nato?
but it’s stuck, senator, it’s stuck.
those are all things that have taken place.
of his build back better programme is stuck in your place, the senate.
chrhe g0 bill that took.
for the last eight presidents, people have said it was going to happen.
of the guys to put it together.
11114 - he’s running out of time.
the democrats are going to lose the house, according to all the polls, probably going to lose the senate, too.
you’ve had your moment, and you’ve wasted it.
you know, there’s no such thing as calling snap elections president biden is about 18 months into his first four-year term.
and, as we saw just recently a a biden’s numbers look soaring compared to that.
well, here’s what alexandria ocasio-cortez, a fellow democrat in the house, says.
she says, "we are in big even govern decisively.
” within the democratic party, there’s always been divide between those of us who are on the more moderate or pro-business side and those who are on the extreme bernie sanders, talking of progressives, he says country or remain corporately controlled, beholden to wealthy contributoers and the corporate media.
which party do you want to belong to?
that is pro-worker, that recognises america has an essential role in a world that is complicated and think at the core, the democratic party that i’ve of represents those values.
do you want to be part of a party which fights the republicans on the grounds of culture and social issues?
and i’m thinking primarily today here in the united states about the extraordinarily heated debate that has already begun about the future of abortion rights, the so-called roe wade supreme court decision of 1973, which, according 0 of the supreme court, is that to be a battleground republicans over the next few months?
am personally very disappointed that the supreme court is jumping feet-first batlkatle wars in the notion that with respect, they’re coming up with a legal decision.
they’re not characterising this as jumping into in the notion that a woman’’s right to have control over her own body, that has been basically precedent-driven law for 50 years, is going to be reversed.
think that will drive many people to the polls, because what starts around the very challenging question can morph to gay rights, marriage equality rights.
don think americans.
is this the territory are going to run and fight the midterm elections of 20227 you want to take the republicans on in a culture war?
one of the things that about, at least politics in this country, is it’s hard to predict umpteen months out.
but the fact that this has been forced onto the political decision there could be some change understand that, but if if this much of retreating of rights one of the things about this country, whether it goes left or right, it generally has not taken rights away.
of house democrat sean patrick maloney, who said just you’re @ main - you’re seen do you see it that way, too?
believe that as people think 1 fall, will inflation be on their mind?
will the world circumstance vis a vis putin, china and elsewhere, be on your mind?
but if people are literally having their rights taken away, and a final thought, and it’s about leadership and about this country.
we talked about putin.
president of china.
right now, america is led by joe biden.
you referred earlier to the possibility you implied that he will be running again for a second term.
you know better than that if he runs again for a second term, he will, just he’ll be 82, 82 by the time the next election comes around, or just a few days after.
that means he’ll be 86 as president of the a i is that healthy for america?
think president biden is providing the kind of leadership, the a the re-establishment of america’s leadership on the world stage.
were there overly ambitious plans in a first year?
but the fact that we have managed to take on covid, that we do have job growth at record levels infrastructure plan.
i think if we put those out as goals, there would be much greater support for what was already a very, very successful senator mark warner, sadly, we are out of time.
thank you very much indeed for being on hardtalk.
111918 tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers - most of those showers were across scotland and there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts of western scotland at times - some of these showers quite heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
for the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy, rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers or even longer spells of rain.
now for wednesday, this feature could bring some significant rainfall to parts of england and wales throughout the day.
now some of that rain really will be quite heavy across parts of wales, south-west england through wednesday morning.
and then, that rain will push in towards the midlands, think the northern extent of it area, not further north than that.
but as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards into east anglia in the southeast, it will begin fragment.
again another windy day a a0 c1a across southern britain with that rain band.
quite gusty, as well, of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales as we’ll now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - t’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down inte single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts of the - so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier further so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the north-west of scotland, which will see most after that cool start, temperatures will reach highs for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential of some thundery showers across southern i so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine, but also some heavy showers in the south.
hello, a warm welcome to you.
this is news with me, mark lobel.
for viewers in the 1 here are your headlines: the house of representatives votes overwhelmingly in favour of providing an additional $40 billion in aid for ukraine.
as putin desperately accelerates his campaign of or and rutality, just horror and brutality, just horror brutality, just 0l 1 horror and brutality, just herror and brutality in 1n ukraine, time is the shoot on sight - the orders for security forces i protests calling for the president to step down.
spain’s top loses her job, following a phone-hacking scandal that involved the country’s prime minister.
and, hitting the right note.
ukraine qualifies for the final of the eurovision song contest.
hello, and welcome.
we begin in the states.
members of the house of representatives have voted overwhelmingly in favour of providing another $40 ih-
most republicans joined democrats in supporting such is the bipartisan support a a president biden’s request for aid and added nearly $7 the funds will be used to provide military support to ukraine and humanitarian assistance to the civilians affected by the russian invasion.
the speaker of the house, nany pelosi told fellow accelerates his campaign there has just been that we were so pleased to hear we could proceed immediately with this bill today
so it goes through to senate and the president’s desk, so the assistance can reach the people of ukraine and eastern europe.
david willis jeins us from .
david, this was not only swept through, unlike other funding appeals that hit the buffers, like funding to tackle the latest coronavirus spike, but added to.
that’s right, republicans and democrats can agree, of course 1 tually nothing, they on virtually nothing, they can’t agree on the amount oney, for example that should mbating the latest bike in he coronavirus cases here, but subject, all as on one subject, all as unanimously, they agree on lying aid to ukraine.
once supplying aid to ukraine.
once again, they have taken a 14 sident biden’s request for i & funding and they have ghtened it, they have added t.
in this case, an to it.
in this case, an additional $7 billion on top of 33 billion that he had the $33 billion that he had originally requested.
of the of $40 illion, about one total of $40 billion, about one third will be total of $40 billion, about one total of $40 billion, about one third will be going to military stance, that is training, eapons, and so .
another third going to humanitarian stance, that is dealing efugees so assistance, that is dealing assistance, that is dealing refugees and so on, and $5 lion has been earmarked refugees and so on, and $5 i 8 billion has been earmarked for yel up the lack of food making up the lack of food supplies making up the lack of food %1 making up the lack of food supplies that have been promised because of the war here in ukraine.
this is the gest largest foreign there in ukraine.
this is the largest foreign aid package of ind in everal decades, its kind in several decades, according to analysts, people aying that given the fact that officials are ing that russia that officials are saying 1 ussia could prolong this onflict, that that russia could prolong this i a1 that russia could prolong this conflict, that it could drag on onths, this not for months, this may not be the last such for months, this may not be the 1 0 for months, this may not be the last such enormous package of ind.
thank you so uch for its kind.
thank you so much for breakdown david.
to discuss his further, we are now joined ndrew d’anieri, sistant by andrew d’anieri, assistant aieg ial director at the atlantic council’'s urasia centre.
rew, what you think is andrew, what you think this rtse- lle 1 andrew, what you think this incredible amount of money is to be pent on the going to be spent on the battlefield and what kind of a is this going to have on impact is this going to have on aine?
yes, think this will ave a significant impact on battlefield in ukraine, but does depend in part on the at which this it does depend in part on the it does depend in part on the speed at which this aid can it does depend in part on the speed at which this aid can be disbursed.
the house of resentatives voted on at his package earlier this 8 ning.
it still has to be taken up by the senate, hough taken up by the senate, taken up by the senate, although we do expect it to s, and then it go to pass, and then it will go to resident biden’s esk.
it should happen uickly should happen pretty quickly 4 until should happen pretty quickly i 4 1 4 1 but until that happens, this package will remain on the i 4 but not signed into law.
k14 hink the speed, speaker pelosi aid earlier in the ip, is the big al, that clip, is the big deal, that this needs to get quickly to as and the south to elp donbas and the south to help ukrainian forces to replenish stocks and fight off ussian invaders.
no doubt lcome elp to those fighting nthe ease.
his came at a ime when intelligence was this was going to be a long conflict, this is surely a to sustain long conflict, this is surely a 4 sustain it as move to sustain it as well?
yes, absolutely, think this really sober recognition ashington that this war is likely going to take a longer .
ukraine bravely fought i off russia in kyiv, nor the new and other grave and other parts of ukraine, rocket attacks in , western ukraine, now lviv, western ukraine, and now things are likely to lviv, western ukraine, and now 0 things are likely to settle into a more grinding, long, ound kind ground kind of campaign in 3 and south.
this is , is 13 congress and the president recognising that it kely and in the and - a1 is likely and in the and western interests to help ainian that fight.
ukrainian that fight.
and what is your assessment of nified the international ommunity how unified the international i a1 community can remain in their battle against russia, when president zelensky was alking about global food pplies being shocked, and all the extra supplies being shocked, and all supplies being shocked, and all of the extra economic pressures orld is dealing with on top that now?
batal top of that now?
think unity will remain, as een a pleasant surprise hat he , european allies and that the , its european ies and other western 116 allies and other western partners have been so unified.
on ilitary aid but not only on military aid but lso on the sanctions, on onomic id, and think you are right, on ood aid.
this is of an emerging issue that will see, and do expect hat along with its llies in urope will banded together ackle this u= together to tackle this problem use we should together to tackle this problem a1 because we should remember that is russia that is causing these global food it is russia that is causing these global food shortages, in part, and so it is up to large part, and so it is up to ukraine’'s allies and artners, the west, and north america band together to pool sources to mitigate the 311 1%l 311 that is 3111 i 3111 that is one side, briefly, the ation issue, ukrainians migration issue, ukrainians wanting to get into the tes, hat is your assessment of how is panning out?
that is panning out?
the biden administration eiled validate uniting for raine programme to admit 00,000 ukrainian refugees, is great.
the only problem is that the package actually bars lions itself actually bars millions of ukrainians from actually eligible.
if you were being eligible.
if you were ukrainian living outside of ine two weeks prior to ukraine two weeks prior to the invasion you are ineligible for rogramme, which is now the \ way or ukrainian refugees enter the .
to enter the .
and even for those who are eligible, there umber those who are eligible, there 1o umber of roadblocks that down the process and make ore difficult for ukrainian fugees to nter the , which not not the policy we should be uing.
we should be making pursuing.
we should be making this as easy as possible for inians seeking refuge from toc come to the united states.
so money flowing easily one more difficult for refugees ing he other way.
andrew coming the other way.
andrew d’anieri at d’anieri from the atlantic l.
uncil, thank you so much for joining us.
thank you.
anyone seen looting or damaging public property in the latest attempt to stop anti-government protests.
soaring prices, power cuts been injured, as our correspondent rajini vaidyanathan reports a capital under curfew.
troops told to shoot at sight at anyone who damages public property or threatens lives.
the skeletons of a bustling city scorched by an economic crisis.
yesterday, supporters anti-government protesters, who until that point had been peacefully demonstrating.
this man fractured his leg after a tear gas canister landed on it.
war veterans yigit and assuncao are out of hospital.
men who lost their legs in mines &r civil war say they were beaten up by the very people they made sacrifices "they started punching me.
"i was left with only one crutch.
"they pushed me and fell.
”
"when we served in the army, people used to pray for us.
"now we’re being attacked.
” with trust in the government shattered, the homes of at least two dozen politicians who backed = this was one of the houses that was vandalised last night.
it belonged to a supporter of the government, and this was the bedroom.
it was set on fire.
all you can see now i 188 11 and if we just move into the living room, completely trashed - just look around.
tonight, a resort belonging to the son of sri lanka’'s former prime minister mahinda rajapaksa, who quit yesterday, was set alight.
and clashes broke out in the city of negombo.
protesters want the president gotabaya rajapaksa to resign - as long as he stays, tensions on this island spain has dismissed its chief after a phone hacking scandal that engulfed the government.
the mobile phones of the prime minister, defence and interior ministers were infected with the notorious pegasus spyware.
1 moshiri reports.
the ’s azadeh moshiri reports.
spain’s chief is out, and is a big shift at the top.
- - 8
i it is a big shift at the top.
it all comes down to a hacking that became too scandal that became too unwieldy to andle.
: the government has to change and that the leadership of national intelligence centre is very rtant to me to emphasise important to me to emphasise that this is my position as 1 minister of 1 1 minister of defence but also osition a government the position of a government that we have an intelligence ice made up of 3000 service made up of 3000 responsible, hard-working, essional, generous men and women who put their lives at every day.
risk every day.
paz esteban risk every day.
a i paz esteban was the first woman to lead the , but a 1 to lead the , but accusations that she and to lead the , but eil a agency stepped accusations that she and the agency stepped over the line ade too many mistakes made i position untenable.
it all rted when pegasus hacking tware was found on software was found on the phones of spain’s top iticians.
seme are egally politicians.
some are legally hacked by the politicians.
some are legally ' hacked by the agency tself, and include 18 atalan separatists.
but, l8 ain’s agency buckled nder the pressure of another ndal.
turns out, they were g0 the only ones using pegasus ware.
foreign minister i edro sanchez software.
foreign minister i i pedro sanchez became the first leader known to have been acked, allegedly by an ternal actor.
spain’s defence nister and its external actor.
spain’s defence minister and its interior minister were also victims, to the embarrassment.
: it seems logical that he was dismissed, to me that she was dismissed, think it would also be good to assified think it would also be good to lal 1 03 think it would also be good to declassified documents that are being linked the press also being linked to the press by the itself, and think an enquiry by the itself, and think an enquiry would be a good ng.
the scandal also adds thing.
the scandal also adds to the ing debate around pegasus growing debate around pegasus software.
it was developed by a private israel farm called group, and they insist pegasus ant to be sed against is meant to be used against i is meant to be used against is meant to be used against criminals and terroristss.
but, commerce department had lready blacklisted it and the pean parliament is now investigating its use for eged breaches of law.
for though, innisplain, despite 1 sations paz esteban was % simply a scapegoat, it promises eople will work within the to keep its people say.
azadeh moshiri, news.
all the sport, including, liverpool keep their title hopes alive, with a 2-1 win that’s the essence of the appalling news from rome this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television the man they called the butcher of lyon, klaus barbie, went on trial today in the french town where he was the gestapo chief in the second world war.
winnie mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced to six years in jail.
the judge told mandela there was no indication she felt even the slightest remorse.
the chinese government has i to help the victims of a powerful earthquake - the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
the world chess champion, garry kasparov.
1 has defeated a reigning world america’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking place in massachusetts.
this is news - the house of representatives votes overwhelmingly in favour of providing an additional $40 billion tens of thousands of military personnel have been deployed in the sri lankan capital colombo as the government struggles to contain protests against the spiralling cost of living.
for more than three decades, scientists have investigated the cause of so-called gulf wwar - a collection of chronic health problems that affected more than a quarter of the coalition troops deployed during the first gulf war in 1991.
now a new study by researchers in texas indicate the nerve gas sarin is to blame.
caroline hawley has the ward to dislodge irag from kuwait was the ward to dislodge iraq from i was short was described kuwait was short was described as most toxic in history and as the most toxic in history have had devastating long-term consequences for many iers.
for 30 years, no-one soldiers.
for 30 years, no-one knew exactly why.
this person was one of them, a fit e+ 1 was one of them, a fit 26-year-old at the time of the now it a 26-year-old at the time of the 26-year-old at the time of the war.
now it is a battle just to of bed.
was getting llness after illness, athing problems, chronic tigue, rundown of the time 1 hen questioned and when questioned whether 3 had anything to do with my tile-ns it had anything to do with my service in the gulf war or what exposed to, the military was you re talking nonsense, re is no evidence, paracetamol, crack on he suffered excruciating joint pain but there is more to it than that.
the chemical gent sarin was released in the scientists say it is a air and scientists say it is a breakthrough that vindicates eterans.
the ones who i ecame ill, the study show, the who have he weak form of a gene that normally protects rom nerve as so people you from nerve gas so people with a strong form of the gene, of them did not get ill.
most of them did not get ill.
say that definitively now, ifs or uts?
this is the end he mystery as far as you of the mystery as far as you are concerned.
due to of the mystery as far as you 1l are concerned.
due to all the controversy over the many dies that been controversy over the many i controversy over the many studies that have been done and rth, all which so forth, all of which had i ent defects of one type different defects of one type or another, we designed this over a number of years to study over a number of years to be the definitive study.
to ndia a8t be the definitive study.
to answer all the criticisms of ies in the past, so we would get it just right,
we that what our findings do will lead to a definitive treatment for this
i i 0 disease that would relieve them of of some of their symptoms.
has not only a huge array carry has not only a huge array of symptoms, including memory but an arsenal of =t medication to loss but an arsenal of medication to help with them.
hter rebecca has to go to daughter rebecca has to go to appointments with doctors appointments with him because he struggles to process nformation the information he is given.
he wants the ministry of ence to now wants the ministry of now wants the ministry of defence to act on the american ings.
hope they take it seriously and do the thing, and understand that for of us it not about most of us it is not about money.
it is most of us
it is not about a a l0 most of us
it is not about money.
it is about being to ccess the right medical eatment.
to access the right medical 0t to access the right medical treatment.
not a to access the right medical a tment.
not a lot to to access the right medical a @i treatment.
not a lot to ask for we treatment.
not a lot to ask for at we did.
the says he is ndebted to all who what we did.
the says he is to all who served like indebted to all who served like 1 and already onsored kerry and already sponsored what they call gnificant research but as tangible =0 help and fears the latest study 02 simply be help and fears the latest study a yol help and fears the latest study will simply be swept under the caroline hawley, news.
eurovision song contest voted through to the final on saturday, following the first semi-final which has been held in the italian city of turin.
the band delivered an energetic performance of their song stefania to secure a place in the final.
at the end of the performance, the folk-rap group thanked everyone for supporting ukraine amid the russian invasion.
let’s speak to alasdair rendall, former president how how did you feel when ukraine got through?
it was a very tional moment and an motional performance.
the band lked on getting ready to rform walked on getting ready to rform in the whole crowd was their feet, applauding, they plauded the whole way through song and by far got the ggest reception of the night.
l8 i biggest reception of the night.
don’t think we were surprised at don’t think we were too surprised at qualified boats a very emotional moment till a very emotional moment nonetheless and you can see are one the big favourites to be the they are one of the big favourites to be the overall 0 nners on saturday.
guess ou’re not surprised because eady listed in the top five before the russian already listed in the top five a already listed in the top five before the russian invasion of ukraine.
is it even a fair test anymore?
think it still a fair contest.
there ill a number of in still a number of songs in contention, the been contention, the been one of for the first time.
looking at the betting looking at the betting odds, it oking very difficult for anything to be ukraine on urday but still shaping up to a saturday but still shaping up a pretty strong contest.
symbolically, this is a message ratlbatle symbolically, this is a message that ukrainian culture is alive russia has been anned by the organisers, they because it could bring the mpetition into disrepute?
at is true and there always comments about the role litics in of politics in eurovision and its 1yt its political impact and say the vast majority of times here isn’t the best doing well generally but ould be impossible for a ontest like eurovision contest to ignore wider political things going on and errible situation in the terrible situation in ukraine the terrible situation in i ukraine and no surprise that russia ukraine and no surprise that sia and belarus as well were iie invited to take part in the test.
the surprise is as you a ntioned is that the ’s tential ival for crown!
potential rival for the crown!
are you sure they will not come this year!
can you last this year!
can you guarantee that?
i cannot rantee but am 99.
99% sure will not come last this ar.
sam yder is a fantastic singer.
we have a great song t’s an unusual feeling to be here in the eurovision host i0 city with the being genuinely talked about is one
i i of the favourites!
after so many years of, of the favourites!
after so .
of, well, less than many years of, well, less than great results.
it is always a night watching great night watching eurovision, not everyone ees, but what are the striking performances, which tries should looking out countries should we looking out for?
things are coalescing 0ld 0l for?
things are coalescing about four or five countries, ine, the , sam ryder is ukraine, the , sam ryder is 3 best singer in the contest.
imple but effective song i8t a simple but effective song from sweden, and very good g.
taly, they could potentially do song.
italy, they could 1 song.
ltaly, they could potentially do the double after ing with a heavy rock song winning with a heavy rock song last year they have a gentle ad sung by two men, and they re the ones kely to be 4 but a but a few potential outsiders ll.
quite a bit variety as well.
quite a bit of variety 3 nthe final as well.
quite a bit of variety as well.
quite a bit of variety in the final on saturday.
iz1 stair, thank you so much, we’re looking forward to that days time.
time now to get the latest sports news.
hello, i’m chetan pathak with your sports news.
liverpool’s premier league title hopes are still alive after they came from behind to beat aston villa by two goals to one.
former liverpool captain steven gerrard, now in charge of villa, saw his side take an early lead before joel matip equalised minutes later.
the winner came in the second half - sadio mane heading in to move liverpool level on points with the leaders man city, who stay top on goal difference = ojo 1r 1 on wednesday.
after that, both title contenders have two games remaining.
couldn’t be more part of the boys, to be couldn’t be more part of the - , to be honest.
a massive, boys, to be honest.
a massive, massive performance in the of may it middle of may and it is massive.
yeah, were on top and ously for us very obviously for us very manchester city have reached an agreement to sign norway striker erling haaland from borussia dortmund.
for around $60 million after city activated a release clause in his contract.
haaland, who passed his medical in belgium on monday, has scored 85 goals in 88 appearances for dortmund since joining them from red bull salzburg in january 2020.
inter milan take on juventus on wednesday in the final of the coppa ltalia at the stadio olimpico it’s the first head-to-head between the two teams in this juventus will be chasing a record 15th victory in the competition - it’s their only remaining to win a trophy this season.
i a league and cup double
but they trail milan y.
novak djokovic is into the third round of the italian open after straight sets victory over to chalk up his 60th career win on the clay in rome, as he looks to win the title for a fifth time.
to last week’s defeat by carlos alcaraz.
he’ll play the winner of the match between laslo djere and stan wawrinka.
ons jabeur, who became the first african player to win a 1000 title in madrid over the weekend, is into the second beating romania’s sorana jabeur looked set for a comfortable victory in the second with 45 minutes played but the tunisian eventually prevailed to win a seventh consecutive match for the first dryness dryness after the break and we talking about tackling ation in he .
-- join tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers - most of those showers were across scotland and there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts of western scotland at times - some of these showers quite heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
for the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy, rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers or even longer spells of rain.
now for wednesday, this feature could bring some significant rainfall to parts of england and wales throughout the day.
now some of that rain really will be quite heavy across parts of wales, south-west england through wednesday morning.
and then, that rain will push in towards the midlands, think the northern extent of it area, not further north than that.
but as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards into east anglia in the southeast, it will begin fragment.
again another windy day a a0 c1a across southern britain with that rain band.
quite gusty, as well, of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales as we’ll now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - t’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down inte single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts of the - so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier further so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the north-west of scotland, which will see most after that cool start, temperatures will reach highs for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential of some thundery showers across southern i so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine, but also some heavy showers in the south.
this is news with the latest business headlines for viewers in the tackling inflation.
president biden says elgle13 is his top priority.
can africa replace russia as a supplier of rare metals needed for electric cars and other high-tech products?
we go live to cape town for a major mining conference fifa and games maker part ways a possible reprieve on tariffs.
president joe biden says his administration could drop that comment from biden comes against in remarks at the white house on tuesday, biden also blamed the rising cost of living on pandemic disruptions and the war in ukraine.
our north america business correspoendent michelle fleury has more.
the latest inflaticn reading is due out this wednesday, a1 omists predict it will show ising prices remain rising prices remain entrenched, for americans ing up this tank this will filling up this tank this will come as no surprise, the rage price of a gallon of etrol average price of a gallon of i 1 rol at an all-time high, rising inflation not just an lat a1l rising inflation not just an economic challenge, also a tical one.
president popularity has taken a hit over this issue told popularity has taken a hit over vet 1 1a 1 popularity has taken a hit over this issue told americans felt this issue told americans felt their pain though he blamed in ukraine and the pandemic soaring prices.
want for searing prices.
want every american to know and king inflation very riously.
he criticised publican policy, saying it make the situation republican policy, saying it a would make the situation worse.
republicans disagreed.
pointing nger at everyone house other than himself, the rican eople are sick and i tired.
taming inflation is the policy makers inside job of policy makers inside here, the american job of policy makers inside here, the american central ank, one way the president uld help rising prices could help with rising prices to remove tariffs on nese imports under don -- he -- donald trump.
will you drop trump poss ariffs?
donald trump poss mac tariffs?
we are discussing that right we are discussing that right now.
no decision made on it.
ethook now.
no decision made on it.
a1 now.
no decision made on it.
i now.
no decision made on it.
pocketbook issues front of mind any americans, with ongressional mid-term 18 1 congressional mid-term elections only a few months democrats worried they away democrats worried they use votes over inflation a1y ich economists predict will main significantly higher, a =¥l bear in mind.
consumer prices surged by 8.
5% - the largest annual gain oi last month following a double-digit rise in energy prices.
joining me now is pete earle, economist and research fellow tee for economic research - to ease today?
last month we saw inflation as measured by up eight point ear-on-year with a 1.
2 5%, year-on-year with a 1.
2 tlae y1y 5%, year-on-year with a 1.
2 increase from february to ch, expectation is that many he initial price shocks that of the initial price shocks i a1 of the initial price shocks that came from the russian asion have that came from the russian ion have settled back, we invasion have settled back, we will steal see year-on-year ation at eight or 8.
1%.
inflation at eight or 8.
1%.
at do you think the two-year ¢ tlook would be and what do you think the two-year - i outlook would be and will remain the greatest challenge he ?
lot of what for the ?
a lot of what happens over the next 12 months as inflation goes will depend on at happens in two places, ukraine and china.
if he war in ukraine grinds into rsistent conflict energy prices might be elevated for time, china eps the some time, china keeps the lockdowns in place, there are eady showing signs of inging back supply chain ottlenecks, both those will translate to persistently hire es.
do you think the prices.
do you think the federal reserve is now doing to contain inflation, or some people say to its going ast?
no, as some people say to its going a st?
no, think the a i 4t federal reserve has got a late and trying to catch up, start and trying to catch up, what they are trying to do is interest rates hoth quickly enough and to levels enough, so they slow and high enough, so they slow and eventually stop the lationary updraught, they 1 inflationary updraught, they also want to do so in a way doesn’t bring on a 3 recession, a difficult balance rike.
historically most to strike.
historically most rate increase cycles ended in onomic slowdown, right now you look at equity markets round he world, if you look at equity markets i around the world, financial market participants and estors don’t believe the oft landing is likely.
we will atching hat very closely, interesting line from be watching that very closely, 1 an interesting line from the today chinese sanctions might opped, these were put in g-i ay place by be dropped, these were put in place by donald trump.
do you that’s likely, what think that’s likely, what effect think that’s likely, what it a0 think that’s likely, what effect would that have?
well, hing @ anything undertaken removes anything undertaken that barriers to trade, a1 removes barriers to trade, whether or high taxes, or whether or high taxes, or barriers of those sorts, will .
but he fact s, both the help.
but the fact is, both the ormer administration and the sent one, have ested present one, have a vested interest in protecting the cultural sector, that’s agricultural sector, that’s what a lot agricultural sector, that’s what a lot of the tariffs x1 & what a lot of the tariffs sought to do, protect american cultural interest.
ink they may do it, if evaluate the risk of inflation igher than, say, what they ose from not protecting the icultural complex, but 4 4 agricultural complex, but don’t think it’s going to be an decision for them to make, ere will be a lot easy decision for them to make, a there will be a lot of balance 3 nthe administration mind to 4 o.
thank you so uch or taking us through all of that i mation.
thank you for 1nn e: the iberian exception: spain and portugal have been allowed by the to manage their own energy costs and impose a price cap of 40 euros per megawatt-hour.
the reference price for gas in the wholesale market is e90.
the european council approved the move as both nations produce a high level of renewable energy and have it means that both countries will now be able to help businesses avoid the impact of volatile gas prices.
it comes as the european commission is looking to increase the ’s renewable energy target for 2030 as part of plans due next week.
joining me now is henry edwardes-evans, associate editorial director, energy transition, s&p global commodity insights.
henry, are spain and portugal being given this it is rare, it is rare, it is almost unheard of, for the market, worrying.
it’s because the gas price has risen so eply, and the marginal unit he setting of the power ice, is often the gas unit, at pulls up so that pulls up the power alarmingly.
and that’s at’s happened here.
limiting gas price power the gas price and power generation to 50 euros a minute -- megawatt-hour, half the ost of gas being used in power generation, and will power prices, likewise.
t’s a political move to ease ressure on consumers in iberia, in the pressure on consumers in 308 the pressure on consumers in iberia, in their final bills can see other member and we can see other member states throughout europe king these ideas, the problem is, european power ets are very closely interlinked so the european ission is only taking this tep commission is only taking this sr8 very cautiously on the details are still to come out.
use those markets because those markets are coupled, and if you export a1 coupled, and if you export power from spain, inte france, you have work out who 3
it is actually going to pay for is in fact a it is actually going to pay for 18 this is in fact a pretty substantial subsidy on the rice will.
everybody would some help with eir bills like some help with their bills and whatever country they are this also a reward for in is this also a reward for he renewable energy the renewable energy work, countries have been these countries have been undertaken?
well, it’s trying cognise the fact the share renewables is growing quite gnificant in europe, so let’s 7 to get away ice setting to get away price setting wer of fossil fuels because, future, fossil fuels will ave declining impact on the of electricity generation.
ave to say that at the il-i1 we have to say that at the a1 that is still a very significant element, and ginal price power markets its an important element ecause what it does is that it the price or everybody in he market, and sets the price for everybody in the market, and it allows other technologies that are cheaper faster, so if you to grow faster, so if you interfere in that process, then = 1 is that actually you the risk is that actually you =l eia the risk is that actually you call the market for renewables, on’t actually accelerated because they are not getting so le1 for because they are not getting so for their output and the much for their output and the incentive to best in wind and is therefore reduced.
guess the war in ukraine probably be pushing demand for wables a different pace renewables at a different pace as well.
henry, thank you so ukraine, which has remained a major route for russian gas to europe even after the invasion, said on tuesday it would suspend use of a transit point for some russian gas headed to europe, blaming moscow for the move.
r4 redirect the gas from that transit point, which is in an area occupied by russian forces, to another in china, inflation figures for the month of april were released just about an hour ago.
but still not as rampant alsh now to the market in metals, and sanctions on russia has sent prices across like nickel, platinum and palladium -kl materials for new green technologies like batteries so for new sources of these raw materials, countries dre now looking to resource rich africa to fill the gap.
south africa is currently hosting the continent’s biggest mining investment summit in cape town - with high level delegations from the and global industry heavy but, historically, there have been problems for the sector in some african nations with concerns of human rights = g0y and pollution.
i’m joined now by jonathan molyneux from mining sustainability consultants .
jonathan is at that conference in cape town.
jonathan, can africa replace russia as a jonathan, can africa replace 1s1 8 russia as a supply of rare metals russia as a supply of rare tals needed for the electric s?
well, cars?
well, we are well aware of a3 sanctions on russia has \ rtainly historically been a emendous certainly historically been a nil ous source of critical tremendous source of critical metals.
but tremendous source of critical a i € tremendous source of critical metals.
but think there is a backdrop here which is, ela border backdrop here which is, the international energy ncy, ust very recently highlighted the mismatch ela highlighted the mismatch between the demand and supply iale between the demand and supply for critical metals they will support the global to support the global transition to support the global iao to support the global transition to a low carbon nomy and all green economy and all the green 1 etals that will be required building out the new, urban a1 for building out the new, urban environments and societies in theast asia, so it’s important to understand or rate the impacts of the separate the impacts of the russia and ukraine situation 8t he more macro global from the more macro global trend towards, this demand and graph, and hink this supply graph, and i think this 3 where africa is a tremendous rtunity play.
--.
down opportunity to play.
--.
down y14 3 opportunity to play.
--.
down i here at this conference have been attending this for ten now, and we re seeing years now, and we are seeing generation of senior ders and ceos taking to the age, and, a tremendous vase the opportunity that frica has, to generate, play a role in supplying those critical materials.
how ilatlid new critical materials.
how difficult will it new critical materials.
how aila new critical materials.
how difficult will it be to turn vase into action?
that vase into action?
it’s lutely always challenge, isn’t it, absolutely always the challenge, isn’t it, and the has a challenging istory.
think the thing we ave ticed most here, is that conversation really hanged on the platform, the ustry heavyweights as you called them, the mining majors, eaders of the industry, the leaders of the industry, eqs, their whole focus their ceos, their whole focus tac- their ceos, their whole focus has shifted in the last bably two or three years, and are really hearing loud -y1s clear this year around their understanding, that the ets are looking for these markets are looking for these new materials to be produced in sustainable ways.
b30 investors who here at he conference, are looking for 0 to shift their capital places to shift their capital to, but they are very keen to a responsible role in play a responsible role in supporting transitions, they want y, u@l i1l their money being put into new odisle ekl their money being put into new critical material projects, are being developed against against a future mind eprint, if you like.
thank you much for joining us.
game over - one of the most profitable computer franchise that’s the essence of the appalling news from rome this afternoon, that, as an ltalian television the man they called the butcher of lyon, klaus barbie, went on trial today in the french town where he was the gestapo chief in the second world war.
winnie mandela never looked like a woman just sentenced to six years in jail.
the judge told mandela there was no indication she felt even the slightest remorse.
the chinese government has i to help the victims of a powerful earthquake - the worst to hit the country for 30 years.
the world chess champion, garry kasparov.
1 has defeated a reigning world america’s first legal same-sex marriages have been taking place in massachusetts.
the house of representatives votes overwhelmingly in favour tens of thousands of military personnel have been deployed in the sri lankan capital colombo struggles to contain protests and it’s full-time between the world football body fifa of fifa-branded football games.
has been producing the game for almost three decades, but says the license cost was one of the reasons it ditched the partnership with fifa but will still be producing football games joining me now is piers harding-rolls, research director ampere analysis.
piers - is this a purely financial decisocion?
don’t think it is.
when you look don’t think it is.
when you & at what both parties, look at what both parties, and fifa wanted to get out of eal, they ave clearly diverged over the past few years, fifa was looking for revenue.
but also years, fifa was looking for more revenue.
but also wanted to offer to offer less exclusivity under urrent to offer less exclusivity under .
current deal.
because its really is to ale its licensing business.
if you have usive relationships, it is arder as exclusive relationships, it is harder to do that.
there is a of competition coming into football space so think 3 was thinking about its ortunities to do deals with ther companies coming into the ce.
from he point of space.
from the point of view of , it would have weighed ngoing the ongoing licensing costs, obviously, but it also obviously, but it also wanted novate within game.
to innovate within the game.
was thinking about introducing onetisation modes, for example, such as nen-refundable ens and thinking about additional content tokens and thinking about liale a1 4 tokens and thinking about a additional content that it wants to show within the game.
ossibly ven things like and possibly even things like ser generated content.
all areas user generated content.
all i 1 these areas that are really hot i gaming at the moment.
within gaming at the moment.
all these new areas, are they uch to handle in what was lril 8 too much to handle in what was a w3 01 an incredibly successful anchise and now we will see % 1 3 franchise and now we will see sports and fifa taking each on.
who do you think will win out as to is an interesting tion.
hink sports question.
think sports transition question.
think sports will transition to the new brand.
will transition to the new n1 will transition to the new brand.
the core brand will stay i me
but it will be given the same but it will be given the freedom the same but it will be given the freedom to innovate more generally within that erience.
and from point experience.
and from the point of view of fifa, it is sporting ber of different games coming into market at the oment and talking up the idea specific simulation game ich competes head on with the anchise of .
t’s not a given.
a given out perform ongly in the market but hink think is well-positioned.
it as a relatively long ramp for be able to get the brand across to he consumer.
thank so much for your analysis.
now, many people harbour the thought of starting a business at the back of their minds, but never get round to it - sometimes it takes a big life event, well, that’s exactly what happened to our next guest, who founded an eye protection start-up called ocushield, here’s his story.
after nearly dying after a iea y1 after nearly dying after a drowning accident it made me r0 lalis to commit to my in 2015, went to turkey with friends on holiday after my year -t jumped into r’ jumped into the sea, ming
and it was choppy swimming
and it was choppy aters.
drowned.
while owning, had 75% water in my ngs.
fortunately, someone arby came on a jet ski and nearby came on a jet ski and took me to the beach and a itld took me to the beach and a doctor and nurse administered , fortunately.
after being oma or a week woke up in in a coma for a week woke up in the first thing thought out was family and friends.
well as hat, it as my business.
realised =y a 10ls business.
realised how much he business was on my mind and to execute and it made me realise and commit had to execute and it made me
i eee lat i realise and commit to the business that had to see it this device may be familiar to many of you.
it may have accompanied you during workouts or during your commute.
for apple’s ipod.
that its discontinuing the ipod touch , the last model produced by apple.
was launched in 2001 and the device has been widely praised for revolutionising how people listen to music.
joining me now is jane foley, head of strategy, jane - do you remember your first ipod?
do, do, don’t have to remember because have do, don’t have to remember use have it right it because have it right here!
this is probably about 20 old and ike many people, years old and like many people, he phone really has been king over and carry one 16 taking over and carry one of these around when really the does it of these around when really the k1 of these around when really the phone does it all?
it does not as a surprise that they are now stopping this.
at the it was incredible.
it was tyle accessory and brities flocked to be seen with hat, john meier, u2, oprah winfrey and built a system where you could have it cars it became part in your cars and it became part of hetle x4 ure?
it really did of the furniture?
it really did and as so important for apple, the business.
v& apple, the business.
if you at the 1980s and 1990s, look at the 1980s and 1990s, pple had a string of failures i evices that no-one really wanted.
this is really ortant wanted.
this is really a1 important for them men establish important for them men blish their brand and establish heir brand and 1 lish them as a fashion 18 establish them as a fashioen brand as well.
establish them as a fashioen establish them as a fashioen brand as well.
it was not he mp3 brand as well.
it was not the 4 i first mp3 either
but it was the 4 first one that could store about 1000 songs back on the that was an awful lot!
day and that was an awful lot!
r5 as a big revolution for their business as well.
and the tal music market.
it was incredible.
we had itunes ing out filesharing and is nsolidated the digital music plication.
want to share thing with u, one thing with you, had eone stand in that pple was someone stand in that apple was iga someone stand in that apple was 0 not concerned about cannibalising its own products 2 of it demise.
that’s in terms of it demise.
that’s right and that’s because anyone a smart phone now know with a smart phone now know they don’t have to carry around table music device because phone does it all.
this is no-one is articularly surprised at news.
would -\ i disappointed because 1 disappointed because the new s, they loock re like i ielas ipods, they look more like smart phones and you ipods, they look more like = smart phones and you can do video calling on them as well is e-mailing so for a who you don’t as well is e-mailing so for a % as well is e-mailing so for a child who you don’t want to the full capacity of a phone, this was a ternative and cheaper one as well but most people, this is erhaps an inevitability that little device has been ken ver.
thank so much taken over.
thank you so much or joining us.
it is breakfast t.
thank you for joining us next.
thank you for jeining us tuesday was a day of sunshine and showers - most of those showers were across scotland and there was quite a lot of rainfall across parts of western scotland at times - some of these showers quite heavy, even some rumbles of thunder, too.
for the next few days, it’s going to remain breezy, rather unsettled, low pressure nearby, and we’ll see showers or even longer spells of rain.
now for wednesday, this feature could bring some significant rainfall to parts of england and wales throughout the day.
now some of that rain really will be quite heavy across parts of wales, south-west england through wednesday morning.
and then, that rain will push in towards the midlands, think the northern extent of it area, not further north than that.
but as this rain band begins to move south-eastwards into east anglia in the southeast, it will begin fragment.
again another windy day a a0 c1a across southern britain with that rain band.
quite gusty, as well, of scotland, where we’ll see sunshine and showers.
and temperatures will range from around 14-17 celsius.
pollen levels on wednesday, again, but maybe not quite as high across england and wales as we’ll now, that rain will clear away from the south-east as we move but there’ll be further showers across the north and the west of scotland in particular.
now, with the clearer skies, a cooler air mass - t’ll be a fresher night to come for wednesday night, with temperatures down inte single figures for most.
the pressure chart for thursday, then, shows more weather fronts affecting northern parts of the - so again, it’ll be quite breezy and showery here,
a little bit drier further so, best of the sunshine for england and wales throughout thursday.
after that fairly fresh start, temperatures will begin more cloud, though, for northern england, and scotland - there’s the north-west of scotland, which will see most after that cool start, temperatures will reach highs for friday, again, weather fronts bring more showers and blustery conditions across the north of high pressure begins to build in.
it turns sunnier and warmer, but we could see potential of some thundery showers across southern i so, those temperatures will be building as we head on into the weekend, as that area of high pressure and there’ll be increasing amounts of sunshine, but also some heavy showers in the south.
: sweet talker by years & years and galantis take the long route to work!
like listening while teaching my stepdaughter to drive.
you made me believe while being there for stephanie.
every lie was a beautiful sound.
hi.
it’s all right - i’m on the radio.
where are you, where are you now, sweet talker?
chris, this is actually the i other chat shows.
celebrities, but : celebrity couples.
yes.
and want the audience to be giving us their shocking their shocking confessions.
yes!
glad we’re on the same page.
we’re actually shooting the trailer.
we’ve got an audience here now.
oh, all right!
trailer, let’s go.
when you’re a kid, all you want is your mum and dad to be happy, so when they’re not, it’s really hard to deal with that.
with so many families struggling today, joe wicks finds out how his parents’ mental health shaped him.
i’m lucky you still talk to me.
ah!
nothing beats the magic and serenity of italy.
wait, what was that?
there appears to be a change of plan.
are you ready to rock?
many of us have questions about who we really are.
where have come from?
i’m holding my life in my hand.
don’t look like anybody in my family.
so want to find you some answers.
oh, my god, stacey, this is amazing.
good morning, welcome to breakfast with dan walker and sally nugent.
our headlines today.
a stark warning that 1.
5 million households will struggle to pay energy and food bills, as the prime minister faces pressure to do more to ease the cost of living.
tad the queen’s speech.
there’s a boost for struggling high streets, and the price cap on household energy bills will be kept in place for longer - but did it go far enough to address those soaring prices?
bowel-cancer campaigner deborah james speaks to breakfast about the time she has left and her hopes for her family.
i know that my kids are going to be more than looked after and surrounded by love.
it’s tight in the title race as super mane comes to liverpool’s rescue as they beat aston villa to pull level with manchester city.
i a1 we have a bit of rain this morning 4 i after a soggy morning for many ings re looking brighter as we lals head into lals i lals i things are looking brighter as we i head into the afternoon.
will have he details here on breakfast.
it’s wednesday the 11th of may.
our main story.
the government is facing criticism for not promising more support yesterday’s queen’s speech.
an estimated 1.
5 million households will struggle to pay food and energy bills, and a quarter of a million people could fall into extreme poverty unless the government does more, according to the national institute for economic and social research.
our political correspendent nick eardley has more on yesterday’s state opening of parliament.
is a big deal around westminster.
it’s colourful - the pomp and ceremony of the occasion are hard to miss.
but it’s also when we find out the government’s plans for the coming months.
there was one big difference this year - the prince of wales taking centre stage for the first time, replacing the queen, who has been facing mobility issues.
prince charles was accompanied by the duchess of cornwall, and his son, the duke of cambridge.
the economy and help ease the cost of living for families.
there were 38 bills in total, covering everything from energy security to brexit, education, mate but the big political picture really matters here.
the prime minister says the government can’t just spend its way out of the cost-of-living crisis - he wants to grow the economy instead.
but labour and other parties are demanding more action .
now we tried to help as the opposition, cos it’s about the country and the people of the country being able to get and put suggestions forward.
for ten years to actually have that foundational improvement in our economy.
are finding it really tough.
and this is why, for example, last month alone, we - the national living wage.
right, so we’ve also brought in this energy rebate to help the majority of households with their energy costs.
and, of course, the fuel-duty cut will help motorists around the country.
scottish people know the cost of living with westminster.
we know the price we pay with the prime minister and the price of being stuck with a tory government and it’s a price none of us in scotland - not one of us - can afford to pay any longer.
today the government will publish more details of its plans for levelling up - ministers have made g8 controversial reforms to planning laws in england - unpopular with senior tories - have been scrapped.
ministers say local communities will now get more of a say, a g5 we do now know more about the government’s plans there’s a lot boris johnson wants to do before a general election,