nobody wants your pregnant, tragic ass here.
well, i’ not going anywhere.
a is testing us.
he’ watching us!
whatever happens, we’re all in this together.
at last, strictly’ back in the home of ballroom.
hello, blackpool!
get ready for a dazzling night on the dance floor.
what more do you want?
strictly come dancing, live from blackpool: two days to go.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
we begin in the united states, where president biden has congratulated the republican leader, kevin mccarthy for securing a majority in the house of representatives.
it marks a return to divided government in america, with democrats still retaining a slim majority in the senate.
the white house says the president is ready to work for working families.
let’ speak to our north america correspondent, what does this mean for the 4 two what does this mean for the 4 what does this mean for the next two years in washington ¥ tics?
this is, as you say, politics?
this is, as you say, it ided government returning to shington.
not an entirely nusual situation, histerically has appened many times i before.
but what it means is with the republicans in charge house of representatives will certainly stymie joe ’ intentions, his olitical agenda over the next ple of years with the republicans in a position to any legislative moves he akes.
the republicans will be harge of the crucial committees in house of a1 committees in the house of representatives.
they can bring ard their own legislation possibly any inquiries.
ibly inquiries gainst joe biden they hoose to pursue.
it a difficult biden they choose to pursue.
it 13
i a
i biden they choose to pursue.
it will be a difficult time in hington.
we don’ expect a huge amount to get through to in terms of new happen in terms of new legislation, but it is eresting joe biden is aching out.
this is typical biden’ style, he is reaching out to the republicans would to continue saying he would to continue to nee together.
we are talking about divided politics , but here has, in here, but there has, in the i ast few last few hours, show of here, but there has, in the last few hours, show of unity it comes to the respect marriage bill?
yes, this is a that has been given the green light the senate, at to move to he next stage it will least to move to the next stage least to move to the next stage when it will be considered and then when it will be considered and then move perhaps to the house presentatives, ultimately joe biden.
is is to joe biden.
this is essentially a bill that would same-sex marriage legal make same-sex marriage legal oss the united make same-sex marriage legal i the united states.
it is across the united states.
it is 3 response to concerns the conservative leaning reme court may, at some point, step into essentially go on its 1a cision from back on its decision from seven years ago that gives same-sex les the years ago that gives same-sex 1 the right to get couples the right to get married in this country.
those concerns were raised after the abortion decision concerns were raised after the rtion decision earlier this 1 ear, removing he constitutional rights men in the united states to have an tion and in the united states to have an abortion and there is real concern abortion and there is real 4 1 concern that at least some of 0 ustices would like to the justices would like to extend that limitation the justices would like to a extend that limitation on the i ights of americans.
on polish territory.
president zelensky insists russia was behind the strike, the incident was most likely caused by a ukrainian a3 katya adler reports.
these have been nail-biting moments for poland and its allies, gathering evidence and intelligence about last night’ missile strike close to poland’'s border with ukraine.
yerevan lives nearby.
his family heard the explosion, he said, and were really scared.
nato was also nervous.
you’ll notice almost more emphasis today on who likely wasn’ behind the strike than who probably was.
we have no indication that this was the result of a deliberate attack, and we have no indication that russia is preparing offensive military actions against nato.
poland’ president says it seems the explosion was caused by ukrainian air defence systems.
an unfortunate error
, he said.
moscow did pound ukraine with missiles yesterday.
if it had struck or targeted neighbouring nato member poland, as first suggested in polish media, the whole alliance could have been called on, meaning confrontation with nuclear power russia.
nato really wants to avoid that, while still supporting ukraine’ military.
nato leaders’ carefully crafted, measured response today shows how much they fear europe is on a knife edge.
they’ve had a sharp shock reminder of the ever-present potential of russia’ war to escalate and spread beyond ukraine’ borders.
kyiv sometimes accuses allies of getting too used if that ever was the case, last night was a huge wake-up call.
but it’ also caused a rift with kyiv, determined russia was behind the strike in poland.
: have no doubt that this is not our missile, not our strike.
believe this is a russian 0ld military reports.
that’ a very rare public break at a meeting of world leaders today, the prime minister assured ukraine support against russia was unwavering, and there were strong words from his foreign secretary.
the house should be in no doubt that the only reason missiles are flying through european skies and exploding in european villages is because of russia’ barbaric invasicn of ukraine.
as the investigation continues on the ground in poland, nato says it’ boosting air defences across eastern europe as well as ukraine, just in case.
katya adler, news, nato.
bowman, senior director of the center on military at the foundation for what do you make of the nato response to what happened in poland?
in the initial response to what has happened - 1 in poland?
in the initial hours was a lot of heated rhetoric and suggestions of how ington and our allies in 0 washington and our allies in europe should respond.
think ight move was to take a eep reath, gather the facts 30108 deep breath, gather the facts and consult with lies.
that 3 exactly what the biden dministration is exactly what the biden a a
i is exactly what the biden administration and its nato allies did.
allies did.
it is a good hing id because as is often the case in war, the first reports accurate.
case in war, the first reports lastle - case in war, the first reports i a are not accurate.
if we had responded based on initial ecture, we could have made conjecture, we could have made a hig mistake with far-reaching 1 sequences.
for my part ould applaud the biden ministration would applaud the biden a a i would applaud the biden administration and nato.
this i =tl a i =tl could have been a i =tl a could have been a dramatic expansion in the war and ause cool eads revailed, because cool heads prevailed, he crisis has been because cool heads prevailed, the crisis has been averted for now.
this was a tragic ident, two innocent people led but arguably when you re so lose to an active conflict zone, like this, runs the conflict zone, things like 4 conflict zone, things like this, runs the risk of pening, do you think we will see more of the same as this war a0 ntinues?
hope not, but worry that might be the ase.
any course do worry that might be the -0 a 1 case.
any course of action ¥ case.
any course of action following putin’ unprovoked sion of ukraine has some invasion of ukraine has some risk associated.
the strategy and our european the and our european allies have pursued since february the is to arm raine, help 24th is to arm ukraine, help them defend themselves against unprovoked invasion, eating a military posture the eastern flank of alliance and to hold on the eastern flank of the alliance and to hold the ance together as best we alliance together as best we - 4 14 alliance together as best we can.
think that has been right pproach.
we want to do rything we can everything we can to help ukraine while avoiding direct at between russia and nato.
omething we were able to do during whole length of the cold war.
this was ment of tension but cold war.
this was a moment of 4 is cold war.
this was a moment of tension but think it was well led.
continue to arm handled.
continue to arm ukraine will incur socme isks, the cost of not doing so will be greater.
nato russia still bears the is onsibility because ukraine ldn’ using its wouldn’ be using its air defences if it didn’ need to, that a fair response from and?
think it is more than fair.
we are looking he largest invasion in europe els world war ll, largest invasion in europe since world war i, and ovoked putin, an illicit provoked by putin, an illicit " ar.
russia provoked by putin, an illicit 1 russia bears culpability this war, the initiation and the for this war, the initiation of 0 the way they have war and the way they have conducted war and the way they have tne lmid war and the way they have conducted it as the 7 put out tatement conducted it as the 7 put out a = in a statement today, has been elas a8 in a statement today, has been barbaric.
don’ think it is a erbole to say that.
it was on tuesday when roughly 90 siles were raining down on ukraine, including the capital and viv which is close to kyiv and lviv which is close to he polish border.
you can sit riticise, but when you ave and criticise, but when you 0 0 missiles raining down have 90 missiles raining down you, mistakes can pen.
4 on you, mistakes can happen.
thank you on you, mistakes can happen.
= you very much for your thank you very much for your china’ president, jinping, and canada’ prime minister, of the 20 summit in bali on wednesday.
president had been meeting several world leaders, wasn’ entirely friendly.
let’ go iran now, where the judiciary has handed of being involved in anti-government protests.
authorities in iran are trying & sparked by the death of a young woman, mahsa amini, while in custody of iran’ morality policy.
so far, nearly 16,000 protesters have been arrested, our news reporter azaday moshiri joins us to discuss.
what more do we need to know?
we know five people so far have sentenced to death, i accused i i accused of waging a war been sentenced to death, accused of waging a war against the charge courts god.
the charge courts typically use when they want a that could lead to a death charge that could lead to a charge that could lead to a death sentence.
the court say for things like one of he protesters hitting and lling a police officer with car.
another killing a police officer with .
another one was the car.
another one was supposedly in possession with ons.
another waged weapons.
another one waged ege or on weapons.
another one waged ror on the streets.
but weapons.
another one waged a terror on the streets.
but what - their families have said two their families have said two statements and comments to their families have said two statements and comments to persian, these were essentially i trials, ese protesters sham trials, these protesters didn’'t have access sham trials, these protesters didn’ have access to their lawyers and were able to lei00a1 lawyers and were not able to mount a credible lawyers and were not able to he lawyers and were not able to mount a credible defence.
their was essentially sealed the anl-ta1 fate was essentially sealed the moment they were indicted.
that new from not new from the revolutionary courts, it is cally something that appens political prisoners.
more than 1000 we know more than 1000 indictments have been issued so some those, dozens of far.
some of those, dozens of can lead to death tences.
it is important to ess this is just the a 4 beginning of one of the most and violent hases of brutal and violent phases of he islamic republic’ ackdown on protesters, that death crackdown on protesters, that more death sentences are to come.
i come.
that is because the momentum come.
that is because the eit come.
that is because the momentum of these protests is aning, people are still not waning, people are still putting their lives on the line der to challenge the ystem.
meanwhile, news out of about iran’ influence aials the about iran’ influence on british security?
yes, there warning by head of was a warning by the head of , the british intelligence vice, that mi5, the british intelligence - service, that iran is i 0 tinuing to silence its a0 4 continuing to silence its 1 ics.
but that isn’ just happening within iran it is 30 happening within iran but it is crossing its borders.
it is worth listening to what i i worth listening to what he had and this was to say and this was during his annual address about the rent a1 most current and most pressing security threats that are ing 1 he united kingdom right a a1 facing the united kingdom right now.
iran projects threat to \ directly through its aggressive intelligence services.
at its sharpest this udes ambitions to nap or includes ambitions to kidnap or 4 i ¢ includes ambitions to kidnap or even kill british are based vidual is perceived = individual is perceived as ies of the regime.
have enemies of the regime.
we have seen at least ten such ential threats january potential threats in january alone.
the foreign secretary it clear to the iranian regime last eek, that the tolerate intimidation threats towards journalists individual living in the or any individual living in the .
what he’ talking about is a raining intelligence 3 !
there is a raining intelligence services have targeted british iar ens as as people in a ¥ei & britain through murder citizens as as people in britain through murder plots or mpted kidnap.
they have 5!
attempted kidnap.
they have used spies and sometimes 011 duits and have tried to conduits and they have tried to lure people to run to then get them there.
and the ssue is, this isn’ just ppening in the , the head happening in the , the head of 1 of mi5 said it is happening of mi5 said it is happening across europe and has been happening for many years.
it has taken heightened importance islamic public because to the islamic republic because they are trying to neutralise a at to their system that so 1 far they haven’ been able to ain.
this also comes off contain.
this also comes off the back of the fact contain.
this also comes off a 14 the back of the fact that police told -based iranian nalist, especially ones who are broadcasting persian are broadcasting like i 1 4 ian that they have persian that they have potential threats to their .
stay with us on news, still 1 a rousing reception as brazil’ president-elect tells the climate summit there can be no climate 1 a a protected amazon.
benazir bhutto has claimed victory in pakistan’ general name her as prime minister.
jacksen’ been released on balil of $3 million after turning himself in to police in santa barbara.
it was the biggest of the first growing european antinuclear movement.
the south african government has announced that it’ opening whites-only beaches to people of all races.
this will lead to a black majority government in this country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
part of the centuries-old windsor castle, one of the queen’ residences, has been censumed by fire for much of a day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
this is world news, the latest headlines.
presdient biden has congratulated the republicans of representatives.
it could limit the president’ ability to get his legaslative programme through.
political analyst, max kutner.
was this expected, where did it ome from?
it was expected, was this expected, where did it a 12 come from?
it was expected, the - arty opposite always gains trol of the ouse and control of the house and often he whole congress in the -term elections.
this mid-term elections.
this was cted, president biden and expected, president biden and his administration had plenty me to prepare for of time to prepare for this.
joe biden went through milar thing when he was vice esident under obama the the republicans gain control of ress then.
this was expected.
hat wasn’ expected.
what wasn’ expected ust how slim this was just how slim this republican majority would be.
now they only have one right now they only have one seat and we will see in coming days as the final coming days as the final races weather republican of cold weather the republican majority expands.
think i’ in saying it was a right in saying it was a six seat gain for the republicans, where did they win those?
it was mainly the west.
in a4 cent days have been looking at alifornia.
one rhaps thinks of california as state, a lot of a blue state, a lot of a1 - a blue state, a lot of democratic areas but it really a came down to a lot of democratic areas but it really came down to a lot of seats in fornia.
that said, this epublican majority is not oking like it’ going to be big as republicans had as big as the republicans had hoped and this was a bit xpected.
hoped and this was a bit a expected.
of course, the results in the senate where ven more unexpected with ocrats flipping a seat there taking the majority and till race in georgia to be lled.
the republicans almost ays ake control of the always take control of the house in the midterms, but some rises here.
now president iden and surprises here.
now president biden and the democrats are going to have to deal with that
he next two years.
indeed, he president says he is oking orward to working with epublicans to through his agendas, pecially for ard-working families.
is he to be able to do that in laio-¥4 going to be able to do that in tice?
saw that message of practice?
saw that message of congratulations that just came but that is going to make out.
but that is going to make things difficult for president and he democrats in this progressive biden and the democrats in this progressive agenda, these aign promises that joe campaign promises that joe riden said he as going pursue.
so now to pass the less roversial legislation in controversial legislation in he house is going to be fficult for democrats and hey can they can forget about sing i the more controversial matters.
ela
i 14
ela i ela president biden will have to on what rely on what is signing his executive orders and executive orders and agency rules are evenly, easily overturned in courts and more evenly, easily overturned more evenly, easily overturned in the courts and in other ways than an in the courts and in other ways than an act of congress.
a 14 than an act of congress.
president biden is also going with versight from to deal with oversight from house republicans.
that is one biggest takeaways of today.
he republicans the house have said they would go hunter biden, would after hunter biden, they would go after the afghanistan hdrawal, they would go after origins covid.
when -\ ay go fter, mean look into.
ese are things that publicans ant to look into and ill now have an lie and will now have an opportunity to do so.
great to our analysis, thank you brazil’
president-elect has vowed to fight speaking at the cop27 summit in eqypt, luiz inacio lula silva said there would be no climate security for the world if the amazon a our climate editor, justin rowlatt, reports from the conference in egypt.
ole, ole, ole, ola!
lula, lula!
plichaner was his message.
he said fighting climate change will be his number one priority and he premised to start rebuilding the agencies that police the forest as soon as he takes office in january.
: it’ time to act.
what we need is hope, hope combined with immediate and decisive action for the future of the planet and for humankind.
lula, lula!
there is no question that lula is the star of this conference, but he faces real problems at home - brazil’ finances are in trouble, he doesn’ have control of the parliament and there’ no doubt his rival, jair bolsonaro, will be making trouble for him.
under bolsonaro, rates a i 2
he was accused of encouraging loggers and miners to go into the forest and of hobbling the environmental police.
lula says his target is zero deforestation.
he promised to start rebuilding the agencies that police the forest as soon as he takes office in january.
but his team acknowledges there is hard work ahead.
: this won’ be an easy process.
there was a dismantling of all policies related lar
but if we rebuild the budget, if we rebuild the teams, that change cannot come quickly enough, say the indigenous communities who are on the front i they are illegal miners, they are poisoning our rivers and deforesting our forests.
the crowds surged around a lula says he’ urging the to allow brazil to host the 2025 climate conference, and he says he wants it to be nasa’
artemis rocket has finally launched, our science editor, rebecca morrelle, was watching.
5 it was the moment they have been waiting for.
after months tbacks, nasa’ most a0 of sethacks, nasa’ most powerful rocket was finally on ay.
the start of its way.
the start of humanity’ return to the moon.
together, back to the we rise together, back to the moon and beyoend.
is incredibly complex machine.
it has so many components to get llion pounds of thrust 8.
8 million pounds of thrust i the ground requires many tems to work together rfectly.
systems to work together fectly.
it did that today.
eople are on board this -1 time, but this test flight will if it is safe time, but this test flight will a a - i time, but this test flight will show if it is safe for adults.
57 show if it is safe for adults.
they want to land the first an the first person of woman in the first person of olour on the moon.
woman in the first person of colour on the moon.
wanted to 1 an astronaut colour on the moon.
wanted to astronaut since was ive years old.
for anybody who a dream, if five years old.
for anybody who 13 five years old.
for anybody who wants a dream, if they can see body they can identify with a little bit, to put it into a different perspective they say, wait a minute, that erson is ust like me, they did it.
an do
and they did it.
can do it, .
and this station has an i achis too.
and this station has an ortant role to i important role to play.
this dish is part of a network of antennas around the world king the spacecraft.
the data it receives is vital.
it help & will help nasa to work data it receives is vital.
it will help nasa to work out where the spacecraft is and fast it is moving as it towards them and how fast it is moving as it and how fast it is moving as it heads towards them in.
and this first signal sent back.
is doesn’
look like ery much this doesn’ look like very to most people, but to the much to most people, but to the communication engineers this is magic.
what would pure magic.
what you would normally see is a flat line of , but we are picking up he signal from the artemis acecraft.
the signal from the artemis a1 the signal from the artemis spacecraft.
with a last look dee i spacecraft.
with a last look tlaee back at the outcome of the spacecraft has a 26 day journey .
this is just the ahead.
this is just the beginning.
the start of 1 lion ile journey million mile journey that is described as apollo for a that is it from us, thank you hello there, the weather is looking pretty unsettled, quite of rain in aces and the risk of localised flooding.
it all because of risk of localised flooding.
it is all because of an area of low ressure which is expected ang around for thursday and iday, even into saturday inihh friday, even into saturday morning before it eventually les out.
this is the low fizzles out.
this is the low ressure system i’ talking ut, moving eastwards and then ulling back northwards westwards across the untry uring thursday and friday here it will weaken, aie will bring a lot of rain and fairly strong winds at es.
we stopped thursday on a 117 illy note for western cotland, northern ireland and is frost and fog but there is frost and fog but elsewhere where we have the , wind elsewhere where we have the , wind and rain, cloud, wind and rain, temperatures between five and 9 degrees.
a thoroughly wet day me for thursday, area of low ressure, as you can see, hing northwards and west.
3 east england, strongest of the along the north winds along the north sea ast.
the best of any brighter ather of coast.
the best of any brighter ther of the start is in orthern ireland but i northern ireland but there particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
and then threw thursday night the rain tinues to pile into eastern i continues to pile into eastern scotland and a few showers ewhere into northern eland.
wet weather elsewhere into northern i ireland.
wet weather for as ireland.
wet weather for northern england and north .
probably the driest wales.
probably the driest weather towards the south of ountry.
because there is 0
i tats the country.
because there is more cloud and wind across the of the , more cloud and wind across the - i more cloud and wind across the whole of the , it will be as cold for many, seven to degrees.
for friday there area of low pressure, starting is our area of low pressure, arting to weaken, but it will ing a lot of rain to the orthern bring a lot of rain to the a2 especially the east of i ela especially the east of scotland.
by this peint, rain will be accumulating really will be accumulating across angus, aberdeenshire and of localised flooding risk of localised flooding here.
something quieter for and generally.
best of the unshine on riday again a part a northern ireland, wales, tral and southern england.
to 12 degrees, but chilly urther north up to 12 degrees, but chilly her north where it will further north where it will pas ala
i further north where it will 18 a a0 continue to be windy, especially for the northern .
that fizzles especially for the northern i fed 0 especially for the northern isles.
that fizzles out on urday and a brief spell of quieter weather before the next tal system moves through on aturday night into sunday and lowed by sunshine and blustery showers.
followed by sunshine and a ery showers.
it starts off 1 3 blustery showers.
it starts off fairly for many on saturday uite chilly.
wet and windy eather eeps through saturday to sunday and that will followed by sunshine showers.
president biden has congratulated the republican party after they secured control of the house of representatives, following last week’'s midterm elections.
the democrats still hold the senate.
president biden’ ability to push through his ukraine’ president zelensky says he’ in no doubt the missile strike that killed two people in poland on tuesday was not caused by ukrainian air defence.
nato, poland and the believe the incident was most likely caused by a ukrainian air defence missile.
and brazil’ president-elect, luiz inacio lula silva, has told the cop27 summit in eqypt that fighting climate change will be his number one priority.
he said there would be no climate security for the world now on news, talking movies.
have come to london’’ victoria and albert museum to the first exhibition ever to explore the global spread of korean pop culture - the drama, music, fashion and cinema that swept the world.
i’ mixed race.
my mum is korean, my dad is british, so, it brings me pride, it adds recognition for korea, makes it more well-known.
hello, i am tom brook with a special edition of talking movies devoted to korean cinema.
i’ here in london at a special exhibition at the victoria and albert museum.
it is called, hallyu!
the korean wave .
it’ really looking at how korean pop culture has burst in talking movies, we will be looking at the growing global impact of korean cinema.
= - 7 on the movie parasite, two years after its historic also park chan-wook, a towering figure in south korean cinema, and how women are beginning to make an impact in south korea’ film industry, long dominated by men.
and with many hits like i 4 i what is the world about to see?
korean pop culture of differing types is on display at the exhibition, including characters from the netflix series squid game, the deadly survival drama that has become a global sensation.
to help me understand the quran wave as it pertains to cinema, spoke i 1 first a rippling across asia and this was a really crucial and hinge moment in korean history because by the 1990, korea was a new young democracy that has overcome many years of oppression and repression, starting from the colonial period in 1910, going through the territorial division and the korean war and virtually 30 years of military rules.
so it means by the 1990, irt enjoying a creative license they had not enjoyed before for many decades.
south korea’ first democratic presidential elections in 1987 were a certainly a turning point, when years of military dictatorship came to an end, and then the film industry was helped when funding from both public and private sources began to increase.
in 1999, korea managed to create its first home-grown hollywood-style blockbuster with the action film, shiri.
from that point, think i a that the cinema is a very valuable cultural export and there were conscious policies that were put in place to support the growth of korean film industry, along with making the whole korean society more open.
so, korean cinema certainly benefited from this openness, from removal of the censorship restrictions, from, really, the attention of the government to nurture it, to support it - the claim is made that it often outdoes hollywood in terms of originality.
: we are a very small country, but we are a very packed country, the population is very high.
and because of this hustle mentality, as a person who works in film myself, we have to really, really hustle and strive to make high-quality films and think that’ the driving force that has made korean films as good as they are today, and that appeals to a global audience.
well, you may recognise this set up - it is the bathroom scene from the film parasite 2 painstakingly recreated here at the exhibition, under the guidance of the set designer from the film.
parasite was, of course, a movie that changed the perception of korean cinema what was it about the film that enabled it to become a breakthrough international hit?
from seoul, juwon park with four oscar wins, including for best director and best picture, parasite dominated the 2020 oscars, becoming the first film not in the english language to ever : it is the first movie to win so this could be a big event but think, at the same time, things like this will happen more news any more.
yn0 114 there was a sense of immense a really good example that shows that you can actually bring artistic success along with commercial the film itself is a darkly funny nightmare of what happens when a poor korean family become indispensable servants to a rich family.
they move into the luxurious home and find they can’ give it up.
it is a jaw-twisting plot combining comedy and horror as well as social commentary.
rol 2 in an era of capitalism.
and poor, not just me, i 10 belong to the front, you belong to the tail.
but bong joon-ho was no overnight success.
he was well known to cinemaphiles and had already worked with international stars like john hurt, tilda swinton, and chris evans on 2013 sci-fi thriller, snowpiercer.
another striking commentary on class structure, using a train condemned to travel around the globe, carrying rich at the front, poor at the back.
bong joon-ho has spent most of his film-making in south korea.
iconic scenes in parasite, where they run down a long staircase after their harrowing escape.
an area that features in many guidebooks and is a stopping point for many tourists.
bong joon-ho said of parasite’ win, that it removed the barriers that subtitles in films had been to english speaking audiences.
certainly, parasite a a1 : really, because of the amazing charm a become so popular.
the expressions, the gestures, the physicality they express.
parasite will quite simply stand in history as one of the great films of the 21st century.
korean cinema, at least when it comes to film-making, has been pretty much a man’ game with male directors calling the shots, but things are changing.
as emma jones reports, women are gaining ground both the first lady of korean film, kang soo-youn, became korea’ first international superstar after winning the best actress olgp for kwon-taek’ film, given to a couple to bear a surrogate child.
she died this year aged 55, but kang was known for playing memorable, complex female characters long before that was considered to be important.
35 years after the surrogate woman, perhaps love is actress eun-ji’ directing debut, the tale of a middle-aged writer falling for his attractive student, and told humorously.
she thinks seeing the breakthrough of stories for and by women are -film’ big challenge.
: of course, there are persisting problems in the korean film industry today.
do feel it is a sensitive issue so don’'t want to step on any toes or anything, but there is definitely @ lel 0 character narratives in korean cinema today.
feel like there’ definitely in that area, but on the other hand because, as you know, there has been a lot of global recognition for korean cinema, iit’ also thriving.
there have been some noticeable i to iin 2008, forever the moment, by new wave female auteur yim soon-rye, a fictionalised fyuns 1 2016’ the truth beneath, directed by lee kyoung-mi is a fast-paced thriller about a political scandal and kidnap.
it was a big hit with korean critics, although it was co-written by park chan-wook, and unlike his erotic thriller the handmaiden, also from 2016, didn’ get invited to major festivals.
it’ really interesting to think that was.
and think partly that was because festival programmers and films about women, and partly it is probably to do with the fact that she’ not such a well-known figure but hopefully will have in future.
maintaining a good outward appearance has been part of traditional korean society for centuries, and in modern times, this pressure inevitably and usually falls upon women.
has this got something to do with the way women are portrayed in film?
certainly, this year’ notable films by female directors deal with a highly sexualised society.
jeong-sun, widely played at festivals this year, epidemic of digital sex crime through the story of one woman is ruined by it.
the director of the london korean film festival, lee eun-ji, this year has again a spotlight on women’ voices.
would say young female film-makers in korea, they are still struggling and they mostly talk about women’ rights, also daily lives of the young women and that’ they talk about more deep relationships, characters, like mother and daughter, but they can go more deep down and in more detail and dig into different a short film, nipple war 3 by paek si-won, has also gained a few headlines as a humorous take on a female producer refusing to pixelate parts of a woman’ body on screen.
just as in the rest of the world, women’ voices are getting heard, but as yet they are rarely getting rewarded.
you might wonder what’ going on behind this they are showing a very violent clip from the classic korean movie, oldboy, a that film was directed by park chan-wook, who is one of south korea’ most illustrious film-makers.
recently he had a new film that came out, it’ south korea’ submission to the oscars next year.
it’ called decision to leave, to talk about the film.
decision to leave tells a story of a detective investigating his widow seems unmoved.
has she played a role in his demise?
the director hopes the ethical conflict posed in the film can engage the audience.
: would say when the emotion or the desire of love comes into conflict with social ethics, then sometimes love itself becomes a prison for other people.
and for some, the social ethics become prisen for them.
so that contrast may be something that the audience can take away and really think about afterwards.
director park chan-wook studied philosophy.
he was a film critic.
by british director alfred hitchcock.
it is said that hitchcock’ a yed influenced decision to leave.
watched vertigo when was in college, and that inspired me so much that decided to become a film-maker one day.
of hitchcock, and decision i 1 1 film that shows much influence from him.
as mentioned, a clip celebrated 2003 film oldboy was on display at the hallyu!
an impressively choreographed sequence in a movie which tells of a man kidnapped for 15 years who, upon release, a down his captor.
the picture brought south korean cinema a lot of very positive international acclaim.
cinema on the map
but, you know, there are other korean films before oldboy, of course, that were but oldboy was the film that made this whole brand that’ decision to leave doesn’ a 4 chan-wook 5 trademark extremes.
the closest the leads come lea lwa the reviews of this rather different park chan-wook film have been strong.
its plot turns may be hard to follow, but it’ a beautifully accomplished picture and you always know you’re watching the work of one of the great masters of world cinema.
ever since parasite won a 1 and the top prize at the cannes film festival, everyone has been wondering what the next big thing will be well, emma jones has been finding out what lies ahead, what’ in the pipeline, what great, compelling cinema from south korea is on its way.
exposure internationally.
alienoid, by director choi dong-hoon, is a melting pot of time travel, sci-fi aliens and fantasy, all in one big blockbuster.
it’ pure fun, designed to entertain - one of korea’ most commercially successful directors, chol’ credited with introducing the heist genre to korea - most famously in 2012’ the thieves, still one of the country’ most successful movies.
thank you, nice to meet you!
the movie’ just been released in the and canada, 2 of being sold : showcased my other film over ten years ago with the london korean film festival and the korean - 0 - certainly does feel different.
but the audience remains a mystery.
my life’ focus is on how make good films.
international audience finds good and interesting starring this famous face - lee jung-jae, the former model now actor, basking in global fame thanks to emmy-winning netflix show squid game.
lee jung-jae is the star of hunt, and it’ also his directing debut.
it is one of korea’ top ten biggest movies of 2022, now coming out internationally.
this espionage thriller rattles along at 100 bullets per minute.
it’ plot is that after the assassination of south korea’ president park in 1980, north korea his huge fan base may well when he was offered a world premiere at the cannes film festival, but he’ laboured on the script for four years - long before squid game.
: actually had no ambition for directing.
in korea, most directors write their own screenplays and had no faith in my ability to write my own, so actually wanted to give producing a try, because i’ve been acting for 30 years, so thought maybe producing would be possible, so bought the rights for the original script and then tried to find a iaied to help me fix the screenplay and direct.
1 9 to write my own scenario and decided to direct this as well.
for those who prefer korean arthouse, japanese auteur hirokazu kore-eda shot his latest film song kang-ho of parasite fame is the lead actor here again, and after he was awarded the cannes film festival best actor prize, this too will have a global release.
it’ a quirky story, with song kang-ho playing an unusually kindly broker of baby sales, surprised when one mother returns for her baby.
: with a story like this, if it was reported on the news, they’ be bad guys - brokers trying but when you have a camera inside the van, you start to see a different side i a glimpse of what you wouldn’ get to see - wanted to show a different side to what we’ see in the media, and for people know the whole story.
there’ still one of the biggest beasts of all ready to be unleashed on audiences, hansan: rising dragon, a prequel to korea’ most successful movie ever, 2014’ the admiral - the story of how a tiny korean navy defeated a much larger japanese fleet.
thanks to this global appetite for -content, to punch above their weight.
this exhibition confirmed to me of the very best cinema in the world, but there’ something ominous in all the creativity in those films informed by themes of class warfare and violence.
korean cinema is perhaps serving as a sentinel, warning nations where income inequality is growing of the dangers that may lie ahead.
well, that brings our korean cinema special to a close.
we hope you’ve enjoyed the programme.
please remember you can always reach us online at bbc.
com/talkingmovies and you can find us on twitter.
so, from me, tom brook, and the rest of the talking movies production team here in london, it’ goodbye.
& as we leave you with some exhibition highlights and enjoyable participatory activity.
= go!
that, that, like that.
gibun joa, baby!
baby!
that, that, like that.
baby.
i like that.
it’ like that, that, yo.
that, that, like that.
it’ like that, that, yo.
do what you want!
say what you want!
hello there, the weather is looking pretty unsettled, quite a lot of rain in places i localised flooding.
it’ all because of an area of low pressure which is expected to hang around for thursday and friday, even into this is the low pressure system i’ talking about, moving eastwards and then pulling back northwards and westwards across the country during thursday and friday, where it will weaken, but it will bring a lot we start thursday on a chilly note for western scotland, northern ireland, and there’ frost and fog, but elsewhere where we have the cloud, wind and rain, temperatures between 5-9 degrees.
a thoroughly wet day to come for thursday, our area of low pressure, as you can see, pushing heavy rain, east england, strongest of the winds along the best of any brighter weather is in northern ireland but nowhere particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
and then through thursday night the rain continues to pile into eastern scotland and a few showers elsewhere wet weather for northern england and north wales.
probably the driest weather towards the south of the country.
because there is more cloud and wind across the whole of the , it won’ be quite as cold for many, 7-9 degrees.
for friday there is our area of low pressure, starting to weaken, but it will bring 1gs half of the country, especially by this point, rain really will be accumulating across angus, aberdeenshire and the risk of localised flooding here.
for england generally.
on friday again.
parts of northern ireland, wales, central and southern england.
up to 12 degrees, but chilly will continue to be windy, especially for that fizzles out on saturday and a brief spell of quieter weather before the next frontal system moves through on saturday night into sunday, and followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
it starts off fairly for many on saturday and quite chilly.
wet and windy weather sweeps through saturday night to sunday and that will be followed by sunshine and showers.
welcome to news - i’ rich preston.
our top stories.
as they secure a majority in the house of representatives - marking a return to divided lpilclale in the united states.
disagreement over the poland missile strike as ukraine insists its air defence teams weren’ to blame.
a rousing reception for brazil’ president elect, lula silva - who told the climate summit he will stop the deforestation of the amazon off of artemis 1.
’ most powerful rocket finally blasts off.
we begin in the united states, where president biden has congratulated the republican leader, kevin mccarthy on securing a majority in the house of representatives.
it marks a return to divided government in america, with democrats still retaining a slim majority in the senate.
the white house says the president is ready to work for working families.
earlier spoke to our north america correspondent, peter bowes and asked what america’ divided government means for the next two years of politics.
well, this is, as you say, divided government returning to washington.
= unusual situation.
of course, historically it’ happened many times before.
in charge in the house of representatives, it will certainly stymie joe biden’ intentions, his political agenda over the next couple of years in a position to block the republicans will be in charge of the crucial they can bring forward their own legislation against joe biden that they choose to pursue.
so it will be a difficult time in washington.
we don’ expect a huge amount to get through to happen in terms of new legislation.
but it is interesting that joe biden is reaching out and this is typical of biden’ style.
he is reaching out to the republicans, saying to work together.
max kutner and asked 0 that was expected.
opposite the president’ party almost always gains control
i the whole congress in a midterm election.
so this was expected.
administration had plenty of time to prepare for this.
biden even went through a similar thing when he was vice president under obama and the republicans gained control of congress then.
so this was expected.
and what wasn’ expected was actually the just how slim this republican majority would be.
eictnety majority expands at all.
max, i think i’ right in saying it was a six seat gain for the republicans, where did they win those?
well, it was mainly in the west.
in recent days, we’ve been looking a lot at california.
one perhaps thinks of california as a blue state, a lot of democratic areas.
that said this this republican majority is not looking like it’ going to be as big as the republicans had hoped.
and this was a bit unexpected.
and, of course, the results in the senate were even more unexpected, with democrats flipping a seat there and taking the majority and still one race in georgia but so, again, the republicans almost always take control but some surprises here.
president biden and the democrats are going to have to deal with that for the next two years.
well, indeed.
and the president says he’ looking forward to working with republicans to to push through his agendas, especially for hard working families.
to do that in practice?
yeah, saw that message of congratulations, rich, that just came out.
but this is going to make things very difficult for president biden and the dems and this progressive agenda, all these campaign promises that in 2020 biden said he was going to pursue.
so now to pass the less controversial legislation in the house is going to be difficult for democrats, and they can forget about passing the more president biden is now going to have to rely on what is under his purview, which would be signing executive orders and directing federal agencies to do rulemaking.
of course, executive orders and agency rules are more easily overturned in the courts and in other ways than an act of congress.
going to deal with oversight of the biggest takeaways today.
the republicans in the house have said that they would go after hunter biden, they would go after the afghanistan withdrawal, they would go after the the origins of covid.
are all things republicans want to be looking into.
and now we’ll have an opportunity to do so.
on polish territory.
president zelensky insists russia was behind the strike, the incident was most likely caused by a ukrainian a3 katya adler reports.
these have been nail-biting moments for poland and its allies, gathering evidence and intelligence about last night’ missile strike close to poland’'s border with ukraine.
yerevan lives nearby.
his family heard the explosion, he said, and were really scared.
nato was also nervous.
you’ll notice almost more emphasis today on who likely wasn’ behind the strike than who probably was.
we have no indication that this was the result of a deliberate attack, and we have no indication that russia is preparing offensive military actions against nato.
poland’ president says it seems the explosion was caused by ukrainian air defence systems.
an unfortunate error
, he said.
moscow did pound ukraine with missiles yesterday.
if it had struck or targeted neighbouring nato member poland, as first suggested in polish media, the whole alliance could have been called on, meaning confrontation with nuclear power russia.
nato really wants to avoid that, while still supporting ukraine’ military.
nato leaders’ carefully crafted, measured response today shows how much they fear europe is on a knife edge.
they’ve had a sharp shock reminder of the ever-present potential of russia’ war to escalate and spread beyond ukraine’ borders.
kyiv sometimes accuses allies of getting too used if that ever was the case, last night was a huge wake-up call.
but it’ also caused a rift with kyiv, determined russia was behind the strike in poland.
: have no doubt that this is not our missile, not our strike.
believe this is a russian 0ld military reports.
that’ a very rare public break at a meeting of world leaders today, the prime minister assured ukraine support against russia was unwavering, and there were strong words from his foreign secretary.
the house should be in no doubt that the only reason missiles are flying through european skies and exploding in european villages is because of russia’ barbaric invasicn of ukraine.
as the investigation continues on the ground in poland, nato says it’ boosting air defences across eastern europe as well as ukraine, just in case.
katya adler, news, nato.
bill roggio is a senior fellow at the foundation for defense of democracies and editor of the long war journal.
lie1 @0 thank you for making the time.
this is a war on nato’ bore even hough it is not a da, even though it is not a war with nato itself, an event like a this was kind of inevitable?
kly, i am urprised it frankly, 1 am surprised it hadn’ happened sooner.
this is ll-over that is expected overall of this magnitude.
saw the news hought when saw the news thought 3
i a1 unlikely the russians uld target a nato country.
he russians have its hands in ukraine and is losing full in ukraine and is losing full in ukraine and is losing in ukraine and the last in ukraine and the last thing would want is to drag in he alliance.
thought it was dc:1118 the alliance.
thought it was an errant missile from russians but the most likely rio it as and in crainey scenario it was and in crainey and -- ukrainian air defence ile .
am only shocked it missile.
1 am only shocked it nine months for this to appen.
despite that analysis it was a ukrainian air that it was a ukrainian air fence missile, president ensky insists it wasn’?
ink president zelensky is to draw nato further into he wall.
nato wants to iously stay out of water water ' a1 obviously stay out of the water 18 risk it wants to reduce the potential risk of nuclear frontation.
ukraine is not a ember nato so confrontation.
ukraine is not a confrontation.
ukraine is not a member of nato so article five not apply.
member of nato so article five a does not apply.
president zelensky also, it looks bad a ukrainian air defence that a ukrainian air defence missile killed two polish 4 citizens but they must missile killed two polish citizens but they must be more ont with this.
it hurts president zelensky and the inian government to take ukrainian government to take this position.
it really cks, think, to a lot of smacks, think, a lot of nato leaders as an attempt to ite nato further into this draw nato further into this " ar.
in the last couple of eks we have weeks we have seen massive =1 weeks we have seen massive withdrawals by russia in huge like kherson which was i seen as a victory for areas like kherson which was seen as a victory for ukrainian es.
there has been this forces.
there has been this massive missile strikes on inian infrastructure ?
ukrainian infrastructure?
the russians are struggling to hold the territory it on to the territory it currently has.
we have winter so most people, coming so most people, including myself, expect itary operations to slow military operations to slow down.
ukrainian has taken its 3 in its successful attempts regain territory.
these ile strikes are an attempt i missile strikes are an attempt to weaken the esolve of the ukrainian people as as hinder he power supplies, as krainian military will 3\ the ukrainian military will rely on that and getting trips front.
they are lobbying undreds of missiles .
ale-
hundreds of missiles a day.
once those air defences go , the russian once those air defences go once those air defences go down, the russian air force have greater freedom.
down, the russian air force will have greater freedom.
think that is the play we seeing with the russians.
: seeing with the russians.
the tegy hasn’ orked well, a1 strategy hasn’ worked well, 3 ther this part of the strategy works or not remains seen.
but the ukrainians to be seen.
but the ukrainians remain very resilient and they in determined
and they stood up to the russians and deserve all of our praise they deserve all of our praise their willingness to defend etake territory.
really to get your analysis.
4 hank you good to get your analysis.
= you very much.
thank you.
china’ president, jinping, and canada’ prime minister, of the 20 summit in bali on wednesday.
president had been meeting several world leaders, wasn’ entirely friendly.
international health organisations are warning that a cholera outbreak in haiti is worsening, with a dramatic increase in the number of people falling ill.
the head of the pan american health organisation, said officials had now confirmed over 700 cholera infections, with more than 140 deaths since the first cases were detected in october.
it’ believed the true numbers could be much higher.
she added that half a million people are at risk of contracting the disease.
a new study has found that climate change severely worsened the heavy rains that caused largescale flooding killing hundreds of people.
countries’ history.
the report by world weather attribution says extreme seasonal rainfall and the release of water from dams caused the flooding.
they concluded the event was made 80 times more likely by climate change.
stay with us on news.
still to come.
and stay with us on news.
still - i and liftoff of to come and liftoff of rtemis fund.
nasa’ most 1 werful rocket blasts off.
benazir bhutto has claimed victory in pakistan’ general name her as prime minister.
jacksen’ been released on balil of $3 million after turning himself in to police in santa barbara.
it was the biggest of the first growing european antinuclear movement.
the south african government has announced that it’ opening whites-only beaches to people of all races.
this will lead to a black majority government in this country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
part of the centuries-old windsor castle, one of the queen’ residences, has been censumed by fire for much of a day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
this is world news, the latest headlines.
presdient biden has congratulated the republicans of representatives.
it could limit the president’ ability to get his legaslative programme through.
the news about the mid terms elections came as a bill that would make same-sex marriages legal across the country cleared a major hurdle in the senate.
12 republicans joined all 50 democrats to move the respect for marriage act forward.
that puts it on track i in next january.
i’ joined now by kadia goba, politics 1 publication semafor.
this bill likely to pass?
hink they definitely have the port.
what happened today was a procedural vote and as ention, 12 republicans you mention, 12 republicans 5!
ded with democrats to qualify -sex marriage.
it is a pretty indication it is oing to forward.
the word 0
ere is federal, is a eral law federal law necessary?
well, 4 federal law necessary?
well, this dates back to when the reme court made the decision bring bortion rights to the dividual tates.
when that happened, many democrats felt 4 in that the same thing alarmed in that the same thing i ould happen when it comes to -sex marriage.
because not states actually on a ame-sex marriage.
so this way 4 %1 same-sex marriage.
so this way they actually ensure that it it much more difficult or akes it much more difficult or it more difficult going elon forward.
as you mention, 12 republicans joined those 50 crats.
that is not all republicans, what is the push against this?
you know, back against this?
you know, that is a great question.
ked to a ouple of them.
talked to a couple of them.
me of them talked to a couple of them.
hem had an issue talked to a couple of them.
some of them had an issue with mendment process because ocrats close the amendment process because a1 democrats close the amendment rocess.
but also one of the resounding backs was big resounding push backs was that this wasn’ necessary.
blicans felt that most states respect same-sex riage, are we doing this?
as mentioned, democrats - larmed that this this?
as mentioned, democrats eire - i as 01 this?
as mentioned, democrats felt alarmed that this could be turned felt alarmed that this could be aetlsi felt alarmed that this could be tlad in a court and overturned in a court and erefore they overturned in a court and ore
they needed to therefore they needed to ensure, enshrined legislation.
ese representatives, they to represent the views of those in constituencies.
what did pinion polls amongst the opinion polls say amongst american people about this?
is a very interesting i thing.
i
i this is a very interesting thing.
it is the ason i 2 1 thing.
it is the reason democrats it was very eresting that democrats did put this vote before the dterms.
more than 70% of mericans actually agree with -sex marriage.
had they done this all had democrats ally put the ote on the actually put the vote on the floor before the midterms, it have been a sticking would have been a sticking lilis for many republicans point for many republicans olliin for office.
thank you for having brazil’ president-elect has vowed to fight speaking at the cop27 summit in eqypt, luiz inacio lula silva said there would be no climate security for the world if the amazon a our climate editor, justin rowlatt, reports from the conference in egypt.
ole, ole, ole, ola!
lula, lula!
plichaner was his message.
he said fighting climate change will be his number one priority and he premised to start rebuilding the agencies that police the forest as soon as he takes office in january.
: it’ time to act.
what we need is hope, hope combined with immediate and decisive action for the future of the planet and for humankind.
lula, lula!
there is no question that lula is the star of this conference, but he faces real problems at home - brazil’ finances are in trouble, he doesn’ have control of the parliament and there’ no doubt his rival, jair bolsonaro, will be making trouble for him.
under bolsonaro, rates a i 2
he was accused of encouraging loggers and miners to go into the forest and of hobbling the environmental police.
lula says his target is zero deforestation.
he promised to start rebuilding the agencies that police the forest as soon as he takes office in january.
but his team acknowledges there is hard work ahead.
: this won’ be an easy process.
there was a dismantling of all policies related lar
but if we rebuild the budget, if we rebuild the teams, that change cannot come quickly enough, say the indigenous communities who are on the front i they are illegal miners, they are poisoning our rivers and deforesting our forests.
the crowds surged around a lula says he’ urging the to allow brazil to host the 2025 climate conference, and he says he wants it to be justin rowlatt, news, sharm sheikh, nasa’ artemis rocket has finally launched, marking the start of a new era, which it’ hoped will eventually see humans return to the moon.
technical hitches and two hurricanes prevented blasted off on its debut flight from florida’ kennedy space centre.
our science editor, rebecca morrelle, was watching.
and here we go.
it was the moment they’ been waiting for.
three, two, one after months of setbacks, nasa’ most powerful rocket was finally on its way - the start of humanity’ return to the moon.
we rise together, back to the moon, and beyond!
it’ an incredibly complex machine.
it has so many components.
to get 8.
8 million pounds of thrust off the ground requires many systems that all have to work together perfectly, and it did just that today.
no people are on board this time, but this test the ultimate plan is to land the first woman and first person of colour on the moon.
wanted to be an astronaut from the time was five years old.
if they see somebody that they can identify with a little bit, it puts them into a totally different perspective where they can say, well, "wait a minute, that person was just like me, and they did it, so cando it, too.
” of cornwall, the goonhilly earth station has an important role to play.
this huge dish is part around the world tracking the spacecraft, and the data it will help nasa to work out exactly where the spacecraft is and how fast it’ moving as it heads towards the moon.
13 signal sent back.
this doesn’ look like very much, think, to most people, what you would normally see is just a flat line of noise.
but we’re picking up the signal from space, from the artemis spacecraft.
with a last look back ele 1 now has a 26-day journey ahead.
this is just the beginning, the start of a million-mile journey that’ being described as apollo for a new generation.
rebecca morelle, news.
now before we go, live of surprises, especially when animals are involved.
here’ what happened to one kenyan journalist who was reporting from an elephant orphanage.
human actions are destroying habitats, decimating our system the circle of ias ecosystem and the circle of life.
it is up to us to be rdians of our natural world, ave the species and provide a home.
thanks for watching.
for the next couple of days.
we’re going to see quite a lot of rain in places, the risk of some localized floeding, too.
and it’ all because of one area of low pressure, expected to hang around for thursday and friday, even into this is the low pressure system i’ talking about, moving a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back northwards and westwards across the country during thursday and friday, where it slowly will fill, it will weaken.
but it’ going to bring a lot of rain and fairly strong winds at times.
now we start thursday off on a really chilly note for western scotland, northern ireland, that some frost and fog here.
but elsewhere where we have the cloud, the wind and the rain and temperatures remaining between five and nine degrees.
but a really thoroughly wet day to come for thursday.
our area of low pressure, as you can see here, slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
some heavy rain for eastern scotland, northern england, north wales, eastern england, the strongest of the winds along the north sea probably the best of any brighter weather after that chilly start, northern ireland and across the south and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
and then through thursday night, the rain continues to pile into eastern scotland.
a few showers elsewhere into northern ireland, some wet weather for northern england and north wales, probably the driest weather towards the south of the country.
but because there’ more cloud and wind across the whole of the , there won’ be quite as cold think for many - seven to nine degrees.
so for friday there’ our area of low pressure again starting to fill at this point in weaken, but it’ still going to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half of the country, especially by this point, rain really will be accumulating across angus aberdeenshire risk something a little bit quiet think for england generally.
still a few showers around the best of the sunshine on friday.
again, parts of northern ireland, wales, central and southern england up to around 12 degrees there, but chilly further a a0 to be windy, especially for the northern isles.
saturday, brief spell of quieter weather before the next frontal system moves through during saturday night into sunday, followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
so it starts off fairly dry, think for many on saturday, quite chilly, mind you.
and then wet and windy weather sweeps through saturday night to sunday, and that’ll be followed by sunshine and showers.
president biden has congratulated the republican party after they secured control of the house of representatives, following last week’'s midterm elections.
the democrats still hold the senate.
president biden’ ability to push through his ukraine’ president zelensky says he’ in no doubt the missile strike that killed two people in poland on tuesday was not caused by ukrainian air defence.
nato, poland and the believe the incident was most likely caused by a ukrainian air defence missile.
and brazil’ president-elect, luiz inacio lula silva, has told the cop27 summit in eqypt that fighting climate change will be his number one priority.
he said there would be no climate security for the world now on news, click.
will mastodon make a not if elon has anything to do with it, would imagine.
what is the blueprint for a green workspace?
we’ll ask its creator, niklas zennstrom.
the man behind skype?
indeed.
right, i’ll go on my own then.
at the club that is powered by body heat.
well, bye, then.
we’re in the midst of an energy crisis.
and office buildings a0 power-hungry beasts.
actually using them.
buildings is they can have energy efficiency built-in from the ground up.
literally.
but how about all of those existing buildings, the ones that are climate-controlled but not climate-minded?
we’ve come to atomico house in london, an office building which has been given a new greener lease of life.
this building has had a sustainably sourced, vintage or recycled.
the floors are made from recycled wood and clay plaster, while no fossil fuels are used for the heading or hot water.
even the food is friendly.
these guys are using as locally-sourced ingredients have leftover fridays, which means they don’ need to throw much away at and, for your information, it smells gorgeous!
the building’ secrets and meet the man behind it, who you may recognise, .
believe it or not, it’ a sound that can destroy cancer.
human trials in the and are currently assessing cancer but interestingly, researchers have now found that histotripsy can, in some cases, kick-start an immune response, which means the body can start fighting the disease riccey 1 yasmin morgan-griffiths has been following one cancer peter is a guinness world record-holding skateboarder but he had to retire from competing when he was diagnosed with neuroendocrine cancer three years ago.
a organs of the body, including the liver.
into a roller-coaster.
just absolutely terrifying.
you don’ know how long you’ve got whatsoever.
peter’ liver tumours are so small and widespread they can’ be removed through surgery.
and chemotherapy, but these took a heavy toll on him.
fatigue, energy levels, really heavily hit.
had my review and they basically said was not responding to the chemo.
but then, peter was offered the chance to undergo a new cancer treatment at james’ hospital histotripsy is a type of focused ultrasocund which destroys tissue inside the body, completely noninvasively.
it’ much more precise than treatments which use heat or radiation, meaning it can which are small and widespread in vital organs like the liver.
-based tech company histosonics is running the most advanced histotripsy trial to date.
there’ tiny, nanometre-sized micro bubbles that naturally exist within tissue, and when we hit a focus point with the ultrasound, it excites those bubbles and those bubbles expand and collapse and they mechanically destroy tissue.
the team is going to be using standard ultrasound to identify where in peter’ body the tumour is.
then they will use this robotic arm to deliver a much stronger therapeutic type of ultrasound to destroy it.
histosonics’ technology a because tumours there are notoriously hard to treat and survival rates are low.
patients like peter better treatment options.
it sounded amazing, really.
at the time, my alternative was basically to go to a stronger, this is quite an opportunity.
leeds teaching hospital’ trust is one of 16 centres in the and europe taking part in the global hope for liver trial.
just 46 people worldwide have received the procedure so far, including peter.
professor tze min wah is overseeing his treatment.
that’ the focal point i so, can you see bits of the tumour being destroyed right now?
you can see the focal point is destroying a tumour, and as you can see the bright area here.
early studies have shown histotripsy can also kick-start an immune response that enables the body to fight i ricey i this is what tumour 4 like before histotripsy.
the changing colour shows the immune system has been the hope for liver trial is investigating how and histotripsy triggers this response and how reliably it can be seen in humans.
two out of eight patients in a small initial a that is, yeah, what i’ really hoping for is that you get the immune response and it starts to clear up all of the disease in the lliver.
a significant breakthrough.
it would be potentially game-changing for a lot of cancer patients.
= treatment, you don’ need the toxic drugs that we may use in a standard chemotherapy, so you could have an example where you use histotripsy to stimulate the immune system and then you come in with the immune-activating drugs, and they might be able but there are some concerns.
it may release bits of cancer in the process of breaking is if you release cancer cells around the body, i with the spread of the cancer to other places.
i’ve not seen any evidence of that happening but it’ watch out carefully for.
it’ not clear if an immune responses been triggered in peter but a month after his procedure, this is an before treatment for peter and this is the day after and you can see this area is now totally treated and the dark area represents cancer cell death.
does that mean that we are looking at a good outcome for peter, potentially, at the moment?
yes, early efficacy has proven to be very promising for him.
and we will need to follow him up long-term.
of its machine to sell to hospitals once they’ve secured regulatory approval.
we’ve developed the platform to be adaptable to almost any part of the body.
what we are doing in the liver might be the most challenging.
everything we do gets easier.
there are also early trials, separate from histosonics’, investigating whether histotripsy can work on other parts of the body.
peter’ cancer is now stable, but he still has other tumours in his body and he is waiting to see whether histotripsy stimulates an immune response before exploring other treatment options.
think no matter what the outcome on immune response is, think it’ going to be pretty dramatically life-changing knowing that that’ gone is a huge relief.
in the news of recent weeks - elon musk’ purchase his takeover hasn’ been without issues, shall we say?
from charging for verification to laying off half of of twitter users are exploring another little-known platform called mastodon.
our technology editor, zoe kleinman, gives us the lowdown.
it gets its name from a prehistoric elephant with a heavy metal band.
yes, mastodon, an alternative to twitter, has exploded in popularity lately.
the first thing you have to do when you sign up there are loads of them and they are themed by things like country, city, interests, , glasgow, gaming and so on.
it does not matter which one you choose because you can see eldh sharing the same sort of stuff that you’re by the way, you don’ tweet here, you toot.
one of the attractions of this platform is that no one person or company owns mastodon.
servers all link up to form but they are all owned by individuals and different organisations.
it means you can be at the whim and if that goes down, so does your account.
you can switch servers if you want to, but people are saying it’ quite a faff.
there’ also the issue of moderation, because it iis not centrally run, mastodon moderation differs from server to server - have none.
it’ free to use but some a8 because they do not get paid.
it’ what’ called open-source software, it’ a little bit geeky, and has been developed by those who have knowledge
and you need a little bit of understanding of that the servers are struggling to keep up with demand.
mastodon has been around for about six years but hundreds of thousands of people have flocked to it since elon musk bought twitter.
this is still a small 300 million active users, but this small cpen-source that was zoe, and now, because of a potential power steering problem.
elon musk’ electric car manufacturer says its power hitting a pothole.
a former pilot has started a business in which he scatters the ashes of loved ones from a drone.
christopher mace, founder of aerial ashes, says he was inspired to start the venture after scattering the remains of ex-service personnel at sea during his the drone allows ashes to be scattered in uncommeon places.
where there was a connection there, we scattered ashes on rivers, inland - which works particularly well for the hindu community.
of their stay, including cleaning and service fees, in a step towards better pricing transparency on the platform.
brian chesky said the change will come in december.
and finally, watch a movie when you can attend a meeting?
cinema chain is teaming up with zoom to launch which it’ calling zoom rooms.
the partnership with zoom will roll out sometime in 2023.
i’ll bring the popcorn!
it’ a quiet day here at atomico house, where spencer and are exploring its green on the surface, what is going on in this building can seem pretty low-tech.
there are windows to open if you get hot, there are lights that can be turned actually sensors on them.
and in each room is one of these dials.
so you only turn it down or up if you really, really need to.
on with the walls.
in the meeting rooms, there is a phase change material where they are exposed, and that will abserb heat from the space into the material, and then when it is not occupied it will dissipate that heat back into the rcom.
sensors all around the building are collecting masses of data collated into one place.
to make sure that the building is really doing the job explain a lot about the real world use, compared to that but what really makes this set-up different?
a really good example is light, because people’ eyes work out, which uses much more energy, we don’ necessarily notice it.
it seems a bit brighter because our eye adjusts, to a much lower level, where you can still do more pleasant, but using significantly less energy.
this building’ evolution and ethos has been born out
yeah,
and this is probably a good time to meet the man behind the building, and a whole lot more.
niklas co-founded skype, and atomico is his tech focused adventure capital firm.
and when he is looking for companies to invest in, he is also interested in how they intend to affect the planet.
the whole mission of atomico is to support founders, and replace legacy businesses with new ways of doing things.
and potentially build great businesses, and by doing that, building sustainable businesses that are, for example, replacing eating meat by lab-produced meat, building electrical aeroplanes or indoor farming.
but we also, we are encouraging founders to do that.
that we need to walk the talk, and we need to lead by example, by looking after our own house, literally.
you founded skype, which is the type of technology that’ now allowing people to work from home it might be tempting to think you would be all for closing offices anyway?
that we were remote workers.
when we started, we had people in different places and we wanted to be able to communicate.
but you know what, there is nothing that beats coming together.
and as humans, we are not individualistic, we are like crowd people.
i am very much for getting together, it doesn’
mean you always have to be together, because was just on a video call with some of our colleagues because they are at home so can go deep and focus on something.
believe that you have a combination.
to compete with silicon valley.
how are we doing?
if you would ask the guestion, say five or seven or ten years ago, you would have probably started with, is it that europe is failing in tech?
doing really well.
because there will be a1 about the tech sector any more, because every company, when we talk about sustainability, if you talk about companies that are going to have a long duration, they need to be tech-enabled companies.
and this is just about the global movement of entrepreneurship which is happening everywhere, and it is fantastic, it should not be one place you are an entrepreneur, you have met a load of entrepreneurs, what makes a good entrepreneur?
that is a good question, and the hardest question to know.
the whole team, we are meeting a lot of entrepreneurs, we don’ know, ask us in ten years.
you don’ know, it’ impossible.
but there are a few things - you have to have grit, passion, perseverance.
and they need to be so passionate about their field, that they want to disrupt or build, so that they really inherently understand it.
and they need to be able to articulate their strategy and they need to be a leader so they can get people because it’ not easy.
one more question for you, you’ve heard of solar power and wind power and wave power, are you familiar with the power of dance?
not really.
it’ no secret our world is heating up.
and glaciers shrink.
so at a time of unprecedented climate change, what more can be done to reduce our global carbon emissions?
you may have heard of wind, wave or solar power.
=1 0 the power of dance?
well, that’ the aim of a venue here in glasgow who are putting the planet by converting people’ body heat into renewable energy, they aim to drastically reduce their carbon footprint.
swg3 is a huge warehouse which hosts major club nights.
aptly called .
and i’ve managed to get exclusive access i’ve been here as a customer for a couple of big gigs and in that meeting it kind of just occurred to me there was a lot of heat being generated in the spaces we can capture that heat and we can store it in the ground.
you and just standing here right now are generating about 150 watts of energy.
like the rolling stones or something, you might be generating, like, 250 watts.
and then if you have got like a big , absolutely slamming bass line making everyone jump up and down, , you could be generating 500-600 watts of energy.
can you quantify that for me?
don’ know that kind of know what that means.
your house might need a ten kilowatt system, so that’ 10,000 watts.
so you and would be generating about 1% to 2% of the heat that is needed to heat your whole house up.
but how exactly does the system work?
the heat from the dancers is sucked up into vents the atmosphere like a regular unit, it is transferred into a specialised fluid and then pumped into a dozen boreholes 200 metres under the venue’ community garden.
the sandstone and mudstone here absorb and retain the heat, effectively acting like a thermal battery.
then, when that energy is needed, weeks or even months later, it can be transferred back through heat pumps warm or cocl the venue.
we have attached temperature sensors to all of the borehole loops, so we can see the individual temperature of each loop and how that is varying, and that all feeds back into the control system in the plant room, 50 we can see not just the total temperature of the system but each individual loop and that allows us to balance it for efficiency.
the system is being turned on at a party, and what better way than an event honouring a dance that originated in scotland, the slosh?
time goes by, so slowly and with every step, each person is their own generator of renewable energy.
which you can see, using this forward-looking infrared camera.
so i have a graph up here, this is what the control system is showing us, from the temperature goeing into the borehole.
from the amount of people intec the boreholes.
tonight, you can see there is a little spike here, and that is 200 people doing the slosh for 30 minutes.
13 to 14.
5 degrees.
but you get a thousand people in there, dancing for four - 08 you could generate about 800 kilowatt hours of thermal energy, that’ a lot of energy.
in fact, david claims that is enough energy so if the system is so groundbreaking, then heat in many ways is sort of forgotten energy source.
we were basically a petro-economy during the ‘80 and ‘90 and early ‘00, but as time goes on, as we’ve seen, as those costs rise, geothermal becomes ever more competitive.
as innovative as body heat is, though, it @ huge investment.
so how could the venue justifies installing a system that costs over £600,0007 any development has risk attached to it, and when you are putting in a system which is the first time ever, you are taking a bit of a leap of faith.
and other environments, and not just here in scotland, in the , across europe and further afield.
help the environment.
and clubbers have an extra reason to stay on the dance floor all night long.
call me ignorant, but i think the slosh looks a lot like lline dancing.
i think you’re going to get a lot of angry responses.
true.
from line-dancers and sloshers alike, no doubt.
pretty unsettled.
for the next couple of days, we’re going to see quite a lot of rain in places, the risk of some localized floeding, too.
and it’ all because of one area of low pressure, expected to hang around for thursday and friday, even into this is the low pressure system i’ talking about moving a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back northwards and westwards across the country during thursday but it’ going to bring a lot of rain and fairly strong winds at times.
now we start thursday off on a really chilly note for western scotland, northern ireland, that some frost and fog here.
but elsewhere where we have the cloud, the wind and the rain and temperatures remaining between five and nine degrees.
but a really thoroughly wet day to come for thursday.
our area of low pressure, as you can see here, slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
some heavy rain for eastern scotland, northern england, north wales, eastern england, the strongest of the winds along the north sea probably the best of any brighter weather after that chilly start, northern ireland and across the south and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
and then through thursday night, the rain continues to pile into eastern scotland.
a few showers elsewhere into northern ireland, some wet weather for northern england and north wales, probably the driest weather towards the south of the country.
but because there’ more cloud and wind across the whole of the , there won’ be quite as cold think for many seven to nine degrees.
so for friday there’ our area of low pressure again starting to fill at this point in weaker, but it’ still going and weaken, but it’ still going to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half of the country, especially by this point, rain really will be accumulating across angus, aberdeenshire, risk of localised flooding.
something a little bit quiet, think, for england generally.
again, parts of northern ireland, wales, central and southern england up to around 12 degrees there, but chilly further a a0 to be windy, especially for the northern isles.
saturday, brief spell of quieter weather before the next frontal system moves through saturday night into sunday, followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
so it starts off fairly dry, think for many on saturday, quite chilly, mind you.
then wet and windy weather sweeps through saturday 1 - top stories: president biden congratulates the republicans as they secure marking a return to divided government disagreement over the poland missile strike as ukraine insists its air defence teams weren’ to blame.
as protests continue - sentences are handed down by the revolutionary courts.
and to the moon and back - ’ most powerful rocket launches a new era of space exploration.
welcome to our viewers on in america and around the globe.
we begin in the united states, where the republican party has house of representatives, following last week’
it marks a return to divided government in america, with democrats still retaining a slim majority in the senate.
earlier spoke to our north america correspondent, peter bowes and asked what a divided government means for the next two years of politics.
well, this is, as you say, divided government returning to washington.
= unusual situation.
of course, historically it’ happened many times before.
in charge in the house of representatives, it will certainly stymie joe biden’ intentions, his political agenda over the next couple of years in a position to block the republicans will be in charge of the crucial they can bring forward their own legislation against joe biden that they choose to pursue.
so it will be a difficult time in washington.
we don’ expect a huge amount to get through to happen in terms of new legislation.
but it is interesting that joe biden is reaching out and this is typical of biden’ style.
he is reaching out to the republicans, saying to work together.
on polish territory.
president zelensky insists russia was behind the strike, the incident was most likely caused by a ukrainian a3 katya adler reports.
these have been nail-biting moments for poland and its allies, gathering evidence and intelligence about last night’ missile strike close to poland’'s border with ukraine.
yerevan lives nearby.
his family heard the explosion, he said, and were really scared.
nato was also nervous.
you’ll notice almost more emphasis today on who likely wasn’ behind the strike than who probably was.
we have no indication that this was the result of a deliberate attack, and we have no indication that russia is preparing offensive military actions against nato.
poland’ president says it seems the explosion was caused by ukrainian air defence systems.
an unfortunate error
, he said.
moscow did pound ukraine with missiles yesterday.
if it had struck or targeted neighbouring nato member poland, as first suggested in polish media, the whole alliance could have been called on, meaning confrontation with nuclear power russia.
nato really wants to avoid that, while still supporting ukraine’ military.
nato leaders’ carefully crafted, measured response today shows how much they fear europe is on a knife edge.
they’ve had a sharp shock reminder of the ever-present potential of russia’ war to escalate and spread beyond ukraine’ borders.
kyiv sometimes accuses allies of getting too used if that ever was the case, last night was a huge wake-up call.
but it’ also caused a rift with kyiv, determined russia was behind the strike in poland.
: have no doubt that this is not our missile, not our strike.
believe this is a russian 0ld military reports.
that’ a very rare public break at a meeting of world leaders today, the prime minister assured ukraine support against russia was unwavering, and there were strong words from his foreign secretary.
the house should be in no doubt that the only reason missiles are flying through european skies and exploding in european villages is because of russia’ barbaric invasicn of ukraine.
as the investigation continues on the ground in poland, nato says it’ boosting air defences across eastern europe as well as ukraine, just in case.
katya adler, news, nato.
well earlier spoke to brad bowman who senior director of the center on military at the foundation for incident in poeland.
in the initial hours there was a lot of heated rhetoric and suggestions of how washington and our allies in europe should respond.
i think the right move was to take a deep breath, that is exactly what a1 a= a and its nato allies did.
it is a good thing we did because as is often the case in war, the first reports are not accurate.
if we had responded based on initial conjecture, we could have made a big mistake with far-reaching consequences.
for my part would applaud the biden administration and nato.
and because cooler heads prevailed, the crisis has this was a tragic incident, two innocent people killed but arguably when you are zone, things like this, runs the risk of happening, as this war continues?
i hope not, but do worry that that might be the case.
any course of action following putin’ unprovoked invasion of ukraine has some risk associated.
the strategy the and our european allies have pursued defend themselves against this unprovoked invasion, on the eastern flank of the alliance and to hold the alliance together as best we can.
we want to do everything we can to help ukraine between russia and nato.
something we were able to do during the whole length of the cold war.
this was a moment of 4 continue to arm ukraine will incur some risks, but the cost of not doing so will be greater.
nato says russia still bears the responsibility because ukraine wouldn’ be using its air defences if it didn’ need to, is that a fair response from poland?
we are looking at the largest invasion in europe since world war il, and provoked by putin, an illicit war.
russia bears culpability for this war, the initiation of war and the way they have conducted it as the 7 put out in a statement today, has been barbaric.
i don’ think it is a hyperbole to say that.
it was on tuesday when roughly 90 missiles were raining down on ukraine, including a you can sit and criticise, but when you have 90 missiles raining down on you, mistakes can happen.
i we regret the loss of life but need to put blame where it ultimately resides and that is international health organisations are warning that a cholera outbreak in haiti is worsening, with a dramatic increase in the number of people falling ill.
the head of the pan american health organization said officials had now confirmed over 700 cholera infections, were detected in october.
it’ believed the true numbers could be much higher.
she added that half a million people are at risk of contracting the disease.
let’ go iran now, where the judiciary has handed of being involved in anti-government protests.
authorities in iran are trying & sparked by the death of a young woman, mahsa amini, while in custody of iran’ morality policy.
so far, nearly sixteen thousand protesters have been got this update from our reporter, azadeh moshiri.
five people so far have heen sentenced to death, that they’ve been charged with enmity against god, waging a war against god.
that’ the charge that the revolutionary courts typically use when they want to have a charge that could be prosecuted and lead to a death sentence.
now, the courts have said it’ for things like one of the protesters hitting and killing a police another one was supposedly in possession of weapons.
but what their families have said through statements and comments to persian is that these were essentially sham trials, that these protesters didn’ actually have access to any of their lawyers and therefore weren’ able to mount a credible defense that their fate was essentially sealed the moment that they were indicted.
and that’ not new from the revolutionary courts.
that’ something that typically happens to political prisoners.
now, we also know that more 010 10 tanat-ta 3 have been issued so far.
some of those, dozens of them, and so it’ important to stress that this is just the beginning of one of the most brutal and violent phases of the islamic republic’ crackdown on protesters, that more death protests is not waning.
people are still putting their to challenge the system.
meanwhile, news out i about iran’ influence on british security, yes, there was a warning by the head of mi5, the british intelligence service, that iran is continuing to silence its critics, but that that isn’ just it’ worth listening to what he had to say.
and this was during his annual address about the current and most pressing security threats that are facing the united kingdom right now.
iran projects threat to the directly through its aggressive intelligence services.
at its sharpest this includes ambitions to kidnap or even kill british or based individuals perceived as enemies of the regime.
since january alone.
the foreign secretary made clear to the iranian regime just last week that the will not tolerate intimidation or threats to life towards journalists or any individual living in the .
intelligence services have targeted british citizens, as well as people in britain through about ten kidnap or murder plots.
and the way they’ve done this is they’ve used their own spies.
they’ve even tried to lure people to iran to then target them there.
and that this isn’ just happening in the .
the head of mi5 also said that this has been happening across europe and it’ been happening for many years.
and of course, now it’ taking heightened importance police told based iranian journalists, especially ones that are broadcasting like persian on its farsi speaking channels, that they have potential threats china’ president, jinping, and canada’ prime minister, justin trudeau, exchanged tense words on the sidelines of the 20 summit in bali on wednesday.
president had been meeting several world leaders, but a short follow-up conversation between trudeau wasn’ entirely friendly.
stay with us on news, still to come.
to the moon and back - a new era dawns as nasa’ most powerful rocket blasts off.
benazir bhutto has claimed victory in pakistan’ general name her as prime minister.
jacksen’ been released on balil of $3 million after turning himself in to police in santa barbara.
it was the biggest of the first growing european antinuclear movement.
the south african government has announced that it’ opening whites-only beaches to people of all races.
this will lead to a black majority government in this country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
part of the centuries-old windsor castle, one of the queen’ residences, has been censumed by fire for much of a day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
this is world news, the latest headlines.
presdient biden has congratulated the republicans of representatives.
it could limit the president’ ability to get his legaslative programme through.
families of the victims in south korea are demanding an official apology from the country’ president.
more than 150 young people were killed in the crush, and families want those in power to be held accountable.
here’ our seoul correspondent, jean mackenzie.
a woman sobs into the floor at the scene of the deadly crush.
this tragedy is more heartbreaking now it’ clear it could’ve been prevented.
song is visiting his daughter’ ashes.
"daddy’ here now," he says.
" hope you’re doing well.
” 24-year-old unji was one of the last victims to be identified.
doctors told her father i : the most heartbreaking thing they anticipated that many people would gather that day, but didn’ prepare for it.
why?
did they not?
just she was such a precious daughter for us.
who do you want to take responsibility for your daughter’'s death?
: someone high up needs to take responsibility thousands have taken to the street to demand the president’ resignation.
angry that no-one has taken responsibility.
to the empty streets of taewon.
the police cordon has finally been lifted, but the alley almost completely deserted.
most of the bars and the restaurants are still closed, it’ hard to see at this stage how these streets can ever go back to the way they were before.
we haven’
really been here since halloween.
everyone that was lost, those were people that came to our neighbourhood and people from our neighbourhood, so what are your biggest worries now going forward?
fear being scapegoated for there are problems.
this neighbourhood has a really special and unique place within korea, but it hasn’ always been supported.
many of the protesters were angry with the president here before ltaewon.
but if he fails to punish the right people, these jean mackenzie, news, seoul.
a new study has found that climate change severely worsened the heavy rains that caused largescale flooding killing hundreds of people.
countries’ history.
the report by world weather attribution says extreme seasonal rainfall and the release of water from dams caused the flooding.
they concluded the event was made eighty times more likely by climate change.
brazil’ president-elect has vowed to fight speaking at the cop27 summit in eqypt, luiz inacio lula silva said there would be no climate security for the world if the amazon a our climate editor, justin rowlatt, reports from the conference in egypt.
ole, ole, ole, ola!
lula, lula!
plichaner was his message.
he said fighting climate change will be his number one priority and he premised to start rebuilding the agencies that police the forest as soon as he takes office in january.
: it’ time to act.
what we need is hope, hope combined with immediate and decisive action for the future of the planet and for humankind.
lula, lula!
there is no question that lula is the star of this conference, but he faces real problems at home - brazil’ finances are in trouble, he doesn’ have control of the parliament and there’ no doubt his rival, jair bolsonaro, will be making trouble for him.
under bolsonaro, rates a i 2
he was accused of encouraging loggers and miners to go into the forest and of hobbling the environmental police.
lula says his target is zero deforestation.
he promised to start rebuilding the agencies that police the forest as soon as he takes office in january.
but his team acknowledges there is hard work ahead.
: this won’ be an easy process.
there was a dismantling of all policies related lar
but if we rebuild the budget, if we rebuild the teams, that change cannot come quickly enough, say the indigenous communities who are on the front i they are illegal miners, they are poisoning our rivers and deforesting our forests.
the crowds surged around a lula says he’ urging the to allow brazil to host the 2025 climate conference, and he says he wants it to be nasa’
artemis rocket has finally launched, marking the start of a new era, which it’ hoped will eventually see humans return to the moon.
technical hitches and two hurricanes prevented our science editor, rebecca morrelle, was watching.
and here we go.
it was the moment they’ been waiting for.
three, two, one after months of setbacks, nasa’ most powerful rocket was finally on its way - the start of humanity’ return to the moon.
we rise together, back to the moon, and beyond!
it’ an incredibly complex machine.
it has so many components.
to get 8.
8 million pounds of thrust off the ground requires many systems that all have to work together perfectly, and it did just that today.
no people are on board this time, but this test the ultimate plan is to land the first woman and first person of colour on the moon.
wanted to be an astronaut from the time was five years old.
if they see somebody that they can identify with a little bit, it puts them into a totally different perspective where they can say, well, "wait a minute, that person was just like me, and they did it, so cando it, too.
” of cornwall, the goonhilly earth station has an important role to play.
this huge dish is part around the world tracking the spacecraft, and the data it will help nasa to work out exactly where the spacecraft is and how fast it’ moving as it heads towards the moon.
13 signal sent back.
this doesn’ look like very much, think, to most people, what you would normally see is just a flat line of noise.
but we’re picking up the signal from space, from the artemis spacecraft.
with a last look back ele 1 now has a 26-day journey ahead.
this is just the beginning, the start of a million-mile journey that’ being described as apollo for a new generation.
rebecca morelle, news.
that’ it for now.
much more on he news website.
you can reach me on twitter - i’ @ richpreston.
hello there, the weather is looking pretty unsettled, quite a lot of rain in places i localised flooding.
it’ all because of an area of low pressure which is expected to hang around for thursday and friday, even into this is the low pressure system i’ talking about, moving eastwards and then pulling back northwards and westwards across the country during thursday and friday, where it will weaken, but it will bring we start thursday on a chilly note for western scotland, northern ireland, and there’ frost and fog, but elsewhere where we have the cloud, wind and rain, temperatures between 5-9 degrees.
a thoroughly wet day to come for thursday, our area of low pressure, as you can see, pushing heavy rain, east england, strongest of the winds along the best of any brighter weather is in northern ireland but nowhere particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
and then through thursday night the rain continues to pile into eastern scotland and a few showers elsewhere wet weather for northern england and north wales.
probably the driest weather towards the south of the country.
because there is more cloud and wind across the whole of the , it won’ be quite as cold for many, 7-9 degrees.
for friday there is our area of low pressure, starting to weaken, but it will bring 1gs half of the country, especially by this point, rain really will be accumulating across angus, aberdeenshire and the risk of localised flooding here.
for england generally.
on friday again.
parts of northern ireland, wales, central and southern england.
up to 12 degrees, but chilly will continue to be windy, especially for that fizzles out on saturday and a brief spell of quieter weather before the next frontal system moves through on saturday night into sunday, and followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
it starts off fairly for many on saturday and quite chilly.
wet and windy weather sweeps through saturday night to sunday and that will be followed by sunshine and showers.
president biden has congratulated the republican party after they secured control of the house of representatives, following last week’'s midterm elections.
the democrats still hold the senate.
president biden’ ability to push through his
i zelensky says he’ in no doubt the missile strike that killed two people in poland on tuesday was not caused by ukrainian air defence.
nato, poland and the believe the incident was most likely caused by a ukrainian air defense missile.
and brazil’ president-elect, luiz inacio lula silva, has told the cop27 summit in eqypt that fighting climate change will be his number one priority.
he said there would be no climate security for the world now on news, hardtalk.
next month, the ruling in south africa holds its five yearly national conference, where president cyril ramaphosa i cladl as leader of the party, which puts him in a position but south africa is currently in the midst of a severe economic meltdown, with mass unemployment and crippling power cuts and a political culture which many are warning could bring the state to the point of collapse.
ronald lamola, seen as one of the rising stars of the ’ younger generation.
how does he account for the government’’ failure to address the myriad challenges it faces?
justice minister ronald lamola in pretoria, people in south africa are struggling.
unemployment of at least 35%, nearly two thirds for young people.
you have let the country down, haven’ you?
there has been a breken promise.
and as you will have seen from the zondo commission’ report, the hollowing out of institutions which =dl is responding to, and we have national prosecuting authority, and we believe that we are beginning to turn the corner because monies are being - money is being recovered that has been stolen from the fiscus, and also the institutions are gradually to be turning are being restored, including the soes, like eskom, as you referred to the energy crisis, the board, the new board, and the various responsible in terms of the energy crisis.
we believe that the great value we are rebuilding, of the gas transition, and we are currently participating in the cop27 where we are looking at the transition that will be sustainable, that will be responsive to reduce the carbon emissions, but also continuing to use our natural endowment llike coal in @ manner that will help us to transition.
appreciate that you’re trying to address your energy issues.
you say soes, the state owned enterprises, which were mentioned, as you said, in the zondo commission, that’ chief justice raymond zondo, in june, when he concluded the judicial inquiry into state capture in south africa, whenand, of course, by state capture we mean under former president jacob zuma when businesses and politicians redirected public resources into their own pockets.
you’re talking about all that.
but that’ a tired old excuse, isn’ it, you are part of an administration that’ been in power since 2019.
you could be doing more to tackle all these challenges.
it is not a tired old excuse, because since we started the administration, the sixth administration, as have said, that was stolen is brought back and the in south africa, we started to rebuild them, including to help them to appoint competent and experienced prosecutors, including to get from the private practitioners, to help the national prosecuting authority to be able to handle the complex matters - and, as we speak, they are beginning to claw back the money and other resources, including to hold people accountable.
sorry, but just want to pick up again on something that chief justice raymond zondo said in his findings.
government, should be and since jacob zuma’ resignation in february 2018, the have done little to tackle corruption within the party ranks.
just blame it all on the previous administration.
zondo says you’ve not done much to get your acts together to tackle corruption.
yeah, hence we say it is not correct, because if you look inte the institute today, it is beginning to account, 31 in the , where those that are accused or who have been mentioned in the zondo commission of inquiry have stepped aside.
some of them that were arrested have stepped aside into positions of responsibility.
as we speak now, the does not have a secretary general precisely because of this issue.
so it is a sign that the has been acting amongst its members who were mentioned in that process, even those so the is accountable to the people of this country on some of these issues, but the also continues i government to account, including the current administration, where the boards of the various state a being rebooted to be able to be fit for purpose, to respond to the energy crisis, to respond to the crippling challenges, of logistical challenges at the transnet, and also to the various roles which the state owned enterprises are aimed for.
you mentioned transnet there, that’ the large south african rail, port and pipeline company.
but, you know, people are really struggling, mean, you know, after 28 years of rule, you’ve got people living in shacks still waiting for the promised government housing.
we’ve talked about the power challenges.
people talking about the millions of dollars meant to help fight covid-19 were found to have been misappropriated to the point that former president thabo mbeki has said, you can’ have so many people unemployed, 0 many poor people.
one day, it’ going to explode.
he’ predicting a kind of arab spring revolution in south africa if the government 1 he’ right, isn’ he?
the clock is ticking for you.
it’ a global challenge.
even in the great britain, across the globe, people are struggling, including in the , because of the covid-19 that has crippled economies across the globe.
it is a function that all of us are responding were stolen during the covid-19 period, most of the people that were responsible for that have been held to account.
the monies have been clawed back through institutions like the special investigating unit, and we are building to ensure that there is an economic recovery plan to take us back to the covid-19 period, which is what the current administration is responding to, and that will also obviously need a compact between government and the private sector so that we are able to respond to the declining economy or lack of economic growth, including to the challenge of unemployment, which affected if we are able to find that compact between us and the private sector and society as a whole, we will be able to respond to ensure economic growth and to the challenge of unemployment.
the government’’ got the will to address all these challenges, i put it to you, as sanusha naidu, an analyst at the institute for global dialogue, says, how can you actually do 0
when, she says, so many of the state’ organs are financially and systematically broken?
the tools, as have said, are being rebuilt as we speak, now.
the national prosecuting authority in the country, responsible for prosecuting and dealing with some of these challenges that you have raised, is being rebuilt.
we have been able to appoint 1 in a period of three years, which will enable them to function, and we do believe that because of that rebuilding of some of the institutions, like , that has now collected more than it had expected, it is a sign that it is being rebooted and it is being now well oiled for people.
so there is work to rebuild the institutions and you can see some green shoots in that regard.
you mentioned the south african - , which is the south african revenue service, but want to repeat to you the point that thabo mbeki said, which, they don’ have the power cuts, there are interruptions to the water supply.
this is all going to take time, and they want
but if there is a compact between government they will see jobs being created.
being held accountable.
they will also participate in the project to rebuild our to time, the people have an opportunity in south africa to participate in elections, which they have just done, for the local government elections - also, in 2024, soon, they will also participate in an election process.
our democracy enables them to participate.
it is not the same conditions in the arab spring, as you said, where they did not have a period of regular democracy to participate and to express a view in terms of the country’ direction.
so do believe that the people in this country, as they participate and also play a role in legislative frameworks and also in policy to the challenges that they are feeling.
they will be able to continue to shape the country’ democracy, not in a manner that they may be destructive, but in a manner that is constructive and developmental.
you mentioned the municipal local elections last year.
the won less than half time, with south africans naming corruption as their top concern.
faith in the .
yes,
but we remain a leading party and we have demonstrated to the people that we are rebuilding that trust through ensuring that whoever held to account and institutions are able to stand on their own without any interference from politicians or from bureaucracy.
the judiciary, the rule of law of this country.
local government, whether it’ the national government or state-owned entities, will be held to account.
and could the president be held to account?
because, as you know, he’ embroiled in a controversy from his cattle farm in the north of the country.
the opposition, and even some within the , questioned whether he violated foreign exchange or tax rules.
for him, was the proceeds of an animal sale that he made.
the south african ombudsman that investigates allegations on public misconduct is looking into this case.
so we’re all awaiting to see what happens there.
however, this doesn’ look good for you, does it?
democratic person.
he has subjected himself to the institutions that are appointed to investigate him.
he is cooperating with them.
all the institutions lee a1 agency, the, the public protector, as we have said, including the processes of parliament, and the president said he will cooperate with them wholeheartedly and fully.
and he knows that the institutions must be able of the country is the one that reigns supreme.
we’ll see what happens in that particular case.
you’re the , since it came to power 28 years ago, and including which you serve, has also been trying to deal with the longstanding issue of land ownership.
according to president ramaphosa, about 72% of south africa’ privately owned land is in the hands of members of the white population, who account for between 8-10% of people in south africa.
and the black population, a own a very small percentage of that land.
a bill to address this failed in parliament last year.
so what is the main option now to really tackle this long-standing injustice?
yes, the bill could not go through because, as the , where the state owns the land for its own use, individual saving, private ownership and touristic people, and also communal land, where we need to provide a security of tenure.
we have an option.
we are currently having an expropriation bill, that is before parliament and that expropriation bill is now being passed by the national assembly awaiting concurrence by the national council of provinces in parliament.
for his accepting.
we also have the land court bill, which is aimed to fast track the disputes that are before the land court now and also to make the land court permanent.
it will alse develop jurisprudence.
i a1 which also have been passed by the national assembly, is now in the , the national assembly, it will have to be accepted to by the, by the president.
the current sixth administration is, also, in the process of distributing about 700,000 hectares of land to respond to this challenge.
we will also obviously have to accelerate some of the various pieces of legislation aimed , thank you.
you’ve set that up very clearly for us.
you mentioned the , which of course, is the upper house of the seuth i another big challenge which is often associated with south africa is the issue of crime.
we’ve seen the murder rate go up by 40% since 2010.
we’ve seen kidnappings for ransom quadruple.
as copper and power cables, resulting in billions of dollars in damage.
gold and platinum are illegally mined or stolen and sold illicitly.
this is a dismal state of affairs for you as minister of justice.
so, in a nutshell, what are you doing to tackle all this?
and the south african police where there is a unit dedicated to respond to the issue of theft of copper cables.
by our courts to various criminals who played their role in cable theft.
some of them have been sentenced to more than 15 years, some ten years.
there is also a dedicated focus on the, on the issue of the mining towns challenges.
oh, yeah.
some of the criminals have already been convicted.
ig- of this, can you, minister?
a report this year by a geneva based , the , that’ the global initiative against transnational organised crime, says all of the things was talking about "are signs that the state is struggling rein i 48 "in three decades, organised crime has spread across south africa and forged links across the world”.
yes, hence we are putting a focus on this form of organised crime, and as have said, some have already been convicted.
it is important that we get the planners, the plotters, people that are the ones who are making the chain of organised crime to work.
and that is where the focus a and then, with time, you will be able to see that happening.
of this kind of crime syndicate 0
we’ll be looking at that.
and you said you’re working sorry to cut across you then.
you said you were working with the , which is, of course, the national prosecution authority.
but let’ just look at the general kind of picture for the and its prospects.
the respected south african commentator william gumede says "there is a acceptance within south africa and he predicts that the will lose its majority nationally in the 2024 election.
isn’ it, that after nearly as a kind of one-party state and people no longer trust you to get things done?
south africa has always been a multi-party democracy you will remember he ran the country with the former president klerk in a multi-party democracy.
so there has always been opposition parties.
they’ve always played a role in our country.
and we deliberately allowed a proportional representation system to enhance in the flourishing of various political parties and, and views in our country.
the has been, obviously, a dominant organisation, a leading party in that regard and we do believe, as the , that we were able to reconnect with the trust of the people, ensuring that those that were involved in the, in the theft of, of monies or siphoning of monies in these fiscus are accountable.
if we ensure that all the institutions the challenges of unemployment, lack of economic growth.
we will reconnect with the people of south africa and the will continue to be the governing party.
mean, could the conceivably go a bit further?
because, you know, there is the thought that there comes a time when a party that’ been in office a long time could benefit from not holding power exclusively.
and tell you, a survey by the social research foundation in april this year showed that many potential voters in seuth africa favour the idea of the party governing in coalition with other parties.
is that something that you think, an idea that could fly?
as i’ve said, the has always accommodated but an actual coalition government is the thought here.
there’ a coalition government, as was concluding on that point, we have always governed with them, with a1 from time to time, you will find the leader of the at some stage.
buthelezi also played a role in government, but the believes that they must be a leading party, which is the governing party, which is always the .
in the metros in our country, like the city of johannesburg, the commercial hub, which is the capital city, goevernment are not yet the way in our country.
our democracy has not yet matured to the level where coalition governments can be one that is working.
it will be worse at the national level where you can just have a situation almost like a yo-yo government.
so we are of the view that we must continue to have a leading party, which is the , to constitute government so that there is a stable democracy and also economic growth.
you mentioned buthelezi there.
$3 mangosuthu buthelezi of the inkatha freedom party.
finally and briefly, ronald lamola, justice minister in south africa, you want to be elected cyril ramaphosa’ deputy next month at the party meeting, and that would put you in pole position to run for president in 2029.
yes, do.
um, am a person who grew up in a farm, in this country, who, as a child of farm workers, who also went on to acquire higher education from such an underprivileged background, who also practised law, who believes in the constitution of the country.
have also been privileged now to be the minister of justice, who has been responsible for the resetting of state institutions, aimed to support our constitutional democracy, like the , which are now able to function free, without any fear or favour or prejudice or interference from anyone, whom we have given support in terms of resources tee and competent people to work in regards to crime and corruption, and also to provide them the necessary resources.
the development or the continuous development of our constitutional =’ ronald lamola, justice minister in south africa, thank you very much indeed for coming pretty unsettled.
for the next couple of days, we’re going to see quite a lot of rain in places, the risk of some localized floeding, too.
and it’ all because of one area of low pressure, expected to hang around for thursday and friday, even into this is the low pressure system i’ talking about, moving a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back northwards and westwards across the country during thursday but it’ going to bring a lot of rain and fairly strong winds at times.
now we start thursday off on a really chilly note for western scotland, northern ireland, that some frost and fog here.
but elsewhere where we have the cloud, the wind and the rain, temperatures remaining between five and nine degrees.
but a really thoroughly wet day to come for thursday.
our area of low pressure, as you can see here, slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
some heavy rain for eastern scotland, northern england, north wales, eastern england, the strongest of the winds along the north sea probably the best of any brighter weather after that chilly start, northern ireland and across the south and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
and then through thursday night, the rain continues to pile into eastern scotland.
a few showers elsewhere into northern ireland, some wet weather for northern england and north wales, probably the driest weather towards the south of the country.
but because there’ more cloud and wind across the whole of the , it won’ be quite as cold think for many , seven to nine degrees.
so for friday there’ our area of low pressure again starting to fill at this point and weaken, but it’ still going to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half of the country, especially by this point, rain really will be accumulating across angus, aberdeenshire, risk of localised flooding.
something a little bit quiet, think, for england generally.
again, parts of northern ireland, wales, central and southern england up to around 12 degrees there, but chilly further a a0 to be windy, especially for the northern isles.
saturday, brief spell of quieter weather before the next frontal system moves through saturday night into sunday, followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
so it starts off fairly dry, think for many on saturday, quite chilly, mind you.
then wet and windy weather sweeps through saturday this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the all eyes on jeremy hunt as he delivers the much awaited autumn statement - higher taxes are expected in a bid to tame soaring inflation.
several senators side with democrats to support same sex marriage legislation.
anger builds in south korean as no-one is held responsible for the deadly halloween crush.
rare pieces of furniture that once belonged to marie antionette go under the hammer.
the british chancellor, jeremy hunt will set out his spending plans in his autumn statement later, and is widely expected to announce an increase to benefits, tax credits, and state pensions.
yoo by but at a less generous level, and that cash will reportedly come from significant tax increases for the most wealthy.
our business correspondent caroline davies has the new chancellor, a = i the new chancellor, the fourth this year and the new autumn ement.
with inflation at highest in 41 years and nings about its highest in 41 years and &1 its highest in 41 years and warnings about the facing ongest recession since the longest recession since records began, mistakes are .
and around the people high.
and around the people high.
and around the people are already feeling it.
what ould buy for £2 is now you could buy for £2 is now 2 50.
you worry it will impact ediately, clothing, heating house.
me and my partner ave 0 said no presents for each er.
we have never not bought other a hristmas present this year we can’ afford so what do we think the i to.
so what do we think the chancellor plans to do?
expected to raise state pensions, benefits and tax its in credits in april by september’ inflation credits in april by september’ - 4 credits in april by september’ inflation rate.
that was 10.
1%_ nergy, there be a on energy, there will be a jele on energy, there will be a price cap on energy, there will be a alce 0 on energy, there will be a price cap but it will rise, so ypical household full pay ust over £3000 a year.
rrently, 0 currently, they are paying £2500_ not everyone around £2500.
not everyone lives in a typical household he cap on unit and the cap is on unit rates, your bills which means how ile1 not your bills which means how much you pay will depend on how le1 nergy you actually use.
much energy you actually use.
and they will likely be rises.
energy companies are cted to be hit by an xpanded windfall tax.
the ury are expanded windfall tax.
the i a are expected to say treasury are expected to say 0 there needs to be cuts to spending plans but those will shed back until after be pushed back until after the cla i wil be pushed back until after the general election.
after liz and kwasi warteng’ mini budget and the turmoil in the kets, the treasury feels under pressure to show it can 18 redibility back, while win credibility back, while ayihl win credibility back, while 1 i 1 trying to reassure the country as the economy struggles.
oline davies, news.
there is a lot of nerves caroline davies, news.
i a 00 there is a lot of nerves about this autumn statement and what 't means for homes and businesses.
will be talking arket analyst and the to a market analyst and the institute of directors about they want from this autumn atement.
what they want from this autumn statement.
all of that to come ater in the programme.
now to midterm elections, president biden has congratulated the man likely to be named the new speaker of the house of representatives - kevin mccarthy.
it comes after republicans secured a slim majority in the house, while democrats held the senate.
the return to divided politics came just moments that would ensure country-wide recognition of same sex marriage.
here’ our north america correspondent, peter bowes.
supreme court seven years ago when same sex marriage rights were affirmed natichwide.
the court’ decision reflected rapidly changing public opinion, which persists today i americans, including a majority of republicans, supporting same sex unions.
but ever since the supreme court’ decision this year to deny women in this country their constitutional right to have an abortion, i similar action could be taken decision on gay marriage.
this bill in the senate could stymie any future intentions of the conservative leaning court.
and it’ been made possible through the kind of cross-party cooperation that joe biden will be hoping continues next year, if he’ to advance his political agenda.
republican senators have voted to head off what many see as a possible attempt by the court to further overturn the individual freedoms of americans following the supreme court’ decision to overturn roe versus wade.
women felt their health and well-being was dangered, and our own abilities to make critical decisions about our futures were suddenly thrown into question.
this fear trickled into other communities, including the community.
on this vote, the yays are 62, the nays are 37.
negotiations on a bill have been going on for months now.
the senate has voted to move forward with legislation to protect same sex unions.
all 50 democrats and 12 republicans voted to consider in the final days of a which is controlled by the democrats.
passing this bill is as personal as it gets for many of us in this chamber.
myself, madam president, included my daughter my daughter in law are expecting a baby next spring, and want to do everything possible to make sure want them and everyone in a loving relationship to live without the fear that their rights could one day be stripped away.
1 2 welcomed the senate decision.
he said, love is love and americans should have the right to marry the person they love.
today’ bipartisan vote brings the united states one step closer to protecting that right in law.
the president has also congratulated his republican opponents on their success in the house of representatives, and he said he wanted to continue working together to get things done for the american people.
11 news.
a verdict is expected later in the murder trial of four suspects charged in connection with the downing of malaysia airlines flight -17.
in the incident in 2014.
anna holligan reports.
on july 17th, 2014, 298 people boarded malaysia airlines flight 17 at amsterdam’ schiphel airport, bound for kuala lumpur.
bbut they would never reach their destination.
the plane was shot out of the by a surface weiauieaig it’ mass murder.
298 people were murdered.
eight years on, today will bring a verdict the justice we’re now witnessing here has been a long time in the making.
two separate inquiries were launched, one focusing on what caused the plane to break up in midair.
the other, on who was criminally responsible.
relatives at the epicentre of this disaster placed their faith in the quest for justice.
celina fredericks, son bryce and his girlfriend daisy were on board flight -17.
we will never get our children back, we know that, some people sometimes tell us.
1dl for this, for this case?
" we need the truth and we need justice.
a 3 reconstruction of the returned wreckage formed part of the evidence that helped investigators to identify the exact warhead that perforated the plane the time held by russian backed separatists forces.
via intercepted telephone calls, witnesses, photos and social media posts, they were able to point 1 russians and one ukrainian.
the most prominent suspect is igor girkin, who prosecutors intelligence service.
eliot higgins, pioneering open source investigative work, assisted the prosecution.
anyone who would claim that russia wasn’ involved with this shootdown is really a ridiculous person.
russia has always denied supplying the missile, taken a tougher stance in response to -17, the current conflict in ukraine could have been prevented.
putin has never been stopped.
hope the world wakes up now.
the four fugitives refused to face the judges and -4
but the evidence presented during their trial has helped the families to find the truth.
among them, elsa meek’ father, hans borst, who cherishes his only child’ documents recovered intact from the crash site.
it is extremely important to me, that feeling of justice to be done gives a good feeling and gives, hope, gives some peace about this subject.
anna holligan, news, schiphol.
families of the victims in south korea are demanding an official apology from the country’ president.
more than 150 young people were killed in the crush, and families want those in power to be held accountable.
here’ our seoul correspondent, jean mackenzie.
a woman sobs into the floor at the scene of the deadly crush.
this tragedy is more heartbreaking now it’ clear it could’ve been prevented.
song is visiting his daughter’ ashes.
"daddy’ here now," he says.
" hope you’re doing well.
” 24-year-old unji was one of the last victims to be identified.
doctors told her father i : the most heartbreaking thing they anticipated that many people would gather that day, but didn’ prepare for it.
why?
did they not?
just she was such a precious daughter for us.
who do you want to take responsibility for your daughter’'s death?
: someone high up needs to take responsibility thousands have taken to the street to demand the president’ resignation.
angry that no-one has taken responsibility.
to the empty streets of taewon.
the police cordon has finally been lifted, but the alley almost completely deserted.
most of the bars and the restaurants are still closed, it’ hard to see at this stage how these streets can ever go back to the way they were before.
we haven’
really been here since halloween.
everyone that was lost, those were people that came to our neighbourhood and people from our neighbourhood, so what are your biggest worries now going forward?
fear being scapegoated for there are problems.
this neighbourhood has a really special and unique place within korea, but it hasn’ always been supported.
many of the protesters were angry with the president here before ltaewon.
but if he fails to punish the right people, these jean mackenzie, news, seoul.
the latest arrivals for the world cup touch down in qatar as the holders laai - benazir bhutto has claimed victory in pakistan’ general name her as prime minister.
jacksen’ been released on balil of $3 million after turning himself in to police in santa barbara.
it was the biggest of the first growing european antinuclear movement.
the south african government has announced that it’ opening whites-only beaches to people of all races.
this will lead to a black majority government in this country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
part of the centuries-old windsor castle, one of the queen’ residences, has been censumed by fire for much of a day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
this is news, the latest headlines.
jeremy hunt, prepares to deliver his much-awaited budget statement - higher taxes are expected in a bid to curb soaring inflation.
through same sex marriage legislation.
brazil’ president-elect has vowed to fight speaking at the cop27 summit in eqypt, luiz inacio lula silva said there would be no climate security for the world if the amazon a our climate editor, justin rowlatt, reports from the conference in egypt.
ole, ole, ole, ola!
lula, lula!
plichaner was his message.
he said fighting climate change will be his number one priority and he premised to start rebuilding the agencies that police the forest as soon as he takes office in january.
: it’ time to act.
what we need is hope, hope combined with immediate and decisive action for the future of the planet and for humankind.
lula, lula!
there is no question that lula is the star of this conference, but he faces real problems at home - brazil’ finances are in trouble, he doesn’ have control of the parliament and there’ no doubt his rival, jair bolsonaro, will be making trouble for him.
under bolsonaro, rates a i 2
he was accused of encouraging loggers and miners to go into the forest and of hobbling the environmental police.
lula says his target is zero deforestation.
he promised to start rebuilding the agencies that police the forest as soon as he takes office in january.
but his team acknowledges there is hard work ahead.
: this won’ be an easy process.
there was a dismantling of all policies related lar
but if we rebuild the budget, if we rebuild the teams, that change cannot come quickly enough, say the indigenous communities who are on the front i they are illegal miners, they are poisoning our rivers and deforesting our forests.
the crowds surged around a lula says he’ urging the to allow brazil to host the 2025 climate conference, and he says he wants it to be let’ get some of the day’ other news.
hundreds of prisoners from insein prison in yangon - it’ not clear exactly how many inmates will be set free, but there’ speculation that several prominent foreigners could be among them.
international health organisations are warning that a cholera outbreak in crisis-hit haiti is worsening.
at least 700 cholera infections have been confirmed were detected in october, numbers could be much higher.
climate change severely worsened the heavy rains that caused largescale flooding across swathes of nigeria killing hundreds of people according to a study by world weather attribution.
swept away hundreds of thousands of homes and devastated more than half a million hectares of farmland.
now it’ time for all the latest sports news.
i’ gavin ramshaw
and this is your update from the sport centre.
the french world cup squad arrived in qatar on wednesday for the defence of the title they won in russia in 2018.
they’re looking to become only the third team in history and the first since brazil in 1962 to win back-to-back world cups.
but they haven’ been helped by a injury list.
midfielders paul pogba and ’golo kante, i to the title four years ago, are among those ruled out of this year’ tournament.
striker christopher from the squad through injury on tuesday and there’ a doubt over the fitness of karim benzema.
they face australia first.
next, tennis, and novak djokovic will be able to play the country was overturned.
djokovic has won the australian open and had his visa cancelled after failing to meet the covid requlations that were in place at the time.
deportation triggered a three-year ban on 11" and the country’ covid rules have since been relaxed.
as a result, the visa ban has been overturned and djokovic will be granted a visa for next year’ tournament.
meanwhile, on the courts, djokovic is through to the last four of the season-ending tour finals in turin.
he beat russia’ andrey rublev in straight sets to make it two wins out of two in the group phase and qualify for the semi-finals with a match to spare.
djokovic took just over an hour to win 6-4, 6-1.
you know, i’ glad that i’ through that, you know, is creating a bit of a relief, think.
but pressure to win every single match is still there.
so will not just rase in the park in that eil with a good intensity and hopefully win against medvedeyv, so djokovic through to the semi-finals but daniil medvedeyv is out after a second successive defeat.
he was beaten in three sets by stefanes tsitsipas, @ on a tie-break to keep alive his hopes of making the last four.
tsitsipas, who won this title in 2019, plays andrey rublev on friday and the winner finally, the international olympic committee has confirmed singapore as the host of the inaugural olympic sports week.
the 10 president, thomas bach, has said the week marks an important = igd the growth of virtual sports within the olympic movement.
com forward slash sports, including updates one-day matches.
for her love of luxury, and someone will soon be able to take home two rare pieces of furniture that she once owned - for a price.
the hammer at christie’ during paris classic week.
azadeh moshiri reports.
are clean of extravagance and with expensive taste.
the that could not be kind that could not be curtailed, even if it sent her guillotine.
people re still fascinated by it marry an a to.
some of still fascinated by it marry a and to an a to.
some of her treasured possessions are up uction.
for auction.
: we have two ulous pieces.
one was delivered to marie fabulous pieces.
one was - delivered to marie antoinette 1 the beginning of her life he other a part of the last and the other a part of the 00 and the other a part of the last four years of her life.
8 the cabinet was delivered in 1770.
marry two and was only 15 old and had just arrived 3 - years old and had just arrived in france.
we can imagine she lost future monarch and was a lost future monarch and - nei= was a lost future monarch and the chair dates was a lost future monarch and 4 dates back to the end the chair dates back to the end sdhe life.
these pieces yoo - of her life.
these pieces adorned where the austrian incess hosted lavish parties.
honour of that istory, the cabinet is in honour of that history, the i cabinet is estimated to be more than $1 million and the chair, areund 300,000.
istory up to around 300,000.
history shows people are willing to up the money.
year, cough up the money.
last year, a pair of her diamond bracelets sold for more than $8 illion.
that was several times original estimate.
storians argue excesses historians argue her excesses re often exaggerated, but what isn’ contested is her pulent taste.
now mere moners can opulent taste.
now mere irl i now before we go, live of surprises, especially when animals are involved.
here’ what happened to one kenyan journalist who was reporting from an elephant orphanage.
human actions are destroying habitats, decimating our ego and destroying the system and destroying the lga of life.
it is up to us circle of life.
it is up to us to be guardians of our own ural world, save our species provide a home 013 he ¥ he finally gave into the giggles.
you couldn’ he finally gave into the 11 he finally gave into the giggles.
you couldn’ carry on that.
giggles.
you couldn’ carry on 1 ¢ giggles.
you couldn’ carry on with that.
will be back with business stories and oday that is autumn statement.
promised, we have a experts lined up to alk you through what we can ct.
will be back in just a moment.
pretty unsettled for the next couple of days.
we’re going to see quite a lot of rain in places, the risk of some localized flooding, too.
and it’ all because of one area of low pressure, expected to hang around for thursday and friday, even this is the low pressure system i’ talking about, moving a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back northwards and westwards across the country during thursday and friday, where it slowly will fill, it will weaken.
but it’ going to bring a lot of rain and fairly strong winds at times.
now we start thursday off on a really chilly note for western scotland, northern ireland, that some frost and fog here.
but elsewhere where we have the cloud, the wind and the rain and temperatures remaining between five and nine degrees.
but a really thoroughly wet day to come for thursday.
our area of low pressure, as you can see here, slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
some heavy rain for eastern scotland, northern england, north wales, eastern england, the strongest of the winds along the north sea probably the best of any brighter weather after that chilly start, northern ireland and across the south and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
and then through thursday night, the rain continues to pile into eastern scotland.
a few showers elsewhere into northern ireland, some wet weather for northern england and north wales, probably the driest weather towards the south of the country.
but because there’ more cloud and wind across the whole of the , there won’ be quite as cold think for many - seven to nine degrees.
so for friday there’ our area of low pressure again starting to fill at this point in weaken, but it’ still going to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half of the country, especially by this point, rain really will be accumulating across angus aberdeenshire risk something a little bit quiet think for england generally.
still a few showers around the best of the sunshine on friday.
again, parts of northern ireland, wales, central and southern england up to around 12 degrees there, but chilly further a a0 to be windy, especially for the northern isles.
the next frontal system moves through during saturday night into sunday, followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
so it starts off fairly dry, think for many on saturday, quite chilly, mind you.
and then wet and windy weather sweeps through saturday night to sunday, and that’ll be followed by sunshine and showers.
this is news with the latest business headlines for viewers in the chancellor jeremy hunt to unveil widespread tax an austerity plan.
welfe pick up concerning government alge
i 4 bout not making the circles about not making the recession with a well started ady any worse.
recession with a well started a - ady any worse.
-- concern eauenl already any worse.
-- concern in government circles.
to that end, energy bill support for households set to continue, but at a less generous rate.
energy firms are expected to pick up the tab, with @8 much wider windfall tax.
a multi-billion-dollar fund to rebuild ukraine’ infrastructure and turn the country into the world’ first digital green economy.
plus, 100 ideas that could change the world.
an event in dubai honours inventions by the brightest we’ll be hearing from the organiser.
we start here in the where, as you’ve been hearing, in the next few hours, the government’ finance chief, chancellor of the exchequer jeremy hunt, will be outlining his plans to repair the nation’ finances.
the understands it will mean spending cuts of around £30 billion as well as tax rises targeted at wealthier people.
but fears over making the recession worse mean it won’ be a return to austerity.
and households will continue to get support with energy bills.
as our economics editor faisal islam explains.
the energy price rescue, the energy price guarantee which was due to end in april will survive in a form so a less generous level which is consistent with energy bills going up household now, to £3,000 for a typical household in april.
so difficult
but it the support not gone on.
it would have been more like £4,000.
so a lot more support.
how do they pay for this?
the big question.
some expectations in industry now, a significant increase in the windfall tax on energy companies as well.
and will it be enough to secure the confidence of financial markets, which were so rattled by the tax-cutting plans of the previous prime minister and chancellor?
let’ hear from sarah hewin, head of research for europe = standard chartered bank.
so so here we are at last, so here we are at last, this autumn so here we are at last, this = so here we are at last, this autumn statement will be ivered in the mid-morning day, much anticipated.
what you think he chancellor will be saying?
he’ going to esenting a combination of be presenting a combination of tax increases and spending .
this is really with a cuts.
this is really with a view to reducing or eliminating billion hole in the a £50 billion hole in the i ublic finances.
so we public finances.
so we are ely see tax thresholds likely to see tax thresholds lose in.
think beyond the 54 close in.
think beyond the i close in.
think beyond the windfall tax increase on energy anies, for the majority of companies, for the majority of he population the taxation i ases will come via stealth axes, raising tax thresholds come tax, potentially on on income tax, potentially on ther sorts of taxation, like tal gains tax and capital gains tax and &1 capital gains tax and inheritance tax as well, so - 1 that over the years, as inflation increases and wages rofits increase, more people are caught in higher tion bands.
terms taxation bands.
in terms of spending taxation bands.
in terms of 10 11 spending cuts, probably a freeze in nominal terms, which currently at 11% and likely to 3 tay in double digits for a ile, that, time, that while, that, over time, that equate to a real terms cut pending.
may well see a in spending.
we may well see a cut to - cut to international aid.
lower level of spending extended out the next couple of ears.
he chancellor has been pains say this is not an a a0 usterity package that he will livering today, but he is be delivering today, but he is taking measures to make sure a ssion is more shallow and orter.
he and the prime inister rishi sunak have been clear that this is about imlrig very clear that this is about restoring britain’ credibility of how we manage our money.
ell they tick those xes?
think a lot of that 2 has been achieved already.
long-term interest rates now ared to weeks ago.
the compared to six weeks ago.
the - compared to six weeks ago.
the new chancellor has been able abilise the markets.
or lot or stabilise the markets.
a lot or hat is likely autumn = autumn statement has what is likely to be in the autumn statement has already discussed in media.
been discussed in the media.
-- a lot of.
so the markets have a idea what to expect.
it’ a big allenge, of ourse, because we already oing into recession, egative in the last rter, ikely the same in the urrent quarter.
in those a8 rcumstances, normally there uld be - : ore public spending would be more public spending and & uts.
in fact what we and tax cuts.
in fact what we are seeing is a combination of ding uts, tax increases spending cuts, tax increases at a time when the spending cuts, tax increases at when the bank of england a time when the bank of england 3 continuing to raise interest .
so it’ going to be a hallenge to stabilise the onomy, and think we are oking at ecession.
hopefully 1 & nil glpd-ts briefly, do 't can be minimized.
very briefly, do you think to an ent the government has anaged the message before this umn statement?
managed the message before this i a managed the message before this autumn statement?
for a period doom and gloom, very 't was doom and gloom, very 1ile1 't was doom and gloom, very much a it was doom and gloom, very a period of tax cuts that much a period of tax cuts that 4 much a period of tax cuts that will impact everyone, and ually what is delivered ieyd actually what is delivered later today might not be as bad feared?
think the key thing as we feared?
think the key as we feared?
think the key thing is if the triple lock is on kept on pensions, and if efits rise in line with nflation.
those two measures that potentially costly in terms of pending, of course they make a difference to eople who are currently ruggling.
in terms of the message is not being quite struggling.
so in terms of the message is not being quite as it could have been, that % a more positive aspect.
ank you, good to talk you.
wealthier people here in the could be paying more tax, it’ thought the threshold for paying the top rate of tax here in the could be cut to £125,000 from £150,000.
susannah streeter is senior analyst at investment advisors the west of england.
nice to see you.
in terms of personal finance, sarah has ady mentioned the fact that ax thresholds will ozen, tax thresholds will be frozen, moore could be paying the igher ate of 40% tax on their ome.
but also those at he top will be paying more as .
that’ right, but ink think %1\ well.
that’ right, but i think really the decisions deemed to ing taken to really help those on be being taken to really help i on the lowest incomes who those on the lowest incomes who are certainly struggling much more than those wealthier individuals right now through ost of living crisis.
there really will be relief for people receiving benefits, those people relying pensions, that they be updated as the rumours 14 swirl if that is to be the case when announced later.
let’ mber, hat money, even if remember, that money, even if is agreed, it will not come force until april.
in the
i meantime you still have big tches of time for people - 1a stretches of time for people who are really struggling, food banks, to be able to i using food banks, to be able to survive.
so a lot using food banks, to be able to using food banks, to be able to survive.
so a lot of focus on her there ay be any more whether there may be any more hand-outs for those on the est incomes, because the research we have lowest incomes, because the we have carried out research we have carried out looking at how much cash people have at the end of the might have at the end of the month by month by next summer, even if fits stay in line with nflation, among the lowest half of the country, one paid half of the country, one in 100 say they wouldn’ have ash left over at the end of the month.
so you can really is really difficult a a times for people right a tetn times for people right now and need immediate help.
and they need immediate help.
and they will be getting further with energy bills beyond ril next year, it’ expected at i will be announced today as .
in terms of well.
in terms of market reaction to all this, of course ast mini budget, delivered 7 kwasi kwarteng, we saw an treme market reaction.
ilt markets settled a lot since then, which has meant owing costs have come down borrowing costs have come down as well, and that’ a big isld as well, and that’ a big factor in this going forward.
it comes to projections when it comes to projections about how big the black hole is he government, it could for the government, it could actually be a lot smaller ending on the projections you with.
absolutely, let’ member that is black hole actually a remember that this black hole i eld remember that this black hole « remember that this black hole is actually a black hole the ernment has set itself, it eegintt government has set itself, it is committed for the government has set itself, it 1 re is committed for the debt to fall as a proportion of ver five years.
so that it is crambling around to and find it is scrambling around to and find this meney.
as you , markets have been !
say, the markets have been 1hds say, the markets have been calmed with the measures ady announced.
after this ink 1 already announced.
after this think what will switch is a us on britain’ long-term health.
we may have focus on britain’ long-term health.
we may have managed to ore financial stability now, but when it comes to ductivity productivity and the longer-term, the prospect of for the , if you are still going make £30 billion spending cuts, that could on childcare in spending cuts, that could i 1 1 in spending cuts, that could fall on childcare for example, dcare funding not being listed to meet inflation.
that on working families, and it means that actually, if you are scrambling to pay for ldcare, you may leave the 4 childcare, you may leave the workforce.
already we have seen odus of people leaving the 4 orkforce.
again, if you want oost productivity, rating 1 me so that you not fine home so that you are not fine because heme so that you are not fine 1 heme so that you are not fine because your childcare provider impose fines because it has to impose fines because it can’ survive, that’ not going ost roductivity.
-- to boost productivity.
-- racing home.
so these tiny cuts add up to a big picture lower productivity in the ure for the .
which will ave implications for sinesses as well, thank let’ get some reaction from the business world.
roger barker is director of policy at the institute of directors, which is a lobby group for company bosses what are you hoping will be in this autumn statement to boost business?
if business ooking for he chancellor to hieve a very delicate alance business recognises that measures are needed to 8 restore the credibility of the government in terms of its lic finances.
what happened ith the mini budget was early problematic, it wasn’ affordable, and business clearly problematic, it wasn’ affordable, and business wants overnment to a grip on the government to get a grip on that.
but also we know, as your ious speaker said, the economy now is probably tracting and has been for a hair ttle while.
the bank of - england little while.
the bank of england recently said that the omy would be in recession probably into 2024, a very otracted recession.
so what on’ want is that the a government we don’ want is that the government goes too far in the site direction now compared to aira opposite direction now compared to what liz truss and kwarteng did, and actually off any growth over the chokes off any growth over the 3 4 -1 chokes off any growth over the next year or so, which would it very difficult for make it very difficult for business, business confidence ready very fragile.
so we is already very fragile.
so we still need to have some ntives and optimism which ill justify business investing he future.
let’ talk out energy, is expected that new ndfall taxes be imposed big oil companies, but also tricity providers.
what impact will that , do you & think?
because the argument that idea is it reduces against that idea is it reduces a1 against that idea is it reduces investment and stifles iness.
yes, well, think it will represent a disincentive or those type of companies to est in he future.
but for those type of companies to invest in the future.
but on other hand, from a political perspective, it may be too irresistible for the government to ignore, given ent gei circumstances.
in an current circumstances.
in an ideal world, we wouldn’ have kind of windfall , it’ this kind of windfall tax, it’ really a positive thing, they don’ assist the i 18 they don’ assist the predictability of the tax tem.
but it may be too tempting for he government.
1 also, that money is going used, as we understand, elp households with energy going forward, but could lso possibly be used to help inesses.
what businesses.
what we know at the moment, businesses have got ith energy bills until next help with energy bills until help with energy bills until next april, but beyond that we know what will ppen for don’ know what will happen for businesses, and some of them acing extremely high 0 are facing extremely high energy costs.
yes, they are, hat is something we will and that is something we will listening out for very much ay.
we do have helped until april, but there is no sign 1 lobal energy markets are that global energy markets are going back, settling back to ious levels in terms of the previous levels in terms of the cost of energy.
there are many erable businesses cost of energy.
there are many vulnerable businesses out there, and energy bills are now ing a significant forming a significant forming a significant proportion of their costs.
they xtremely keen to find out are extremely keen to find out what help the government could ide to them beyond april.
i %1 it is important that the government does do a government does do a good job tifying vulnerable sectors companies, where it can tala i nue the support beyond continue the support beyond april, well into next year.
i 7 4 ank you april, well into next year.
= thank you very much.
on news, whether you are watching vision, radio, online, we television, radio, online, we be covering the autumn ement when the chancellor gins to present it in parliament, and there will be ysis, so stay with us on news.
out of the ashes - a multi-billion dollar fund to rebuild ukraine’ infrastructure and turn the country into the world’ first digital green economy.
benazir bhutto has claimed victory in pakistan’ general name her as prime minister.
jacksen’ been released on balil of $3 million after turning himself in to police in santa barbara.
it was the biggest i the south african government has announced that it’ opening whites-only beaches to people of all races.
this will lead to a black majority government in this country and the destruction of the white civilisation.
part of the centuries-old windsor castle, one of the queen’ residences, has been censumed by fire for much of the day.
150 firemen have been battling the blaze, which has caused milliens of pounds worth of damage.
jeremy hunt, prepares to deliver his much-awaited budget statement - higher taxes are expected in a bid to repair the public finances.
marriage legislation.
amazon has confirmed it
i at its devices unit which makes the talking alexa gadgets.
as we have been reporting this week, the tech giant is planning to cut around 10,000 staff across the business as the economic michelle fleury in new york is following the story.
amazon’ boss andy jassy is stepping up his the online retail giant is aiming to get rid of about 10,000 jobs.
and among the employees affected are those working in its alexa virtual assistant unit, its lunar cloud gaming division and lab 126, that the operation behind all of this is based on posts that have started popping up on the job networking website linkedin.
so, what are these amazonians saying?
well, one employee wrote, "i’ joining many others who are experiencing the feelings that come with losing your dream job”.
another said, "it’ unfortunate and heartbreaking to learn this before the holidays™.
while another posted, "although it’ tough and sad, think it’ also a new start for me”.
adding that she was on a ttight timeline” to find a new job.
and that’ because some workers aren’ just losing their jobs, they could lose their right to stay here in visas for guest workers who have special skills.
is laid off, they have 60 days to find a new job or leave the country.
the lay-off comes as tens of thousands of jobs are being shared across the tech industry which, after years of for tougher times ahead.
to ukraine now, because an australian mining billionaire and his wife have launched an investment fund aimed at rebuilding the country’ infrastructure.
philanthropists andrew and nicola forrest are the fund to $100 billion.
forrest has been - the world’ first digital green economy once the war is over, and represents a huge opportunity for investors.
this will be a very attractive investment for anyone who knows economic history.
you’ve seen the post-world war reconstruction, the miracle economy of japan, south korea, of germany.
but this will be different and stronger.
their cap came in years later.
investment really needs it, where their primary infrastructure really 0 feel that it would be i i’ inviting other investors, professional investors, institutions, sovereign funds to consider economic history and then take into account, this is a people who haven’ suffered for years and years and years pre-war and then a long, drawn-out war like, say, world war .
who are energized, and this war will end.
and when it does, ukrainian people who love their country, is showcasing "100 ideas that could change the world™.
the prototypes for humanity event brings together young academics from 450 colleges, from the to nigeria to mexico and azerbaijan, looking for inventions that could have a positive impact on society, health, - vil i tadeu baldani is the director of prototypes for humanity.
thanks much for being on the programme.
so this is where we he idea is, the innovation hat i will provide solutions to of the world’ biggest oblems.
talk through what problems.
talk us through what you are finding out.
it is the diverse and comprehensive sembly of ideas from students i8 universities across the rld.
what see is an 0 increasing interest in spending in solutions increasing interest in spending a it time in solutions for the problems affecting people and tad communities on a global scale lso locally.
so for the young people coming up with ideas and solutions, what the key issue for them?
think they have a lot of edom nside university, which is exactly what they need vestigate the issues that ay not necessarily be covered he private sector.
after that, by the private sector.
after 1 , one of the key missions of our programme, it is to able del of our programme, it is to enable connections between emia and the public sector, to allow a lot these innovations to to allow a lot of these a a i to allow a lot of these to allow a lot of these innovations to come to fruition each he people and the and reach the people and the communities that they were gned for.
is there one issue designed for.
is there one that’ a challenge for he world, like climate ange or example, that is dominating you look at the ideas coming in, and innovations?
hink we have important think we have two important groups.
one, the very topical , like energy transition ones, like energy transition and disaster alleviation, that coming so is becoming so apparent everywhere we look today.
and ther, ever present the other, ever present challenges like climate change ccess to health .
just and access to health care.
just tell us how this works.
you our event this week.
& those who grab attention, whose and solutions are as een as among the best, do they get estment, do they become reality, investment, do they become %1 ty, what happens next?
reality, what happens next?
hat’ ocur ob, we are starting to design a mechanism to llow private and public mpanies on-board the alents that we bring to dubai, the technologies.
the ypothesis that some of issues are significantly plex to be addressed just by cademia or just by the public tor.
are designing a platform to bring them together ake hese innovations platform to bring them together 2 and take these innovations to he people and the communities were designed for.
some of people here were awarded cademic izes, a total of $100,000 covering the =to igf 1 0 $100,000 covering the issues of th, society, environment corporate solutions.
thank , interesting to hear about our event.
just before we go, 018 ory on our website at the moment about a microchip ieelp moment about a microchip company based in south wales, ritish overnment is now saying the the british government is now saying the takeover by a nese wned company must be chinese owned company must be reversed because of chinese owned company must be a reversed because of national security issues.
the firm peria ays it is shocked and nexperia says it is shocked and will appeal this decision.
conductors will appeal this decision.
as semiconductors allow electricity to flow through ces that are extremely devices that are extremely sought after, of course, going many devices that we use.
lobal shortage at the oment, and the deal has come scrutiny for a lot of reasons.
the latest from i i reasons.
the latest line from the government.
if you want more, read all about it our to know more, read all about it on our website.
goodbye, hope enjoyed the programme, pretty unsettled for the next couple of days.
we’re going to see quite a lot of rain in places, a risk of some localized flooding, too.
and it’ all because of one area of low pressure which is expected to hang around for thursday and friday, eventually fizzles out.
this is the low pressure system i’ talking about, moving a little bit further eastwards and then pulling back northwards and westwards across the country during thursday but it’ going to bring a lot of rain and fairly strong winds at times.
now, we start thursday off on a really chilly note for western scotland, northern ireland, got some frost and fog here but elsewhere where we have the cloud, the wind and the rain then temperatures remaining between five and nine degrees.
but a really thoroughly wet day to come for thursday.
our area of low pressure, as you can see here, slowly pushing northwards and then westwards.
some heavy rain for eastern scotland, northern england, north wales, eastern england, the strongest of the winds along the north sea probably the best of any brighter weather after that chilly start, northern ireland and across the south and southwest corner of the country, but nowhere particularly warm, nine to 11 degrees.
and then through thursday night, the rain continues to pile into eastern scotland.
a few showers elsewhere into northern ireland, some wet weather for northern england and north wales, probably the driest weather towards the south of the country.
but because there’ more cloud and wind across the whole of the , it won’ be quite as cold think for many - seven to nine degrees.
so for friday there’ our area of low pressure again, starting to fill at this point in weaken, but it’ still going to bring a lot of rainfall again to the northern half of the country, especially by this point, rain really will be accumulating across angus, aberdeenshire - risk of some localised something a little bit quieter, think, for england generally.
still a few showers around the best of the sunshine on friday.
again, parts of northern ireland, wales, central and southern england.
up to around 12 degrees there, but chilly further north where it will continue to be windy, especially for the northern isles.
brief spell of quieter weather before the next frontal system moves through during saturday night into sunday, followed by sunshine and blustery showers.
so it starts off fairly dry, think for many on saturday, quite chilly, mind you.
and then wet and windy weather sweeps through saturday night to sunday, and that’ll be followed by sunshine and showers.
you’re a liar.
and you’re a liar.
oh, my god!
this game is insane.
today we’re looking at the state of british politics asking, is technology ruining football?
are we too obsessed with our phones?
- yna:40 helen from hull wants to know, how hot’ the planet going to get?
pre 1 i keep going up and up.
also, rach, did you know space has its own smell?
really?
what of?
the world is fast-moving and can be confusing.
a with rachel and rick.
want to uncover the true agatha christie.
she was an incredibly precocious child.
she saw terrible things.
there’ a reason agatha christie she was a pioneering, radical writer and woman.
so, here’ the experiment.
what would happen if we developed our very own race team of young drivers and mechanics who haven’ got the connections and haven’ got the cash but dropped them right in at the deep end?
you steal the parachutes, will steal an aeroplane.
i’ oti mabuse.
i’ rediscovering my roots we are full of ambitious people.
when you know where you come from, you know where you’re going.
at last, strictly’ back in the home of ballroom.
hello, blackpool!
get ready for a dazzling night on the dance floor.
what more do you want?
strictly come dancing, live from blackpool: good morning, welcome to breakfast with naga munchetty and charlie stayt.
our headlines today.
tax rises and spending cuts are expected when the chancellor support for households with their energy cost is likely to be extended beyond april - but average bills will rise.
so what are the hopes of people coping with spiralling costs?
are hoping the to get from today’ announcement.
egg rationing in some shops - 4 going out of business.
wales have moved their first training session back to cope with the heat in qatar today.
while yesterday, all 26 england players were put through their paces ahead of their world cup opener.
160 miles in four days and still going strong - we’re with rugby league star kevin sinfield as he takes his ultra marathon challenge for charities onto the tough end and the weather is not going to help.
we have got some heavy rain trong winds in central, eastern 1gs outhern parts of the country.
the west, it is cold with frost some dense fog currently in northern ireland.
details later in the programme.
good morning.
it’ thursday, the 17th of november.
out his plans on spending cuts jeremy hunt has warned that he’ planning into the economic storm, although he’ also expected to announce an increase to benefits, tax credits, and state pensions, and to extend some help with energy bills beyond april.
it’ thought this will be funded by significant tax increases, new chancellor, the fourth this year, and a new autumn statement.
facing the longest recession since records began, the stakes are high, and around the people are already feeling it.
what we usually buy for £2 is now £2.
50.
you start worrying how it’ going to impact immediately, you know, feeding, clothing and heat me and my partner have said no presents for each other.
and this year we’re not buying each other a christmas present because we simply can’ afford to.
so what do we think the chancellor plans to do?
credits in april, by september’ inflation rate.
on energy, there’ll still be a price cap, but it will rise, so that the typical household will be paying & currently, they’re paying around £2,500.
not everyone lives in a typical household, and the cap is on unit rates, not your bills, which means how much you pay will still depend on how much energy you actually use.
and there will likely be tax rises.
energy companies are expected to be hit by an expanded windfall tax.
the treasury are expected to say there needs to be cuts to spending plans, but those will be pushed back until after the general election.
after liz truss and kwasi kwarteng’ mini-budget, and the turmoil seen in the markets, the treasury feels under pressure to show that it can win credibility back, while trying to reassure the country as the economy struggles.
caroline davies, news.
we’re joined now by our chief political correspondent nick eardley.
good morning.
the government as a balancing act to kind of to get , especially after the last ini budget?
yeah, think ants to avoid exactly what happened in ast mini budget, which is 00
we already know a great deal of what the chancellor is planning today.
he 3 going to talk about if facing the storm.
think he going to talk about if facing into the storm.
think he means the xeca mic storm, but he has got the ictures today, put it that way.
the hing the government needs to do oday is to to persuade voters, the financial markets today is to to persuade voters, - and the financial markets that has a plan,
that it and the financial markets
that i i and the financial markets that it has a plan, that it has a sible economic lan that can