elsewhere, a day, plenty of sunshine, those winds will gradually be easing.
it’ll be warm a with temperatures quite widely in the mid if not high teens.
as we head into tuesday that area of low pressure finally drifts away north and eastwards.
the isobars become further apart so the winds will be lighter.
frontal systems just fringing the far south of england so we could see some cloud lingering here through the morning.
could see some mist and low cloud pushing in to parts of northeast england and eastern scotland but those winds will be much lighter on tuesday so where we’ve got the sunshine, temperatures perhaps getting up to 18, even 19 celsius across parts of central and southern england.
our next atlantic system pushing gradually in from the southwest.
also strengthening the winds, s0 a stronger southeasterly wind.
that’ll also be pushing mist and low cloud along many eastern coasts.
meanwhile, we’ve got outbreaks of rain and some very gusty winds pushing into southern and southwest england, wales and northern ireland and we could see gales along some southern and southwestern coasts for a time on wednesday.
so a bit of a mixed day.
a slice perhaps of sunshine in-between that cloud and the band of rain with temperatures here getting up to but feeling a little bit cooler where we’ve got cloud and the rain.
as we head through from wednesday inte thursday this frontal system of high pressure, so a lot of the rain will tend to fizzle out but we keep some showers across northern england, scotland, wales and southwest england.
a lot of cloud for many but increasing amounts of sunshine from the south as the day wears on and temperatures still in that range of the mid teens, perhaps up to 17 or 18 celsius across the southern half of england but still frost free overnight.
you can see what’s going to happen as we head through friday and into the weekend, this area of low pressure dominating the situation so there’ll be showers, longer spells of rain, also some gusty winds as well.
it looks like low pressure stays in charge as we move inte the following week.
iit’s starting dry, with some stronger winds and it’s likely we’ll keep outbreaks of rain and stronger winds as we head through into the weekend.
that’s all from me.
goodbye.
this ain’t what happened!
none of this happened!
you wouldn’t believe your eyes.
you have no idea what you’re up against.
they’ll stop at nothing to keep a secret.
among the pioneers were husband and wife team i and ozlem tureci, who founded a i« speaking to sunday with laura kuenssberg, the doctor said mrna is showing promise in cancer studies.
where patients receive a personalised vaccine to prompt their immune system to attack their disease.
helps us to find out more about what we are against and how therefore, as scientists, we are always hesitant to say we will have we have a number of breakthroughs and we will continue to work them.
but it may be several years before we know if trials in bowel cancer, melanoma and other tumour types really do live up to the hype.
covid vaccines, though, have been highly successful and made billions for biontech, but rival firm moderna has started legal action for patent infringement technology were copied.
biontech says it will vigorously defend against the allegations.
our innovations are original.
we have spent 20 years of research in developing this type of treatment and, 1 for our intellectual property.
these patent disputes won’t stop the rollout of covid vaccines.
the question now is can 4 fergus walsh, news.
the first european woman to command the international space station has spoken samantha cristoforetti had been on board for nearly six moenths conducting research on the effects of microgravity on the human cells and other systems.
the italian astronaut was on her second mission 5l it was great to experience again the re-entry into the sphere.
it’s quite a wild atmosphere.
it’s quite a wild ride but also quite amazing.
bviously very happy to be back with my loved ones and my so look forward to pending time them.
and also like to look spending time with them.
and i & also like to look to the future.
mean, it’s a tersweet moment future.
i mean, it’s a future.
i mean, it’s a bittersweet moment for me.
i’m to be back, obviously, happy to be back, obviously, nnaie
but it was also bittersweet to y-\ oodbye to space station, ' say goodbye to space station, my home in space, most my home in space, most likely the last my hoeme in space, most likely a - last time.
we are in for the last time.
we are in the -1 ocess of selecting a new ass of astronauts.
a reminder our top story, the united tates as it is following pports from states as it is following a0 states as it is following supports from evin prison with ncy, lran was fully urgency, iran was fully responsible for wrongly p4 responsible for wrongly detained citizens, the 0 aid, and they should be leased immediately.
said, and they should be , released immediately.
they added they were in contact with zerland which acts as a i 0 switzerland which acts as a protecting power for the united in iran.
that’s all from for this hour.
you can reach me on twitter.
i’m @lucyegrey.
and thank you for watching.
the weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and fun in places, gusty winds.
-- thundery in places.
as one area of low pressure begins to pull away for much of the for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
this is that area of low pressure pulling away.
however, this is another one moving in towards some weather pushing north again by sunday evening.
let’s look at how sunday begins.
there’s still some showers around, especially in scotland - some heavy ones in the west.
temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
a cooler night across a and will still be around the northern isles as you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon, for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
northern ireland and, indeed, southern england, south wales, so you could see a few showery bursts of rain heading in later in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much weather in northern ireland as this moves north.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet on sunday evening eals we’ll see some wet and windy ad across the overnight and into monday morning.
coasts and into western scotland with gales in places.
a much milder night, especially across wales and england.
closer to that area of low pressure on monday, it’s northern ireland and northern england that could well see some showers but it’ll be scotland bearing the brunt of some heavy downpours once again.
for much in england and wales in the afternoon, actually, it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not as windy as it still will be across the northern half temperatures on monday may well be a degree also higher in places.
then there’s a ridge of high pressure settling things down.
sitting to our south-west.
and whilst on tuesday, most places are looking - just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just start to increase across eastern scotland, north east england.
-f towards the south-west, on wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain in from the south-west, whereas many places will actually have another day but wetter weather becoming more widespread again towards the end of the week.
that’s your forecast.
bye for now.
a big fire has broken out at evin prison in the iranian capital, tehran, where hundreds of political priseners and dozens of dual i in videos posted online, gunfire and sirens can be britain’s new chancellor of the exchequer, jeremy hunt, has admitted the government made mistakes when announcing unfunded tax cuts last month and that very difficult he’s promised to restore china’s president jinping is expected to cement his grip on power as a historic communist party congress kicks in a break in decades-long tradition, delegates are likely to hand a third term as party chief.
jeremy hunt said there was a clear focus jeremy hunt said there was a 1ol clear focus on mines of stability.
bailey warned of interest rates ahead more high interest rates ahead more than previously expected.
ness corresponded marc business corresponded marc down has analysis.
smiles and new political phrase, ussonomics, liz truss’s igh-growth, low-wage tax onomy.
three weeks later, new ncellor has buried economy.
three weeks later, new ncellor has buried it.
had you r0 een given a clean slate, you change elements of grg0 could you change elements of the mini budget?
yes.
the damental thing the prime minister wants and fundamental thing the prime minister wants to do and want to minister wants to do and want do is be completely honest the country.
trussonemics reverse, tax uts likely replaced with tax rises, huge stment replaced with a spending slowdown.
the rethink rgely driven by the turmoil in the financial turmoil in the financial markets since the mini budget unced.
he founders that a announced.
the founders that a aansl announced.
the founders that a torrid time, the effective cost vernment borrowing sword 4 of government borrowing sword & bank of england had to and the bank of england had to step in with an emergency programme buying government bonds to ilise the ension sector.
stabilise the pension sector.
there is a pressing need to a i restore confidence and credibility.
the bank of land of andrew bailey said spoke to chansley he spoke to the chansley yesterday and had immediate meeting of minds in a speech in ington had this morning i washington had this morning on i interest rates.
we will not hesitate interest rates.
we will not hesitate to raise interest i1 tes to meet inflation targets as ings stand today my
and as things stand today my best quess best guess is inflation by pressures will require best guess is inflation pressures will require a onger response than we perhaps thought in perhaps thought in august.
the ent ase rate is current base rate is to vestors expecting a rise of to one percentage point in ovember up to one percentage point in y7 1ol up to one percentage point in november to three point to 5%.
mortgage offers are ir0 most mortgage offers are currently already around 6% but ger rise in the base rate a bigger rise in the base rate - ad affect the economy will affect the economy elsewhere.
even with the change proach the government’s of approach the government’’s problems re the same.
how to tens of hillions pounds find tens of billions of pounds 0 eiv to help people with energy and make the sums add up.
we’re ooking at a really ugh couple of years, we have a very economic environment, tough economic environment, very retched public finances, 4 hink we’re going to see some further reversal tax r4 cuts that we have had an tion published some very spending rounds.
the a first verdict will come tight spending rounds.
the first verdict will come when ncial markets open next week_
financial markets open next k.
don’t expect a dramatic ersal because the devil in reversal because the devil be in the detail and with me find he detail of the budget out the detail of the budget a the 31st october, that’ll be out the detall of the budget the 31st october, that’ll be a holistic judgement made by inancial markets.
that’s a tnight away.
ong time in fortnight away.
a long time in the now on news, the travel show.
turning back now.
just need to get there.
even if it is just the debris field, will be very happy, so it was just weird, .
: diver’s comms, titan was surprised when they made a turn as they departed the platform, let them know he snagged a buoy
yeah, roger that, comms.
just a heads up, it looked like he was heavy and possibly dropped a thruster because he started spinning really weird when he came off.
he bounced a bunch of times when he was trying to leave the platform : copy.
which direction did he spin?
so it would have been his starboard thruster?
we will find out, we’ll see!
hungry!
i’m all ready for when they come.
must be a busy job for you?
very busy, it is indeed.
it is steady.
one meal just rolls and especially on dive days, it gets very busy.
but wouldn’t have it any other way.
really?
you like it better doing this than on land?
oh, absolutely, 100%.
every day is the excitement, is there a dive today, who is going down, when are they coming back?
so some days, like said, are more challenging than others but for the most part, every day is great.
for sure.
so this is like the very first measurement an oceanographer of the water throughout = temperature change.
the ocean is getting warmer, it is acidifying, we are seeing much faster glacial melting, the ice sheets are melting, there’s huge injections of fresh water that having this kind of information from remote parts of the world like this is really important to understand those changes.
and we’re going to be able to link this data to all of the species we document through the video and through the , so we can link these species observations to the environmental conditions they are found in.
stands for environmental , and it is that is left in the environment by all the organisms living there.
you can imagine a fish swimming through the environment is shedding skin cells and bodily fluids as it moves around so all about leaves a hit of behind -vilce bottles, which are hollow tubes with caps on them that can be closed at particular depths to detect a sample, we do have communication with the sub while they are down the bottle at the surface that is closed with the samples.
the first time dove the sub, said, "this is amazing, i experience, it is a totally when you are in the sub, if you didn’t bring it with you, nobody is bringing it to you.
the sounds are different, what you see is different, and thought, more people have to go in subs.
on the way down we saw a layer mesopelagic animals.
are bioluminescent, you get flashes of light here and there all through the water column.
we were going very fast down, so it was very difficult to see with the naked eye, but once in a while a critter went by.
wow, that was beautiful.
as we went down through the water column it became darker and darker until past 1,000 metres there are no photons that get past that layer and it is pitch black.
a because for about 2.
5 hours we see nothing but darkness, and then all of a sudden you see the floor come up to you, the ground come up to you.
all of a sudden you see the earth come up to you, and it does feel like it is coming up to you because you are descending so quickly.
and so even before seeing any part of man-made material of the ship, seeing the natural bottom of the ocean come up at you was sort of spectacular, mean, it was very exciting just to see dirt and mud.
i when you suddenly saw the sand come up and we were just all five of us in the submersible kind of unofficially had this moment of silence the first pieces see looking out of the porthole are pieces of coal.
and it didn’'t even connect that they were coal at first.
thought they were just rocks.
and then someone in the sub said "oh, look, there’s coal”.
and that is the moment that connected me to the humanness of the titanic, that people had shovelled this, people had brought it during the sinking it just all spilled out.
and then we began to see other things, we saw a plate, a big dinner plate just sitting there on its own, then we saw a wash hand basin with a tap still attached.
we were only about 300 metres apparently from the wreck at that stage.
don’t know what is going on, feel like like what, like it’s thrusters?
yeah, don’t know what is going on.
we have a grid map that corresponds with the grid map that topside has.
:- they tell us which square we had kind of a good idea which square we were in
but we had topside confirm that with us and give us a heading.
is something wrong with my thrusters?
am thrusting and nothing is happening.
rangeand bearingtwo we will find cut.
don’t recognise that mud out there, do you?
here is the map!
no, haven’t been here before.
am spinning?
yes.
now you are going north.
oh, my god.
and scott is like, "oh no, we have a problem”.
when we are thrusting forward, thrusting back right now.
the only thing i can 0 was thinking, "we’re not going to make it!
" ciettee metres from titanic and although we are in the debris field, we can’t go anywhere but go in circles.
when am initiating thrust, am turning.
a on the platform.
oh, god, no, don’t tell me we have to go to surface, at 300 metres away from the titanic.
had covid a few years ago.
the first covid, the nasty one, as they say.
i had been keeping myself very fit and watching my diet.
one of the things i do is box every day.
so usually spend about two or three hours in the but one of them is boxing for an hour, and was running they did a myriad of tests and they found the covid had given me sarcoidosis in one of the ventricles in my heart.
so they decided needed a pacemaker and a defibrillator immediately, literally within 48 hours.
went in on a saturday, he allowed me back in the three days later, and gave me the literally that week people used to say to me, "oh, you are doing your bucket list", 2 on the sticks now, the actual sticks, what is left and right?
the right stick, that’s forward, back, turn left, turn right.
and when he goes forward, he is getting a turn.
down and up.
1ly, thrusters.
they put it on the ong way?
mean, it is nidirectional.
yeah, it should be, but something happened.
yeah, what he can do,
so
oh the controller you have the up, down, left, right arrows, and you can set the button, it would go forward.
1y hope he knows how to do this.
hi jerome.
stockton on wendy’s phone.
just call me back if you got a chance, we’ve got a question.
we’re on the dive right now, just looking for a way to remap it’s not going to be easy.
if we bring up a picture =r press y, press a, press b.
yeah,
except don’t remember which one is up and down.
it might be that he could go forward with left and right.
he’d only be able to turn one way, maybe.
yeah,
it would be interesting.
when he goes to take a turn to the left, he is going to go forward starboard, which would be reverse starboard.
it might work, yeah.
yeah,
left and right might be forward and back.
huh, don’t know.
also tracked by 90 degrees.
turning right.
then we go forward, do we?
go forward, 77.
so right is forward.
=n to write this down.
right is forward.
great, live with it.
” piece of metal on the right.
but you could see the really pretty colours in the painted the pieces that were intact were pretty phenomenal because we see colour at the bottom of this ocean.
this is definitely the most challenging piloting i’ve ever done.
so, bear with me, guys.
a f3 8.
good job, scott.
a f3 8.
yeah, you’re doing great!
it’s immensely exciting.
you never know what’s going to swim by.
don’t see the wreckage.
lost my , my altitude.
see the wreck on sonar though.
how close are we to the titanic?
very close.
the bow should be visible.
if you guys see anything, you’ve got to let me know, ?
yeah, nothing yet.
we’re ten metres away from the bow.
- a1 4 it might be on the right.
it’s gonna be on the right.
yes, yes, yes, rotate, rotate!
bow, bow, bow, bow, bow!
please send that message.
oh, my god, you did it!
we are at the bow of the titanic.
to make us get here, can’t believe it, in real life, it’s ginormous!
it’s really incredible.
i’m lost for words, actually, to be honest.
it’s that good, yes.
i’m just crying.
i finally, made it.
how does it feel to get a lifelong dream?
hard to explain.
hard to put in words.
she is big.
mean, to imagine how big she must have been, and even like that, what you’re seeing is 20 feet high.
amazing to realise that you are at titanic.
it’s no longer a for me.
you are so close to it that you can actually touch it.
and you start slowly going up and you can see every portal - some of them are open, which is one of the things that people are amazed, when all this was going on, and you’re going up and up and up, and it seems endless.
because the ship is huge.
this was a fleating palace.
you can imagine the people walking up and down, taking in the sun, we went down the side and captured the whole anchor.
there is the name of the titanic on the anchor, we were able to see that.
so this, sort of, nostalgic view, in a way, and also a tragic view.
imagine seeing nothing and then, lights turn on and you see an entire there is no words to encapsulate the feeling of it.
seeing the scale of the titanic is what anchored me into the realness of that night, of the numbers of lives bottom time expired, return.
then we finally started leaving the site.
it was so short, that the time went by so quick.
i’m gonna tell them it’s an incredible experience.
you are in this capsule, just like a spacecraft, with your other four travellers, and you go of a sudden, you are back on planet earth.
a how are you doing, jaden?
hey!
oh, my gosh.
what a trip.
it feels incredible, thank you.
- - in the debris field.
so, we’ve got two samples from the site.
which makes me happy.
5,800 metres.
there is enough pressure to break the cups.
that’s pretty good.
everybody kind of started to go out, and was trying to gather myself.
the ship even blew the horn, which was fantastic.
and once saw stockton, started crying.
happy tears!
1t one less dream.
are you crying?
it was like a weight lifted off my shoulders.
needed to do that to feel complete.
and feel now complete.
we got it done.
the weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and fun -- and thundery in places, gusty winds.
as one area of low pressure begins to pull away for much of the for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
this is that area of low pressure pulling away.
however, this is another one moving in towards some wetter weather pushing north again by sunday evening.
let’s look at how sunday begins.
there’s still some showers around, especially in scotland - some heavy ones in the west.
temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
a cooler night across a and will still be around the northern isles as you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon, for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
northern ireland and, indeed, southern england, south wales, so you could see a few showery bursts of rain heading in later in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much wetter in northern ireland as this moves north.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet on sunday evening eals we’ll see some wet and windy ad across the overnight and into monday morning.
coasts and into western scotland with gales in places.
a much milder night, especially across wales and england.
closer to that area of low pressure on monday, it’s northern ireland and northern england that could well see some showers but it’ll be scotland bearing the brunt of some heavy downpours once again.
for much in england and wales in the afternoon, actually, it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not as windy as it still will be across the northern half temperatures on monday may well be a degree also higher in places.
then there’s a ridge of high pressure settling things down.
sitting to our south-west.
and whilst on tuesday, most places are looking - just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just start to increase across eastern scotland, north east england.
-f towards the south-west, on wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain in from the south-west, whereas many places will actually have another day but wetter weather becoming more widespread again towards the end of the week.
that’s your forecast.
bye for now.
i’m lucy grey.
our top stories: gunshots are heard after a huge fire breaks out at a prison in iran’s capital, tehran.
state media reports at least eight people are injured.
as the ’s prime minister fights for her job, the new chancellor signals he’ll make major changes to her economic policy.
decisions ahead, difficult decisions on spending, which is not going to rise
= and i’m going to be asking all government departments to find additional efficiency savings.
china’s president jinping is expected to be given a third term in office at the communist party congress.
santiago sees the return hello and welcome to news.
hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual nationals are held in the prison, as well as many protesters around the country.
officials say that eight people have been injured, and that the situation is now under control.
in a tweet the state department says: jared genser is a lawyer representing siamak namazi who is a jailed iranian-american, whose family say they haven’t heard from him.
we haven’t had contact with him since word came out about the clashes, gunfire, explosions, etc.
we have no idea where he is or how he is doing and we would call on the government of iran to immediately enable him to call his family would you normally be able to speak to him when you want to?
what is contact like ?
ordinarily prisoners in evin prison, if they’re not being held by the iranian revolutionary guards, there are certain hours you can make phone calls and late in the evening, , but in the circumstances of this case, after being sent back to prison after his one-week, first furlough since his conviction more than seven years ago, we would urge the government to let him call his family as quickly as possible.
see that the governor of tehran has been inside the prison and said lus what have you heard about what happened inside the prison?
i know nothing more than what everyone else has heard from public gdip clearly, what iran authorities are saying are inaccurate.
5 burning and gunshots, believe what see with my own eyes, not what the government of iran tell me.
with his family.
there are several dual nationals in the prison.
wonder if that will impact how the authorities respond to events in the prisen.
do you think it would?
i’m worried about what’s going on because all communications have been cut off from the prison to all different oll .
if things were as calm and straightforward and clear as authorities claim, wouldn’t they allow contact to prisoners, if there is nothing going on, and let prisoners make calls, , that everything is fine, yet no prisoners are making phone calls out of there and makes me very concerned that something more could be going on.
right now we have no idea.
jared genser there.
event since demonstrations began last month.
they were sparked by the death in custody of a young woman detained for allegedly not wearing her hijab correctly.
more protests have taken place in several cities across the country as the ’s duncan kennedy reports.
this is ardabil, north-west of tehran, where protesters have started using rocks to take on the authorities.
some are shouting, "death to the supreme leader.
”
a slogan heard a lot to have the upper hand.
the iranian government control of the media, but using a variety of techniques, a total of 45 people, including children, who have died since the protests began.
many of the demonstrations are still being driven by young it’s nearly a month since these protests began following the death in police custody of a 22-year-old woman.
duncan kennedy, news.
president joe biden has just been speaking about events in iran.
here’s what he said.
the uranian government is so oppressive.
can’t have anything it 00a1d oppressive.
can’t have anything but an enormous amount of :ud pect for those people in the yol streets.
have to admit, yol i yol streets.
have to admit, was rised, not by the response.
was 0 surprised by the courage eople and women taking the streets, taking off their 1a carves.
_ it’s ally been headscarves.
it’s really been eluer 6 headscarves.
it’s really been amazing.
it’s really been zing.
but they are not a good group, the government.
we can now speak to hadi ghaemi, founder of the centre for human rights in iran.
he joins us from new york.
good of you do, the programme.
t4 ank you.
understand that have close friends in this prison.
have 1 prison.
have you had a word how they are?
thank you having me.
no, we don’t ave much information.
and ere are many there are many prominent political prisoners, including nternationally the internationally renowned a3 ectors in there, and the ountry’s sociologist, journalists, there are just so people who have been many people who have been fined there.
in addition many people who have been - iafe a confined there.
in addition to hundreds of hundreds of protesters who confined there.
in addition to hundreds of protesters who have detained and taken there.
in addition, thousands of inary prisoners, there is a lot of concern ordinary prisoners, so there is a ordinary prisoners, so there is a lot of concern what is pening there.
the lawyer we just hearing from who has ent at he jail was saying a client at the jail was saying that prisoners aren’t being wed to make any phone allowed to make any phone =8 lls.
is that your experience well?
well, yes and no.
ome, in one particular ward, been ble to some, in one particular ward, have been able to make ten or 20 calls to their family to they are , but that’s ust particular d.
there just one particular ward.
there are many wards in the and we hearing very contradictory orts about what ally reports about what is really concerning is reports about what is really 1 reports about what is really concerning is the amount of hots.
are they shooting much?
and then residence in nearby neighbourhood are lling us that people are out testing and security forces after them.
so honestly, hran tonight looks like a war and it’s tehran tonight looks like a war sr8 tehran tonight looks like a war zone and it’s very troubling.
overnor of tehran spoke to tate from nside the prison he said that a state from inside the prison state from inside the prison and he said that a ride by soners and ing housing prisoners and a wing housing criminals has been put down and a prisoner is -8 % down and a prisoner is completely calm.
that is not the people on the ground and he videos coming out are wing.
of course, for the i3 showing.
of course, for the past hour are kind of dying off think we have to wait for
but i think we have to wait for he sun to rise to see the tent of damage and loss of fe, especially.
would not a dime of trust in what the overnment of iran tells us.
have been lying non-stop s0 they have been lying non-stop stop want to point they have been lying non-stop they have been lying non-stop stop want to point out that some massacres and high hool girls killed on the ampus.
he just reported from the city of ardabil yesterday y-y the city of ardabil yesterday where a schoolgirl was dered.
we are seeing children, up 0 killed on the street, and hundreds of school kids have been high school kids have been kidnapped and are being kept in own locations are known to their parents.
so this is %1\
the government of iran declaring war on citizens from we are seeing.
it is what we are seeing.
it is extraordinary in the face of is happening, the people what is happening, the people still turning out, they are ill taking i 1 still taking to the streets and are saying that these people are saying that these -1 tests are different, aren’t they?
do you think that the ime is genuinely challenged, you think that real change actually happen?
cannot predict that can predict that but can say that, predict that but can say irt , from all indications, the beginning he end of the beginning and the end of the islamic republic has happened.
i the time one would be, we what the time one would be, we r4 n’t know, but the people on’t seem to don’t know, but the people irl don’t know, but the people don’'t seem to be ready at all back, and every crime that ets known, especially the of young teenage girls, inflaming the population.
is a lot of and you there is a lot of rage and you r4 n’t see anyone defending the rnment, really.
that’s here see the polarisation the power holders with guns sus the rest the versus the rest of the population.
- hadi the centre for human rights in china’s communist party congress is getting under way in beijing, with president jinping expected to start his speech shortly.
in a break in decades-long tradition, delegates are likely to hand a third term as party chief.
it paves the way for him to become the most powerful leader since mao zedong.
our correspondent, celia hatton, reports on how when he strode onto the stage ten years ago, signalling he’d become china’'s new leader, he was a relative unknown.
he was supposed to rule alongside these six other but now, it’s clear that he’s reshaped the communist party, the military and the government, so that he’s at the top of it all.
so, how did he do 1t?
how did he become so powerful?
he started out with a bold vision - the china dream.
it unleashed big projects to build things like high-speed rail networks and new global trading routes that aimed to revitalise the whole country.
a visit to a beijing steamed bun shop.
he cultivated a different image for himself, making sure as the top leader.
he reorganised the military, too.
allies, he’s firmly in control.
and let’s not forget the ongoing anti-corruption crackdown.
this man, zhou yongkang, is the former top security chief, now in prison for amassing $14 billion in ill-gotten gains.
more than a millien party officials have been punished under xi, silencing all rivals.
the campaign’s popular with the public, but it’s is at the top of his game but he faces serious challenges - china’s economy is suffering under tight covid restrictions and he’s made quite a few - china watchers will be looking to see if he begins to delegate any responsibilities, sharing the power - celia hatton, news.
frank tsai is the founder of china crossroads.
asked him whether he was expecting any major changes in policy to be announced during the congress.
well, i’m here in shanghal and can tell you what it feels like on the ground here so, you know, we’re very excited in china about xi’s speech coming up in two hours.
you know, we’re greatly affected, partly because, which affects our lives greatly.
you know, just recently, 4 and there’ve been more lockdowns of buildings, no doubt due to worry about the party congress and, there have been forced closing of bars, more moderating on social media and innocuous articles deleted, and also an interesting rumour and think revealing covid case counts may have been lowered intentionally by the government so as to not cause embarrassment and this may imply a big uptick or lockdown after the party well, chinese officials have said they won’t be lifting the covid restrictions, haven’t they, speaking ahead of this conference?
in terms of the ecenomic impact of these covid restrictions, are people more generally blaming president for that?
yeah, can tell you that that’s an important part to look for in this coming week - language and economic growth versus sustainability and common prosperity.
you know, right now, we are forecast to only have 5.
2-3.
3% growth in china, which is very, very another thing to look for, too, is, you know, all the rumours say that there’ll be no change on zero covid, that the party will continue to double down.
of course, it’s put its entire credibility in jinping personally and this is the premiere time to talk about this because this party congress should be seen and goals.
or the , it’s more like a party convention platform.
it’s only a one-party state, right?
so in china, the party is the state legally turning to foreign policy, then, president has been recently, talking about taiwan and the reunification, as he called it, and saying how how serious a threat is that in terms of any sort of military invasion?
well, in previous party documents, the language got stronger and stronger on taiwan.
we want china unified by 2049, the 100th anniversary of the founding of the country.
you know, for today’s speech and the next week, there’s a couple things i think we should be looking for, especially you in the west, what’s relevant to you.
number one, look for language suggesting more concentration of power.
of course, he’s getting his third term as general secretary, almost certainly third term as president next yedr.
he has been affirmed as the leader in party documents.
number two - very important be an appointed successor.
so, back in 2017, there was successor and if there’s not one now, we may fear in the future
some i -i3t o0 he may die, he may get ill - all these kinds of things.
and finally - and think and probably most ignored but important - you know, will jinping’s own thought be written in the party charter as jinping thought, equalling him to mao zedong thought?
it will be a huge signal he is the premier leader, on par with mao zedong in chinese history.
and just a note - this charter that he’ll be talking the chinese state constitution.
it’s a statement of its own missions and goals.
you know, you at might have a mission statement.
this is @ mission statement, this is the vision of the communist party of china and we’ll be hearing about it jeremy hunt, has indicated there’ll be major changes strategy.
in a round of interviews with broadcasters on saturday, hunt said mistakes had been made by the government and warned of what he called "very difficult decisions” he suggested taxes could rise to help restore market confidence, and also talked about spending cuts.
hunt was appointed after the prime minister sacked his predecessor, kwasi kwarteng.
here’s our political correspondent, ben wright.
congratulations, chancellor!
the fourth chancellor in as many months.
calm financial markets.
he has just two weeks to write a budget that looks set to junk many of the prime minister’s signature policies.
on wednesday, liz truss said she was absolutely not planning public spending cuts.
decisions ahead, difficult decisions on spending, which is not going to rise
= and i’m going to be asking all government departments to find additional efficiency savings.
that’s going to be one person’s efficiency savings is another person’s cuts.
yes.
during the tory leadership contest, liz truss said the country couldn’t tax its way to economic growth, but now taxes are not going to come down by as much as people hoped, and some taxes will have to go up.
then, there was the prime minister’s pledge to boost defence spending to 3% of national income by 2030.
but the defence department, too, is going to have to help find efficiencies.
the long-term ability to fund an increase in defence spending will depend on stability in the economic situation =r growing economy.
spending cuts and tax rises is not what liz truss planned when she entered number 10 last month, but the economic and political turmoil that followed her first chancellor’s mini budget has forced a fundamental rethink, 1y yesterday, the smiles had gone and the prime minister’s appearance in number 10 did little to convince her tory party critics that she is up to the job.
some believe her future now hinges on the chancellor’s budget at the end of this month.
are still reacting all over the place, then think she in considerable trouble.
mistakes and puts them right, then i think she could conceivably get beyond this.
but emphasise could, because think it all depends on that financial statement a the opposition said the prime minister’s government was now clinging on.
el1e the british economy, they also clung on.
they made the pound sink, clung on as they took our pensions to the brink of collapse, clung on as they pushed the mortgages and bills they did all of this.
questions?
liz truss clearly wants to battle on, hoping this turmoil will subside, a mad to and oust the prime minister already.
others say keeping her in place would be worse.
ben wright, news.
let’s get some of the day’s other news.
uganda’s government has imposed overnight curfews and closed entertainment venues as it tries to stop the spread of ebola.
the measures, which will last for three weeks initially, also include the closing into and out of the areas affected has been prohibited.
19 people have so far died from the disease.
there have been large protests in the tunisian capital against president kais saied, denouncing him as an autocrat who’s reversing the democratic progress in the country.
saied took on full executive power last year, but protestors say there’s been improvement in living standards.
one man has died and two others are missing in greece after torrential rain caused flash flooding on the island of crete.
emergency workers say the victim had become trapped lthliee local media are reporting extensive damage in seaside villages, where streets have been inundated with water.
residents have been urged i russia’s defence ministry says that 11 people were killed and 15 more wounded at a military training ground when two citizens of an ex-soviet state opened fire on trainees during an exercise.
the authorities described the incident in the belgorod region as a terrorist act.
to fight for russia in ukraine.
russia’s defence ministry said the assailants were shot dead.
elon musk says his starlink satellite company will continue to provide internet to ukraine for free, despite threatening ukraine has described starlink as vital, saying it helped the country survive critical moments during the russian v&3 three, two, one.
zero, ignition.
lift-off.
elon musk’s link satellites launching 2019, his bed provide ls=tats in 2019, his bed to provide broadband arcund the world.
in 2019, his bed to provide broadband around the world.
a few years later, it will become ical the ukrainian war critical to the ukrainian war 0010 effort.
the company’s 3000 stations in effort.
the company’s 3000 aei 8 stations in the wealth orbit have been crucial to munications by ips for the ast eight months as they nhitor past eight months as they aie a past eight months as they monitoer russian movements.
but iday, a fferent battle on friday, a different battle was raging.
musk said his any could no longer provide the service, suggesting the agon to over the alleged $20 pentagon to cover the alleged aids pentagon to cover the alleged $20 million a month into that vt2 $20 million a month inte that bill.
so, the sudden nge?
it all seemed to start when he weighed in on ukraine’s tary strategy.
he asked military strategy.
he asked twitter military strategy.
he asked i ter users if it should accept territorial losses, cee kir -l including accept territorial losses, including crimea, in the erest of a peaceful end to ar.
interest of a peaceful end to interest of a peaceful end to the war.
it was not welcomed by zelensky ukrainian zelensky or ukrainian ambassadors, including one who ted profanity, saying it tweeted a profanity, saying it 3 my very diplomatic reply to in pulling his internet services, you.
in pulling his internet 4 you.
in pulling his internet services, musk said he was following the just following the recommendation.
now, though, orld’s recommendation.
now, though, rld’s richest man has had the world’s richest man has had other change of heart and ta:l a another tweet has said he will 418 another tweet has said he will continue his support.
for now ast, ukraine has one less at least, ukraine has one less battle to worry about.
stephanie prentice, news.
the first european woman to command the international space station has spoken samantha cristoforetti had been on board for nearly six months conducting research.
the italian astrenaut says her mission to the space station is likely it was great to experience again the re-entry into the atmosphere.
it’s quite a wild ride, but also quite amazing.
i’m obviously very happy to be back with my loved ones and my family, so look forward to spending i’m happy to be back, obviously, but it was also in space, most likely a - we are in the process of selecting a new class the coronavirus pandemic brought much of the world but now, as covid-19 fades somewhat into the background, things are beginning .
in chile, a popular event making a comeback should tell you tim allman’s report contains a lot of make-up, but no real blood.
after three years, the walking dead have risen once more.
l, not really.
instead, a of people dressed up as mbies lot of people dressed up as bies for a zombies for a sloping, staggering stroll ound santiago.
: it is an we used to do every year.
event we used to do every year.
04 due to the coronavirus, it fhe - been suspended.
a family participates and event where everyone participates and people show creativity.
zombie walks 4 their creativity.
zombie walks date back more than 20 years.
times, they are for a good cause and sometimes, they are real cause at all, yy1 for no real cause at all, cept for this one, of course!
: come because it - 1s : come because it is fun.
it’s fun because we can wear make up.
: we came wear make up.
:
we r0 here to get out of the old a - routine.
and be a again.
this carnival of glory make up ndiscriminate groaning has been replicated in plenty of cities across the globe.
04 around other cities across the globe.
i iee other cities across the globe.
but around these parts, they tell you this one is will tell you this one is 8 will tell you this one is special.
a real chiller in tim allman, news.
- saillate 018 0 a reminder of our top story
, he united states as it 1o the united states as it is following report from evan on with urgency.
the state prison with urgency.
the state department that iran was fully onsible for the safety of responsible for the safety of ongly detained citizens o, it said, should be eleased immediately.
all from or now.
you can catch on witter.
the weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and thundery in places, gusty winds.
as one area of low pressure begins to pull away for much of the for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
this is that area of low pressure pulling away.
however, this is another one moving in towards some wetter weather pushing north again by sunday evening.
let’s look at how sunday begins.
there’s still some showers around, especially in scotland - some heavy ones in the west.
temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
a cooler night across a and will still be around the northern isles as you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon, for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
northern ireland and, indeed, southern england, south wales, so you could see a few showery bursts of rain heading in later in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much wetter in northern ireland as this moves north.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet on sunday evening eals we’ll see some wet and windy ad across the overnight and into monday morning.
coasts and into western scotland with gales in places.
a much milder night, especially across wales and england.
closer to that area of low pressure on monday, it’s northern ireland and northern england that could well see some showers but it’ll be scotland bearing the brunt of some heavy downpours once again.
for much in england and wales in the afternoon, actually, it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not as windy as it still will be across the northern half temperatures on monday may well be a degree also higher in places.
then there’s a ridge of high pressure settling things down.
sitting to our south-west.
and whilst on tuesday, most places are looking - just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just start to increase across eastern scotland, north east england.
-f towards the south-west, on wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain in from the south-west, whereas many places will actually have another day but wetter weather becoming more widespread again towards the end of the week.
that’s your forecast.
bye for now.
a big fire has broken out at evin prison in the iranian capital, tehran, where hundreds of political priseners and dozens of dual i in videos posted online, gunfire and sirens can be britain’s new chancellor of the exchequer, jeremy hunt, has admitted the government made mistakes when announcing unfunded tax cuts last month and that very difficult he’s promised to restore china’s communist party congress is getting under way in beijing, with president jinping due to start his speech shortly.
delegates are expected to hand a third term it paves the way for him to become the most powerful leader since mao zedong.
the governor of the bank of england, andrew bailey, has spoken to the new chancellor, jeremy hunt, and says there was a "clear meeting of minds” on the importance of stability.
now bailey has also warned of the possibility of higher interest rates ahead, more than previously expected.
our business correspondent, marc ashdown, has this all smiles launching the mini-budget at the end of september.
and with it a new political = describing liz truss’s vision for a high growth, high wage, low tax economy.
have you been given y4 can you change elements of the mini budget if you want to?
yes.
with the country.
trussenomics reversed, then.
tax cuts likely replaced with tax rises, huge investment replaced with a spending slowdown.
this rethink has largely been driven by the turmoil in the financial markets since the mini-budget was announced.
the pound has had a torrid time.
the effective cost of government borrowing has soared and the bank of england had to step in with an emergency programme - buying up government bonds to stabilise the pension sector.
confidence and credibility.
bank of england governor andrew bailey said he spoke to the new chancellor yesterday and had an immediate meeting of minds.
but in a speech in washington, he had this warning the inflation target.
and as things stand today, my best guess is that inflationary pressures will require a stronger investors are expecting a rise of up to one percentage point in november to 3.
25%.
most mortgage offers are currently already around 6%, but a bigger rise i the economy elsewhere.
and even with a change of approach, the government’s problems remain the same - how to find tens of billions and make the sums add up.
we’re certainly looking at a really tough couple of years.
we’ve got a very tough ilge lat - @ we’ve got very stretched public finances.
think we’re going to see some even further reversal of the tax cuts that we’ve had and, in addition, probably some very tight spending rounds.
the first verdict will come i ok a4
i i & don’t expect a dramatic reversal, because the devil will be in the detail.
and when we find out the detail of the budget on the 31st of october, that will be perhaps a more holistic judgement being made by financial markets.
that’s a fortnight away - a long time in the life marc ashdown, news.
now news investigates a new trend on tiktok: hundreds of families in refugee camps in syria, begging for gifts on tiktoek livestreams.
there’s a new trend on tiktok.
they’re asking for tiktok gifts that can be withdrawn but that money isn’t all going to them.
we’ve been following more than 300 accounts going live on tiktok, trying to work out where that money is going.
tiktok has got a ferocious appetite for growth.
the longer that they spend on the platform, the more revenue they generate.
have the phones, internet a & tans a1 to go live tiktok is creating an enabling an ecosystem that runs on the exploitation of people’s suffering.
and so many of the donors come from the .
over £1,000 would have been put in there and that to them would have been a lot of money.
we’ve uncovered a network of companies around the world, including agencies contracted by tiktok in china, all making money off these displaced families.
earlier this year, tiktok users in the began to notice something different on the app.
families living in tents asking for help.
this is the account i’ve been using to follow some of these and you can see here, all of these accounts are live right now.
there’s a pattern.
the children seem to be saying the same kind of things.
they’re asking for likes and gifts.
and if you listen closely, sometimes you can hear there’s a voice off-camera actually telling them what to say.
over the past five months, we’ve been following hundreds to find out who’s behind this trend.
a lot of them are displaced from their homes because they’re destroyed, because of the war, of what’s the last ten years in syria.
on tiktek, people started flagging them as scams.
i’m sick of scams on live.
unacceptable.
we asked mohammed, a journalist based in syria, what he had forcibly displaced in syria’s long-running civil war.
when mohammed got there, he immediately found families mona’'s husband was killed in an air strike.
_
she now lives with her six daughters.
sharifa is blind in one eye and has partial sight in the other.
for the past month, they’ve been going on tiktok live.
it’s tiring work, but they have limited options to earn a living in the camp and meet their basic needs.
mona and her daughters go live for two or three hours at a time, several times a day.
to go live on tiktok, you need at least 1,000 followers.
then, when you’re live, users can send digital gifts r0 for content they like.
these gifts are bought with real money, ranging from roses, which cost a few cents, to lions and universes, which cost around $500 each.
the gifts are converted to a virtual currency that you can withdraw as cash.
they’ve got a private jet.
that’s they’re happy.
they’re really happy.
they’re celebrating.
we wanted to find out how people who’ve lost everything the person filming mona’s livestream is hamid, 4 to buy the phone.
now, he works with 12 different families and he’s known mohammed asked him how it all worked.
he says he does this to help the families make a living.
lige i hamid told us he buys british cards to get british viewers, because he says they’re the most generous gifters.
that explains tiktok users in the had been seeing these livestreams and even joining in.
big up, my syrian brother, man.
big up, my brother, man.
thanks, abdullah.
let’s go.
let’s go.
there must have been about 50,000 people that came on my live, and the kids seemed so happy.
and even though the man had his legs blown off and he had his arm blown off, he was the most positive quy you could ever meet or speak to.
keith used to be a professional rugby player and has nearly a millien followers on tiktok.
he donated £300, around $350 in tiktok gifts, to a family in syria, love you.
thank you.
they was calling me 'muscle man’ and stuff
and he was going through google translate saying, "my kids love you.
"they love your hair, love it.
”
the energy was fantastic.
probably think over £1,000 would have been put in there and that, to them, would have been a lot of money.
we got the money!
we asked a charity in syria about how children are being as an alternative to making money from tiktok live.
many families don’t receive a fair wage for their work the first time dokan went live, he says he wasn’t paid at all, but he wanted to again.
he was hoping to make money to pay for his daughter’s heart surgery.
to find out how much people are spending on tiktok gifts, we built a program to scrape data from tiktok livestreams.
we tracked dozens of accounts which said they were going live the lives we saw would sometimes make over $1,000 an hour in gifts.
but people like dokan say they’re being paid less than $1 an hour.
so, where’s all the money going?
we asked hamid, who said tiktok middlemen are getting help from agencies in china.
hamid told us he was working with someone who goes by the name martha from an agency based in china.
we wanted to find out how these agencies were involved.
so, mohammed in syria contacted martha, saying he lived inacamp.
the pictures martha sent appear to show the offices agencies like this are a growing part of tiktok’s business strategy.
they’re independent, but they’re contracted by tiktok to help tiktokers and tiktok itself make money from livestreaming on the platform.
our team in syria heard of at least five different agencies working with syrian families in camps.
so, how much money do these agencies take we spoke to a number of agencies who say they’re paid by tiktok to bring livestreamers to the platform.
they told us the longer users lrg0 we were told by families and middlemen that tiktok takes 50-70% of profits from live gifts and pays some of that to agencies.
we asked tiktok about it, but they wouldn’t say how much.
the only way to find out was to it for ourselves.
so, mohammed kept chatting to martha.
up an account for us and sent us the username and password.
then, we got an invitation to join an agency called giant martha contacted us nearly every day, putting pressure on us to go live.
tiktok’s terms and conditions say you can only go live with more than 1,000 followers.
four, but martha said it would work anyway.
so, mohammed went to test dla of a camp near idlib.
let’s buy some coins.
yep.
we bought $106 - around £90, in tiktok coins.
i’m going to call him and tell him to go we joined the live from london and used all our coins to send him gifts.
yeah, go for it.
then, mohammed checked the balance of his account.
they’re taking 70%!
next, mohammed went to the local money transfer, where tiktokers cash out their earnings.
the money transfer shop and the card shop are part of a new economy to help facilitate these transactions.
from the $106 we donated to mohammed’s account, tiktok took $73.
the money transfer took 10% of what we had left.
and hamid told us tiktok middlemen take 35% of what’s so from $106, muhammad would have just over $19.
and often, the families we spoke to get much, much less.
but in the camps, jobs are few other options.
kotaneh and her family sell scraps from the rubbish dump for a living.
it’s dangerous work, pays next to nothing, and comes with many health risks.
they have made money from tiktok, but they know others are profiting we showed the videos to a non-profit called access now, that protects people’s rights online.
and share their stories, share the miserable conditions they’re living in, to seek support and sympathy.
when looked at tiktok’s website, they publicly state that their community is treated with fundamental dignity saw is exactly the opposite what responsibility does tiktok have towards these people, these families, these children?
i rdal 13 on business and human rights.
it’s hard to see, first of all, how tiktok is ensuring that the rights and dignity at being ensured.
they state clearly that to solicit explicitly gifts.
so, this is a clear violation of their own terms of services - let alone, of course, the rights of those people.
most of the accounts we followed regularly went live tiktok’s guidelines say, "we prohibit activities "perpetuate the abuse, harm, endangerment, we reported more than 30 accounts using children for begging in the app to see what tiktok would at the time, tiktok said there was no violation matt navarra is a social media consultant and analyst.
do you think tiktok is placing so much emphasis tiktok has got a ferocious appetite for growth, like most social media platforms.
livestreams inevitably pull people in for longer duration.
the longer that they spend on the platform, the more revenue they generate for the business, the more information they glean from its users in terms of how i 3 in your video, it’s obviously prolonging the pain for somebody that already is in a desperate situation.
we wanted to put these allegations to tiktok and asked them for an interview.
instead, they gave us this statement: tiktok said it removed the accounts that violated its community guidelines ae: with the agency giant mina.
we asked giant , but they didn’t respond.
as for tiktok, they told us they don’t take 70% of profits from live gifts, but they i let & amount or what commission they pay to agencies.
and syria that weren’t signed up to agencies, and found that tiktok took just under 70% every time.
most of tiktok’s downloads come from apple’s app store and google play.
both of these have codes of conduct that say apps that facilitate the exploitation 1 removed or rejected.
we asked them what they were doing about children begging on tiktek, but neither apple nor google would comment on our investigation.
hi, how are you?
welcome, welcome!
and i’m sitting here right outside their offices now - i’m still finding videos like this - many, many videos with children being used to beg for hours.
and it really makes me want to know what will it take on their platform?
we called keith again to tell him what we had discovered.
we found that 70% of all of the money donated would have gone straight into tiktok’s pockets.
are you kidding me?
it’s very unfair - especially to them families over in syria.
it’s greed, innit?
takaful alsham said they would support the families we spoke to with basic supplies for the next three months, help the children find schools and pay for school expenses.
we asked them how people around the world could many people on tiktok are calling these livestreams scams, but the struggles of the families we met are very, very real.
people have donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to them.
and its agencies.
whilst for these families in syria, life continues with no change in sight.
after a showery saturday, sunday is looking like a drier day across much of the .
still a few early showers in northern england, especially in scotland, although these are going to fade away, though still some in the northern isles i it’ll be with sunny spells.
cloud increasing later in the afternoon across southern england, perhaps south wales, with uncertainty about the speed of progression.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet in northern ireland during the evening.
overnight and into monday morning.
then on monday, any early from south east england and east anglia.
after a much milder start to the day, closer to the area will see the strongest winds.
further showers for northern ireland and northern england but particularly in scotland i - etls 4 of the heaviest downpours, especially north of the central perhaps a degree or so higher, the temperature on monday.
welcome to news.
i’m lucy grey.
our top stories: gunshots are heard after a huge state media reports at least eight people are injured.
this is live from beijing as china’s communist party gress china’s communist party gress is under way.
congress is under way.
president jinping is ected to secure a third term welcome to news.
we begin in iran, where a large fire has been blazing at evin prison in the capital tehran.
hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual nationals are held in the prison, as well as many protesters around the country.
officials say that eight people have been injured, and that the situation is now under control, but information is still trickling out of the country.
well earlier spoke to human rights activist sussan tahmasebi who is also one of iran’s foremost feminist asked what she had learned about what’s happening in evin prison in tehran.
there is a lot of speculation and a lot of concern.
we’ve had different stories, people who have seven and eight, seemed to be the wards that have caught fire, and ward seven they next to the quarantine section of ward 240 where a lot of protesters who have been taken prisoner are being held.
the authorities and government say one thing and people who are familiar with evin prison say a different thing, families who are outside of the prison when the fire attacked by security gquards and teargas, so they are not provided with any infermation.
clarity into the situation and it is very frustrating and concerning for we are not gonna know and think your previous guest talked about how it is difficult to trust the iranian with what we are seeing.
but they very much regularly lie about what is going on.
until we can hear from the prisoners inside the prison, until they are allowed to call, we’re not going to have any clarity on what’s going on.
more broadly, looking at the protests and how widespread they are, and how fearless people seem have gone on for, looking at the fifth week of protests now, aren’t we?
we are.
am more amazed than anything.
understand the motivations i’m not surprised in that sense, but am surprised, despite the incredible violence they face, street and demand freedom and equality and democracy.
in that sense, think they are very iran has seen protests before.
do you think the regime has been so far unable to stop these protests?
a little bit different than previous protests because, first of all, they were sparked by demand and leading them more than any other protests in the past.
the 2009 protests, which were against the presidency of ahmadinejad and the last two major protests in 2017 and 2019, women were present but not so front and centre.
we also see a lot of young people including high schoolers but these protests are across the country, very dispersed, decentralised, organised in protests in the past who are participating in these protests.
they’re intersectional, so you see different people with different ages, different socio-economic backgrounds, different 1= religions participating in these protests so it’s very difficult and they are very broad-based so it’s difficult to quell them even though jingping, has just begun his address at the opening of china’s twentieth communist party congress.
we can have a look at some live pictures.
turkey says people have died in tatle turkey says people have died in i turkey says people have died in a combine after a turkey says people have died in a combine after a suspected methane explosion friday.
ident erdogan visited the president erdogan visited the and promised a thorough investigation.
that’s get more at is going in china.
in a break of decades-long tradition, delegates are likely to hand a third term as party chief.
it paves the way for him to become the most powerful leader since mao zedong.
frank tsai is the founder of china crossroads.
asked him what he’ll be watching out for in the speech.
we were looking for moves 8 which affects our lives greatly.
you know, just recently, 4 and there’ve been more lockdowns of buildings, no doubt due to worry about the party congress and, there have been forced closing of bars, more moderating on social media and innocuous articles deleted, and also and think is flase is revealing covid case counts may have been lowered intentionally by the government so as to not cause embarrassment and this may imply a big uptick or lockdown after the party our correspondent celia hatton reports on how jinping rose when he strode onto the stage ten years ago, signalling he’d become china’'s new leader, he was a relative unknown.
he was supposed to rule alongside these six other but now, it’s clear that he’s reshaped the communist party, the military and the government, so that he’s at the top of it all.
so, how did he do 1t?
how did he become so powerful?
he started out with a bold vision - the china dream.
it unleashed big projects to build things like high-speed rail networks and new global trading routes that aimed to revitalise the whole country.
a visit to a beijing steamed bun shop.
he cultivated a different image for himself, making sure as the top leader.
he reorganised the military, too.
allies, he’s firmly in control.
and let’s not forget the ongoing anti-corruption crackdown.
this man, zhou yongkang, is the former top security chief, now in prison for amassing $14 billion in ill-gotten gains.
more than a millien party officials have been punished under xi, silencing all rivals.
the campaign’s popular with the public, but it’s is at the top of his game but he faces serious challenges - china’s economy is suffering under tight covid restrictions and he’s made quite a few - china watchers will be looking to see if he begins to delegate any responsibilities, sharing the power - celia hatton, news.
jeremy hunt, has indicated there’ll be major changes strategy.
in a round of interviews with broadcasters on saturday hunt said mistakes had been made by the government and warned of what he called "very difficult decisions” he suggested taxes could rise to help restore market about spending cuts.
hunt was appointed after the prime minister sacked his predecessor, kwasi kwarteng.
here’s our political correspondent, ben wright.
congratulations, chancellor!
the fourth chancellor in as many months.
calm financial markets.
he has just two weeks to write a budget that looks set to junk many of the prime minister’s signature policies.
on wednesday, liz truss said she was absolutely not planning public spending cuts, but listen to this.
decisions ahead, difficult decisions on spending, which is not going to rise = and i’m going to be asking all government departments to find additional efficiency savings.
that’s going to be one person’s efficiency savings is another person’s cuts.
yes.
during the tory leadership contest, liz truss said the country couldn’t tax its way to economic growth, but now taxes are not going to come down by as much as people hoped, and some taxes will have to go up.
then, there was the prime minister’s pledge to boost defence spending to 3% of national income by 2030.
but the defence department, too, is going to have to help find efficiencies.
the long-term ability to fund an increase in defence spending will depend on stability in the economic situation =r growing economy.
spending cuts and tax rises is not what liz truss planned when she entered number 10 last month, but the economic and political turmoil that followed her first chancellor’s mini budget has forced a fundamental rethink, 1y yesterday, the smiles had gone and the prime minister’s appearance in number 10 did little to convince her tory party critics that she’s up to the job.
some believe her future now hinges on the chancellor’s budget at the end of this month.
are still reacting all over the place, then think she in considerable trouble.
mistakes and puts them right, 0 conceivably get beyond this.
but emphasise could, because think it all depends on that financial statement a the opposition said the prime minister’s government was now clinging on.
el1e the british economy, they also clung on.
they made the pound sink, clung on as they took our pensions to the brink of collapse, clung on as they pushed the mortgages and bills they did all of this.
questions liz truss clearly wants to battle on, hoping this turmoil will subside, a mad to and oust the prime minister already.
ben wright, news.
a reminder of the headlines: uganda’s government has imposed overnight curfews and closed entertainment venues as it tries to stop the spread of ebola.
the measures, which will last for three weeks initially, also include the closing into and out of the areas affected has been prohibited.
19 people have so far died from the disease.
there have been large protests in the tunisian capital against president kais saied, denouncing him as an autocrat who’s reversing the democratic progress in the country.
saied took on full executive power last year, but protesters say there’s been improvement in living standards.
heavy floods on the greek island of crete have claimed at least one life, swept away cars and flooded local authorities have evacuated tourists, and asked 16 to "remain vigilant”.
stefano fasanoc has more.
mud and water.
people shovelling away the sequences of shovelling away the a equences of your another treme weather event.
heavy 4 ods in the greek island of crete have wrecked and followed dozens crete have wrecked havoc and a crete have wrecked havoc and followed dozens of homes on rday night.
a 45-year-old 1e saturday night.
a 45-year-old man died after his car was gged by currents in the rthern dragged by currents in the ern part of the island northern part of the island where raines battered towns and ages four hours stop his villages four hours stop his passenger, woman, , is till ssing.
for everyone else, the job of rebuilding and leaning up is left.
: it all happened in nds.
don’t how long, seconds.
don’t know how long, \ arely managed to get everyone out at the very last when the water reached minute when the water reached up to their shoulders because yone as sleeping and had everyone was sleeping and had no idea what was happening.
were swept away to sea.
1r and what’s one of the most ous tourist destinations in he the mediterranean.
now several cles are seen floating in vehicles are seen floating in front of the island’s features.
fighters front of the island’s features.
fighters rescued one woman nside her car before was inside her car before it was a i switched to see.
authorities y-\ they’re investigating more of missing people and others may have been trapped in the others may have been trapped in their cars.
the and’s international airport 1 as closed as the runway underwater.
was closed as the runway was 2l underwater.
tourist on the island were integrated and a island were integrated and authorities advised residents vigilant.
this might just the beginning.
natural sasters like flash floods are pected to intensify injuries becoming more frequent as climate change takes hold.
stefanc fasanc, news.
jingping, has just begun his address at the opening of china’s 20th communist party congress.
we can have a look at some live pictures.
he is speaking he is speaking to over 2200 delegates that have gathered and he is expected to llesl there and he is expected to secure a third term as leader will listen to hat he y- "
and we will listen to what he says to congress and bring use a a a reminder of the headlines: gunshots are heard after a huge fire breaks out at a prison in iran’s capital tehran.
state media reports at least eight people injured.
as the ’s prime minister fights for her job, the new chancellor signals he’ll make major changes to her economic policy.
russia’s defence ministry says that 11 people were killed and 15 more wounded at a military training ground when two citizens of an ex-soviet state opened fire on trainees during an exercise.
the authorities described the incident in the belgorod region as a terrorist act.
to fight for russia in ukraine.
russia’s defence ministry said the assailants were shot dead.
elon musk says his starlink satellite company will continue to provide internet to ukraine for free, despite threatening ukraine has described starlink as vital, saying it helped the country survive critical moments during the russian v&3 : three, two, one, zero.
ignition.
elon musk’s starlink satellites launching in 2019.
his bid to provide broadband around the world that, i would become critical crucial to communications by troops for the past eight months as they monitor russian movements.
but on friday, a different battle was raging.
musk said his company could no longer provide the service, suggesting the pentagon to cover so, the sudden change?
it all seemed to start when he weighed in on ukraine’s military strategy, asking twitter users if it should accept territorial losses, including crimea, in the interest of a peaceful end to the war.
it was not welcomed by zelensky or ukrainian ambassadors, including one who tweeted a profanity, saying "that is my very diplomatic reply to you™.
in pulling his internet services, musk said now, though, the world’s richest man has had another change of heart and, in another tweet, has said he’ll continue his support.
and for now at least, ukraine has one less battle to worry about.
stephanie prentice, news.
hehind che of the most behind one of the most successful behind one of the most 3nn we behind one of the most successful vaccine say they eve the same technology could elp transform cancer atment.
they also said they fight claims by a rival ompany that infringed weyad:1get company that they infringed patterns in their covid jab.
us walsh reports.
if you have a covid booster this autumn, whether it’s the pfizer-biontech or moderna jabs, they both rely on a new type of vaccine technology known as mrna.
among the pioneers were husband and wife team i and ozlem tureci, who founded a i« speaking to sunday with laura kuenssberg, studies, where patients receive a personalised vaccine to prompt their immune system to attack their disease.
helps us to find out more about what we are against and how therefore, as scientists, we are always hesitant to say we will have a cure for cancer.
we have a number of breakthroughs and we will continue to work them.
but it may be several years before we know if trials in bowel cancer, melanoma and other tumour types really do live up to the hype.
covid vaccines, though, have been highly successful and made billions for biontech, but rival firm moderna has started legal action for patent infringement - technology were copied.
biontech says it will vigorously defend against the allegations.
our innovations are original.
we have spent 20 years of research in developing this type of treatment and, 1 for our intellectual property.
these patent disputes won’t stop the rollout of covid vaccines.
the question now is can 4 fergus walsh, news.
the first european woman to command the international space station has spoken after arriving back to earth on friday.
samantha cristoforetti had been on board for nearly six months conducting research.
the italian astrenaut says her mission to the space station is likely it was great to experience again the re-entry into the atmosphere.
it’s quite a wild ride, but also quite amazing.
i’m obviously very happy to be back with my loved ones and my family, so look forward to spending i’m happy to be back, obviously, but it was also in space, most likely a - we are in the process of selecting a new class the coronavirus pandemic brought much of the world to a halt but now, as covid-19 fades somewhat into the background, things are beginning g1 in chile, a popular event making a comeback should tell you tim allman’s report contains a lot of make-up, but no real blood.
after three years, the walking dead have risen once more.
well, not really.
instead, a lot of people dressed up as zombies for a sloping, staggering stroll around santiago.
"it is an event we used to do every year," said this man.
"but due to the coronavirus, it had been suspended.
"it’s a family event where everyone participates zombie walks date back more than 20 years.
sometimes, they’re for a good cause.
sometimes, they’re for no real cause at all - except for this one, of course!
" come because it’s fun,” said this young zombie.
"it’s fun because we can wear make-up.
” zombie, "and be a kid again™.
this carnival of gory make-up and indiscriminate groaning has been replicated in plenty of other cities across the globe.
but round these parts, they’ll tell you this one is special.
tim allman, news.
it has taken 14 years to get to screen but mexican director llermo del toro did ive guillermo del toro did not give up and has finally seen his occhio up and has finally seen his mrg0 up and has finally seen his pinocchio brought to life.
the - pinocchio brought to life.
the director said it pinocchio brought to life.
the director said it is not a movie made for kids but they could it if made for kids but they could watch it if their parents alked to them about talked to them about the dark es.
claudia redmond reports.
it is a story you may think you know.
but you t.
the story of wooden don’t.
the story of the wooden boy.
director gea myrdal toppo helds a model of his a i proudly holds a model of his vision of pinocchio at the a1l8 amir which was held at world amir which was held at he film festival in london turday.
-- guillerme del toro.
the ory of the property came a eal boy comes from r0 became a real boy comes from 118 became a real boy comes from the 18th-century book but in stop motion animation ersion the much darker tail is against the sombre back rop mussolini’'s scist drop of mussolini’s fascist 118 and the little boy is 1eivrt more feisty.
yes, iltaly and the little boy is more feisty.
yes, think occhio is nermally obedient about changing yourself please what people think you be
but this pinocchio is obedient and that you who you are and disobedient and that you are 0 who you are and you are a real boy a1 who you are and you are a real who you are and you are a real boy no matter what or who you you don’t need are
and you don’t need acceptance, you need somebody you for who you are.
ei-n 18" to see you for who you are.
gregory mann celebrated his birthday at the premiere 13th birthday at the premiere and the newcomer talked about oment he heard the the moment he heard the news you rtae- -0 incredible.
rtse i incredible.
remember was at 1 friend’s house incredible.
remember was at a !
iend’s house and did not have my friend’s house and did not ave a phone at the time is my iend’'s mumbled in and she aid your mum is on the for you because was confused use normally you would think because normally you would i hink it was a bad thing but it cut out she was calling me turns out she was calling me a i 1a turns out she was calling me pinocchio and realised got the role and was completely over the moon.
gregory was ned on the carpet by his father, the oodcarver geppetto, and styles from the film, geppetto, and other styles from 0 geppetto, and other styles from the film, cate blanchett and stoph watts.
del toro christoph watts.
del toro said this was a dream christoph watts.
del toro said yad christoph watts.
del toro said this was a dream project for certainly the him and certainly pull the of the audience.
dia redmond, news.
-0 time for the weather now with nick miller.
the weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and thundery in places, gusty winds.
as one area of low pressure begins to pull away for much of the for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
this is that area of low pressure pulling away.
however, this is another one moving in towards some wetter weather pushing north again by sunday evening.
let’s look at how sunday begins.
there’s still some showers around, especially in scotland - some heavy ones in the west.
temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
a cooler night across a and will still be around the northern isles as you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon, for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
northern ireland and, indeed, southern england, south wales, so you could see a few showery bursts of rain heading in later in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much wetter in northern ireland as this moves north.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet on sunday evening eals we’ll see some wet and windy ad across the overnight and into monday morning.
coasts and into western scotland with gales in places.
a much milder night, especially across wales and england.
closer to that area of low pressure on monday, it’s northern ireland and northern england that could well see some showers but it’ll be scotland bearing the brunt of some heavy downpours once again.
for much in england and wales in the afternoon, actually, it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not as windy as it still will be across the northern half temperatures on monday may well be a degree also higher in places.
then there’s a ridge of high pressure settling things down.
sitting to our south-west.
and whilst on tuesday, most places are looking - just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just start to increase across eastern scotland, north east england.
-f towards the south-west, on wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain in from the south-west, whereas many places will actually have another day but wetter weather becoming more widespread again towards the end of the week.
that’s your forecast.
bye for now.
a big fire has broken out at evin prison in the iranian capital, tehran, where hundreds of political priseners and dozens of dual i in videos posted online, gunfire and sirens can be britain’s new chancellor of the exchequer, jeremy hunt, has admitted the government made mistakes when announcing unfunded tax cuts last month and that very difficult he has promised to restore 18 china’s communist party congress is getting underway in beijing, with president jinping due to start his speech shortly.
delegates are expected to hand a third term it paves the way for him to become the most powerful leader since mao zedong.
the governor of the bank of england, andrew bailey, has spoken to the new chancellor, jeremy hunt, and says there was a clear meeting of minds on the importance of stability.
now bailey has also warned of the possibility of higher interest rates ahead, more than previously expected.
our business correspondent marc ashdown has this analysis.
all smiles launching the mini-budget at the end and with it a new political = describing liz truss’s vision for a high-growth, high-wage, low-tax economy.
have you been given y4 can you change elements of the mini-budget if you want to?
with the country.
trussenomics reversed, then, tax cuts likely replaced with tax rises, huge investment replaced with a spending slowdown.
this rethink has largely been driven by the turmoil in the financial markets since the mini-budget was announced.
the pound has had a torrid time.
the effective cost of government borrowing has and the bank of england had to step in with an emergency programme, buying up confidence and credibility.
bank of england governor andrew bailey said he spoke to the new chancellor yesterday and had an immediate meeting of minds.
but in a speech in washington, he had this warning the inflation target.
and as things stand today, my best guess is that inflationary pressures will require a stronger investors are expecting a rise of up to one percentage point iin november, to 3.
25%.
most mortgage offers are currently already around 6%, but a bigger rise i the economy elsewhere.
and even with a change of approach, the government’s problems remain the same - how to find tens of billions and make the sums add up.
we’re certainly looking at a really tough couple of years.
we’ve got a very tough ilge lat - @ we’ve got very stretched public finances.
think we’re going to see some even further reversal of the tax cuts that we’ve had and, in addition, probably some very tight spending rounds.
the first verdict will come i ok a4
i i & don’t expect a dramatic reversal, because the devil will be in the detail.
and when we find out the detail of the budget on 31 october, that’ll be perhaps a more holistic judgement being made by financial markets.
that’s a fortnight away - a long time in the life marc ashdown, news.
now on news: our world station, was forced off air in march 2022.
our world follows senior presenters trying to relaunch in march, russia’s last independent station rain opposed russia’s wore in ukraine and challenge the kremlin’s began eles - this narrative about massive support of this war is false, rok they have killed us.
the journalists of rain, including senior presenters katya and tikhen, were forced to flee the country.
our world joins the power couple on their mission can they fight the kremlin?
they believe their weapon is the truth.
it’s june 2022.
with the war in ukraine, georgia’s capital, thilisi, has swelled with new arrivals.
at this festival, ukrainian refugees mingle with russian emigres.
among them, tikhon dzyadko, from moscow.
of rain, russia’'s last independent channel.
his wife is katya kotrikadze.
having escaped russia, ily3 have found temporary refuge in georgia.
everyone here is united by their opposition to the war and their love for the festival headliners, okean elzy.
this is a ukrainian band.
they’re fighting for the country, just like every ukrainian is.
sometimes feel that i’m more ukrainian than russian.
who are against this.
katya and tikhon are russian personalities.
for four months, now, the plan is to relaunch a8 as possible.
when rain - dozhd in russian - launched in 2010, the channel offered a new, progressive vision of russia.
founded by media entrepreneur natalya sindeyeva, its pregramming focused on lifestyle and culture.
optimistic channel.
but that seon changed.
during this period of time, rain has gone through the biggest events and biggest parts of russian history.
in 2011, rain exclusively covered mass anti-government protests in moscow, while state media self-censored.
then, in 2013, it broadcast ukraine’s maidan uprising.
if you want to follow what is happening in kyiv, you should watch dozhd.
we had a lot - a by contrast, kremlin-controlled media portrayed ukraine’s western-backed coup.
to stay on air, the channel switched to viewer subscriptions.
it’s getting more and more subscribers.
millions of people who watch youtube, not television, invasion of ukraine.
the feeling was absolutely astonishing.
like, you - rain took a firm anti-war position.
of the biggest problems a a=l war for moscow.
we had 25 million views on youtube daily, which is a huge amount of people.
about massive support of this war is false.
so that’s they have killed us.
that russia’s invasion of ukraine was just a special military operation, not a war.
then, president putin signed a law that could jail for up to 15 years anyone who questioned the war.
this law was adopted specifically to get rid of anyone who would be against this government, openly and actively.
on 1 march the kremlin shut down rain’s website.
katya received a call from a journalist friend.
he said, "grab your kids and leave the country”.
and was absolutely we understood that it’s impossible to work in such when rain made its last broadcast from moscow on 3 march, katya and tikhon had already left the country.
staff were wondering whether they would ever work together again.
since leaving russia, katya and tikhon have spent the last four months in thilisi_ katya was born here, when she was ten.
katya’s mother was one of more than 200 people killed after bombs destroyed two ly, in september 1999.
chechen militants were blamed = were credible allegations russian security services planted the bombs to justify a war in chechnya and to assist vladimir putin’s rise to power.
the memory of her mother inspired katya to pursue her career in journalism.
there are a lot of theories 11 as a journalist don’t have evidence, but what know about his policy and russian state policy is that they, they really want to forget about these people.
in the united states.
what was going on there, how they remember - how they say every single name of the 3,000 people who died.
was trying to understand what’s wrong with my country, what is wrong with my president, and what’s wrong with the whole 20-plus years of his presidency in russia, that my mum doesn’t deserve to be remembered?
before the channel’s official relaunch, tikhon and katya have been producing their own new stream on youtube, with the help of georgia’s formula .
one of the main ideas of russian propaganda over these last 20-plus years is to make people not believe danyone.
when you listen to so many different versions, you think that there is no truth, because it could be anything.
this is one of the main parts of the mission that we have, 8gn a possibility to talk to them of the main things that we are working on right now is to find a tone of voice.
tikhen has called an important meeting for the staff rain is due to relaunch, i a its new headquarters will be in riga, latvia, in the european union.
many russians who have left the country oppose the war, g1 to the question of language.
while in georgia, katya has strived to give her children a sense of normality but once again, the family is preparing to move to latvia, the new david is sure that this is something very temporary and he’s gonna be back to moscow soon, so, yeah.
we are all very emotional.
it’s not easy to understand that it’s gonna last for a loeng time.
back to school in a year, maximum.
there are a lot of colleagues who are saving their hopes about going back to russia soon.
if i accept this thought that am in immigration and i’m staying in latvia or in europe for a while, and maybe for ten years or 20 years, then, mean, it’s gonna be harder to work, it’s gonna be harder to fight.
it’s july 2022, riga.
the family have been in latvia for only a week.
with the support from latvia’s tv3 group and independent financial backing, rain has again.
a reunited team are discussing what will be in the first am overexcited and i’m scared and i’m nervous.
know that tikhon will be absolutely perfect - he always is.
am praying for everything to be right.
rain is streaming live on youtube - which, for now, is still available in russia.
we are not on the ground.
we need to find the way to be as honest, as professional it’s a huge stress and a huge trauma for russians is on the other side, that their country is an aggressor, actually.
right now, the only thing that we can do is to spread information, fight propaganda, put the facts in front of people.
we just wanted to be journalists.
our mission is to be there for russian citizens, since its relaunch from latvia, rain’s audience has grown.
in september, 14 million viewers inside russia think rain can stop putin.
think citizens of russia can stop putin.
the weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and thundery in places, gusty winds.
as one area of low pressure begins to pull away for much of the for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
this is that area of low pressure pulling away.
however, this is another one moving in towards some wetter weather pushing north again by sunday evening.
let’s look at how sunday begins.
there’s still some showers around, especially in scotland - some heavy ones in the west.
temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
a cooler night across a and will still be around the northern isles as you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon, for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
northern ireland and, indeed, southern england, south wales, so you could see a few showery bursts of rain heading in later in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much wetter in northern ireland as this moves north.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet on sunday evening eals we’ll see some wet and windy ad across the overnight and into monday morning.
coasts and into western scotland with gales in places.
a much milder night, especially across wales and england.
closer to that area of low pressure on monday, it’s northern ireland and northern england that could well see some showers but it’ll be scotland bearing the brunt of some heavy downpours once again.
for much in england and wales in the afternoon, actually, it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not as windy as it still will be across the northern half temperatures on monday may well be a degree also higher in places.
then there’s a ridge of high pressure settling things down.
sitting to our south-west.
and whilst on tuesday, most places are looking - just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just start to increase across eastern scotland, north east england.
-f towards the south-west, on wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain in from the south-west, whereas many places will actually have another day but wetter weather becoming more widespread again towards the end of the week.
that’s your forecast.
bye for now.
welcome if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
i’m lucy grey.
our top stories: gunshots are heard after a huge fire breaks out at a prison in iran’s capital, tehran.
state media reports at least eight people are injured.
this is the scene live in beijing as china’s communist party congress gets under way.
president jinping expected to secure a third term in power.
as the ’s prime minister fights for her job, the new chancellor signals he’ll make major changes to her economic policy.
decisions ahead, difficult decisions on spending, which is not going to rise
= and i’m going to be asking all government departments to find additional efficiency savings.
and the husband-and-wife team behind one of the most successful covid vaccines believe the same technology could help transform cancer treatment.
we begin in iran, where a large fire has been blazing at evin prison in the capital, tehran.
hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual nationals are held in the prison, as well as many protestors arrested during the past four weeks of unrest.
officials say that eight people have been injured and that the situation is now under control, but information is still trickling out of the country.
the ’s azadeh moshiri reports.
flames engulfing iran’s notoricus evin prison.
in the of widespread unrest, it a scene that frightened anians both inside and utside the country.
officials a riot broke out between nmates.
what people saw on cial media was fires raging oss the compound, and gunshots heard in istance.
scenes of riot police gunshots heard in the distance.
a - scenes of riot police and firefighters shing to the present did little to calm ple’s fears.
for the inmates’ families, it is pure c.
they rushed to evin, clogging he roads with affic, trying to out if their loved ones were safe.
but evin is also known for housing reds of political risoners, as well as dual-nationals, which is what pted this tweet by ned prompted this tweet by ned i rice, the state epartment’s okesperson.
the incident will likely lead to itlad the incident will likely lead es01d1
the incident will likely lead to further scrutiny from abroad.
this is abroad.
this is what president joe biden when asked about fire.
the iranian government is so ressive, we can’t have nything but enormous amount respect for people who arch in the streets.
and it add to anger within ess will add to the anger within the country as protests 18 a - the country as protests the country as protests continue in more than a dozen es.
in this own, they were cities.
in this town, they were throwing stones at authorities over throwing stones at authorities over the weekend, shouting to that dictator, a death to that dictator, a reference to lran’s upreme leader.
the security forces are camping down descent, still camping down on descent, as 5 hey are on the scene, also lieved be in that place.
believed to be in that place.
i has now been believed to be in that place.
now been more than a month ince the process began.
are still led by women schoolgirls they are still led by women and schoolgirls but also involve from all of life, people from all walks of life, and amidst a crackdown by the rnment internet back government and internet back outs, it is clear the descent from over.
-- dissent.
well, earlier spoke to human rights activist sussan tahmasebi, who is also one of iran’s foremost feminist asked what she had learned about what’s happening in evin prison in tehran.
well, there’s a lot of speculation and a lot of concern.
that have caught fire.
and ward seven, they say, is next to the quarantine section of ward 240 where a lot of the protesters who have been taken prisoner are being held.
but really we don’t know.
people who are familiar with evin prison say a different thing.
of the prison when the fire broke out were attacked by security quards and teargas, so they are not provided with any information.
they can’t provide clarity into the situation, and it’s 33 frustrating and concerning for us.
we’re not going to know, and think your previous guest talked about how it’s difficult to trust the iranian with what we’re seeing.
until we can hear from the prisoners inside the prison, until they are allowed to call, we’re not going to have any clarity on what’s going on.
more broadly, looking at the protests and how widespread they are, and how fearless people seem to be, are you surprised at how long they’ve gone on for?
we’re looking at the fifth week of protests now, aren’t we?
yes, we are.
i’m actually more amazed than anything.
understand the motivations so i’m not surprised in that sense_ but am surprised, despite the incredible violence protesters continue to go out into the street and demand freedom and equality i a’ so in that sense, think they’re very determined to get what they want.
iran has seen protests before.
do you think that the regime has been so far unable to stop these protests?
well, these protests than previous protests because, first of all, it started - they were sparked by a demand and leading them more than any other protests in the past.
the 2009 protests, which were against the presidency of ahmadinejad, and then the last two major protests in 2017 and 2019, women were present we also see a lot of young people, including high schoolers now, participating in these protests.
are across the country, very dispersed, decentralised, organised locally, in big and small cities, the provinces.
in protests in the past who are participating in these protests.
they’re intersectional, so you see different people with different ages, different socio-economic backgrounds, different 1= religions, participating so it’s very difficult, and they’re very broad-based so it’s difficult to quell them even though let’s bring you some live pictures now from china’s president, jinping, is addressing over 2,000 delegates who are in attendance.
in a break in decades-long tradition, it is thought delegates are likely to hand a third term the government put people first during the covid pandemic and has also spoken about the situation in hong kong and taiwan.
we improved the system with 8 ialism with chinese characteristics, we will better ement constitution and implement a constitution and conduct onstitutional oversight.
we will step up islation key emerging legislation in key emerging fields and make legislation in key emerging legislation in key emerging fields and make further headway king these in ell in making these in a well i 4l in making these in a well conceived and democratic way in a i accordance with the law.
as a government administration, we sform government functions, mprove the government kis ponsibility system and rganise additional ructures.
us ear from structures let us hear from celia hatton, reporting on how nping rose when he strode onto the stage ten years ago, signalling he’d become china’'s new leader, he was a relative unknown.
he was supposed to rule alongside these six other but now, it’s clear that he has reshaped the communist party, 13 at the top of it all.
how did he become so powerful?
he started out with a bold vision - the china dream.
it unleashed big projects to build things like high-speed rail networks and new global trading routes that aimed to revitalise the whole country.
a visit to a beijing steamed bun shop.
he cultivated a different image for himself, making sure as the top leader.
he reorganised the military, too.
and let’s not forget the ongoing anti-corruption crackdown.
this man, zhou yongkang, is the former top security chief, now in prison for amassing $14 billion in ill-gotten gains.
more than a millien party officials have been punished under xi, silencing all rivals.
the campaign is popular with the public, but it has is at the top of his game, but he faces sericus challenges.
china’s economy is suffering under tight covid restrictions, and he has made quite a few - china watchers will be looking to see if he begins to delegate any responsibilities, sharing the power celia hatton, news.
a letter to north korean leader kim jong-un.
between china and north korea, saying he wanted to make and their people with greater happiness, and defending peace and stability in the region uganda’s government has imposed overnight curfews as it tries to stop the spread of ebola.
the measures include the closing of churches and restricted movement into 19 people have so far died from the disease there have been large protests in the tunisian capital against president kais saied, denouncing him as an autocrat who is reversing the democratic progress in the country.
saied took on full executive power last year, one man has died and two others are missing after torrential rain caused flash-flooding emergency workers say the victim had become trapped lthliee seaside villages have been inundated with water.
jeremy hunt, has indicated there will be major changes to liz truss’s entire economic strategy.
in a round of interviews with broadcasters on saturday, hunt said mistakes had been made by the government and warned of what he called very difficult decisions ahead.
he suggested taxes could rise to help restore market confidence, and also talked about spending cuts.
hunt was appointed after the prime minister sacked his predecessor, kwasi kwarteng.
here is our political correspondent, ben wright.
congratulations, chancellor.
the fourth chancellor in as many months.
calm financial markets.
he has just two weeks to write a budget that looks set to junk many of the prime minister’s signature policies.
on wednesday, liz truss said she was absolutely not planning public spending cuts, but listen to this.
decisions ahead - difficult decisions on spending, which is not going to rise = and i’m going to be asking all government departments to find additional efficiency savings.
that’s going to be one person’s efficiency savings is another person’s cuts.
yes.
during the tory leadership contest, liz truss said the country couldn’t tax its way to economic growth, but now taxes are not going to come down by as much as people hoped, and some taxes will have to go up.
then there was the prime minister’s pledge to boost defence spending to 3% of national income by 2030.
but the defence department, too, is going to have to help find efficiencies.
the long-term ability to fund an increase in defence spending will depend on stability in the economic situation =r growing economy.
spending cuts and tax rises is not what liz truss planned when she entered number 10 last month, but the economic and political turmoil that followed her first chancellor’s mini-budget has forced a fundamental rethink, 1y yesterday, the smiles had gone and the prime minister’s appearance in number 10 did little to convince her tory party critics that she is up to the job.
some believe her future now hinges on the chancellor’s budget at the end of this month.
are still reacting all over the place, then think she in considerable trouble.
mistakes and puts them right, 0 conceivably get beyond this.
but emphasise "could,” because think it all depends on that financial to a1 was now clinging on.
el1e the british economy, they also clung on.
they made the pound sink, clung on as they took our pensions to the brink of collapse, clung on as they pushed the mortgages and bills they did all of this.
questions?
liz truss clearly wants to battle on, hoping this turmoil will subside.
but behind her in parliament sits a fractious, even mutinous party.
mad to and oust the prime minister already.
ben wright, news.
this is news.
a reminder of the headlines: gunshots are heard after a huge fire breaks out at a prison in iran’s capital, tehran.
state media reports at least eight people injured.
china’s 20th communist party congress has officially opened in beijing and is hearing a report by the party leader, jinping.
turkey says 41 people are known i = near the black sea coast, after a suspected methane explosion on friday.
president erdogan has visited the site at amasra and promised a thorough investigation.
anjana gadgil reports.
a funeral for one of the miners killed in the blast in the black sea coastal town of amasra.
other families waited outside the morgue where their relatives’ bodies lay.
it’s one of turkey’s deadliest industrial accidents in years and left smoke billowing into the sky.
over 100 people were working there at the time.
more than 70 workers took part in rescue efforts, crowds gathered around many were family members of the dead and injured.
it’s believed methane ignited at a depth of 300 metres, causing a fire in one president erdogan made a visit to the scene and said he hoped : of course, we will find out how this explosion happened and if there any people are responsible for it, with the prosecutions which already started.
turkey suffered its deadliest coal mining disaster in 2014, when 301 workers died in a blast in the western the local prosecutor’s office said it was treating this incident at the state-owned coal mine as an accident and has begun an investigation.
anjana gadgil, news.
the footballer mason greenwood has been charged with attempted and assault occasioning actual bodily harm.
the 21-year-old manchester united and assault in january, and was immediately suspended from playing or training he was re-arrested earlier today for allegedly breaching bail conditions.
firefighters in the british city of leeds are battling a large blaze in a building of the city centre.
the fire broke out on the top floors of a high-rise building earlier on saturday evening, prompting the evacuation of several nearby pubs and restaurants.
the fire service has said the structure was "potentially unsafe” elon musk says his starlink satellite company will continue to provide internet to ukraine for free, despite threatening ukraine has described starlink as vital, saying it helped the country survive critical moments during the russian v&3 : three, two, one, zero.
ignition.
elon musk’s starlink satellites launching in 2019.
his bid to provide broadband around the world that, i would become critical crucial to communications by troops for the past eight months as they monitor russian movements.
but on friday, a different battle was raging.
musk said his company could no longer provide the service, suggesting the pentagon to cover so, the sudden change?
it all seemed to start when he weighed in on ukraine’s military strategy, asking twitter users if it should accept territorial losses, including crimea, in the interest of a peaceful end to the war.
it was not welcomed by zelensky or ukrainian ambassadors, including one who tweeted a profanity, saying "that is my very diplomatic reply to you™.
in pulling his internet services, musk said now, though, the world’s richest man has had another change of heart and, in another tweet, has said he’ll continue his support.
and for now at least, ukraine has one less battle to worry about.
stephanie prentice, news.
the husband and wife team behind one of the most the couple who founded the german company biontech, also said they would fight claims by a rival company that they infringed patents in their covid jab.
our medical editor fergus walsh reports.
if you have a covid booster this autumn, whether it’s the pfizer-biontech or moderna jabs, they both rely on a new type of vaccine technology known as mrna.
among the pioneers were husband and wife team i and ozlem tureci, who founded a i« speaking to sunday with laura kuenssberg, studies, where patients receive a personalised vaccine to prompt their immune system to attack their disease.
helps us to find out more about what we are against and how therefore, as scientists, we are always hesitant to say we will have a cure for cancer.
we have a number of breakthroughs and we will continue to work them.
but it may be several years before we know if trials in bowel cancer, melanoma and other tumour types really do live up to the hype.
covid vaccines, though, have been highly successful and made billions for biontech, but rival firm moderna has started legal action for patent infringement - technology were copied.
biontech says it will vigorously defend against the allegations.
our innovations are original.
we have spent 20 years of research in developing this type of treatment and, 1 for our intellectual property.
these patent disputes won’t stop the rollout of covid vaccines.
the question now is can 4 fergus walsh, news.
the first european woman to command the international space station has spoken samantha cristoforetti had been on board for nearly six months conducting research on the effects of microgravity and other systems.
the italian astronaut was on her second mission it was great to experience again the re-entry into the atmosphere.
it’s quite a wild ride, but also quite amazing.
i’m obviously very happy to be back with my loved ones and my family, so look forward to spending i’m happy to be back, obviously, but it was also in space, most likely a - we are in the process of selecting a new class but mexican director guillermo del toro didn’t give up and has the director said it is not a movie made for kids, but they could watch grg0 claudia redmond reports.
-: it’s a story you may think you know, but you don’t.
the story of the wooden boy.
director guillermo del toro proudly holds a model of his vision of pinocchio at the world premier, which was held at the film festival in london on saturday.
the story, based on a wooden i 1 originated from the 1883 book the adventure of pinocchio.
but in this stop motion animation version, the much darker tale is set against the sombre backdrop of mussolini’s fascist italy and the little boy is more feisty.
yes, think pinocchio is - normally pinocchio is about obedience and about changing yourself to please what people think you should be.
but this pinocchio is disohedience and that what or who you are and you = you need somebody to see you for who you are.
newcomer gregory mann celebrated his 13th birthday he talked about the moment he heard the news that he got the leading role.
remember was at my friend’s house and didn’t have a phone at the time, so my friend’s mum walked in and she said, "your mum’s on the phone for you" and was very confused because normally, you would think that’s a bad thing, but it turned out she was calling me ‘pinocchio’ and realised got the role and was completely over the moon.
gregory was joined on the red carpet by david bradley, who plays his father, - i and other stars from the film, including cate blanchett and christoph waltz.
project for him and it certainly pulled at the of the audience.
claudia redmond, news.
party congress in beljing.
2,000 delegates there.
the government put people first during the covid pandemic = about the situation in hong kong.
let’s listen in.
translation -- : social security is portant llar and an important pillar and national security as support.
we will take a support.
we will take co-ordinated steps to ensure oon 8 security internally and xternally, and our own curity externally, and our own &l urity and common security.
we will both hold natienal security we will both uphold natienal &l urity and create security and create the conditions security and create the i1 conditions for insuring it.
we strengthen support for rity will strengthen support for &l urity and improve mechanisms.
will bring security and improve the mechanisms.
will bring you more cause of the day.
the weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and thundery in places, gusty winds.
as one area of low pressure begins to pull away for much of the for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
this is that area of low pressure pulling away.
however, this is another one moving in towards some wetter weather pushing north again by sunday evening.
let’s look at how sunday begins.
there’s still some showers around, especially in scotland - some heavy ones in the west.
temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
a cooler night across a and will still be around the northern isles as you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon, for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
northern ireland and, indeed, southern england, south wales, so you could see a few showery bursts of rain heading in later in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much wetter in northern ireland as this moves north.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet on sunday evening eals we’ll see some wet and windy ad across the overnight and into monday morning.
coasts and into western scotland with gales in places.
a much milder night, especially across wales and england.
closer to that area of low pressure on monday, it’s northern ireland and northern england that could well see some showers but it’ll be scotland bearing the brunt of some heavy downpours once again.
for much in england and wales in the afternoon, actually, it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not as windy as it still will be across the northern half temperatures on monday may well be a degree or so higher in places.
then there’s a ridge of high pressure settling things down.
sitting to our south-west.
and whilst on tuesday, most places are looking - just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just start to increase across eastern scotland, north east england.
-f towards the south-west, on wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain in from the south-west, whereas many places will actually have another day but wetter weather becoming more widespread again towards the end of the week.
that’s your forecast.
bye for now.
in the iranian capital, tehran, where hundreds of political in videos posted online, gunfire and sirens can be the chinese leader i3 the 20th communist party congress, which has opened in beljing.
in a report on the five years since the last congress, he cited the many accomplishments of the communist party in achieving what he called socialism - britain’s new chancellor of the exchequer, jeremy hunt, has admitted the government made mistakes when announcing unfunded tax cuts last month and that very he’s promised to restore now on news, click.
this week, we are celebrating -n-: we will look at the secrets behind the broadcasting technologies that changed the world.
a radio legend talks about legendary radio.
my favourite pip is always the last one.
i guess the idea is we’re not actually meant to be in the same place.
and in the quest for greener energy, omar discovers a tasteless fluid called water.
today we are literally stepping into history.
we are at alexandra palace and this place has seen it all.
that’s the studio in there.
goodness me.
what began with a single radio transmission has transformed into a global broadcaster.
in that time, it has covered the biggest events of successive generations, working to inform, educate and entertain the nation.
and throughout those hundred years, the has been pushing the boundaries of broadcasting, embracing and sometimes even creating the latest technology.
100 years of broadcasting.
it is amazing when you think of it.
you don’t look a day over 30.
and this studio in alexandra palace has a very special place in history.
in 1936 the television service was launched right here on this spot.
performers and orchestra cee and a huge camera here!
this is adele dixon performing with the television she is singing a song called television which was written especially for the opening night of television.
it was broadcast to viewers across london and the home palace, marking the beginning lrges
yeah, don’t laugh.
before that, television was just an odd fuzzy experiment small, and behind-the-scenes there was a bit of a battle going on.
see, the had actually opened up two studios at alexandra palace.
this, studio was a mechanical system which was made by john logie baird andit produced an image like this.
an electrical system by and what they would do as they would alternate studios and systems on different days the results and it turned out that ’s images at 25 frames per second were double the quality of the baird system.
it had other advantages too.
the baird camera was encrmous.
that one was somewhat more portable.
quite a lot of make up too.
well, this is how it was, playmates.
black and white, you see?
and a bit of blue down each side of the nose.
very sexy.
the system on the other hand could capture a well lit under the lid of the emitron was this, a cathode-ray tube the pictures instead of showing them.
it stayed in use without much change for many, many years.
the coronation of king george i the cameras were used outside by about 50,000 viewers.
however, it was the coronation of his daughter that really 70 years later, many millions of us watched the queen’s funeral on smart tvs, phones, laptops, or on huge screens around the country, demonstrating just how far technology has moved on.
to the very beginnings ehr l2 of course, way before television came radio you are going to need and one of the most iconic mics ever is the -marconi type a and when say iconic, it is an icon.
literally.
one of our colleagues, joe leates, really, really loves this microphone so we sent him to the archives to see what he could dig up.
not many are around these days, especially ones that work, as it became tradition at the corporation to empty the insides and plate them with gold as leaving the good news, though, is here at the , y148 you’ll notice it looks pretty hefty and it’s actually really big, so it tended to stay in studios and leave the world travel to its smaller counterparts.
but what it missed in adventure, it made up eliot, legendary author wells and that’s charlie chaplin.
british singer and legend petula clark began her career aged nine in front of a taipel.
and greetings to you
it was just to say hello, we are , don’t worry about us, and give them a little bit of home news during rehearsal there was the most enormous air raid and the producer asked if one of the kids could come up so go up on stage and they put a box so that microphones, you know.
careers and directing the second world war the microphene was clearly doing something right operationally, too.
eyes had been on the groundbreaking ribbon microphene invented by , the radio corporation of america but it was a little too expensive.
so in true form, they made their own for less than 10% of what were charging.
nice going.
the taipel stayed in use by the from 1934- 1959, a whole 25 years.
that is a long time when technology was developing "2 so what about inside?
that’s because behind the perforated cover is exactly that, a ribbon of metal.
with the help of one of the trusty engineering the front or the back and hit the ribbon in the middle.
so thin that it flexes and wiggles when the noise vibrations in the air hit it, just like your eardrum.
the flexing moves the ribbon through a magnetic field doing this generates a very small voltage which is unigue to the sound it is taking in.
amplifies this up to a level that you can hear, and because the ribbon is a flat piece of metal, finally, of course, we want to hear a bit more of how the microphone sounds.
voice who made the first annoucement of the d-day he specially recorded with the microphone for this demo tape.
this speech is recorded from a -marconi velocity ribbon microphone, type .
will leave it to you then to make up your own mind for lack of time, it was not possible to joe there.
now, if you are a fan of radio, mean, really a fan of radio, they are called the pips and when you hear them, find them quite soothing.
but have you ever wondered they exist?
ships.
the pips tell ships what time it is and help them navigate.
at the height of the british empire, britain had a lot more ships than anyone else anywhere in the world and their maps all needed to follow a strict format so they could figure out where they were.
the greenwich meridian, degrees, and each vessel also kept a fancy clock on board that told them local time at the meridian and helped them to calculate their position really precisely.
well, to bring in the new year in 1923, the ran on the radio.
it was a bonging success and the following year the first fully accessible time signal, the greenwich time signal, started to be broadcast every hour and it hasn’t stopped since.
the pips, as they were known, were generated by a swinging pendulum fitted with asdlo: mat so now you could have accurate greenwich mean time literally anywhere that you had a radio.
the pips have become legendary, a symbol of radio, and who better to tell us about them than another legend of radio, tony blackburn.
: welcome along to the tony blackburn show this morning for this tuesday
i my thanks, as always to john dunn for swinging us up the pips have always been a favourite of mine since 1967 : good morning everyone, welcome to the exciting news everybody else finds it a bit weird that like them on my programmes, used to promote them, particularly extended.
it is very
but they were very useful at one time because before all of these smart watches you would just have an ordinary watch which used to probably lose a minute a day or something like that.
so used to set my watch by the pips.
nowadays of course with the smart watches and things like that you don’t need it quite so much but it is still very and still like it, her n4 disappear.
: and off we go with the next one and what a lovely the original clock that & in the in the museum at the royal observatory.
in the 60s, though, an atomic clock started doing the job which stayed in use until the 1990s when it transmitted its last pips from the royal observatory.
ever since then, the has generated its own pips from its atomic clock buried deep inside broadcasting house which uses signals to stay synchronised.
so the next time you hear these, you know that they come , time for a look first up mark zuckerberg has unveiled meta’s new headset at its annual event held for developers.
with a pricetag of just under $1500, is almost four times the price of meta’s the british artist damien hirst has begun burning hundreds of his own pictures as as part of an experiment to test the value of physical paintings versus digital works.
buyers who bought pieces from his latest collection were asked to choose either the physical artwork or the representing it.
those who chose the were told their corresponding physical pieces would be destroyed.
the all cost £2000 and they all have the possibility of being traded in for a physical artwork and these could riding on rollercoasters cause phones to call emergency - a - according to the wall street journal, six emergency calls were made at one amusement park after rides caused apple didn’t deny the fault and says the tech will continue to improve over time.
and a healthcare company has teamed up with microsoft to make health products more accessible for blind people.
app will provide important label information for more than 1500 everyday products, including toothpaste =d i iy11de listen to that.
i & of nature, don’t we?
and programmes like springwatch, an annual show that watches british wildlife during the changing seasons, for programmes like springwatch to run, the biggest outside broadcasts the offers.
so it needs a lot of power.
but in an effort to be more green, and protect the wildlife they feature, springwatch has taken a number of measures to cut down their emissions.
we turned up to one of their production bases to see what they are.
this is the big one - the green hydrogen generator.
green hydrogen?
because the process of electrolysis used to separate the hydrogen from water is powered by solar energy.
if it was powered by fossil fuels then it would be known as blue or black hydrogen.
defeats the purpose.
but with solar, you are using clean energy to make clean energy.
compared to diesel generators, it is a 3.
5-tonne reduction based on what we normally do with a couple of weeks use.
a couple of weeks, 3.
5 tonnes?
yeah.
the only two things that this outputs is heat and brand-new water, the newest water in the universe.
it is brand new.
it’s absolutely pure.
tastes the weirdest thing, no taste at all.
nothing to it.
no, it’s fine, it just goes in your mouth and disappears.
massive operation.
this is the site we are working on, 4,000 acres we have access to, which is a huge area to cover.
so we have been putting fibre across the whole site and as a way of trying to keep things down, we have nodes up and down to as we come back and go live.
you must have your favourite name here, right?
they also have solar-powered cameras they have installed on sites such as in this beehive here.
1 across the site to lower emissions, but also off-site a lot of producers are now utilising i way of working so they don’t spend unnecessary fuel going to sites.
and for the really remote sites, they are using solar panels to power up the recording set-ups.
there is also one more special thing about this system.
it uses to flag a clip when an animal appears, and tries to identify it.
so this year we have across the site.
all of those need to be monitored and logged for activity 24 hours a day.
process when it comes to labour, so r&d have come up with tools that will help identify different forms of wildlife.
they are very accurate.
quite distinct, so it’s very of different shapes these changes aren’t without cost.
as mentioned earlier, the green hydrogen generator isn’t normally as cheap as a diesel powered one.
and new ways of working always require some adjustment - but the team want to do what they can to set an example.
it hasn’t been seamless, but they were very determined and we pioneered it.
using new technologies that have been pioneered in science and bringing them to media is, from my point of view, really exciting.
we asked them "was that the male, the female, "that one, that one™?
and all that technology we have got is telling us instantaneously.
we won’t save the reputation of the media when it comes environment on our own.
we need drama, everyone has to buy into this.
change is never convenient or easy, but the team reach its goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
and here’s hoping when it comes to powering our devices, this is a sign of things to come.
meanwhile at manchester’s science and industry museum, -e
2- celebrated with an exhibit featuring broadcast artefacts, plus a few more this funky looking box was a prototype which was an early oeladl 116 research and development was that the device would keep track of what you are listening to and watching, but that data unless you chose =r i by a new vision that the ownership of our data.
back in 2018, he told us about what he where do you want to store this data?
all across the data spectrum, you have complete control over your private and personal data, which is very exciting, an exciting vision, i think for those people who get an inkling of what it’s going to be like.
right now when we interact with companies over the internet, often without even thinking about it, every website, app or streaming platform gathers information and age, what we like to share, our files, photos, in fact all of our online browsing habits.
platforms use this data to create recommendations, improve algorithms, or sometimes just for the purpose of selling it.
with solid, as users travel across the internet, all their data is stored in
something irl this is an individual’s databank in the cloud permission to, can see.
so instead of the data freely flowing to companies when they want to access it, they have to ask if this is approved they can look into with pods, because you are in control, you can share what you have watched or listened to on one platform with the others, something the companies would never want you to be doing, but it means you could get more personalised recommendations.
and if you want to stop using a service, access to your data.
or you could, even more dramatically, delete the pod, yes, it is a big endeavour, but it is not a ridiculously huge endeavour.
a start-up, inrupt.
for years on, it is a reality with r&d working charlie, you have invited me to a party but it is no ordinary party.
no, no it’s not.
it is together, it’s a watch party, but the particular difference here is your data is being protected in any way.
content at the same time, and they have exploded in the last few years.
something like a third of under 30s actually had a watch party in the last 12 months, and it is really growing.
i =d
the data pod element to it.
here we go.
and when you stop watching, this trial shows you what data has re we couldn’t do a watch party without storing some data about you.
the difference here is we are storing that data away from us, in your pod that you control.
it’s not just about entertainment - this is just one example of something you could do with this system.
that’s right, exactly.
we have seen interest from healthcare providers, where your health data is incredibly personal to you, exactly.
there is a project in flanders happening at the moment where some of your educational qualifications are being put into a pod.
solid is just one of many ideas aiming to help us own our data.
others, even allowing us to sell it, have failed to take right.
but that could change.
r&d and tim berners-lee certainly think it might, and they have both been right before.
and there you have it, 100 years of the in 23
yeah, you’re right.
you in another hundred years.
or hopefully sooner, bye!
the weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and thundery in places, gusty winds.
as one area of low pressure begins to pull away for much of the for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
this is that area of low pressure pulling away.
however, this is another one moving in towards some wetter weather pushing north again by sunday evening.
let’s look at how sunday begins.
there’s still some showers around, especially in scotland - some heavy ones in the west.
temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
a cooler night across a and will still be around the northern isles as you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon, for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
northern ireland and, indeed, southern england, south wales, so you could see a few showery bursts of rain heading in later in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much wetter in northern ireland as this moves north.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet on sunday evening eals we’ll see some wet and windy ad across the overnight and into monday morning.
coasts and into western scotland with gales in places.
a much milder night, especially across wales and england.
closer to that area of low pressure on monday, it’s northern ireland and northern england that could well see some showers but it’ll be scotland bearing the brunt of some heavy downpours once again.
for much in england and wales in the afternoon, actually, it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not as windy as it still will be across the northern half temperatures on monday may well be a degree or so higher in places.
then there’s a ridge of high pressure settling things down.
sitting to our south-west.
and whilst on tuesday, most places are looking - just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just start to increase across eastern scotland, north east england.
-f towards the south-west, on wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain in from the south-west, whereas many places will actually have another day but wetter weather becoming more widespread again towards the end of the week.
that’s your forecast.
bye for now.
i’m lucy grey.
our top stories: gun shots are heard
i -r
i breaks out at a prison in iran’s capital, tehran.
state media reports at least eight people are injured.
with president jinping expected to be given a third
i ile-
as the ’s prime minister fights for her job, the new chancellor signals he’ll make major changes to her economic policy.
a1 1 we have some very difficult decisions ahead, difficult 1 sions on pending, witchery decisions on spending, witchery is not going to rise as much as hope.
will be asking people hope.
will be asking all government departments to additional efficiency find additional efficiency savings.
and, a chiller in chile.
santiago sees the return of the zombie walk, hello and welcome to news.
prison in the capital, tehran.
hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual nationals are held in the prison, as well as many protesters arrested during the past four weeks of unrest.
officials say that eight people have been injured, and that the situation is now under control, but information is still trickling out of the country.
the ’s azadeh moshiri reports.
flames engulfing iran’s notorious evin prison.
in the midst of widespread unrest, it is a scene that frightened iranians both inside and outside the country.
officials say a riot broke out between inmates_
what people saw on social media was fires raging across the compound and gunshots heard in the distance.
scenes of riot police and firefighters rushing to the prison did little to calm people’s fears.
for the inmates’ families, it was pure panic.
they rushed to evin, clogging the roads with traffic, but evin is also known for housing hundreds of political prisoners as well as dual-nationals, which is what prompted this tweet by ned price, the state department spokesperson.
the incident will likely lead to further scrutiny this is what president joe biden said when asked the iranian government is 50 oppressive, we can’t have anything but an enormous amount of respect for those people and it will add to the anger within the country as protests continue in more than a dozen cities.
in ardabil, they were throwing stones at authorities over the weekend shouting, "death to the dictator,” the security forces are still clamping down on dissent as they are on the scene, i i it has now been more than a month since the process began.
they are still led by women and schoolgirls, but also and amidst a crackdown by the government and internet well, earlier, spoke to human rights activist sussan tahmasebi, who is also one of iran’s foremost feminist asked what she had learned about what’s happening in evin prison in tehran.
well, there’s a lot of speculation and a lot of concern.
wards, seven and eight, seem to be the wards that have caught fire.
and ward seven, they say, is next to the quarantine section of ward 240 where a lot of the protesters who have been taken prisener are being held.
but really we don’t know.
people who are familiar with evin prison say a different thing.
of the prison when the fire broke out were attacked by security quards and teargas, so they are not provided with any information.
they can’t provide clarity into the situation, and it’s very frustrating and concerning for us.
we’re not going to know, and think your previous guest talked about how it’s difficult to trust the iranian government when what they’re saying is not in line with what we’re seeing.
until we can hear from the prisoners inside the prison, until they are allowed to call, we’re not going to have any clarity on what’s going on.
more broadly, looking at the protests and how widespread they are, and how fearless people seem to be, are you surprised at how long they’ve gone on for?
we’re looking at the fifth week of protests now, aren’t we?
yes, we are.
i’m actually more amazed than anything.
understand the motivations so i’m not surprised in that sense_ but am surprised, despite the incredible violence the street and demand freedom and equality and democracy.
so in that sense, think they’re very determined to get what they want.
iran has seen protests before.
do you think that the regime has been so far unable to stop these protests?
well, these protests than previous protests because, first of all, it started - they were sparked by a demand for women’’s rights, and we see women in these protests and leading them more than any other protests in the past.
the 2009 protests, which were against the presidency of ahmadinejad, and then the last two major protests in 2017 and 2019, women were present but they weren’t so front and centre.
we also see a lot of young people, including high are across the country, very dispersed, decentralised, organised locally, in big we have cities that never participated in protests in the past who are participating in these protests.
they’re intersectional, so you see different people with different ages, different socio-economic backgrounds, different 1= religions, participating so it’s very difficult, and they’re very broad-based of violence being used.
the chinese leader jinping has been addressing the 20th communist party congress.
in a report on the five years since the last congress, he cited the many accomplishments of the communist party in achieving what he called socialism with chinese characteristics adzn on taiwan, said that separatist tendencies and foreign influence had been countered, while in hong kong under one country two systems.
and a crackdown on dissent, as well as the imposition of severe controls in xinjiang and a draconian security law in hong kong.
in a break in decades-long tradition, delegates are likely to hand a third term as party chief.
it paves the way for him to become the most powerful leader since mao zedong.
our correspondent celia hatton reports on how he rose when he strode onto the stage ten years ago, signalling he had become china’s new leader, he was a relative unknown.
he was supposed to rule alongside these six other but now, it’s clear that he has reshaped the communist party, the military and the government so that he is at the top you how did he become so powerful?
he started out with a bold vision - the china dream.
it unleashed big projects to build things like high-speed rail networks and new global trading routes that aimed to revitalise the whole country, and through viral incidents like this - a visit to a beijing steamed bun shop.
he cultivated a different image for himself, making sure as the top leader.
he reorganised the military, too.
and let’s not forget the ongoing anti-corruption crackdown.
this man, zhou yongkang, is the former top security chief, now in prison for amassing $14 billion in ill-gotten gains.
more than a millien party officials have been punished under xi, silencing all rivals.
the campaign is popular with the public, but it has is at the top of his game, but he faces sericus challenges.
china’s economy is suffering under tight covid restrictions, and he has made quite a few - china watchers will be looking to see if he begins to delegate any responsibilities, sharing the power and also the blame.
celia hatton, news.
jeremy hunt, has indicated there’ll be major changes strategy.
in a round of interviews with broadcasters on saturday hunt said mistakes had been made by the government and warned of what he called 'very difficult decisions’ he suggested taxes could rise to help restore market about spending cuts.
hunt was appointed after the prime minister sacked his predecessor, kwasi kwarteng.
here’s our political correspondent, ben wright.
congratulations, chancellor.
the fourth chancellor in as many months, calm financial markets.
he has just two weeks to write a budget that looks set to junk many of the prime minister’s signature policies.
on wednesday, liz truss said she was absolutely not planning public spending cuts, but listen to this.
decisions ahead - difficult decisions on spending, which is not going to rise = and i’m going to be asking all government departments to find additional efficiency savings.
that’s going to be one person’s efficiency savings is another person’s cuts.
yes.
during the tory leadership contest, liz truss said the country couldn’t tax its way to economic growth, but now taxes are not going to come down by as much as people hoped, and some taxes will have to go up.
then there was the prime minister’s pledge to boost defence spending to 3% of national income by 2030.
but the defence department, too, is going to have to help find efficiencies.
the long-term ability to fund an increase in defence spending will depend on stability in the economic situation =r growing economy.
spending cuts and tax rises is not what liz truss planned when she entered number 10 last month, but the economic and political turmoil that followed her first chancellor’s mini-budget has forced a fundamental rethink, 1y yesterday, the smiles had gone, and the prime minister’s appearance in number 10 did little to convince her tory party critics that she is up to the job.
some believe her future now hinges on the chancellor’s budget at the end of this month.
are still reacting all over the place, then think she in considerable trouble.
mistakes and puts them right, 0 conceivably get beyond this.
but emphasise "could,” because think it all depends on that financial to a1 was now clinging on.
el1e the british economy, they also clung on - clung on as they made the pound sink, clung on as they took our pensions to the brink of collapse, clung on as they pushed the mortgages and bills they did all of this.
questions?
liz truss clearly wants to battle on, hoping this turmoil will subside.
but behind her in parliament sits a fractious, even mutinous welad’r mad to and oust the prime minister already.
ben wright, news.
let’s get some of the day’s other news.
uganda’s government has imposed overnight curfews as it tries to stop the spread of ebola.
the measures include the closing of churches and restricted movement into 19 people have so far died from the disease.
there have been large protests in the tunisian capital against president kais saied, denouncing him as an autocrat who’s reversing the democratic progress in the country.
saled took on full executive power last year but protestors say there’s been no improvement in living standards turkey says 41 people are known i = near the black sea coast, after a suspected methane explosion on friday.
president erdogan has visited the site at amasra and promised a thorough investigation.
anjanna gadgil reports.
a funeral for one of the miners killed in the blast in the black sea coastal town of amasra.
other families waited outside the morgue where their relatives’ bodies lay.
it’s one of turkey’s deadliest industrial accidents in years and left smoke billowing into the sky.
over 100 people were working there at the time.
more than 70 workers took part in rescue efforts, crowds gathered around many were family members of the dead and injured.
it’s believed methane ignited at a depth of 300 metres, causing a fire in one president erdogan made a visit to the scene and said he hoped : of course, we will find out how this explosion happened and if there any people are responsible for it, with the prosecutions which already started.
turkey suffered its deadliest coal mining disaster in 2014, when 301 workers died in a blast in the western the local prosecutor’s office said it was treating this incident at the state-owned coal mine as an accident and has begun an investigation.
anjana gadgil, news.
a reminder of the headlines: gun shots are heard
i -r
i breaks out at a prison in iran’s capital, state media reports at least eight people injured.
for further economic development, in his address to the 20th communist party congress, which has opened in beljing.
heavy floods on the greek island of crete have claimed at least one life, swept away cars and flooded local authorities have evacuated tourists, and asked 16 to remain vigilant.
stefano fasanoc has more.
and people shovelling away the consequences of yet another he heavy floods on the greek island of crete have wrecked havoc and flooded dozens of homes on saturday night.
a 45-year-old man died after his car was dragged by currents in the northern part of the island where rains battered towns and villages four hours.
his passenger, a woman, is still missing.
for everyone else, the tough job of rebuilding and cleaning : it all happened within seconds.
don’t know how long it happened for.
we just barely managed to get everyone out at the very last because everyone was sleeping and they had no idea what was happening.
cars were swept away to sea in what is one of the most famous tourist destinations on the mediterranean.
now, several vehicles can be seen floating in front of one of the island’'s famous beaches.
firefighters rescued one woman trapped inside her car before it, too, was swept out to sea.
authorities said they were investigating more reports others may have been trapped the island’s international airport was closed as the runway was underwater.
tourists on the island were evacuated and authorities advised residents to remain vigilant.
and this might just be the beginning.
natural disasters such as flash floods are expected to intensify in greece and become more frequent as climate change takes hold.
stefanc fasanc, news.
russia’s defence ministry says that 11 people were killed and 15 more wounded at a military training ground when two citizens of an ex-soviet state opened fire on trainees during an exercise.
the authorities described the incident in the belgorod region as a terrorist act.
to fight for russia in ukraine.
russia’s defence said the assailants were shot dead.
elon musk says his starlink satellite company will continue to provide internet to ukraine for free, despite threatening ukraine has described starlink as vital, saying it helped the country survive critical moments during the russian v&3 : three, two, one, zero.
ignition.
elon musk’s starlink satellites launching in 2019.
his bid to provide broadband around the world that, i would become critical crucial to communications by troops for the past eight months as they monitor russian movements.
but on friday, a different battle was raging.
musk said his company could no longer provide the service, suggesting the pentagon to cover so, the sudden change?
it all seemed to start when he weighed in on ukraine’s military strategy, asking twitter users if it should accept territorial losses, including crimea, in the interest of a peaceful end to the war.
it was not welcomed by zelensky or ukrainian ambassadors, including one who tweeted a profanity, saying "that is my very diplomatic reply to you™.
in pulling his internet services, musk said now, though, the world’s richest man has had another change of heart and, in another tweet, has said he’ll continue his support.
and for now at least, ukraine has one less battle to worry about.
stephanie prentice, news.
the first european woman to command the international space station has spoken after arriving back samantha cristoforetti had been on board for nearly six months conducting research.
the italian astrenaut says her mission to the space station is likely it was great to experience again the re-entry into the atmosphere.
it’s quite a wild ride, but also quite amazing.
i’m obviously very happy to be back with my loved ones and my family, so look forward to spending i’m happy to be back, obviously, but it was also in space, most likely a - we are in the process of selecting a new class the husband and wife team behind one of the most the couple who founded the german company biontech, also said they would fight claims by a rival company that they infringed patents in their covid jab.
our medical editor fergus walsh reports.
if you have a covid booster this autumn, whether it’s the pfizer-biontech or moderna jabs, they both rely on a new type of vaccine technology known as mrna.
among the pioneers were husband and wife team i and ozlem tureci, who founded a i« speaking to sunday with laura kuenssberg, studies, where patients receive a personalised vaccine to prompt their immune system to attack their disease.
helps us to find out more about what we are against and how therefore, as scientists, we are always hesitant to say we will have a cure for cancer.
we have a number of breakthroughs and we will continue to work them.
but it may be several years before we know if trials in bowel cancer, melanoma and other tumour types really do live up to the hype.
covid vaccines, though, have been highly successful and made billions for biontech, but rival firm moderna has started legal action for patent infringement - technology were copied.
biontech says it will vigorously defend against the allegations.
our innovations are original.
we have spent 20 years of research in developing this type of treatment and, 1 for our intellectual property.
these patent disputes won’t stop the rollout of covid vaccines.
the question now is can 4 fergus walsh, news.
the coronavirus pandemic brought much of the world but, now, as covid-19 fades somewhat into the background, things are beginning .
in chile, a popular event making a comeback should tell you tim allman’s report contains a lot of make-up, but no real blood!
after three years, the walking dead have risen once more.
well, not really.
instead, a lot of people dressed up as zombies for a sloping, staggering stroll around santiago.
"it is an event we used to do every year," said this man, "but due to the coronavirus, it had been suspended.
"it’s a family event where everyone participates zombie walks date back more than 20 years.
sometimes, they’re for a good cause.
sometimes, they’re for no real cause at all - except for this one, of course!
" come because it’s fun,” said this young zombie.
"it’s fun because we can wear make-up.
” zombie, "and be a kid again™.
this carnival of gory make-up and indiscriminate groaning has been replicated in plenty of other cities across the globe.
but round these parts, they’ll tell you this one is special.
tim allman, news.
a reminder of our top stories: a large fire has been blazing iranian capital tehran.
hundreds of political prisoners and dozens of dual nationals are held in the prison, as well as many protestors arrested during the past four weeks of unrest.
the need for further economic development, communist party congress, which has opened in beijing.
on taiwan, said that separatist tendencies and foreign influence had been countered, while in hong kong under one country two systems.
in a break in decades-long tradition, delegates are likely to hand a third term as party chief.
that’s all from me for now, you hi-
that’s all from me for now, you can get me on twitter if you the weekend started with plenty of showers, some heavy and thundery in places, gusty winds.
as one area of low pressure begins to pull away for much of the for much of the day, it’ll stay dry.
this is that area of low pressure pulling away.
however, this is another one moving in towards some wetter weather pushing north again by sunday evening.
let’s look at how sunday begins.
there’s still some showers around, especially in scotland - some heavy ones in the west.
temperatures a little lower than this in rural parts.
a cooler night across a and will still be around the northern isles as you can see, though, elsewhere in the afternoon, for most places, it’ll be dry, there’ll be some sunny spells.
northern ireland and, indeed, southern england, south wales, so you could see a few showery bursts of rain heading in later in the afternoon and by evening, it’ll be turning much wetter in northern ireland as this moves north.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet on sunday evening eals we’ll see some wet and windy ad across the overnight and into monday morning.
coasts and into western scotland with gales in places.
a much milder night, especially across wales and england.
closer to that area of low pressure on monday, it’s northern ireland and northern england that could well see some showers but it’ll be scotland bearing the brunt of some heavy downpours once again.
for much in england and wales in the afternoon, actually, it’ll be dry, broken cloud and sunny spells and not as windy as it still will be across the northern half temperatures on monday may well be a degree or so higher in places.
then there’s a ridge of high pressure settling things down.
sitting to our south-west.
and whilst on tuesday, most places are looking - just the odd shower here and there - cloud may just start to increase across eastern scotland, north east england.
-f towards the south-west, on wednesday, start to feed some outbreaks of rain in from the south-west, whereas many places will actually have another day but wetter weather becoming more widespread again towards the end of the week.
that’s your forecast.
bye for now.
in the iranian capital, tehran, where hundreds of political in videos posted online, the need for further economic development in his address to the twentieth communist party congress, which has opened in beijing.
president said the country’s new policy would be to "work hard to promote high quality development”.
britain’s new chancellor of the exchequer, jeremy hunt, has admitted the government made mistakes when announcing unfunded tax cuts last month and that very he’s promised to restore now on news, the media show.
as the war in ukraine continues to escalate, what role does journalism play in peacemaking, in dialling down the rhetoric?
to interview president zelensky.
and with me in the studio is another giant of journalism, emma tucker is the editor of the sunday times, only the second woman to have done that job in more than 100 years.
emma, welcome to the media show.
presumably the fact that you are able to come in here on a wednesday means that wednesday isn’t the day when you have to decide what the front page is?
wednesday is definitely not the day when we decide on the front page, butitis a day when we are thinking very 1t pressure when you are editing a sunday paper all week a =l i in the bag by wednesday, you are beginning to panic just a little.
and are you panicking this week, how are you feeling?
actually, 1 am net, we have got two crackers.
great, and then, of course, there’s the supplements do you sign off all the supplements and the magazines, so you’ve presumably done them much earlier?
yes, make a point of signing off all the supplements so this morning should have signed off culture but was actually late in and my deputy signed it off for me.
and then tomorrow will sign off the magazine and style.
on friday sign off travel ldla along the way, also sign off property.
it is a busy time?
it is a busy week, yeah.
and we will get very excited about your two scoops coming up.
am assuming you are not going to tell me anything , more from you, emma, in a bit, but first let’s turn to ukraine and the ’s world affairs editor, john simpson, he went to kyiv to interview president zelensky, but found himself back on our screens reporting on monday’s bombardment by the russians.
john simpson was of course a fixture of coverage from the world’s hetspots for decades.
earlier today, he crossed the border into poland @ a bit like the old days, really.
mean, do miss these kind of things.
that kind of boring stuff.
actually, it’s really interesting to be in a place where important things are happening and to see them for yourself and to know what is really going on.
as opposed to, you know, what everybody thinks or what you read, whatever.
a interesting
and that’s what takes you back to these places again and again.
of course.
in a bit, would like to come back to your assessment of what is happening in ukraine and the wider continent, but let’s go back to your interview with president zelensky which went out on friday, and was the point talk us through the circumstances, give us a sense and the security around him?
presidential palace.
but it was very much kind eladlt sliare there were little sandbag emplacements along the corridors and up the main staircases and so on.
we weren’t even able to take a watch in with us.
our watches were banned, suppose for some sort and, you know, frankly it was a real wartime interview.
no natural light because the windows were all sandbagged up.
and it felt very very tense and very, very exciting and interesting.
and it was noticeable at the start of the interview, president zelensky answered in english before switching to ukrainian, was that?
the beginning of last week, something like that, when he seemed to say at some australian conference, again, not quite clear 1
but he seemed to say that the west should stage pre-emptive strikes against russia to stop it using nuclear weapons.
of course, everybody immediately assumed that meant he was calling for pre-emptive nuclear strikes on russia.
think, to make absolutely certain that everybody got the point and we would definitely use it, that wasn’t his purpose, he wasn’t talking about anything to do with nuclear strikes, he wanted a pre-emptive kind of, sort of more sanctions and that kind of thing.
do you think he was mistranslated or did he misspoke?
think it came tumbling out.
his life is very, very stressful.
and think he just wasn’t absolutely in command of what he was saying at that particular moment.
am sure he didn’t mean he wanted pre-emptive nuclear strikes against russia.
that would be pretty crazy.
of course, nobody would do it anyway.
noticed during the interview he was wearing an earpiece, was that simultaneous translation or something?
yes, usually on these things you get a translator with you and they kind of whisper in your ear or let =t has been answered.
we tried a new thing, which think is far, far better, more advantageous, which is just a translation that is going on all the time from a couple of translators glae o121l
you’ve run the wires out through the doors and into your ear.
he had, think it was rather a large earpiece, a lot larger than mine.
yours was very discreet, didn’t notice your one.
did you feel a responsibility, you always feel but given the escalation, you have seen what it was?
yes.
there were two or three important issues that you couldn’t walk away from an interview with president zelensky without asking him.
the first one was, did he think that there was going to be a nuclear attack?
no question more important than that, really.
and for his own reasons, of course, he has got to really one, but at the same time he doesn’t seem to feel that is imminent in any way.
so what he tended to do was to say that president putin was saying this, because he knows how unpopular the war is becoming in russia of aggressive claims to keep the far right wingers, in his own organisation and his own government, to keep them, you know, on side.
so those were the kind of questions.
obviously, you want to ask the kind of questions which will provide important answers in one way or another.
and though that was one of the key things sorry to interrupt, but how careful did you feel you have to be?
did you feel there was a sense you were the journalist or peacemaker, if you like?
no, am not really very happy with that notion that you go there with a purpose.
what they think about what is going on.
was there anything off the table or could you ask anything?
i am sure could have asked anything, don’t think there was anything off the table, no.
that is what always have a bee in my bonnet about, not to tell the interviewee beforehand, except in you know, not to let them get away with saying that some subjects are off the table.
because how do you assess the control the ukrainian government has over how this conflict is reported, because clearly president zelensky is a key part of their media strategy.
during the air raids, he was outside taking a video on his phone and he is very adept at getting a message out?
you have to know that he wants manipulate you.
it so happens quite a large proportion of the audience the interview was being watched and listened to by agree but you have got to know as the interviewer, he wants to make himself, his country and his side and his purposes look good and you are the instrument that he is using you know, you have got to make it absolutely clear that you are not on his side because that’s not what we are paid to do.
and think that is really, really important.
let me just say, have heard quite a lot of interviews with president zelensky where people are rather inclined to say, we are on your side, we think you are a great guy.
regardless of what you might think privately, that isn’t we have talked on this programme before about impartiality and whether journalists are being or can be impartial in a war like this.
and as a journalist who has covered endless conflicts over i argl of the role of journalists?
at a conflict like this, where there was so much support in my own country for one side.
and that is pretty unusual.
don’t know, it may be back in the falklands time, it probably was.
things have covered.
you know, the invasion of iraq in particular, but also a variety of other things where large numbers of people back home did not agree with, in this case, it is different.
there are people who are very strongly against what president zelensky stands for and what ukraine stands for, that many of them.
think it really is important not to go along with that zelensky.
that doesn’t feel good to me.
that was the ’s world affairs editor, john simpson, talking to me from the polish ukrainian border.
you can see the full interview on the iplayer.
we are fortunate to have emma with us today, the editor of the sunday times.
what did you make of what john simpson was saying at the end, some journalists in the west have been too keen to pick a side?
for journalists to get caught up in the righteousness of a war.
the job of our journalists as trusted eyewitnesses.
it makes me think of a particular story we had with one of our journalists reporting from an area that had been under russian occupation the interesting story she reported was that not everyone in the villages she went to were happy to see of course, some want the russians to be there?
yes,
but that is the value of having somebody on the ground acting as an eyewitness and sending back reports that people can really trust.
has the sunday times had somebody there all the time, this conflict?
as the war broke out.
she was there for a while and eventually came out and someone else took over.
they both did some fantastic reports.
as it happens, we haven’t got but we have got a dispatch coming from ukraine because we have built up a good network of stringers and local reporters.
was on the show in 2021 and she talked back then, foreign reporters, she was speculating that covid would be used for permanent cutbacks when it comes to foreign travel, as foreign travel and foreign coverage very expensive?
yes, she wrote these brilliant pieces about a hotel in shrewsbury.
she turned it into a book, which turned it into a hotel we are not going to cut back on our foreign coverage, we are very committed in investing in foreign business these days because it is very expensive.
is it important for a paper like the sunday times to have we share our correspondents with the times, we have a pool of correspondents at the times which the sunday times can draw on.
but we have a handful of foreign reporters who are dedicated to the sunday times, because that is how we get the good exclusives sunday.
it makes sense.
let’s take a step back and look at you and what you want to do with the sunday times.
let’s start with your own career, when did you decide sometimes think fell into it by default.
but then look back and think, it can’t really be default because was proactively doing journalism.
my first foray into journalism was while was at university.
was caught up in an incident, was sitting in my room and happily minding my own business as a first-year suddenly my door flew open and the captain of the rugby team was thrown into my room completely naked.
there was a marauding mob outside my window making a noise and was pretty much put out by this.
and then they carried him upstairs and threw him inte another rcom, still naked.
of my college and said, that must have got your goat?
decided to write an article for the guardian’s women’s page
and they lapped it up.
presumably you were paid?
yes, but used a pseudonym because didn’t want to get in trouble.
it taught me the power, if you need to speak truth to power, like the college authorities, there is a way you were foreign correspondent at the , joined the times and then became only ine of the sunday times, so
does being a woman make any difference?
these days, no, not really.
imagine my management style it may not be a gender thing?
a when was younger, was asked to cover the soft stories, it 1s not like that now.
genuinely, my entire newsdesk is run by women.
although we have just admitted a man onto it we have last week’s edition of the sunday times.
and familiar and full of magazines.
something to sit down with over bhreakfast and into lunch.
how long do you think the print edition can exist?
for the print edition.
i suspect it will be around for quite a lot longer.
even though all our effort and energy now is focused very much on digital and how we do journalism for the digital audience.
in a way, that means the print project has to become even better, it has to be more heautiful, better laid out of beauty, we have an excellent but it needs to be a boutique product, something maybe we charge a bit more for.
but you think it is going to be all-digital?
yes, completely.
wonder if the sundays will be the last to go as a print version.
because there is a place of sitting around with them
oh a sunday?
yes, in britain there is a strong tradition of sunday papers.
suspect you are more likely to see the newspapers going digital only monday to friday.
not yet, but think it will happen and maybe want to share the sections and enjoy the physical product.
people talk to me about the physical product of the sunday times although my main focus on digital.
do you have a strategy which is trying to make it feel like sunday?
yes and no.
of the sunday times, which is it produces great investigations and exclusives, that is still something that resonates in digital.
quality investigative journalism.
that is the same but what we are doing differently in digital, we think about how we tell the stories, which audiences we are targeting and we think more closely about that, because we can and because we know so much more about the audiences than we used to.
do you still see it as the job of the sunday times to set the news agenda in britain?
yes, do.
if a sunday paper isn’t doing that, it is not doing its job.
by the time people get to sunday, they know what the news is, they are looking for something different from us, looking for something distinctive.
with our own exclusives or they want to have us explain think our role is, in that or digital, the business of explaining the news but also breaking the news is the same.
do you feel uncomfortable with the amount of power the british press still holds?
suppose it is good if it is truth to power?
yes, if we weren’t here people complain about the press a lot, but if we were not here, they would miss us.
no one else is holding power to account and it is something the sunday times has been doing for the last 200 years.
obviously, not just the sunday times.
it is about how you hold that power to account, some people say, rupert murdoch, if they all got together and they could bring down the government.
do you think they could?
ring down the government if the government deserved to be brought down.
if you look at the kind of campaigns and the kind of stories we have done, going back over time, you can look to some of the famous campaigns the sunday times has run, including uncovering thalidomide, uncovering u1 of fifa, david walsh, the journalist, uncovering lance i more recently, we did a series of articles about how the government mishandled the beginning of the outbreak if we didn’t tell the stories, and see our job is letting people know what decisions are being made on their behalf by the people do you think it marked the beginning of the end for boris johnson?
there was a period every sunday you had a scoop about what was going on inside number ten?
suspect that had we not done the covid story things the important thing about that story, what took me by surprise was the extent to which it resonated with people and also was taken aback by the government’s somewhat dishonest response to it.
what was that?
on the day that story came out, on the evening that story came out they issued a 2000 word rebuttal to the story.
correction it, but it was just was to and stop at the people running the story.
we then rebutted their rebuttal and now when you look inquiries have said days, it pretty much backs up everything we reported on.
have you had an audience aerlirr a did she call you & no, at the conservative party conference in birmingham and went along for a coffee with my chief political editor.
does that feel healthy in a democracy, is that right?
half an hour chat.
obviously, there was quite a & actually make a point of not going to meet members of the government too often.
it is very useful as background, but don’t think it is helpful as an editor etz =r with any of them.
that is not what my job is, my job is to help i guess a lot of what we are talking about in terms
do you think the public, oi old school, investigative we were children?
do you think journalism is less appreciated now as a trade think in some ways it is less appreciated.
as a society we don’t talk enough about the value of a free press and the importance of free speech are getting up to.
as it was, but the advent of fake news, social media and the noise that is out there means that people do still come to the trusted brands.
whenever there is a big new story, the pandemic, ukraine and recently the mini budget, people come to us and in a moment of big, big news, people still come to us.
in that sunday times masthead.
to editor of the times, would you want that job?
wouldn’t 17 of the times, tony gallagher, he will do a fantastic job.
some people tell me you are too left wing to be allowed to be that is annoying trope, am just a journalist, i like good stories and that is what we get on with.
fantastic and many good stories to come.
that is all we have got time for today, thank you so much to john simpsen and emma tucker, editor of the sunday all editions of the media show are on sounds and the iplayer, but for now, thank you so much for watching.
goodbye.
after a showery saturday, sunday is looking like a drier day across much of the .
still a few early showers in northern england, especially in scotland, although these are going to fade away, though still some in the northern isles i it’ll be with sunny spells.
cloud increasing later in the afternoon across southern england, perhaps south wales, with uncertainty about the speed of progression.
temperatures pretty much where they’re going to be over very wet in northern ireland during the evening.
overnight and into monday morning.
then on monday, any early from south east england and east anglia.
after a much milder start to the day, closer to the area will see the strongest winds.
further showers for northern ireland and northern england but particularly in scotland i - etls 4 of the heaviest downpours, especially north of the central perhaps a degree or so higher, the temperature on monday.
good morning.
welcome to breakfast, with roger johnson and nina our headlines today: the prime minister will hold talks her new chancellor, jeremy hunt, today as the government tries to salvage its economic credibility.
it comes as the governor of the bank of england, andrew bailey, warns that interest rates may need to rise by more than previously expected.
the manchester united forward mason greenwood is charged with attempted rape, controlling and coercive behaviour, and assault.
the dream start for england at the ugby league world cup.
they open the tournament with a thumping win over samoa at james’s park in newcastle.
they became a symbol of a nation’s grief and gratitude after the queen’s death, and now hundreds of paddingtons left in london’s parks will be donated to charity.
good morning.
early, blustery showers slowly easing on the far of cotland.
elsewhere, it’s a quieter story.
more sunshine through and lighter winds.
i’ll have details coming up shortly.
it is sunday 16 october.
our main story: the prime minister and chancellor will hold talks today as the government tries to salvage its economic credibility following three weeks of market turmoil and policy u-turns.
the new chancellor, jeremy hunt, has said he wants growth underpinned by stability, but some conservative are privately discussing trying to eject liz truss from office.
here is our political correspondent ben wright congratulations, chancellor.
as as the new chancellor, jeremy hunt, and prime minister meet for today, they face a daunting .
there will a new budget in a fortnight, and the government this one to calm turmoil in inancial markets.
by the governor of of england has warned borrowing costs are already likely e.
we will not borrowing costs are already likely to rise.
we will not hesitate to raise interest rates to rise.
we will not hesitate to a 0 to rise.
we will not hesitate to raise interest rates to reap the ation target.
and as things stand today, my best quess that nflationary pressures will require onger response than we perhaps hought in august.
in a statement night, jeremy hunt said it is clear that he plans to dump he taxcutting agenda liz truss gested during the leadership ntest.
fven he president, joe biden, said he thought the original ad been a mistake.
but plan had been a mistake.
but businesses here have defended the minister.
what businesses here have defended the i minister.
what she is doing is livering a oader programme.
she delivering a broader programme.
she has reached the conclusion delivering a broader programme.
she a1 4 has reached the conclusion that doing all the tax cuts at the same is too much for doing all the tax cuts at the same too much for the markets time is too much for the markets to a& 1e time is too much for the markets to sustain in the short term because are so many global disruptions.
we are seeing every country with inflationary ises and other country with inflationary a and countries with much higher interest than we have.
a is a global allenge that we’ll to a1 tackle.
but the prime minister’s of survival could on hopes of survival could hinge on she hopes of survival could hinge on a she and her chancellor decide ver
he two what she and her chancellor decide two weeks.
if that package & doesn’t over the two weeks.
if that package 104 ’t work and over the two weeks.
if that package i work and the markets are still reacting all over the place think she is in considerable rouble.
she has admitted mistakes, she and if she admits there are mistakes and puts them right then think she conceivably beyond this.
could conceivably get beyond this.
and many conservative are ous liz russ has led furious liz truss has led the government into this chaos and alking privately about trying to test the prime minister out.
a precarious place for liz truss to be eads into precarious place for liz truss to be into another difficult our political correspendent pete saull joins us from london.
we know that liz truss and jeremy hunt are going to have talks today.
oing to ask you was going to ask you if you expect this week to be as turbulent as last ihe 2 week, but i think everybody probably, apart from their nents, hoping it will be a opponents, is hoping it will be a hair bit calmer.
yes, roger, ave long since given up trying to 1 ict what is going to happen next british politics but certainly will hope that the relative alm of checkers, the buckingham it side today, will allow them ignore the noise.
and my ard in oisy in westminster of ate.
-- my, has been noisy in stminster of late.
think liz uss has bought herself a little a1 of time with truss has bought herself a little bit of time with the appointment of jeremy hunt, replacing a very close ical ally political ally in kwasi kwarteng.
as heard in ben’s report, lots of 1 nservative now looking to g110 8 conservative now looking to that statement before deciding how they