our top stories a minute’ silence across the - time to reflect on the life and legacy of queen elizabeth .
the queue for people waiting to pay their respects and file past the queen’ coffin lying in state has reached capacity - and no more are allowed to join.
the queen this spring - ilaell president biden pays his respects at the lying-in-state - and later gave this tribute.
our hearts go out to you.
you were fortunate to have had her for 70 years, we all were.
hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have attended a reception at buckingham palace hosted by king charles, ahead of his mother’ funeral on monday.
and i’ lewis vaughan-jones.
in other news: welcome to westminster, where people continue to queue to pay respects to her majesty their respects to her majesty - queen.
the queue is now ficially closed and no more ple are now allowed to in oin people are now allowed to join !
he end of the queue, so people who the end of the queue, so the people who are now filing past some of the last who 4 will have that moment in tminster hall in that historic building, nearly 1000 old, that has witnessed years old, that has witnessed much history, witnessing it again, these some of once again, these are some of he last people to be able to past her majesty the ueen, the late queen who been lying-in-state for nearly a a half days.
that will four and a half days.
that will 0 0 four and a half days.
that will then end at 6:30am many of people behind me, they have these people behind me, they started at 4pm and they have started at 4pm and they continue to file past and this are in the we are right in the middle of the snake, that moment of the snake, that moment where have do zigzag very compressed in order to compressed in order to facilitate so many people, sands of people, tens of thousands of people, tens of thousands, hundreds of usands of people.
we believe least half a million people make this journey to file - her majesty the queen at estminster hall, just a few ents from here, but that journey still long, still about 40 minutes left for these people.
so many people have passing through and ongst them world leaders, a 14 amongst them world leaders, president biden has been there, there with his wife, the lady, doctor jill biden, other different dignitaries passing by, paying respects.
we begin our coverage with a royal respondent, nicholas it is ten days now since the - the new king, charles, arriving at buckingham palace earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led the country’ mourning in the days since.
he’ been deeply touched by the many messages from around the world.
wanted simply to take this opportunity to say thank you to all those countless people who have been such a support and comfort to my family and myself in this time of grief.
” among the hundreds of world leaders in london a few moments later, president biden and the first lady of the united states, jill biden, stood like so many thousands of others over the past four think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all, the notion of service.
we all owe something, there is something within our capacity to do that can make things, not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better, your household better, your workplace better.
to all the people of the united kingdom, our hearts go out to you and you were fortunate to have had her for 70 years, we all were.
1 for the state funeral, from camilla, the queen
i i = 70 years of the queen’’ reign.
she has been part of our lives for ever.
the queen being there.
it must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman, there weren’ women prime ministers or women presidents, she was the only one.
so think she carved her own role.
a part of this moment.
some have queued for many hours or placed flowers in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to london to absorb the sights and emotions along the route the funeral will take place.
we didn’'t know what exactly to do, but we wanted to do something.
you know, it felt right to come up and do something and bring my son here.
you know, think there’ a lot of people who don’ know what to do, but feel like they need to do something, so it just felt like the right thing to do was to come up here with everybody else.
admitted to the lying-in-state at westminster hall.
place of her majesty, queen elizabeth .
nicholas witchell, news.
so so these are indeed some of the i ast people who are able to past the een’ coffin.
file past the queen’ coffin.
5 hey still have around 40 nutes or so to wait, but bear mind they have been gueueing i8 in mind they have been queueing from around three ’clock or ’clock from around three ’'clock or & from around three ’'clock or four ’clock in the afternoon, have spent so much me so they have spent so much time together, we have heard so many ies people making stories of people making a3 iends and reflecting and at dnight just a few moments ago heard a cheer and when we sked what was happening it was that it was midnight they ere getting so much oser to paying their spects.
closer to paying their spects.
earlier today at 8pm i respects.
earlier today at 8pm there was a minute’ silence will xpect a two-minute and we will expect a two-minute a1 and we will expect a two-minute national silence after the ice late on monday morning westminster bey itself.
colleague, fergal keane, has this report.
the flowers of the forest echoing across a scottish mountainside.
and then, on the cusp of silence, in blackpool, the going down of lights.
then out of silence, into the anthem celebrating a new monarch.
god save the king.
god save our gracious king.
long live our noble king.
god save the king.
send him victorious.
happy and glorious.
long to reign over us.
god save the king .
across the land it was a gathering of strangers.
for whom the queen was the unifying symbol.
i’ just paying respects to the queen and just to mark the passing of an era.
111 the likes of our queen again.
all our llives, really.
she was very important to me and i’ starting to get emotional now.
because remember the coronation.
i’ old enough to remember king george and him dying and the coronation, and we had a little 12-inch television and all the neighbours came in to watch the coronation,
so yes, she has been our queen for a long time and she served us well.
respect and affection fergal keane, news.
so so many national moements, hat so many natienal moments, that one minute’ silence after the ice and one minute’ silence after the i ice and there will be ety service and there will be a two-minute silence, but before there is lying-in-state, the that there is still the lying-in-state, the queen is lying-in-state behind still lying-in-state and behind me these people will have the rtunity to file past the opportunity to file past the aile draped with the royal coffin draped with the royal standard with the imperial on top
and then it will officially close, so no more will be able to join, but these people here who have gueueing for he afternoon been queueing for the afternoon will get that opportunity and erson who has been doing \
exactly this is seta colleagues, grace, who exactly this is one of my colleagues, grace, who you have queueing ck, well, you been queueing back, well, you ell me.
since been queueing back, well, you i ha been queueing back, well, you tell me.
since three ’clock in hwark park and we southwark park and we quickly established the queue ends in the little up we were in.
had people from merset, we ad somebody rom oxford and hen we had two sisters 3 then we had two sisters from new york
then we had two sisters from 2 then we had two sisters from new york who had flown in ecially for is
and hen we especially for this
and then we just of settled in, went past tower past tower bridge still just kind of settled in, went past tower bridge still feeling and then at the london started to get dark, so we kind ought, right, we need to of thought, right, we need to ace ourselves, but the arshals at he london eye had id yesterday at this point ple had already been eueing 12.
5 hours, re so are a mere six queueing 12.
5 hours, so are a i & re six felt and then viously all way down the obviously all the way down the embankment and then here, but nake has een the worst, the snake has been the worst, 3 has gone on and on, so i’ pleased to see the end in ight.
we hear so much about i1 sight.
we hear so much about the camaraderie and when we out, have the camaraderie and when we pulled out, i have got to admit, we pulled you away from queue family, your queue iends and here was a friends and there was a big round friends and there was a big und of applause and big round of applause and big hugs.
camaraderie, but yes, you real camaraderie, but yes, you ntioned the snake, this is what we are seeing behind us, this zigzagging, 40 minutes behind us, this zigzagging, behind us, this zigzagging, this 40 minutes or so of tice.
this 40 minutes or so of ustice.
think maybe even nger.
@ longer.
what is so justice.
think maybe even longer.
what is so deceptive is i3 at the front there is the first snake and you think that is it bviously you can see when and obviously you can see when you need to be going and then past a certain point you get past a certain point and is a second snake, so you and there is a second snake, so 4
and there is a second snake, so you have got to have a lot of mina to get through the first and then about the fact hat you have hole second nake to get through, you kind of now you are reaching the end because there ecurity anneuncement saying rid of all food food and our liquids proper airport and your liquids and proper rport security, so you are ncouraged, but equally the is just relentless.
i’ ing to ask you a personal uestion.
hat going to ask you a personal i going to ask you a personal question.
what motivated you to is?
think have been tching so much of the queue thought, should i, ouldn’ 7 and ust shouldn’ 17 and just thought, this won’ happen for a long time.
we have again for a long time.
we have had, out of anything, want to respects to the queen pay my respects to the queen and tonight was the last night, .
thought most people 50 thought most people ould come tonight, but tually think the last night as put people actually i think the last night 1 actually i think the last night has put people off use we have gone round the queue much quicker than is people anticipated
and we have amazing weather, am still holding , still holding my coat, haven’ had to put it on yet, 18 had a pretty good a
so we had a pretty good queue rience, as far as queueing goes.
a good queue xperience, well, listen, we let you go and will to catch you catch you after you will let you go and will to catch you after you have filed 1 her majesty the queen.
past her majesty the queen.
4 ank you past her majesty the queen.
= you very much for thank you very much for speaking to us, we thank you very much for speaking to us, we will catch up with grace after she has through westminster hall with all of these tens of thousands of people who have the time thousands of people who have taken the time to come here to have have that moment.
so many 4 01 have that moment.
so many different reasons, but all of eople here are now the the people here are now the nal people to be able to pay heir respects because, as we been hearing now for the ast hours, the queue back officially closed, but we re showing a live stream ross our are showing a live stream fluge a1.
1 are showing a live stream across our platforms for who want to witness at those who want to witness what 3 happening within westminster itself, but from me, the hall itself, but from me, the queue camaraderie, the queue ly, thank you.
thanks very family, thank you.
thanks very much for giving us a flavour of going on president biden will join around 2,000 other guests - including some 500 heads of state and foreign dignitaries - at the queen’ state funeral.
it will be one of the biggest gatherings of royalty and politicians the has hosted for decades.
they have been paying their respects to the late queen and signing the book of condolence all afternoon, queen and signing the book of condolence, as our diplomatic correspondent, james landale, reports.
some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
others came together, rather unusually, on a bus, but they were all here to honour the queen in perhaps the biggest diplomatic wake seen for decades.
there was the king and queen of spain.
there was his exiled father, juan carles.
there was the president naieh i leaders from the gulf.
the king and queen of jordan.
hundreds of statesmen and women, there to pay perhaps, in a little diplomacy.
others arrived around the back of the palace.
prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the king and other members of the royal family at a formal state reception.
international engagement, the princess of wales even the first lady of ukraine.
earlier, joe and jill biden had followed other heads of state and government in stopping off at lancaster house to sign a steady flow of the global great and sometimes good, so wish eternal peace to her wonderful, generous oiv every good wish on behalf of the government and people of barbados that record my sincere sympathy to all of great britain and especially to the members of the royal family.
eldo transformation from a nation of thank you, your majesty, thank you for your dedication.
the people of fiji will never forget you.
not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand in silence and perhaps some awe before the coffin of a woman whose reign will outlast their own.
and despite the opposition of some and peers who have been sanctioned by beijing, a delegation from china also one man who will not be coming to the abbey tomorrow is saudi arabia’ crown prince and facto ruler, mohammad bin salman, of being involved in the murder of a journalist - accusations he has denied.
several leaders, including canada’ prime minister, also dropped by downing street heie said were informal conversations with liz truss.
earlier he paid his own tribute to the queen.
first met her majesty when was seven years had been constant, inspiring and graceful.
as prime minister, benefited from her counsel, her sense of humour.
tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on hold as the leaders arrive at westminster abbey 3 to the monarch they in other news.
the prime minister of japan has urged as the country is hit by one of the most destructive typhoons in years.
fumio kishida’ warning comes as the authorities urgently advised 3 million people to leave their homes, as a huge storm moves across the southern island of kyushu.
our tokyo correspondent, rupert wingfield-hayes, reports.
typhoon nanmadol is a huge and angry storm, the like of which japan has rarely, if ever experienced before.
all day it has been battering 8 for the first time ever, the japanese government issued its highest level emergency alert, warning winds could be strong enough to bring down buildings.
that nanmadol is carrying.
as much as 500 millimetres of rain is expected to fall in less than 24 hours.
kyushu is very mountainous it
i so serious is the concern that the japanese prime minister made this appeal for milliens of people to head for evacuation centres before nightfall.
: do not go near dangerous areas.
please take early action to save your lives.
evacuating at night is extremely dangerous.
many thousands have heeded the call, but many more have river levels across kyushu i inundated in minutes, giving those that have refused to evacuate no time to escape.
japanese people are used to dealing with typhoons, especially here.
but as the global climate changes, the data shows frequent and defences that worked in the past may no longer be enough.
rupert wingfield-hayes, news, tokyo.
in ukraine president zelensky says investigations crimes are continuing 40 one of several areas back in ukrainian hands after significant territorial gains in recent days.
on the edge of the city.
our ukraine correspondent, james waterhouse, has more from kyiv.
since ukraine forced russia since the invasion and retook territory that was taken, it now seems to be focusing on investigating what the invaders did and what moscow is going to do next.
in the case of the city of izyum, while bodies continue to be recovered from a mass grave, the latest claim from kyiv is that evidence has been uncovered which suggests that torture chambers were used by russian troops.
there are reports of people being tortured and a city being littered with mines.
there has again today been heavy fighting in the kharkiv region, where ukraine has enjoyed some recent successes, but on the question of what russia will look to do next, well, the thought from the ministry of defence more civilian targets in ukraine, while it is frustrated on the battlefield.
it has hit targets across this vast country to to exert influence and undermine ukrainian morale, but on that latter point in his latest address president zelensky has said, just because we have regained vast swathes regained swathes what russia will hope is that the very speed thanks to james for the update.
one of russia’ most famous singers has publicly alla poogachova said she wanted to be declared a foreign agent in solidarity with her husband, who’ another outspoken us the intervention is significant, as alla poogachova is more than just a pop star: she is super popular, she is admired, she is adored, she is respected across russia and aside from her wonderful voice, when she has something to say, people tend to sit up and listen.
the statement that she issued today was more than just a staunch defence of her husband, it was a stinging criticism, really, of what the kremlin still calls & a i 1a some strong language, and at one point she said, "our lads,” meaning russian soldiers, "are dying for illusory aims that make our country a pariah and the lives of our citizens extremely difficult.
” reckon that language like that coming from someone like that, someone as famous as alla pugacheva, is going pugacheva in the state media.
but it’ going to be fascinating to see whether her public criticism will affect public epinion here and spark to 1 to the special operation.
now, you may remember, recently several town today, we hear the criticism from alla pugacheva.
is there a pattern here?
i think it is too early to tell, but certainly concerned, everything is going according to plan.
thanks to steve rosenberg for that.
thanks to steve rosenberg for hat.
let’ bring you back to don now, we can take your ife to london now, we can take your 0 life to westminster to the heart of london and the queues ople still there and still oving through, waiting to head westminster hall, where of ourse queen elizabeth is & still lying-in-state for just a few few hours more.
these are some of the last people, some of the few hours the event their own westminster hall formally at 6:30am in morning closes at 6:30am in the morning and the queue to join that is cially closed , so these officially closed now, so these people here are amongst the people that will be able pay their respects in rson.
this is news.
many of us have seen increasing amounts of and cloud will play quite a big part in monday’ weather story, maybe the odd shower, but it will largely stay dry.
and am hopeful that things will remain in londen and in windsor through the afternoon, it could give the odd light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
charge, that is keeping things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing more cloud and the chance for some damp weather first thing across south-west scotland, perhaps north-west england.
and this band of thick cloud adds the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle, it does tend to push eastwards as the day wears on.
north-east scotland will see some good spells of sunshine, though, northern ireland may brighten up for a time, south wales and the south-west of england should see some sunny spells.
temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees, now, through monday night, we will see large areas of cloud still potentially of rain and drizzle, especially in eastern parts.
some clear breaks out towards the west may well fill in with a little bit of mist and fog, a little milder than it has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, well, we stick with a rather cloudy theme, this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some spots of rain and drizzle, but it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over and break up a little bit a bit more patchy rain into a elsh 17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south, so feeling actually, on wednesday, if we see some sunny spells, at least for a time, it will feel considerably warmer than it has of late, temperatures of 17 degrees in aberdeen, 21in norwich and in london.
but a frontal system pushing them towards the north-west, bringing some outbreaks of rain, and that will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards through thursday and into friday, some of the rain, actually, into the south of england and south wales.
so, the chance of some rain, particularly later this is news, they 5 .
the queue to go into estminster hall has closed.
though still in the will be able to continue, hough still in westminster king charles is hosting a reception for hundreds of world leaders at buckingham on monday of his mother, queen elizabeth.
heads of state from around the globe are attending, including joe biden.
the president earlier paid his respects at the hall the prime minister of japan has urged people to act swiftly to save their lives as the country is hit by a destructive typhoon.
the warning comes as the authorities advise three million people to leave their homes, and a huge storm moves across the southern island of kyushu.
across the southern now on news, christian fraser looks at some of your tributes to her majesty in this special programme your queen.
hello and welcome to this programme of tributes to her the queen.
for the last eek, we have been asking ople around world and people around the world and in he to people around the world and in a the to share their memories of meeting her majesty and to offer their tributes, we will wil you some of those stories a 7 and over the next 25 minutes or so and we start with emma and len old us about time they who told us about the time they met the queen, though we didn’ ite to plan.
it was every go quite to plan.
it was every a1 go quite to plan.
it was every traumatic event.
their one, it from take it from the beginning.
it - quite a rainy day at the eer ark in windsor great park, and i slipped on a hill and my holdback was covered in we started walking back 1 mud
so we started walking back - - mud
so we started walking back 21 mud
so we started walking back home and the car was driving the road and my whole family was family was confused because was never really any cars here so the lady was in the
and she laughed at me and aved at my mum, and when hen the car waved at my mum, and then when car drove off, this man alked up to walked up to us and said it is everyday that you get to the queen on her own my mum really confused, and my mum i i as confused and said where was car the man pointed at the car and the man pointed at he car the man pointed at a1 the car and the man pointed at the car and when my mum told me ueen laughed at me, burst into the queen laughed at me, irl the queen laughed at me, i burst into tears.
so, lynn, this lady driving a jeep , through the deer park?
emma emembers are many
but she was ving a jaguar.
she was having a dead giggle at emma’’ nse?
having a dead giggle at emma’ nse?
happy lady smiling at expense?
happy lady smiling at 1 daughter and my daughter aled at her and just scaled at her
and she just laughed and waved like any mal persen and drive ay, normal person and drive away, did not occur to me it was queen.
because she did like drive herself around, of ourse,.
we had seen that royal ily quite frequently, prince drew, see them driving round andrew, you see them driving re in a range rover but to around in a range rover but to actually see the queen, and not gnise her was quite unusual or us.
emma, what has it meant ou, these last few days and tching the to you, these last few days and 11 to you, these last few days and watching the pictures of 1 tland, what has it been or you?
scotland, what has it been like - 014 for you?
feel it has connected for you?
feel it has for you?
feel it has connected me closer.
the queen frequent, didn’ get was a frequent, didn’ get to her a lot so being able to all these photos for me oser to er.
see all these photos for me see all these photos for me closer to her.
think that is oint, lots of people talk out the constancy and the on a ervice at the queen ave us but hink is also gave us but i think it is also ela anlzla1 gave us
but i think it is also a moment when everybody just i stands a moment when everybody just 4 back with a moment when everybody just i -1 a moment when everybody just stands back with their own ollections of stands back with their own stands back with their own recollections of of either ing her talking to her or something that she stirs in the .
for us, it was that constancy, remember going my late father to the jubilee, was only ittle ild myself, and she has lways een there, touring the britannia in leeds and being from edinburgh and having hed the procession at the watched the procession at the 3 i les, it really hits home.
tae just somebody who has been ere our whole life.
then, hat true for people in that is true for people in dsor because the people ound he world who perhaps 4 don’ know, is very much part of the town and is a royal town, and so they feel it aps a lot harder than other elaed perhaps a lot harder than other parts of the country, maybe?
lutely, couldn’ drive own absolutely, you couldn’ drive i re absolutely, you couldn’ drive down the road and not know she ome because the royal was home because the royal standard was there, we took it ranted that she would be for granted that she would be at home, for granted that she would be !
i i for granted that she would be at home, and she won’ be.
id williams was a rugby player at school when he met ajesty and he has been eaking to my colleague roz ins.
speaking to my colleague roz a ins.
met the queen back speaking to my colleague roz a atkins.
met the queen back in 2002, and this is when she was ing the country and her touring the country and her golden jubilee and this year ened to coincide with my school, the king school in clesfield, also celebrating, elebrating its 20 centennial , so it was 500 years old, was founded in 1502, and this time, various peoples invited to at this time, various peoples invited to talk to the een about variocus ects of queen about various aspects of chool life, and white is such memory for me is because ' my friend and myself he was in that picture given also in that picture were given an opportunity to talk to the about our an opportunity to talk to the 11 an opportunity to talk to the queen about our recent rugby to queen about our recent rugby 8 tour to canada.
can’ really remember tour to canada.
can’ really 10 mber too much discussion other than was probably more out british columbia and ancouver about british columbia and uver rather than vancouver rather than the finer points of what goes on in the row but he made very front row
but she made two very nervous 13-year-olds feel ortable in nervous 13-year-olds feel mfortable in her presence and at we had generally been istened to.
presumably you are feeling the listened to.
presumably you are feeling the nerves as the nl-ta1 rrived?
yes, deftly.
an’ moment arrived?
yes, deftly.
\ ’ really remember too much a1 what was said other than of, you know, that about what was said other than = about what was said other than kind of, you know, that we were - us at the time.
and what nervous at the time.
and what have your emotions been in the few days after the news of her a 1 last few days after the news of 4 came three?
yes, it her death came three?
yes, it has been quite interesting, ly, think some of the really, think some of the tributes that really, think some of the a i really, think some of the tributes that have come through been really quite good.
one of the one that vertically out to me a uote stands out to me is a quote tee i8 stands out to me is
a quote
i sir keir starmer, and his line when from sir keir starmer, and his from sir keir starmer, and his line when something like her , the queens of bank debt loss, the queens of bank debt losing one of this the - points in britain.
think what i in points in britain.
think what 4 a ence it is so important, in essence it is so important, talk in essence it is so important, 014 1 superlatives, he talk about the onality, a ference point commonality, a reference point that we all had to her, wasn’ just a transient itical igure or political figure or sportsperson, she was someone is intergenerational, that is intergenerational, people from all walks of life, , and backgrounds, have some memory of her.
yes, she cohstant in many people’ was a constant in many people’ lives.
thank you for speaking .
that theme coming out to us.
that theme coming out i and again in stories of he queen time and again in stories of the queen is her thoughtfulness, stephanie says ather was a nister and her father was a minister and invited to preach at balmoral and his favourite was being given a lift back to he palace by the een.
he opened the door of the land rover and told him to so she could drive him another tribute we received 3214 by jackie downey from lee sent by jackie downey from lee 3 south-east london, nay 20 ago in south-east lendon, nay 20 years ago she was chosen to sent a bouquet to the een present a bouqguet to the queen and jackie, were saying you to curtsy for the first time, that has viously stayed with you, time, that has obviously stayed time, that has obviously stayed with you, what else can you ember of meeting her?
it was - remember of meeting her?
it was a lovely occasion, went down to a lovely occasion, went down to windsor with all my leagues from the ondon colleagues from the london offices and we were all standing offices and we were all standing around waiting for the iling of the statue and she nveiled the tatue and then unveiling of the statue and she 3 - unveiled the statue and then it was up to me unveiled the statue and then it unveiled the statue and then it was up to me to go forward and ent her ith the bouquet present her with the bouquet that that was holding.
and embering to curtsy and hoping that had done it rectly.
’
sure you correctly.
i’ sure you did, and can see in the background at photo hat it was a big of that photo that it was a big gathering, there were a lot of there, did you feel like he queen people there, did you feel like a a4 people there, did you feel like the queen knew exactly who you ?
because the queen knew exactly who you - i the queen knew exactly who you were?
because after all, she’ ing lot of people.
yes, meeting a lot of people.
yes, i briefed on who meeting a lot of people.
yes, a meeting a lot of people.
yes, she had briefed on who was, he was able to let that ack to , she knew my name, he knew my job, and how long been there well, so, we had been there as well, so, we exchanged a lovely couple of , yes.
were you nervous about getting words, yes.
were you nervous 1 words, yes.
were you nervous about getting the right flowers er?
didn’ ave to buy for her?
1 didn’ have to buy the lowers, so that was quite , was ust given the good, was just given the bouguet, yes.
and after she had ken to you, wonder how much state you?
presumably, memories have remained ill lear.
it was a lovely occasion for myself and my leagues, we re all colleagues, we were all 01 colleagues, we were all honoured to be colleagues, we were all colleagues, we were all honoured to be there and it just a lovely day, and " we have just a lovely day, and i think have all remembered it, and asions ike the olden occasions like the golden jubilee, which is what the tue was our, and the platinum ubilee, it brings it to you through the years, and unfortunately now we are mbering it in lriy 1 4 lriy 1 different circumstances, remembering it in different circumstances, but it emory that is @ memory that many people share, of spending time with even if it was just a few minutes, like did.
our 301% minutes, like did.
our next story is from brian scott, a her from ballater, he met butcher from ballater, he met he queen butcher from ballater, he met - butcher from ballater, he met the queen because his shop supplies balmoral castle.
he has been supplies balmoral castle.
he a4 supplies balmoral castle.
he has been sticking to my league annita mcveigh, and told her would see her majesty fairly often when she aberdeenshire.
yes, we a rol was in aberdeenshire.
yes, we deliver to the estate so on a basis, we would drive into the estate and meet the 0 een on the green, the randkids are members of the family.
on a day-to-day sis, we royal family.
on a day-to-day 103 ¢ royal family.
on a day-to-day basis, we would bump inte them, as good.
and how was the 0 queen treated by locals?
spoke to people there last , hey said they very much week, they said they very much doubt that connection with oyal 1 state and felt very royal estate and felt very protective of the royal family.
sidered the queen as a we considered the queen as a local member of the community, as one our neighbours she was one of our neighbours and she was very well pected, only as ead of respected, not only as head of he monarchy but also, like, a , very well-known local to village.
she could be lking down the street and she uld walk straight past you you would never know that - 't was the queen just walking past you, she was it was the queen just walking 2 18 it was the queen just walking past you, she was very good at her disquise, you know, hiding her disguise, you know, with a headscarf and a tatty of waterproof jacket or a kind of waterproof jacket or a wax jackets, in glasses, you , she was ery, very good.
know, she was very, very good.
so, just very ordinary clothes, ly, that helped her blend in.
and we seeing these ovely photographs, lovely ges, should say, of the 0 queen in your butchers shop.
was it like chatting to what was it like chatting to her?
1 was really interesting, asn’ actually at the utcher shop that time, the ueen at the golf when a chef at the golf after he floods of 2015, she came in ember of 016, and she went september of 2016, and she went around all the numbers of the
and she shook hands with verybody, made everybody eel at - ease and calm, she feel at ease and calm, she !
sked me how i got on and how ong id it take to clean-up he premises.
and what were the stages.
she was very nfluential as well, she wanted now what was happening, she nted to know what was going the community, and nerally, think he ctually generally, i think she actually knew what was going on but she 14 just wanted clarity of everything from ery perspective, from ery person 1 the club.
she was asking veryone at butchers shop what was this cut, what was 1 at, what was your that cat, what was your position, what was your job?
anted to nteract with she wanted to interact with everybody, she wanted to be a of it, you know.
everybody, she wanted to be a ela part of it, you know.
patricia and james when from the west ands celebrated their 68th wedding anniversary in the days re the queen died.
they before the queen died.
they ceived a card of i congratulations received a card of congratulations from her esty which would have been last she sent.
their randdaughter beth moore corded the reaction.
delighted to receive the card 8 he queen, absolutely delighted.
very sad by he 1 delighted.
and very sad by the news that came three
that on unchtime of the lunchtime of the 8 niversary that the family had anniversary that the family had been summoned.
the memories we of the ueen, we only have of the queen, we only saw once, on her silver bilee during west bromwich, but the accession, proclamation ictoria square birmingham ebruary 952, we both in february 1952, so we both have full memories of in february 1952, so we both a have full memories of her full reign and think we were dened and shocked, like so many millions, because she had been camera ith the only been on camera with the prime minister two days fore.
sophie haynes is a rimary chool teacher from ondon.
back in primary school teacher from i 4 primary school teacher from london.
back in 2016, this celebrated her 90th birthday and sophie and her i - birthday and sophie and her class decided to write to majesty after learning about ingham palace and the queen’ corgis in their he ssons.
here is you lessons.
here is you tell us happened ext.
the what happened next.
the children showed her pictures, small crowns, large grounds.
wrote a message and they they wrote a message and they were asking interesting questions, so we asked the what is it in queen what is it like in buckingham palace and what is an afternoon ea?
we put it like an afternoon tea?
we all our letters in the post a1 send them off.
there were five and six years old.
month went by, months and a month went by, two months went by, has the queen written?
was thinking in my heart, do and was thinking in my heart, rite a and was thinking in my heart, do write a letter as the 0 een and say she has written?
the queen and say she has written?
and the third month went by and chool secretary one day the school secretary one day came running into my room with ter on my desk and it didn’ take ong for us to see sign, the crown, and said everyone in class one ,.
opened it in front the children ,.
opened it in front of the i dren because we thought, it that letters we waited i till we were in class and very she rote two letters to and kindly she wrote two letters to the other class
so we i shut ocur own tter.
think the moment shut our own letter.
i think moment of realisation as when we did.
you for when we did thank you for he kind words you sent to me the occasion my 90th birthday.
we got a letter from ady in aiting.
having her lady in waiting.
having just learnt about buckingham ce.
everyone in the class.
he queen wishes me to write 4 hank you for the splendid handmade card have sent on the occasion handmade card you have sent on a occasion of her majesty’ birthday, it was very kind you to make this card in onour of of you to make this card in a of you to make this card in honour of her special day and - majesty greatly appreciated he care you have taken with lucidations.
to send you elucidations.
am to send you the queen has backed best a4 and thank you once again or your thoughts majesty a3 this time.
for your thoughts her majesty aad for your thoughts her majesty at this time.
and that was from ady in aiting.
now to the lady in waiting.
now to henry ward who painted the en’ portrait in 2016 a told about he experience.
it was uite remarkable.
when you’re ting with the queen and she comes sitting with the queen and she atl sitting with the queen and she comes out wearing garter robes, quite the most remarkable oment
and you had to steel urself because she had an tse- lle 1 yourself because she had an incredible presence about her.
a point where you you get a point where you realise it isn’ going to ist you if you feel bombed by present and you have to realise that the best way to he queen socially just to talk to so we got about two talking very quickly, and ntually, a certain point, eventually, at a certain point, you realise that the people have assisted this project into reality, which in my case was not just the british red who had commissioned the 4 cross who had commissioned the & a and the fundraising work and the fundraising committee at the british red , raising wareness of the charity, but alse cross, raising awareness of the 1a1 a 1 cross, raising awareness of the charity, but alse my friend and ajesty’ gentleman usher, he said, look, if she’ wearing arter obes, they are the garter robes, they are hot and heavy, and you must ask her to sit down when you have both to sit down when you have you she needs and ask her if 0 he would like to what you she needs and ask her
i i if she would like to remove the garter robes.
said, feel uncomfortable doing that, and id
she is there to he said she is there to help you.
that he said she is there to help .
that is a thing that stands in my mind about the en, that she stands out in my mind about the = stands out in my mind about the queen, that she was so willing people, she wanted to to help people, she wanted to put people at ease.
when angela , who was in the room with wife and , came to remove cele arter robes, it was very omplex, when she unclipped it, as as if he month of the onarchy monarchy was removed, it was as if the month of the monarchy was removed, you from went from the formal to the ¥ erson as the garter robes ame off.
it was almost as you were itting with most avourite grandmother.
she was , magnificent, extremely erienced, and wise, magnificent, extremely a1 wise, magnificent, extremely experienced, and for all of her sty, he wore it with such majesty, she wore it with such %1% ity and such unbelievably -- nbelievable style, she was elievably beautiful.
she would have for ome great painters in her time, did discuss what painters in her time, did she painters in her time, did she discuss what she wanted to say, her any instructions at whether any instructions at all?
no, and think that is ere where one’ role as a all?
no, and think that is where one’ role as a portrait 1412 artist for the monarchy is ery plex because you can’ ever eally be completely alone in reative process in the studio.
sometimes, you would a1 come to moments where have to come to moments where you would have to back out of a1 there and refocus on what you re trying to say and move rward that were trying to say and move as were trying to say and move forward that in the knowledge people would be looking at that people would be looking at 3 rid the that people would be looking at or the rest of time.
he 10 it for the rest of time.
she said to me after she agreed to eil it, she said unvell it, she said this painting eeds to be seen.
at unveiling, hat must be the most daunting moment?
it is a 1 most daunting moment?
it is the part because that is when year of work is when you your painting seen by her, unveiled it, and it was ite wonderful, actually, we the press association here, hey will take those nderful photographs of it and was he best part, the ost nerve-racking part was re where is the painting now?
in he savoy hotel.
henry ward, ely to talk to you, thank you for sharing your ughts.
enry had a good conversation the queen
but it henry had a good conversation with the queen but it is not like that for everyone.
tracy hall met like that for everyone.
tracy i shall met her in the 1990, :18’ marshall met her in the 1990, tracy got so tongue-tied her had friend had to do all the talking.
we stood in a
and i she me did grated a lot of when it came she me did grated a lot of she me did grated a lot of us.
when it came to me, she -1 us.
when it came to me, she said to me, and what is it that ?
and just froze, you do?
and just froze, was 17 ally starstruck, totally and 0 utterly starstruck.
my mate loria bailed me out and arted speaking to this queen, stood there and was totally lm, totally collected, and just 4 1 calm, totally collected, and she just put me at may’, but had no words.
-- put me 1 4 at ease.
you hear that so often, you have to lose your vations when you are in the resence of royalty.
this gave a bunch of flowers.
she us now.
you were a joins us now.
you were 3 brownie, and the queen of rse for the scout, she oined the first buckingham is guides that are farther dell quides that are farther created so she could speak to le.
how that happened.
she came to open our local hospital furnace general and we would we’ have the day off school to go to see her as a brownie pack.
and we’ waited all day long, all afternoon long for her to come out of the hospital.
and think it was raining.
and when she finally came out, our brownie leaders like "go, go, go.
”
and so we sort of snuck under the police barriers with these posies in our hands and she took the time to speak to us
and she actually apologised for being late.
and she was she was just lovely.
she asked us about our brownie badges and just her smile, it jjust made you feel so relaxed.
the local paper said you’ broken through police it was before, think before they did walkabouts and things.
so
yeah, that’ what the local paper said.
so we could get past.
and you talked how long do you thank you talk for?
probably a couple of minutes, maybe something like that.
because she was just so easy i get the photograph?
yes.
yeah.
that’ a pride of mine this is this is all those years ago when you’re a little girl, but it sticks with you.
and i’ the first person whenever the queen came on telly, or if we went to buckingham palace or went near windsor, we would say, oh, i’ve met the queen, anybody who would listen, because i’ so proud of that.
really, really proud.
jolly good.
you still got the brownie badges?
we had a court that had been passed down through the family going to see the queen, even though we were thinking, so in the picture i’ in this 1
my mum was just the same.
bech you still got the brownie badges?
they’re all sewn on a blanket.
thank you very much indeed.
lovely to talk to you.
thoughts and their tributes to the queen, including many people who have sent artwork as well.
this one 1 from sarah glover.
she sent in a drawing of the queen with the simple message, "good night, your majesty,” she says, "sometimes it’ hard to express our feelings with words.
"and at times like that, here’ a quick look at some of the other art that you’ve created inspired by the queen.
well, that’ it for now.
a reminder, you can send your memories into your yourqueen@bbc.
co.
uk.
- thanks for watching.
many of us have seen increasing amounts of and cloud will play quite a big part in monday’ weather story, maybe the odd shower, but it will largely stay dry.
and am hopeful that things will remain in londen and in windsor through the afternoon, it could give the odd light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
charge, that is keeping things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing more cloud and the chance for some damp weather first thing across south-west scotland, perhaps north-west england.
and this band of thick cloud adds the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle, it does tend to push eastwards as the day wears on.
north-east scotland will see some good spells of sunshine, though, northern ireland may brighten up for a time, south wales and the south-west of england should see some sunny spells.
temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees, now, through monday night, we will see large areas of cloud still potentially of rain and drizzle, especially in eastern parts.
some clear breaks out towards the west may well fill in with a little bit of mist and fog, a little milder than it has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, well, we stick with a rather cloudy theme, this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some spots of rain and drizzle, but it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over and break up a little bit a bit more patchy rain into a elsh 17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south, so feeling actually, on wednesday, if we see some sunny spells, at least for a time, it will feel considerably warmer than it has of late, temperatures of 17 degrees in aberdeen, 21in norwich and in london.
but a frontal system pushing them towards the north-west, bringing some outbreaks of rain, and that will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards through thursday and into friday, some of the rain, actually, into the south of england and south wales.
so, the chance of some rain, particularly later this is news with the latest headlines for viewers in the a minute’ silence across on the life and legacy of queen elizabeth the second.
the queen this spring, ilaell president biden pays his respects at the lying-in-state, and later gave this tribute.
our our hearts go out to and you re fortunate to have had her 70 years, we were for 70 years, we all were stopping the world is better hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have been attending a reception at buckingham palace hosted and am live in westminster, this is quite near to and am live in westminster, 8 2 this is quite near to the very a - front of the queue and these are some of the last people to heir respects to her ajesty the queen.
welcome to westminster where stand that what is close to the front of he queue, this very front of the queue, this legendary queue that people been joining for past have been joining for the past four days, spending hours upon , tens of thousands of people waiting for their moment past her majesty the late queen’soften stminster hall.
the whole has officially closed but those eople who have been waiting so iently are still lowed to patiently are still allowed to remain, these are the last ple who will be filing past the coffin hemselves.
there have been so moments 1 have been so many moments throughout this mourning period, the nation coming ether pay their respects queen elizabeth, these ongst some of the a huge ommunity, a whole host of lunteers looking after these ple who have ent so many people who have spent so many urs queueing.
later, the tate funeral itself.
earlier ad a a we had a minutes silence in emory of the the new king, charles, arriving at buckingham palace earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led the country’ mourning in the days since.
the state funeral, a few moments later, president biden and the first lady of the united states, jill biden, stood like so many thousands of others over the past four days, struck by the intensity think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all, the notion of service.
we all owe something, there is something within our capacity to do that can make things, not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better, your household better, your workplace better.
to all the people of the united kingdom, our hearts to have had her for 70 1 for the state funeral, from camilla, the queen consort, her reflection on the 70 years of the queen’ reign.
she has been part of our lives for ever.
the queen being there.
it must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman, she was the only one.
so think she carved her own role.
many thousands of people have wanted to be a part of this moment.
some have queued for many hours or placed flowers in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to london to absorb the sights and emotions along the route of the procession place.
but we wanted to do something.
you know, it felt right to come up and do something and bring my son here.
you know, think there’ a lot of people who don’ know something, so it just felt like the right thing to do was to come up here with everybody else.
admitted to the lying-in-state at westminster hall.
place of her majesty, queen elizabeth .
nicholas witchell, news.
so just ahead of the state neral which so just ahead of the state so just ahead of the state funeral which will be taking later on on monday place later on on monday morning.
these are amongst some last people who will vr4 of the last people who will have that opportunity to pay respects, fail past their respects, to fail past he coffin in westminster hall, historic the coffin in westminster hall, 4 %1 the coffin in westminster hall, that historic building that has essed so much history.
these people are among the ones to join what has 0 10 final ones to join what has become a thing in itself, this queue, people ueueing huge queue, people queueing for urs upon hours in the middle he night and they are the final ones to actually make it ugh.
30 ere have been so through.
there have been so many moments throughout these few days, past few days, we are expect two minutes silence at past few days, we are expect i inutes silence at the end two minutes silence at the end of the service in westminster abbey.
earlier on sunday there minutes silence in was one minutes silence in emory and respect of her jesty the queen.
the flowers of the forest echoing a lament for the fallen, played now in tribute a queen.
and then, on the cusp of silence, in blackpool, the going down of lights.
then out of silence, into the anthem celebrating a new monarch.
god save the king.
god save our gracious king.
long live our noble king.
god save the king.
send him victorious.
happy and glorious.
long to reign over us.
god save the king .
across the land it was a gathering of strangers.
for whom the queen was the unifying symbol.
to mark the passing of an era.
a queen again.
she was very important to me and i’ starting to get emotional now.
because remember the coronation.
and him dying and the coronation, and we had a little 12-inch television and all in to watch the coronation,
so yes, she has been our queen for a long time and she served us well.
respect and affection fergal keane, news.
and there are so many people who have been filing past, ple continuing to go past in is queue which almost 8 this queue which has almost become a thing in itself, when about the queue, just ear in mind number bear in mind the number of people that have been helping these people that have to help these people that have spent so many hours waiting for hlie ortunity to walk through westminster hall itself.
the nteers who been volunteers who have been gathering food who will then go banks.
and then also people just searching, going ugh the food itself that then go onto the food nks, these guys are here for atd think it the third night.
we are joined by lzzi and caitlin, are from queens scouts, you are from the queens scouts, and how many nights have you here at?
ince wednesday been here at?
since wednesday ight.
wednesday night?
and ’ve gone through the night?
eah.
11 until seven.
how has een?
it was hard at first but think because we knew we on nights right from he start were on nights right from the 4 we kinda got into a start we kinda got into a routine, as the week has gone eneral public are kind of got, they’ve got, they’ve had better morale, kind of know what to expect now.
he first night body had any dea at to nobody had any idea what to expect including the people eing so was a bit tough gueueing
so it was a bit tough
but there are many scouts nstantly here, everyone is ing, people queueing so helping, people are queueing so 1ile1 helping, people are queueing so 4 because it must be tough on them, they have gueueing for on them, they have been on them, they have been gueueing for such a long time.
you obviously want to be here.
and who our duty for our queen.
and who are you?
you are again part of this?
and you are orking through the night as 3 ?
working through night as a i 1 well?
working through the night, yeah.
are you finding it ?
it was ough at first tough?
it was tough at first 4 slowly and getting used to enjoying it.
so just xplain to explain to me, you 1ly explain to me, you are going ugh this food, what happens it?
we are separating ishables from perishables from nen-perishables and water from other drinks.
we are taking the nenperishables and plitting them all the nonperishables and 0 all the nonperishables and splitting them up into bags, so got small bags for we have got small bags for individually wrapped suites and we can hand out to people things we can hand out to 1 things we can hand out to people along the queue if they a sugar rush or something to eep them awake.
also osting to keep them awake.
also sting morale along the way cause it is so much nicer when the general public is all , that is our aim here.
and we are also donating thing else to food banks, so 1 roughout the days every week have been coming and ollecting loads of stuff that rwise would have gone to because here is so waste because there is so much that we can give to other food that we can give to other people rather than just cking people rather than just 3 people rather than just chucking it.
and what are you to do tomorrow when you finish?
actually planned to the funeral tomorrow, eah.
and then go back to eep.
are going to join everyone and watch it on big screen altogether.
that is a really good point because big screen altogether.
that is a really good point because of there will be lots of 4 course there will be lots of a fle erent places where people - i who won’ be at westminster 3 bey will be able to watch it.
ank you abbey will be able to watch it.
= you very much, and sorry thank you very much, and sorry keep getting in the way great to join you and we see you throughout the ight will see you throughout the a1 is a whole team of night is a whole team of volunteers helping out, doing this kind of volunteers helping out, doing a a all of this kind of stuff to ensure that the people in the guys re saying, are happy and content as the guys are saying, are happy and content because this 4 oment that they really ant to here and just help, that the situation ive tee i8 lie1 @0 thank you very much indeed, we are releasing it from one end spectrum president biden will join around 2,000 other guests, including some 500 heads of state and foreign dignitaries at the it will be one of the biggest gatherings of royalty and politicians the they have been paying their respects to the late queen and signing the book of condolence all afternoon, as our diplomatic correspondent james landale reports.
some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
others came together, rather unusually on a bus, in perhaps the biggest fldle wake seen for decades.
there was the king and queen of spain.
there was his exiled father, juan carles.
there was the president naieh i leaders from the gulf.
the king and queen of jordan.
hundreds of statesmen and women, there to pay -tyota and indulge, perhaps, in a little diplomacy.
others arrived around the back of the palace.
prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the king and other members of the royal family at a formal state reception.
engagement, the princess of wales earlier, joe and jill biden had followed other heads of state and government in stopping a steady flow of the global great and sometimes good, generous spirit and of course, every good wish on behalf of the government and people sympathy to all a especially to the members of the royal family.
eldo transformation from a nation of eight countries - on to the throne to 56 at the time of her death.
thank you, your majesty, thank you for your dedication.
the people of fiji will never forget you.
not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand and peers who have been sanctioned by beijing, to westminster hall, including the vice president, one man who will not be coming to the abbey tomorrow saudi arabia’ crown prince and facto ruler, mohammad bin salman, who has been accused of being involved & accusations he has denied.
several leaders, including canada’ prime minister, also dropped by downing street for were infoermal conversations earlier he paid his own tribute to the queen.
first met her majesty when was seven years old and her presence throughout my life had been constant, inspiring and graceful.
as prime minister, ric her sense of humour.
tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on held as the leaders arrive at westminster abbey and the focus returns to the monarch they have come to mourn.
james landale, news.
well, well, of course those world leaders well, of course those world have come to london to leaders have come to lendon to represent their countries.
well, the death of queen elizabeth has of course been followed in great detail by many countries all over such as australia, a land with a strong republican leaning, even if it hasn’ yet turned in to majority support let’ go over to sydney now 0 ause our correspondent shaimaa khalil is there.
we are a eve of what is going to on the eve of what is going to 1 a hugely emotional as well remonial occasion.
just nder how australians are ooking at this.
well, lil australians are aking up to of course, as you can magine the national oadcaster is already telling australians to tune in.
all of channels will almost all of the channels will 1 arry the funeral.
the is ying half-mast here at the ney harbour bridge.
it will emain at half asked until ter a0 after the beautiful in landmarks across landmarks across the after the beautiful in landmarks across the country.
stralians remember our as australians remember our monarch that was viewed not eg0 at the queen of australia just at the queen of australia and the just at the queen of australia just at the queen of australia and the head of state but also other, a grandmother and riend of the country.
and ’ people of course.
queen izabeth may the storic elizabeth may the historic visit in 1954, sailing across harbour bridge about - sydney harbour bridge about where the opera house is at 8 where the opera house is at the nt.
she became first, moment.
she became the first, 0 only reigning monarch to it australia stop in total, he visited 16 times, her last it was in 2011.
she visited 16 times, her last biz it was in 2011.
the prime minister anthony albanese is in on, he =a minister anthony albanese is in london, he will attend the neral, laid flowers funeral, he laid flowers in green park next to an tralian black and said it as an honour to commemorate a life well lived.
when he comes ack, a national day of urning mac will be observed hursday 22 september at a one-minute silent on thursday 22 september at a one-minute silent will be served at 11am local time.
really, king to really, speaking to regular le, to a former prime people, to a former prime minister, you get the rwhelming feeling that hatever the politics is, there 4 hat unanimous feeling of goodwill for king charles, but thered loss of the only a feathered loss of the only that most people knew.
you cannot one at that most people knew.
cannot get over the fact that this is a staging post and storic staging post.
an historic staging post.
people are bound to reflect, give a few weeks, a few let’ give it a few weeks, a few months, even a few months, even a couple of , they are bound to yed years, they are bound to reflect on years, they are bound to on where they, where australia in the commonwealth hierarchy and who really feel is the head of 35 state.
and would say, not hat long.
state.
and would say, not even that long.
i think many australians are even that long.
i think many ir0 australians are already reflecting on that.
the queen at has brought a mix of 's that has brought a mix of feelings.
a sense of loss as aying
, the first nations ople said many of them said brought up a sense of trauma difficult legacy of imperialism, of colenialism he world, that the crown played in that.
it also brought epublican debate, whether ustralia should have an stralian head of state.
even store just of republicans, poke to malcolm rnbull the aat spoke to malcolm turnbull the former prime minister anna very well-known berry very well-known republican, even he will you that republicans have a of respect for the queen.
yes, think malcolm 1 bull was one who told me he turnbull was one who teld me he may not be a monarch
but he was ainly an elizabeth byrne.
elizabeth byrne, absolutely.
good to see you, thank you take very good to see you, thank you - in ukraine, president zelensky says investigations into possible russian war crimes are continuing 40 one of several areas back in ukrainian hands after significant territorial gains in recent days.
on the edge of the city.
our ukraine correspondent james waterhouse has more from kyiv.
since ukraine forced russia that was taken, it now seems to be focusing on investigating what the invaders did in the case of the city of izyum, while bodies continue to be recovered from a mass grave, uncovered which suggests tat were used by russian troops.
there are reports of people being tortured there has again fighting in the kharkiv region, where ukraine has enjoyed question of what russia will look to do next, more civilian targets in ukraine, a on the battlefield.
but this is something russia has done throughout this war, it has hit targets across this vast country to to exert influence and undermine ukrainian morale, but on that latter point just because we have regained vast swathes of territory, i what russia will hope is that the very speed force ukraine to pause.
2 let’ get back to what will happen in the hours ahead.
the onal papers national papers are already tting out their prints, they done it, they have blished.
the photos are bviously the things that eryone is looking for on the ont pages.
mark labelle is ith me now, you have been ouring through, it bvious scouring through, it is obvious oiv - oiv what the front pages going to here is a special picture a4 be.
there is a special picture for us?
that’ right, the date queen’ funeral, the of the queen ‘ funeral, the style of the papers reflect the that the news of her death announced on day after the news her death was announced the news of her death was us the news of her death was announced with black-and-white heads.
there is one picture hat that was previously unseen, a portrait of the queen in may in sor castle the buckingham 1 lace has just released.
the egraph go without add to mber telegraph go without add to number of other papers.
the telegraph says a life of fless service.
the express " farewell our glorious een.
he mirror also using hat hote.
if you ook at the photo.
you see on it aguamarine diamond clip rooches which were an 18th rthday present from her father george in 1944.
the sun ing charles queen’ sun king charles features on the front page of imes in his audience with 53 the times in his audience with liz truss, not at things to , charles gives come, charles gives thanks is the headline there because of urse he was deeply touched up days of messages of ten days of messages of condolences and support.
the mail also quoting charles daily mail also guoting charles as move beyond measure by tain’ as move beyond measure by i 0 ’ outpouring of grief britain’ outpouring of grief stopped our last farewell, her us wave at of hats famous wave at one of hats featuring prominently.
the have a rap like they did fter tides have a rap like they did fter the date of death was nounced, will show you a ote from hat.
just about do, just reflecting quote from that.
just about you a quote from that.
just about you do, just reflecting on that.
care goes on to what that a 10 much care goes on to what that picture is going to be.
isn’ right?
for all of the papers.
this is the abiding that that nation had been ven on the day of her funeral.
absolutely
and it is a 1 le.
the smile and a look the smile.
the smile and a look 3 her eyes.
it’ the smile.
the smile and a look .
in her eyes.
it’ not, there are many older pictures of when gunbower, when she is a crowned queen but this is queen all remember, the queen we all remember, of urse.
to quote the tides as ?
this is what she said 002 it reminds me it reminds me of the quote in it reminds me of the quote in an article online from the mer archbishop of york who id the queen was mmersed said the queen was so immersed 3 in scripture that she would just evangelise naturally, well .
worth a read on the worth a read on the website.
thank you for that.
like to close website.
thank you for that.
i would like to close with a couple of live pictures for you stminster hall there of westminster hall as there still people paying their pects as they ssed the respects as they passed the coffin respects as they passed the fin there.
we can go to coffin there.
we can go to victoria gardens as well.
ting a bit of a clip on as hey ead towards westminster ll.
that the scene, you are watching news.
helloe.
many of have seen increasing amounts of cloud he weekend.
clever play a part in my day’ without ory, big part in my day’ without 018 11\ big part in my day’ without story, possibly thick enough to get some spot of rain, time to get some spot of rain, maybe the odd shower.
it will ely stay dry.
i’ hoping things will remain in don and in winds are for the queen’ state funeral.
there is just a chance queen’ state funeral.
there is 1 queen’ state funeral.
there is just a chance at the cloud an hrough the afternoon began through the afternoon 0 began through the afternoon here could give the odd shower odd spot of rain or rizzle.
high pressure is still harge, that in charge, that is keeping things mostly but this week front is introducing more 0 oud and when front is introducing more i i cloud and the chance of some dab went up bursting across -west scotland, perhaps orth-west england and the bad cloud and the potential for the odd spot of rain or radty for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push twards as the day wears on.
i a eastwards as the day wears on.
north-east scotland was see spells of sunshine, good spells of sunshine, northern ireland made but not me, south wales and the south-west of england should sunny spells.
temperatures seek sunny spells.
temperatures north to uth between 12 and egrees.
winds were most laces will be fairly light.
ough monday night we will 0 through monday night we will see large areas of cloud still ntially giving some spot of potentially giving some spot of rain and drizzle especially in ern parts.
some clear eastern parts.
some clear breaks out was the best, they may pull in it with a bit of fog.
milder that has been over and fog.
milder that has been a1 over recent nights, 9- 12 degrees.
tuesday we stick with loudy ean.
this type of our cloudy bean.
this type of cloud giving rise to some spot in and drizzle.
but it does look ike the cloud should turn over and does look like the cloud should a1 4 does look like the cloud should tend to turn over and break up tle bit tend to turn over and break up ittle bit over western parts give some study spells, 1a1 rain in western patchy rain in the western isles of scotland.
17-19, isles of scotland.
17-19, maybe grees in the uth.
bilic 20 degrees in the south.
bilic tle warmer.
wednesday we a little warmer.
wednesday we see some sunny spells at for a time.
it will feel considerably, that has of late.
eratures 17 in aberdeen, pil 1 temperatures of 17 in aberdeen, 21 in london.
a frontal system
ing it was a north-west oi i bringing utbreaks of rain.
that will make erratic progress hward and that will make erratic progress i i southward and eastward thursday into friday, some the rain could be quite heavy.
even as a out into the start of ngland and south wales.
the of the the rain particularly later on in the at a little bhit less hilly than it has the queue to pay last respects to the former monarch as she lies in state in westminster hall has a - those still in the queue i ala -7 preparations are being made i on monday, which will begin in westminster abbey.
king charles has hosted a reception for hundreds of world leaders at buckingham palace ahead of the funeral.
heads of state from around the globe have attended, including joe biden.
the president earlier paid his respects at the hall the prime minister of japan has urged people to act swiftly to save their lives as the country is hit by a destructive typhoon.
the warning comes as the authorities advise three million people to leave their homes - and a huge storm moves across the southern island of kyushu.
those are now on news, click.
can tech go green?
this week, we are going green,
oh, i can change the colour of my tree.
we discover some highly unusual building materials.
it is, in a sense, mould in here.
that’ the strangest case of rising damp i’ve ever seen.
no, the whole place is made of it.
and spencer meets the man behind an icon.
this is your baby.
but as the ipod is laid to rest for good, we meet the robots built to break down your iphone.
and also, cats - big ones.
a giant redwood - the largest tree on earth.
and this one’ with technology, - 1 of the endangered species so viewers don’ have to physically visit california’ sequoia national park to be inspired.
this digital art exhibition aims to get more people thinking about the interconnectedness of humans and nature, the materials we use in day-to-day design, and how to build cities that are fit for the future.
at a time of extreme climate crisis, we’ve got to consider all of these things if we’re going to avoid an apocalyptic fate.
this is one of the aee i the digital technology we have can create a sense of awe, a sense of wonder and a sense of playfulness, but, ultimately, it can ignite hope and ignite a sense of courage to enact change.
what are we doing here?
so, this is, essentially, us dissipating into particles.
we’re looking at our identity through the lens of fluid ecology.
you’ve done this before, you’re more flowery now than me.
i’ve got that growth energy going on, yeah.
remember my old drama classes where they said, "pretend you’re a tree.
” do those classes anymore.
but could help us rethink a world in which sustainability must come first.
behind some of apple’ first, though, paul carter’ been to the netherlands to look at a new way to and make sure that these things don’ keep piling up in the back of your drawer.
it’ estimated that the amount of -waste generated last year was over 57 millien tonnes, and that figure is set to increase year on year.
the majority of handsets still end up in landfill.
generally involve shredding aae irt ele or reusable material.
but apple, who produced over 200 millien iphones last year, has devised a modern way of recovering the materials, most of us are now quite used to the idea of recycling our phones but if you’re anything like me, you probably don’ think too much about what happens to them once you send them away.
here, at a secret location in the netherlands, apple have created dalsy, this robot behind me.
and it takes the process of recycling these things the product travels through four modules.
what’ happening behind me is and to do that, it’ using really cold air - -70 degrees celsius - to actually stop the adhesive from working can be taken out.
afterwards, the screws are taken out, before all the different components are separated by the machine.
all individual bits and pieces land here to then be sorted by a human.
most modern smartphones contain as many as 30 elements and rare earth materials, including cobalt, tungsten, gold and tin.
and the world economic forum has warned that some elements like daisy, could help recover more of these metals from end-of-life phones, and that its products contain more recycled materials than ever before.
rare earth elements and metals require extensive mining with considerable environmental, social our goal is to make all of our products daisy is helping us with that - she can do 23 models of iphone, and all of that means more material going back around a circular supply chain so, ultimately, we can end our reliance on mining.
daisy concentrates on 14 key materials which would otherwise be extracted from the earth, from the rare earth magnets to the aluminium in the housing.
if you take, for example, the main logic boards, the cameras and the flexes, one tonne of that has the same amount of material that we’ have to mine 2.
000 tonnes of new material to get to, so it’ quite important
and also it’ much deld but it’ not just about recovering the materials, but crucially, getting them back at a purity where they can be used again.
the brute force traditional methods of recycling can degrade the recovered materials or miss them entirely, meaning they can end up in landfill, causing pollution and environmental damage.
perhaps, though, the most sustainable solution of all would be reducing the volume of -waste we create in the first place.
paul there, in the netherlands, later in the show, spencer will be talking more now, here in the , 1 seeking to protect the earth and the joy of living things on it.
they’ve gone for - my daughter’ favourite, i had to come and see them for her.
london zoo’ best known for protecting endangered animals.
750 different species here.
but today, i’ taking a leafier approach.
i’ going to sow some seeds with my smartphone.
this is the to plant a virtual tree.
scan your surreundings and digital branches unfurl in augmented reality.
i mini games plays out.
oh, no, it’ on fire.
a heart is drifting to the ground, and tap to grow.
you can design and snap pictures of your own creations too.
ooh, i can change the colour of my tree!
but this isn’ just for fun.
the app also tells you a real tree is going to be planted on your behalf, and to mark the moment, rope in a friend to take a video of you a the app’ creator believes of art, technology and science can inspire real change.
martine, tell me about the technical process behind the app.
eiwaz tree of life was essentially made by drones 3-scanning an ash tree, and then we put it through the processing software photogrammetry, and then that essentially takes the 2 photos add to that some virtual sculpting the essence of this is that want to empower people, they’re part of the solution and they’re part of a greater movement in a battle for nature.
martine has sourced donations to grow 200,000 trees.
140,000 of these will be earthed in the philippines, which has lost 50% of its mangroves.
the mangroves are biodiversity superstars.
they provide nursery grounds for local species.
they are vital stocks i and income for communities.
they protect coastlines from damaging floods and storm surges, and they also lock vast amounts of carbon into the ground.
replenishing this kind of natural resource is vital, even if trees 113 animals are great ambassadors which are always incredibly popular.
however, conservation can be quite an abstract notion.
to care about things people are engaging with the climate crisis in particular, and looking to restore whole ecosystems, and that’ really where our focus is.
markers like this one in london zoo are designed to grab the attention of passers-by, including oslo, copenhagen and at the world expo in dubai, this project isn’ going to fix climate change overnight, but it was certainly fun getting my digital fingers green.
or whatever other colours fancied.
and first up, it’ official - ads are coming to netflix.
yep, co- ted sarandos has announced the streaming giant will begin testing a new cheaper tariff option - if you don’ mind some commercials popping up while you watch your medical students at the university of cambridge are taking part in what the uni says is a world first - treating holographic patients.
through the use of an augmented reality headset, the students are learning by practising on virtual people.
it feels very much more that you’re connected to the scenario.
and when you feel the patient, you see their neck muscles straining, and the way they’re breathing, the trained eye of a doctor will tell a lot 4 chest rises and falls, that exactly right.
nasa has launched its first rocket from a commercial spaceport outside the united states.
it hopes the sub-orbital rocket launched from australia astrophysics studies that can only take place in the southern hemisphere.
and after taking me for a spin last year, paralysed racing driver eslat 1 4 has broken new ground by being the first person ever to complete the hill climb goodwood festival of speed he achieved the feat in his modified mclaren that and a breath-measuring device.
to meet tony fadell, of apple’ biggest icons, which has recently been decommissioned after 20 years.
can we have a moment of silence, please, for the ipod?
how do you feel about it?
oh, it’ obviously sad to see an old friend go, technology marches on.
without the ipod, the modern-day apple wouldn’ exist, and the iphone, don’ think, was there any consideration for the green credentials the disposability, the renewability of these things - was that even on the table back then?
no, it wasn’ really highly considered by any means.
of course, it wasn’ just, go trash things, but at the same time, it’ very different now.
do you think we have reached a turning point now, where companies are more aware, and in fact, it might be good to market something that can last a few years?
in fact, it might be actually more profitable for the company what we should be seeing is more subscription-based maybe it’ the right thing to do for the environment, maybe for the customer as well.
what’ the next big idea?
i think when we look at our existential problems on this planet, there are so many ideas that need to be brought to life.
we can use hydrogen to make all kinds of materials, and make them much more climate-friendly.
and actually for business, they’re actually better for business, you can make more money.
agriculture, materials, transportation - we should be using all of the technology to revolutionise those, some of the biggest polluters on the planet.
but, for his part, fadell heads a fund that’ made dozens virtual reality - discuss.
you can make shoes, you can make furniture, homes, what have you.
it is the first way to truly hreak the 2 barrier, to 3.
so, fadell is backing virtual collaboration, have him convinced.
some people are trying to trap us in these kinds of headsets.
it’ a place where you’re going to go socialise, where we’re going to dance, we’re all going to turn into cartoon characters, we’ll never even see each other’ eyes.
is that a problem we really need to solve?
let’ park zuckerberg’ vision for a moment, then, and ask tony instead about apple’ biggest visionary.
steve moved the whole smartphone industry.
yes, i’ like to order 4,000 lattes to go, please.
no, just kidding!
was he never projected himself as a real expert of any one thing.
so there was some humility there - it wasn’ just about, i know everything
and i’ right - 4 they were weakly held, if we brought in data or other things to show him that there was a different way.
and since steve jobs, the biggest personality in tech surely now has to be this guy.
hope you like what you see.
but what does fadell make of him?
without the personalities, without the passion, without the drive, you wouldn’ see the revolution that we’re having.
you need these personalities that people can really resonate with.
who is admittedly a bit one who believes that big tech can clean up.
adrienne murray’ been finding & each time we upload a selfie, chat online or stream a video, well, there’ a physical backbone, keeping it all running smoothly - in denmark is among a growing number found in the cooler nordic countries.
and here, how our internet use is actually helping to warm people’ homes.
this is one of cur servers.
and if you feel underneath it’ quite it’ really hot.
datacentres are all over europe, providing services for all our applications, facebook, instagram, whatsapp, messenger, etc.
it is pictures, videos, stories, all of that.
all these servers are running 24/7, and keeping them ticking over requires huge amounts of energy.
at many data centres, the heat given off is lost or wasted.
here, the hot air is trapped behind the servers and then it’ put to use.
like stepping inside a sauna.
what happens to the heat that’ coming off these servers?
so the heat goes up to the roof where we have some cooling units.
when it reaches the rooftop, the hot air flows through almost 200 heat exchangers.
oh, gosh.
that’ really windy.
we are getting cold water from a district heating system from the city, and then we give them warm water back.
it is a heat exchange, so you take one warm element and then one cold element, and you actually exchange and that’ used to help cool across the road is a pump station.
all these different coloured pipes are carrying water.
as you might have guessed, red is hot and blue is cold.
so when we receive it, it’ only 27 degrees celsius.
but we need it to elevate it to 70 degrees to put it in this district heating grid.
district heating is a community-wide heating system that’ common in scandinavia.
in odense, which is the third largest city in denmark, we have about 200,000 inhabitants.
that’ about 100,000 and this plant can actually provide heat for more hello, welcome.
hi, thank you.
what do you get as part of the district heating?
you don’ have to have a boiler, it’ coming out of the pipes.
pay for what you use.
from the datacentre is now also providing heat homes in the area?
mean, the heat is there.
either you give it to the birds or you make use of it in cur households.
other nordic countries like sweden have also embraced the idea of warming homes with recycled heat.
and in finland, microsoft and energy firm fortum are now planning the world’ biggest project of this kind.
considering how our buildings could become more sustainable.
this is recycled concrete.
the idea is that that’ll be the basis of kind of almost a whole ecosystem.
my name is martyn dade-robertson, i’ professor of emerging technology at newcastle university.
we’re sitting in the , which is an experimental house where we’re developing a new generation of building technolegies.
it’ polluting, it uses high amounts of energy, and that really needs to be addressed if we’re to live sustainably.
just behind me is one of the most significant pieces of biotechnolegy that we have.
it’ a structure that is initially knitted, grown with a root network of fungus we call mycelium.
this is black fabric, and the white that you’re seeing is all the mycelium.
it is, in a sense, mould in here, or at least what some people think of as being mould.
this is a case where we could replace, say, this is quite nice, the way you can see the cellulose.
it’ not a stained glass window, it’ a stained in our different labs, we’re growing different materials.
but in relationship to digital technologies as well.
we’re developing a robot arm to control the way that materials are deposited in three dimensions.
we’re also developing our own machine that looks a little bit like a 3 printer.
the main kind of fermentation will be happening here.
the pumps will be located here.
it allows us to program the material for different imagine the construction of a wall.
you’ve got your bricks, which are cemented together, often you have insulation material, you have your plasterboard inside.
we want to do that in one step.
the wall might be able to respond to light by thickening, maybe giving greater insulation or reducing insulation, maybe allow a building to sweat in the way that skin does.
that will mean that servicing our buildings are not as heavy, because we don’ have to make use of heating and ventilation quite as much.
we use all kinds of different computational models that that we do.
often, they’re modelling the way in which our biological systems will respond svilge i the idea is that the bacteria can detect the load on the soils and make that will make the soll stronger.
we’re not using polluting concrete, and moving the land a very energy-intensive artificial intelligence might give us a way to discover these new biologies and processes that we can’, as human beings, on our own, work out.
some of our technologies are quite near-future.
for example, being part of our built environment actually very quickly.
some of the work in engineered living materials is decades and decades away.
there are lots of technical challenges, but also so persuading people that this is the future is going to take we’ve had the digital revolution, but we see that sense that we’re at the frontier of a completely some great ideas there, although some of it did look a little bit unusual, i’ not quite sure that it would fit in with my decor.
whilst that’ all we’ve got time for this week, think i’ll stick around for a wander.
they know how to do it - slower pace of life.
many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud cloud will play quite a big part in monday’ weather story, maybe the odd shower.
it will largely stay dry.
i’ hoping things will remain in london and in windsor through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
high pressure is still in charge, that is keeping things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first thing across south-west scotland, perhaps north-west england and this band of thick cloud and the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push eastwards as the day wears on.
north-east scotland was see good spells of sunshine, northern ireland may brighten up for a time, south wales and the south-west of england should see some sunny spells.
temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
through monday night we will see large areas of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain and drizzle especially rgol some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
through monday night we will see large areas of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain and drizzle especially rgol some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some spots of rain and drizzle.
but it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over ad-1 across some western parts to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain into the western isles of scotland.
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
feeling a little warmer.
on wednesday we see some sunny spells at least for a time.
temperatures of 17 in aberdeen, 21 in norwich and in london.
but a frontal system pushing iry 1 outbreaks of rain.
that will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards thursday and into friday, some of the rain actually the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
welcome to news.
our top stories: a minute’ silence across on the life and legacy of queen elizabeth .
the queen this spring, ilaell president biden pays his respects at the lying-in-state, and later gave this tribute.
our hearts go out to you and you were fortunate to have her 1 ars, we all were.
the - 70 years, we all were.
the rne hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have been attending a reception at buckingham palace hosted = ahead of his mother’ funeral on monday.
and i’ live in westminster very near to the front of the , some of the last people to grow one past the queen’ in.
-- the to grow one past the queen’ - in.
-- the last people to coffin.
-~ the last people to file past the queen’ coffin.
in other news: the warning of japan’ prime minister to people living in the path of a huge typhoon.
welcome to westminster, the middle of the night and yet ple continue to queue.
these i some of the final people will be able to pay their spects as they past the respects as they file past the coffin that lays in state not 1 rom here.
hese people far from here.
these people have been waiting for hours but as we now know the official queue, this queue that turned into a queue, this queue that has i turned into a bit of a method self, this queue that many ople have perienced, people have experienced, i undreds of thousands of ople, this is it now.
these i some of the last people.
his is what is known as the ake period.
this is where the ple are really concertina at gether.
ery much crowded ogether they still have i together as they still have some time to go before they ually get to file past estminster hall, that historic lding, one of the oldest elaed building, one of the oldest parts of the palace of tminster and pay their espects.
bear in mind huge 1 4 umber of people that have been unteering as well to support 3 of these guys and just bear ind all of the security services, the lice force, the my, all of the people making is happen.
there been so many moments.
a correspondence looks back on the day.
the new king, charles, arriving at buckingham palace earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led the country’ mourning in the days since.
in @ message tonight he said he’ been deeply touched by the many messages from around the world.
the state funeral, a few moments later, president biden and the first lady of the united states, jill biden, stood like so many thousands of others over the past four days, struck by the intensity think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all, the notion of service.
we all owe something, there is something within our capacity to do that can make things, not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better, your household better, your workplace better.
to all the people of the united kingdom, our hearts to have had her for 70 1 for the state funeral, from camilla, the queen consort, her reflection on the 70 years of the queen’ reign.
she has been part of our lives for ever.
the queen being there.
it must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman, she was the only one.
so think she carved her own role.
many thousands of people have wanted to be a part of this moment.
some have queued for many hours or placed flowers in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to london to absorb the sights and emotions along the route of the procession place.
but we wanted to do something.
you know, it felt right to come up and do something and bring my son here.
you know, think there’ a lot of people who don’ know something, so it just felt like the right thing to do was to come up here with everybody else.
admitted to the lying-in-state at westminster hall.
place of her majesty, queen elizabeth .
nicholas witchell, news.
these are indeed scme of the last people to make that file the i 1 past the queen’ coffin, the queue now officially closed.
people have been here tee i8 these people have been here from roughly eight ’clock we earing every and are hearing and every now and again some cheers and some ps, people have been through res , 6 much as they claps, people have been through !
claps, people have been through so, 6 much as they spend so any hours ther, many hours together, friendships formed, stories , snacks shared.
we’ve been aring this time and time ain.
bear in mind this has een a phenomenon that has been on for four days and it is now finally in the final before the state funeral tcalf.
hours before the state funeral a \ lf.
at the end hours before the state funeral
a re i hours before the state funeral itself.
at the end of the funeral, itself.
at the end of the state i -1 funeral, the service at i tminster abbey there will be minutes of national silence ier on sunday evening and earlier on sunday evening we also had a minute’ silence, we also had a minute’ silence, national silence across the for the country to just country for the country to just remember and reflect.
my colleague remember and reflect.
my remember and reflect.
my colleague reports on the flowers of the forest echoing a lament for the fallen, played now in tribute a queen.
and then, on the cusp of silence, in blackpool, the going down of lights.
then out of silence, into the anthem celebrating a new monarch.
god save the king.
god save our gracious king.
long live our noble king.
god save the king.
send him victorious.
happy and glorious.
long to reign over us.
god save the king .
across the land it was a gathering of strangers.
for whom the queen was the unifying symbol.
to mark the passing of an era.
a queen again.
she was very important to me and i’ starting to get emotional now.
because remember the coronation.
and him dying and the coronation, and we had a little 12-inch television and all in to watch the coronation,
so yes, she has been our queen for a long time and she served us well.
respect and affection fergal keane, news.
and we are indeed expect being ohe
and we are indeed expect being and we are indeed expect being a two-minute silence at the end of the service that will take elo westminster abbey later on monday orning but before at people are still i 0
that people are still continuing to queue, to wait a1 heir moment to go past the coffin elf, to for their moment to go past the - for their moment to go past the coffin itself, to reflect and that opportunity alk have that opportunity to walk through that historic tminster hall.
have just westminster hall.
we have just heard actually that because hearsals going on there has a pause for 45 minute so these guys have just stopped in tracks and these guys have just stopped in tracks and am going to do so, you have been gueueing i8 what time today.
8:30pm.
0!
i1 from what time today.
8:30pm.
and what motivated you to come ?
wanting to pay my here?
wanting to pay my 3 here?
wanting to pay my espects and in my nticipation 3 towards respects and in my anticipation - over towards the end that queue died down
a so it would be a hit easier to , but really ood atmosphere on a bit easier to go, but really 1 a bit easier to go, but really good atmosphere on the whole 1 ctually quite enjoyed it and actually quite enjoyed it to be honest with you.
you enjoyed the queue?
why?
met some eally great people.
we’ve been speaking the time, honestly it has flown by.
it’ been six hours it felt like two or now and it felt like two or three.
and how are you doing, tired?
my legs are very are you tired?
my legs are very painful
but yeah, it’ just re in the nake pit which you are in the snake pit which am told is the worst bit.
3 ’ moving.
wallet stopped for oment because of the the moment because of the ehearsal, well thank you very ile1 rehearsal, well thank you very much and we wish you the very of luck.
so, till waiting best of luck.
so, still waiting hat moment to file past.
soemebody who as as our journalist grace.
you’ve done have been through.
how it, you have been through.
how 5 ?
it was great.
it was was it?
it was great.
it was very moving
and you kind very moving
and you kind of go ickly, it’ really busy and hen you re in and it is - ilent.
it is just such a huge a1 trast from being this - noise and high spirits to inside
and it is very noise and high spirits to ary a inside and it is very sombre and very poignant and it is the details, everyone who is ring a at takes off their wearing a hat takes off their ¥ 04 of respect.
there is so hat out of respect.
there is so 1ile1 hat out of respect.
there is so hat out of respect.
there is so much candle wax on the ground then have split-second ment and did a little lgi3% moment and did a little curtsy in my walking boots is an odd thing to have done but just felt like what should do, so it felt 1\ eally significant.
and you say =11 silent, can you feel, 4 because it is such a it is silent, can you feel, ale because it is such a historic building, that haul itself with offin ust there with the royal standard draped it, it, with he imperial state crown, ple are saying people are saying it is overwhelming.
absolutely, it your breath away when you first get in there and it is this vast cavernous hall and so tifully put gether, every beautifully put together, every tail is just to absolute rfection, like you said guardsmen i guardsmen standing around perfection, like you said the guardsmen standing around the in, he colours of the coffin, the colours of the standard and the crown, it very kind of enormous, the 18 ormity of it really sinks 8 the enormity of it really sinks and and felt the more the enormity of it really sinks elt the more got and and felt the more got to the area of bowing all in, but it was curtsy in, but it was fantastic, i’ really pleased done .
and you’ve to have done it.
and you’ve re since the early been here since the early afternoon.
thank you very much oming back to us to speak 0 naice for coming back to us to speak 1 for coming back to us to speak to us.
we spoke to grace just re she went in to the hall before she went in to the hall self and now it is lovely 1 ear that personal reflection.
is exactly hear that personal reflection.
a5 exactly what all of this is exactly what all of ese people behind me will be periencing in a little bit ger than perhaps they had anticipated because there is a arsal going on in the hall rehearsal going on in the hall tself at the moment so there has been a it of a pause and believe it is going to be out 40 minutes add on top of the many, many hours that 0
these people have been waiting or, but these are some
he last people that will 4 have that opportunity ile past her majesty’ and have hat moment to past her majesty’ often and rges have that moment to reflect ead of the state funeral self ahead of the coffin then moved to westminster bbey.
so much still to come for these people but for the time being david, a bit of and this central a pause and this is central london right now where time to ect lat - time to still reflect and time to still wait in this legendary queue.
where ents is virtue of course.
patients is a virtue of course.
so it’ a good job they that.
thank you very much indeed and we will keep across that president biden will join around 2,000 other guests, including some 500 heads of state and foreign dignitaries at the it will be one of the biggest gatherings of royalty and politicians the they have been paying their respects to the late queen and signing the book of condolence all afternoon, as our diplomatic correspondent james landale reports.
some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
others came together, rather unusually on a bus, but they were all here to honour the queen in perhaps the biggest diplomatic wake seen for decades.
there was the king and queen of spain.
there was his exiled father, juan carles.
there was the president naieh i leaders from the gulf.
the king and queen of jordan.
hundreds of statesmen and women, there to pay perhaps, in a little diplomacy.
prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the king and other members of the royal family at a formal state reception.
international engagement, the princess of wales even found time to meet earlier, joe and jill biden had followed other heads of state and government in stopping off at lancaster house to sign a steady flow of the global great and sometimes good, so wish eternal peace to her wonderful, generous spirit and of course, every good wish to king charles .
on behalf of the government and people of barbados that record my sincere sympathy to all of great britain and especially to the members of the royal family.
eldo transformation from a nation 0 a thank you, your majesty, thank you for your dedication.
the people of fiji will never forget you.
not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand in silence and perhaps some awe and despite the opposition of some and peers who have been sanctioned by beijing, a delegation from china also one man who will not be coming to the abbey tomorrow saudi arabia’ crown prince and facto ruler, mohammad bin salman, accusations he has denied.
several leaders, including canada’ prime minister, also dropped by downing street for what officials said earlier he paid his own tribute to the queen.
first met her majesty when was seven years old and her presence throughout my life had been constant, inspiring and graceful.
as prime minister, benefited from her counsel, her thoughtfulness, her a tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on hold as the leaders arrive at westminster abbey 3 to the monarch they james landale, news.
re: president biden, he said that the would send forces fend taiwan in the event an invasion, with china nducting military exercises in the region.
he has not ruled he use of force in what he -- china because the nification -- china because the a i a2 -- china because the i reunification of taiwan with he mainland.
the white house policy taiwan had says policy on taiwan had changed.
in other news: the prime minister of japan has as the country is hit by one of the most destructive typhoons in years.
fumio kishida’ warning comes as the authorities urgently advised 3 million people as a huge storm moves across the southern island of kyushu.
our tokyo correspondent rupert wingfield-hayes reports.
the typhoon is a huge and angry stone, the like of which japan all day it has been battering 8 with gusts of 150mph.
this satellite image shows the immense size of the typhoon for the first time ever, the japanese government issued its highest level emergency alert, warning winds could be strong enough to bring dewn buildings.
and an even bigger threat i a1 0 a water that nanmadol is carrying.
kyushu is very mountainous and it is feared the water could unleash landslides, and swollen rivers could burst their banks.
so serious is the concern, the japanese prime minister made this appeal for millions of people to head for evacuation centres before nightfall.
: do not go near dangerous areas.
if you feel you are in danger, do not hesitate ieig please take early action to save your lives.
evacuating at night is extremely dangerous.
many thousands have heeded the call, but many more have not and have chosen river levels across kyushu i rising fast and will peak in the next 12 hours.
all it takes is one evacuate, no time to escape.
japanese people are used to dealing with typhoons, especially in kyushu.
but as the global climate changes, the data shows these sorts of mega-storms are are becoming more frequent and defences that worked in the past may no longer be enough.
we have a huge day of history on monday.
the papers will lect that.
on monday.
the papers will i - - on monday.
the papers will reflect that.
am joined by bel.
a previously cta a marc lobel.
a previously unseen ure taken in may of the picture taken in may of the 0 picture taken in may of the queen in windsor castle.
egraph here, a life of i lfless service.
the express 1 grammarian expect aquamarine and diamond could ches were in 80th birthday resents from the queen’ ather.
they were also for for day, the 75th anniversary.
1
i is very day, the 75th anniversary.
it is very vibrant, and a derful picture from not very ago.
the photograph was aken by ranald mckechnie, who taken many generations of otos.
he had all them that photos.
he had all of them that photo.
the queen consort illo ave a ideo address to camillo gave a video address to he talking about the derful blue es, you can wonderful blue eyes, you can hat she was talking about see what she was talking about here.
let me give you a trast contrast here.
that was towards he end of the rain, this is at beginning.
the metro, a reat shot.
a really striking trait of queen elizabeth tee i8 portrait of queen elizabeth from 1954.
this is the italian pietro nnigoni.
and the uardian has a simple tribute.
using on he normal -- enormous operation choreographed for the funeral.
itches other than big and not chiming around one-minute nce.
on sunday.
it’ got to 96 chimes as a silence.
on sunday.
it’ got to i 1 0 - do 96 chimes as a tribute on monday.
the parliamentary is urgently investigating investigating and it will fine.
fingers crossed that ks.
the york times, just works.
the new york times, just to give you an indication of a he international press is saying, the queen had what was .
if you in lux
.
if you don’ have time to read this opinion piece, the in answer in our minds is legitimacy.
although she had rsonal political power, the osite is true for president utin.
he has retained all this itical power himself but lacking political power himself
but i ing legitimacy both on the lobal stage and in the view of new york times.
sounds llike an interesting discussion.
i a1 an interesting discussion.
could see that being an essay applied to form students.
we need to leave it there.
thank you for that.
say that ause want to give you the images, both of westminster and victoria gardens to hall and victoria gardens to i how you the pictures we’ve got ou.
these other lines, 11 tr0 for you.
these other lines, they come to a bit of tandstill because there a rehearsal taking place in tminster hall, they will tart moving soon enough.
the are no more joining, they ill be finished early in the ning, and preparations for he funeral will ahead, westminster hall is readying itself for that moment.
we will keep across it here many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud cloud will play quite a big part in monday’ weather story, maybe the odd shower.
it will largely stay dry.
i’ hoping things will remain in london and in windsor through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
high pressure is still in charge, that is keeping things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first thing across south-west scotland, perhaps north-west england and this band of thick cloud and the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push eastwards as the day wears on.
north-east scotland was see good spells of sunshine, northern ireland may brighten up for a time, south wales and the south-west of england should see some sunny spells.
temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
through monday night we will see large areas of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain and drizzle especially rgol some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some spots of rain and drizzle.
but it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over ad-1 across some western parts to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain into the western isles of scotland.
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
feeling a little warmer.
on wednesday we see some sunny spells at least for a time.
temperatures of 17 in aberdeen, 21 in norwich and in london.
but a frontal system pushing iry 1 outbreaks of rain.
that will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards thursday and into friday, some of the rain actually into the south of england and south wales.
the chance of some rain particularly later on in the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
the queue to pay last respects to the former monarch as she lies in state in westminster hall has a - those still in the queue i ala -7 preparations are being made i on monday, which will begin in westminster abbey.
king charles has hosted a reception for hundreds of world leaders at buckingham palace ahead of the funeral.
heads of state from around the globe have attended, including joe biden.
the president earlier paid his respects at the hall the prime minister of japan has urged people to act swiftly as the country is hit by a destructive typhoon.
the warning comes as the authorities advise three million people to leave their homes, and a huge storm moves across the southern island of kyushu.
now on news, martine croxall presents a special programme looking at a the royal family have met the members of the public hello and welcome to this special programme from news.
over the next 25 minutes or 50 we are going to show you ome of the many special ments from he royal moments from the royal walkabouts, members of her sty’ family have taken part in since the queen died.
ank the many thousands of people up and down the who have come out to pay their pect.
we will take you to 00 respect.
we will take you to the four corners of the and art @= we start in aberdeenshire at oral where senior members the royal family spent time sunday seeing the many i last sunday seeing the many floral tributes to her majesty.
staying in scotland and the princess royal, princess and out meeting people in without meeting people in glasgow.
to northern ireland where the king and queen consort met -wishers in hillshorough.
: love you!
two wins
and now we have the - two wins
and now we have the first time in a two wins and now we have the a8 time in a number of first time in a number of i i ars, princes william harry and their greeted harry and their wives greeted people at windsor castle.
ndp1 right everyone, you so much.
4 ank you the new prince and princess of wales william and the new prince and princess of wales william and catherine re also out wales william and catherine & also out greeting people sandringham in norfolk.
meanwhile in wales on a visit to cardiff castle the new king a een consort met and queen consort met well-wishers.
to buckingham palace now were 0 many thousands of people tee i8 so many thousands of people from around the world have ited in from around the world have from around the world have visited in the last few days.
i ers of the royal family members of the royal family have been out to members of the royal family out to meet him members of the royal family have been out to meet him -- them.
have been out to meet him -- isrri have been out to meet him -- them.
let us start with zte 1 and countess of wessex.
how are you doing?
condolences to you and your family.
have you to green park yet?
just going past?
whereabouts of you from?
dulwich.
dulwich?
4 ank you.
hello there, hello.
you for coming all the way, really appreciated.
earlier in the week, king harles was - charles was outside the palace ing mourners.
thank you, charles!
hip hip hooray!
also in london, the king and prince william have been out ing some of the hundreds of usands of eople who have lined up for many hours the queen lying tate.
lie1 @0 thank you so much.
you’ve made me so proud.
hope he line goes fast for you.
i’ to wait, i’ happy to wait.
thank you so much.
-1 as long as you’re nice and " rm.
yes, thank you.
fantastic !
good luck with the line.
you are doing really well.
ine you are doing really well.
-0
1- you are doing really well.
you’re more than halfway.
i’ cious that have to go so conscious that have to go so you can all move.
how are you ?
are you man fans?
yes?
that’ great.
how you doing?
ice to see you.
well ne, all of you.
seriously, 12 urs?
god bless the prince of well done, you’ve done really well, all of you.
yes, you are.
oh, yes!
it’ worth it just to see you, william!
: take care!
that is all for now but a reminder you can up-to-date on the latest of all vents relating to the the events relating to the death the events relating to the death of her majesty on the website or download ocur rtphone app.
me, smartphone app.
from me, ala smartphone app.
from me, martine croxall, thanks for hing.
many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud cloud will play quite a big part in monday’ weather story, maybe the odd shower.
it will largely stay dry.
i’ hoping things will remain in london and in windsor through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
high pressure is still in charge, that is keeping things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first thing across south-west scotland, perhaps north-west england and this band of thick cloud and the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push eastwards as the day wears on.
north-east scotland was see good spells of sunshine, northern ireland may brighten up for a time, south wales and the south-west of england should see some sunny spells.
temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
through monday night we will see large areas of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain and drizzle especially rgol some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some spots of rain and drizzle.
but it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over ad-1 across some western parts to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain 17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
feeling a little warmer.
temperatures of 17 in aberdeen, 21 in norwich and in london.
but a frontal system pushing iry 1 outbreaks of rain.
that will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards thursday and into friday, some of the rain actually into the south of england and south wales.
the chance of some rain particularly later on in the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
our top stories: a minute’ silence across on the life and legacy of queen elizabeth .
the queen this spring, ilaell president biden pays his respects at the lying-in-state, and later gave this tribute.
our hearts go out to you and you were fortunate to have had or 70 years, we all were.
her for 70 years, we all were.
1 is better for her.
hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have been attending a reception at buckingham palace hosted by king charles, ahead of his mother’ funeral on monday.
and am live in westminster among some of and am live in westminster 1 and am live in westminster among some of the last people in the queue.
the queue to join the queue.
the queue now officially closed.
these he last people to file i3 hello and welcome to westminster, where hello and welcome to westminster, where the queue continues although at that very moment continues although at that very i there is a 45 minute pause, we are told, for the earsals that are aking place within westminster hall lf.
the rehearsals ahead itself.
the rehearsals ahead of he state itself.
the rehearsals ahead of i state funeral that will ake place in the morning on ay morning.
the people ehind : are amongst some of he final people to file past is4 a 1 the final people to file past her majesty the queen’ often.
ueue now fficially closed like a common acute not ving -- like but like ice a common acute not 1 but like ice a common acute not moving -- like say, the queue moving there have been so many moments 1 ghout the past few days, throughout the past few days, ' colleague reports now.
the new king, charles, arriving at buckingham palace earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led the country’ mourning in the days since.
in @ message tonight he said he’ been deeply touched by the many messages from around the world.
the state funeral, a few moments later, president biden and the first lady of the united states, jill biden, stood like so many thousands of others over the past four days, struck by the intensity think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all, the notion of service.
we all owe something, there is something within our capacity to do that can make things, not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better, your household better, your workplace better.
to all the people of the united kingdom, our hearts to have had her for 70 1 for the state funeral, from camilla, the queen consort, her reflection on the 70 years of the queen’ reign.
she has been part of our lives for ever.
the queen being there.
it must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman, she was the only one.
so think she carved her own role.
many thousands of people have wanted to be a part of this moment.
some have queued for many hours or placed flowers in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to london to absorb the sights and emotions along the route of the procession place.
but we wanted to do something.
you know, it felt right to come up and do something and bring my son here.
you know, think there’ a lot of people who don’ know something, so it just felt like the right thing to do was to come up here with everybody else.
admitted to the lying-in-state at westminster hall.
place of her majesty, queen elizabeth .
nicholas witchell, news.
nicholas they’re touching upon he thousands of people who are waiting, they are hair, they re still waiting, their extended that little bit ger because of course there still lot of preparations king place within westminster itself, that historic building that has seen so much ory and is again witnessing his incredible moment for this a\ on.
all of these people patient from quiet, it is very in the past moments quiet in the past few moments when they heard they will have ait for another 45 minutes two wait for another 45 minutes as is rehearsal takes lace 4
but there is an understanding these are some of the that these are some of the last people to witness this moment, ing past the coffin itself failing past the coffin itself and a- onto failing past the coffin itself and then onto the service little later on on = little later on on monday at minster abbey where we expect a wo-minute silence, ional silence that we also witnessed on ay as my witnessed on sunday as my colleague now reports.
the flowers of the forest echoing a lament for the fallen, played now in tribute a queen.
and then, on the cusp of silence, in blackpool, the going down of lights.
then out of silence, into the anthem celebrating a new monarch.
god save the king.
god save our gracious king.
long live our noble king.
god save the king.
send him victorious.
happy and glorious.
long to reign over us.
god save the king .
across the land it was a gathering of strangers.
for whom the queen was the unifying symbol.
to mark the passing of an era.
a queen again.
she was very important to me and i’ starting to get emotional now.
because remember the coronation.
and him dying and the coronation, and we had a little 12-inch television and all in to watch the coronation,
so yes, she has been our queen for a long time and she served us well.
respect and affection fergal keane, news.
that moment of silence, that that moment of silence, that a a moment of natienal reflection and we had such a silent moment a few moments ago, didn’ we?
and now there has been of movement we?
and yet now there has been a lot of movement because we elieve that the people who een queueing for so, so urll have been gueueing for so, so many hours, most of these guys come from roughly in the have come from roughly in the afternoon, they are now moving , once again moving so they will have that opportunity perience that ment of to experience that moment of failing past the queen’ often.
erson one person who was in estminster hall itself a ttle bit early on as colleague helen who joins us we are hearing so much about just how immense that -i1 moment is, what was it like?
we allowed in as journalists 3 it very quietly at back half-an-hour and just observe as they into the people as they file into the hall and pay their respect and you more of a sense gives you more of a sense hopefully to be able to convey it’ like in there rather what it’ like in there rather than just seeing it on he levision than just seeing it on the 4 than just seeing it on the television and think that the est thing about it is biggest thing about it is how 4 rent it is from different it is from the atmosphere that is out here.
you got the noise, out how you got the noise, light, and traffic and people ting and general chatting and general hubbub, a oil oil 0138
i ¥ in the hall teelf , in the hall itself it is solutely still.
absolutely iet, incredibly peaceful and tminster hall is usually very busy, is usually noisy, hoing, tuff going on there all the time.
that is solutely not the case now, ou’ve got those very, it is a ensory thing as very sensory thing as well.
here is the white walls, that dark wooden ceiling and then got that rich splash olour a in the then you got that rich splash 0
a - then you got that rich splash of colour in the middle with oyal standard, the purple, oldiers and guards tanding around it and then absolute quiet to the ilis that absolute quiet to the point where they bang the stick floor to signify on the floor to signify the change of guards, it made me a few times.
it is that still and hat quiet and ink still and that quiet and still and that quiet and think what that does, you can in people’ body see it in people’ body language and the way they nge from when they walk in i engh change from when they walk in there and was trying to work long people get, was ayihl out how long people get, was trying to time them for how it ook them long it took them to get from top of the steps, if it wasn’ a change of quard as was looking ike four or five 3 looking like four or five minutes but the best way ike a can describe it as a 1 a 1 can describe it as that time slows i - slows down a bit.
can describe it as that time slows down a bit.
everything is precise stopping the very precise stopping the ments of the guards, it is very movements of the guards, it is a precise, there is nothing dden, is very calming.
4 hank you so much for painting a vivid icture of that such a vivid picture of that experience such a vivid picture of that - perience within westminster itself, and experience hat of these people who re failing behind me will ave are failing past behind me will are failing past behind me will have in the next moments.
thank ery much indeed, we will you very much indeed, we will keep a keep a cross of course that gueue as it gradually dwindles umber heading on in number now heading on ards the funeral itself.
in number now heading on , towards the funeral itself.
but he great and the good have filing past as well.
president biden will join around 2,000 other guests, including some 500 heads of state and foreign dignitaries at the it will be one of the biggest gatherings of royalty and politicians the they have been paying their respects to the late queen and signing the book of condolence all afternoon, as our diplomatic correspondent james landale reports.
some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
others came together, rather unusually on a bus, but they were all here to honour the queen in perhaps the biggest diplomatic wake seen for decades.
there was the king and queen of spain.
there was his exiled father, juan carles.
there was the president naieh i leaders from the gulf.
the king and queen of jordan.
hundreds of statesmen and women, there to pay perhaps, in a little diplomacy.
others arrived around the back of the palace.
prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the king and other members of the royal family at a formal state reception.
international engagement, the princess of wales even found time to meet earlier, joe and jill biden had followed other heads of state and government in stopping off at lancaster house to sign a steady flow of the global great and sometimes good, so wish eternal peace to her wonderful, generous spirit and of course, every good wish to king charles .
on behalf of the government and people of barbados that record my sincere sympathy to all of great britain and especially to the members of the royal family.
eldo transformation from a nation 0 a thank you, your majesty, thank you for your dedication.
the people of fiji will never forget you.
not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand in silence and perhaps some awe and despite the opposition of some and peers who have been sanctioned by beijing, a delegation from china also wang qishan, here on the right, - i tomorrow.
one man who will not be coming to the abbey tomorrow is saudi arabia’ crown prince and facto ruler, mohammad bin salman, of being involved in the murder of a journalist - accusations he has denied.
several leaders, including canada’ prime minister, also dropped by downing street for what officials said earlier he paid his own tribute to the queen.
first met her majesty when was seven years old and her presence throughout my life had been constant, inspiring and graceful.
as prime minister, benefited from her counsel, her thoughtfulness, her a tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on hold as the leaders arrive at westminster abbey 3 to the monarch they james landale, news.
it’ been close to six a monarchy symbolically ruled singapore, but queen elizabeth ’ death still elicited grief and reflection discussion about its colonial past.
our asia reporter, suranjana tewari, joins me now live from singapore.
haleins note that it is scme 50 years ince the queen sited singapore for the first time.
uch singapore for the first time.
a a a how much interest and attention of i of the last two weeks absorbed singaporeans?
david, there has a period of reflection, say ere in singapore over he queen’ eath and oday for funeral, re at re at today for her funeral, here at the british club, a social club ngapore, they are marking in singapore, they are marking he event and expecting in singapore, they are marking a in singapore, they are marking the event and expecting a few red people to come to watch hundred people to come to watch he funeral and also to eat in estaurants here.
the funeral and also to eat in the restaurants here.
all government buildings in gapore are flying the flag mast in a at half mast in a show of respect but largely apart from pockets of eas that are these pockets of areas that are reflecting and mourning the , it is business as usual.
has been many ears since singapore was under british and many years since she rule and many years since she visited the city-state as well.
ery much
a visited the city-state as well.
visited the city-state as well.
but very much a part of the monwealth.
is that something importance to your average ngaporean, if can put it hat way?
how much does it ture in singapore’'s and feature in singapore’ life and sense of its own identity to a mark well, singapore’ liament last mark well, singapore’ a a mark well, singapore’ parliament last week did mark well, singapore’ & mark well, singapore’ parliament last week did hold a 2 of silence during which he leader of the house did say singapore is a very proud member the commonwealth.
as ordinary people, so many of he systems there british.
oliticians point to the itish legal system that llowed singapore to become a successful former colony witton.
it is one of the lthiest countries in the orld per pita, it’ also got, a lot the education system as well as british, , and ingaporean prime minister did mourn the singaporean prime minister ourn the death of did mourn the death of the 0 1 did mourn the death of the queen and said she left an redible mark on history 334 incredible mark history and set her legacy would survive her.
the president of singapore is also going to be nding the funeral later oday.
halimah yacob is velling to london to show how proud this former ber of he commonwealth in other news: the prime minister of japan has as the country is hit by one of the most destructive typhoons in years.
fumio kishida’ warning comes as the authorities urgently advised 3 million people as a huge storm moves across the southern island of kyushu.
our tokyo correspondent rupert wingfield-hayes typhoon nanmadol is a huge and angry storm, the likes of which japan has rarely, if ever, experienced before.
all day it has been battering 8 with gusts of 150mph.
this satellite image shows the immense size of the typhoon for the first time ever, the japanese government issued its highest level emergency alert, warning winds could be strong enough to bring dewn buildings.
and an even bigger threat i a1 0 a water that nanmadol is carrying.
kyushu is very mountainous and it is feared the water could unleash landslides, and swollen rivers could burst their banks.
so serious is the concern, the japanese prime minister made this appeal for millions of people to head for evacuation centres before nightfall.
: do not go near dangerous areas.
if you feel you are in danger, do not hesitate ieig please take early action to save your lives.
evacuating at night is extremely dangerous.
many thousands have heeded the call, but many more have not and have chosen river levels across kyushu i rising fast and will peak in the next 12 hours.
all it takes is one evacuate, no time to escape.
japanese people are used to dealing with typhoons, especially in kyushu.
but as the global climate changes, the data shows these sorts of mega-storms are becoming more frequent and defences that worked in the past may no longer be enough.
rupert wingfield-hayes, news, tokyo.
in ukraine, president says investigations crimes are continuing 40 one of several areas back in ukrainian hands after significant territorial gains in recent days.
on the edge of the city.
our ukraine correspondent james waterhouse has more from kyiv.
since ukraine forced russia that was taken, it now seems to be focusing on investigating what the invaders did in the case of the city of izyum, while bodies continue to be recovered from a mass grave, uncovered which suggests tat were used by russian troops.
there are reports of people being tortured there has again fighting in the kharkiv region, where ukraine has enjoyed question of what russia will look to do next, more civilian targets in ukraine, a on the battlefield.
but this is something russia has done throughout this war, it has hit targets across this vast country to to exert influence and undermine ukrainian morale, but on that latter point just because we have regained vast swathes of territory, i what russia will hope is that the very speed force ukraine to pause.
one of russia’ most famous singers has publicly alla pugachova said she wanted to be declared a foreign agent in solidarity with her husband, who’ another outspoken critic our russia editor steve rosenberg told us the intervention is significant.
she is super popular, she is admired, she is adored, she is respected across russia and aside from her wonderful people tend to sit up and listen.
the statement that she issued today was more than just a staunch defence of her husband, 18rri i criticism, really, of what the kremlin still calls its special military operation.
some strong language, point she said, "our lads,” meaning russian soldiers, "are dying for illusionary aims that make our country a pariah and the lives ara extremely difficult.
” reckon that language like that pugacheva, is going to infuriate the kremlin.
so suspect we will see attempts to discredit alla pugacheva in the state media.
to see whether her i a 01 will affect public opinion here and spark more public now, you may remember, recently several town councillors in russia expressed public criticism of vladimir putin and called on him to resign.
today, we hear the criticism from alla pugacheva.
is there a pattern here?
think it is too early to tell, according to plan.
want to take you back to victoria gardens.
these are the waiting to their people waiting to pay their 3 people waiting to pay their respects to the late queen zabeth .
re moving irly elizabeth .
are moving fairly quickly now, given some of the stages long, long wait they will soon be in = estminster hall.
and they will soon be in westminster hall.
there is cene now live as the public heir respects.
many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud cloud will play quite a big part in monday’ weather story, maybe the odd shower.
it will largely stay dry.
i’ hoping things will remain in london and in windsor through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
high pressure is still in charge, that is keeping things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first thing across south-west scotland, perhaps north-west england and this band of thick cloud and the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push eastwards as the day wears on.
north-east scotland was see good spells of sunshine, northern ireland may brighten up for a time, south wales and the south-west of england should see some sunny spells.
temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
through monday night we will see large areas of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain and drizzle especially rgol some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some spots of rain and drizzle.
but it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over ad-1 across some western parts to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain into the western isles of scotland.
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
feeling a little warmer.
on wednesday we see some sunny spells at least for a time.
temperatures of 17 in aberdeen, 21 in norwich and in london.
but a frontal system pushing iry 1 outbreaks of rain.
that will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards thursday and into friday, some of the rain actually into the south of england and south wales.
the chance of some rain particularly later on in the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
the queue to pay last respects to the former monarch as she lies in state in westminster hall has a - those still in the queue i ala -7 preparations are being made i on monday, which will begin in westminster abbey.
king charles has hosted a reception for hundreds of world leaders at buckingham palace ahead of the funeral.
heads of state from around the globe have attended, including joe biden.
the president earlier paid his respects at the hall the prime minister of japan has urged people to act swiftly as the country is hit by a destructive typhoon.
the warning comes as the authorities advise three million people to leave their homes - and a huge storm moves across the southern island of kyushu.
hardtalk, stephen sackur speaks to maria pevchikh foundation founded by jailed russian opposition figure alexei navalny.
the interview was recorded on september 7th, just hours before navalny said he had been banned from communicating confidentially with his lawyers from prison.
welcome to hardtalk.
i’ stephen sackur.
since vladimir putin launched his all-out invasion of ukraine, he’ put a tighter squeeze on russian civil society.
and new punishments have been piled on putin’ most prominent political opponent, alexei navalny.
my guest is maria pevchikh, investigations chief for navalny’ anti-corruption foundation, which is now where does russia’ anti-putin movement go from here?
right now, it seems vladimir putin is intent on crushing all forms of dissent, of opposition inside russia.
he’ succeeding for now.
at imposing this fear, you know, complete fear that goes everywhere - the fear that you cannot hide from.
but i don’ think that this is a sustainable strategy to do what he’ doing at the moment.
the opposition moods aren’ going to just disappear 1koy - people are still going to think what they think - and guess eventually, this crackdown will actually backfire on vladimir putin.
but fear is a very powerful emotion to instil in =1 happens if you cross red lines and nobody sort of better symbolises what happens if you cross red lines than your colleague, alexel navalny.
now, you’ve worked with him for a good decade or more tegtodl foundation in russia.
he, right now, is languishing in a top security prison in solitary confinement.
just begin by telling me what you can of his current so, today, he was released from the solitary confinement.
essentially, it’ you’re there on your own, it’ tiny - two metres by three metres - and you go there if you’ve done something wrong.
so, he was released this morning and then, within five minutes, he was re sentenced to an additional 15 days there, so he was only out for a couple of minutes.
and, for the following two weeks, he will be there again a where all you do for the whole day is just sit on a stool.
you are allowed to read only one book per term.
you’re allowed to use paper and a pen for one hour a day, you’re not even allowed to lay down, to use the bed, and it’ only being chained down at the end of the day.
does he get any exercise?
is he allowed out at any point during the day?
well, he is allowed to walk and walk in his cell, next to a cell where he’ sat, have a ceiling.
so, you are still among four walls, you still don’ really get to see anything, apart from this little tiny patch of above you, and that’ the walk, how does he get messages out?
because follow him on twitter - so do millions of other people everybody should!
and those messages emerge but he, clearly, does not have any access to communications or a phone, these messages?
he’ writing those messages but he hand writes them
and he passes them on through his lawyers and then, we just type them up.
so, we would never write anything instead of him.
his social media is still entirely managed by himself.
he is allowed to write letters and he uses this allowance, instagram and twitter.
do you think they let him do it?
that’ a rhetorical question.
now they do, tomorrow they won’.
so, like, so far, let’ just be grateful he can do it now, because that can stop any minute.
he seems very angry - very angry with the european union, to be serious about imposing tough sanctions on hundreds - who surround and - he would say - aid and abet putin and his associates in the kremlin.
is he angry?
annoyed, angry - i’ not sure what the right word is - and share these emotions.
because we’ve been talking about sanctions, oligarchs and those people close to putin, to putin’ regime, for years.
and the level of sanctions that we see today, which is pretty good - like, these are decent they should have been imposed so long before.
but this list of 6000 that the anti-corruption foundation has come up with and, you know, the very loaded term "oligarchs, bribe takers and warmongers” you say, you tell me what proportion 8 a tiny, tiny proportion.
can tell you from the richest people in russia, from 200 richest people in russia - oligarchs, businessmen, etc - only 46 were sanctioned.
46 to 200, that is still a good chance to get away, and this is exactly what we are lobbying for.
we’re saying that there shouldn’ be a way to get away from those sanctions and they should just be imposed regularly and strictly and if you work for putin’ regime, there shouldn’ be a way, you know, to kind you will be punished for that.
the more you push this message that there are oligarchs around putin who are currently escaping from sanctions that message, the more likely it is that those holding navalny right now will intensify the level of pain and punishment inflicted upon him.
there is some logic to that but i do not like that logic because following that, it means that we just need to lay low, do nothing and just be quiet, so they don’ do something bad to navalny or to other political prisoners - and there are plenty of those.
this i1 not how we work.
we respond by applying even more pressure on them, that’ the only way to show putin that imprisoning navalny is not geing to solve anything.
we are actually investigating and publishing more stories now than we did when alexel i - 1 your plan didn’ work.
"you’ve thrown him into prison.
"we are making more investigations about you.
"you are torturing him in prison and we are getting your - vladimir putin’ yacht arrested in italy" and that’ the way like to operate.
but it was plain after you made a big high-profile prenouncement about this yacht, scheherazade, which is held the yacht was impounded by the italians.
yes.
back to the very personal point - do you not have any difficulty with that?
i might have difficulty with that, but have put this difficulty on a faraway shelf and not to think about it because have a very clear instruction from alexei navalny himself what to do, how to work.
he wants us to continue working and the worst thing that we can do is kind of change and wobble and do something differently.
we have to be persistent.
it’ a long fight and no-one is going to give it up halfway through.
quess i’ really struck by how much risk you are prepared to take.
if we go back a little bit in the navalny story @ 1 with it, he, of course, was poisoned inside russia.
yes.
miraculously, he survived.
but it became clear during your investigations that you had who perpetrated the poisoning 0148 with documentary makers yes.
you and others to to tell this story.
did you believe it was important to go so very public - even to the point of you and navalny making cre to have placed the poisoned underpants in navalny’ room which had the novichok on them - did you decide it was so important to go public with all of that when you must have known that would simply make you a personal target for russian intelligence?
well, because there are things that are bigger than me in this life, and this story - the story about this poisoning, the story about the fact that vladimir putin uses chemical weapons - just think about it for a second, chemical weapons that are forbidden, they shouldn’ exist, but he uses them against his opponents, his, like, personal enemies.
that story is so embarrassing for putin.
this is something that a this is something that hopefully one day he will be prosecuted for and would love to be part of that process because, well, i’ve
i
i think that this is a very scary and dangerous crime that and this whole system that he runs of this, you know, operations that just needs to be stopped and we made this big film that is available on iplayer, recommended.
here, mean, here we sit in london and you clearly are a person who lives in exile, but you are very well aware of the names of litvinenkeo, of skripal.
yes.
you know the reach services is long.
you have a target on your back.
perhaps.
don’ think there’ any doubt about that, is there?
how do you, those close to you, live with that?
sometimes, you just - og5 in your life when you’re scared - objectively dangerous situations - but in those situations, you can make it’ a very deliberate, very rational and cold-hearted personal issues are one thing.
recently, the guardian newspaper reported on a former navalny staffer, somebody that presumably worked alongside you — a young man, mikhail sokolov - who says that he first volunteered for navalny in 2017.
he was then approached by the and was paid to be an informer inside your organisation.
do you fear that the reach a does actually go inside the anti-corruption foundation?
inside the office or in any work environment can be leaked, can be published, and \ we aren’ doing anything that we wouldn’ - we would be concerned doing publicly, so that’ the only way to live your life in this sort of situation so, yes, probably we are targets of some sort of, you know, strange people running around europe undercover and not cover, illegals, you know, this sort of secret services branch, but what can 44 you just have to be reasonably careful and, yeah, that’ all.
most, pretty much all, independent media now has been shut down inside russia, so you don’ have that outlet ’ 1 8 so, how do you reach the russian people right now?
through youtube.
our channels haven’ changed.
so, there was a big - there is a hig youtube channel that we use to publish investigations.
so this is, for example, when people could have seen putin’ palace - our biggest investigation.
that alexel navalny was the presenter.
colleagues, and we do very similar investigations and they are watched by the same amount of people.
are they really, though?
yes.
mean, inside russia today
yeah, absolutely.
let us be realistic about what happens - it is a surveillance society.
russia is a society which we, at the very beginning of this conversation discussed, was - is gripped by fear right now.
do you think russians, given that your organisation outlawed inside the country, organisation, do you think russians feel comfortable viewing materials that you put up on youtube - even if they’re lucky enough to be able to get around all of the different internet censorship which the russian administration tries to impose?
youtube is still fully accessible in russia - for unknown to me reasons, but it is - and russian people have a good experience with samizdat and other soviets, you know, sort of techniques of overcoming these things so yes, - our numbers have not changed, to investigations, and we are very happy about it.
what seems to be part of navalny’ plan, maybe your plan too, is to put so much pressure on the russian elite, basically ferment split and disruption within the inner circle.
but i’ve spoken to many other people well-versed in how russia under putin works who say this is completely unrealistic.
of politics, they’re free to make money, but they are not in politics, and they are not in a position to move against or launch some sort of palace coup against vladimir that might happen?
don’ think it’ naive and don’'t think the assessments entirely correct.
we don’ really know, because now, the sanctions against oligarchs aren’ imminent, and there are still people who can get away and who can think that, "oh, maybe can wait on the side and nothing will happen to me.
”
i think that those oligarchs are very crucial to putin’ regime and if you really?
'cause spoke to mikhail khodorkovsky, who of course used to be one of the uber oligarchs not so very long ago in russia.
kind of putsch coming from the elite, from the oligarchs to contemplating a palace coup.
instead, they are scrambling for ways to cling many are now resigned to a life inside russia.
but if they don’ work, is usmanov and aven - there was an article today about them going through hungary, asking the hungarian prime minister, i i need to interject just to make clear that all the individuals you’ve named deny that they are oligarchs involved in propping up putin or supporting a war or anything else.
important to get that on the record.
jjust wonder if we change the perspective from thinking about the oligarch to thinking about the russian people, are you and alexel navalny, are you disappointed when navalny tweeted out, "we should not be a nation of frightened cowards,” he urged people to conduct daily protests against the war.
that hasn’ happened.
disappeintment it didn’ happen?
perhaps, yes.
do understand and get completely it hasn’ happened?
also, yes, and will never ever dare to blame russian people for not going into the streets right now do you think some russians might listen to this interview and wonder whether you have not become, in a highly natienalistic atmosphere in russia right now, worry whether you have become a puppet for russia’ enemies?
over years, has taken money think russia today recently pointed out that your contributions through have gone through the roof, and they say, "ah-ha!
" that’ a means by which they hide the fact that they are being sponsored by western governments, rich westerners just to make it very clear - we are not being sponsored by western governments and we have never been, it is just pure propaganda line.
if we ever were caught with - don’ know - dealing with foreign governments or anything like that in some , your money from?
it’ entirely - we are entirely crowd funded.
from inside russia?
um, from inside russia, we are - we have almost stopped receiving any donations apart from actually because it’ too dangerous.
organisation, we are on the same list with al-qaeda, isis, etc, so giving us money directly right now is not a good idea.
but we have had time to reroute our fundraising a little bit to diasporas, to russian people who live abroad, to russian people who have foreign bank accounts, because that solves the problem, that’ not reachable for the russian authorities, and also, we use some crowdfunding platforms that also make you untraceable in terms of where the payment comes from.
you are russian.
yes.
do you worry that in the current climate, with everything that’ going on with the ukraine war, there’ a danger that some in the united states and europe and the west are becoming a1 than anti-putin?
yes, it’ a big problem, and every time see it, feel very upset and feel very concerned because don’ - of collective responsibility.
don’ you?
no.
1 of the kyiv independent recently, olga rudenko, and she said, "listen - russians aren’ a normal nation who got lost and turned the wrong way.
"no, they turned the wrong way many times until the country when you hear ukrainians say that this isn’ a putin problem, this is a russia problem, do you think they’re wrong?
understand they’re saying this.
understand where the ukrainians are at the moment, and this war and what’ happening with their country, what’ russia doing to their country isis heartbreaking and it’ probably the biggest catastrophe that happened in the world in a very long time.
would understand every emotion that they feel towards the russians right now and understand how it’ possible to but her point really is that the governance you have in russian couldn’ happen in ukraine because ukraine does not have this sort of latent deep desire for strongman rule - shallow understanding question - how is russia going to change and convince people like her that it can change?
i won’ be able to give you a timeline and won’ be able to give you a step-by-step quide, you know, this is what’ going to happen in february, or this is what’ going to happen in may or in june.
we know and we’ve seen how it works.
how it seemed indestructible and how engaged people were into building socialism, etc, etc?
and it collapsed overnight.
these very strong regimes that are led by one person, one dictator like vladimir putin, they seem to be strong when you look at them, but the point is that they can break and crumble overnight.
but is it your contention that it’ not the palace coup we should look to, but people power?
because we don’ see it right now.
which is also possible.
it’ not a constructive way to spend your time.
ing to break through russian propaganda, to educate the russian population, to talk about the war, about what’ happening, spreading the truth, etc, etc.
that’ the way we deal with it.
but maria pevchikh, it’ been a pleasure having you on hardtalk.
thank you very much.
111918 many of us have seen increasing amounts of cloud cloud will play quite a big part in monday’ weather story, maybe the odd shower.
it will largely stay dry.
i’ hoping things will remain in london and in windsor through the afternoon it could give the odd light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
high pressure is still in charge, that is keeping things mostly dry, but this weak warm front is introducing more cloud and the chance of some damp weather first thing across south-west scotland, perhaps north-west england and this band of thick cloud and the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does tend to push eastwards as the day wears on.
north-east scotland was see good spells of sunshine, northern ireland may brighten up for a time, south wales and the south-west of england should see some sunny spells.
temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
through monday night we will see large areas of cloud still potentially giving some spot of rain and drizzle especially rgol some clear breaks out towards the west, they may pull in it with a bit of mist and foqg.
milder that has been over recent nights, 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some spots of rain and drizzle.
but it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over ad-1 across some western parts to give some sunny spells, a bit more patchy rain into the western isles of scotland.
17-19, maybe 20 degrees in the south.
feeling a little warmer.
on wednesday we see some sunny spells at least for a time.
temperatures of 17 in aberdeen, 21 in norwich and in london.
but a frontal system pushing iry 1 outbreaks of rain.
that will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards thursday and into friday, some of the rain actually into the south of england and south wales.
the chance of some rain particularly later on in the week and a bit less chilly than it has been.
this is news - welcome, if you’re watching here in the or around the globe.
our top stories: a minute’ silence across on the life and legacy of queen elizabeth .
the queen, this spring, ilaell pays his respects at the lying-in-state, and later gave this tribute.
our hearts go out to you and you were fortunate to have had her for 70 hundreds of world leaders and dignitaries have been attending a reception at buckingham palace hosted by king charles, ahead of his mother’ funeral on monday.
and am live in westminster among some of the last people to join the queue.
these are the last people to file past the queen’ coffin.
welcome to westminster, scenes we have been watching for the 00 four days and nights, it last four days and nights, it the middle of the night here are finally seeing the and we are finally seeing the of the queue, this enomenon that has become a in itself, ndreds of thing in itself, hundreds of thousands of thousands of people waiting ently ince wednesday, aiting patiently to file past coffin of he queen, this 3 4 the coffin of the queen, this is what we’re looking at some final people who will make that walk past her majesty ueen’ koppen, will be 1 able to file through tminster hall.
westminster hall.
the queue now urse is closed, we have been watching these people been waiting many, have been waiting for many, urll hours.
finally here, many hours.
finally here, dle te1 many hours.
finally here, many hours.
finally here, historic moment for them many hours.
finally here, i historic moment for them and us as well, monitoring all of , friendships made, stories hared, this is ite an a1 shared, this is quite an emotional moment to shared, this is quite an shared, this is quite an emotional moment to bear in , what we have been itnessing over the past days colleague now reports.
the new king, charles, arriving at buckingham palace earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led the country’ mourning in the days since.
in @ message tonight he said he’ been deeply touched by the many messages from around the world.
the state funeral, a few moments later, president biden and the first lady of the united states, jill biden, stood like so many thousands of others over the past four days, struck by the intensity think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all, the notion of service.
we all owe something, there is something within our capacity to do that can make things, not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better, your household better, your workplace better.
to all the people of the united kingdom, our hearts to have had her for 70 1 for the state funeral, from camilla, the queen consort, her reflection on the 70 years of the queen’ reign.
she has been part of our lives for ever.
the queen being there.
it must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman, she was the only one.
so think she carved her own role.
many thousands of people have wanted to be a part of this moment.
some have queued for many hours or placed flowers in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to london to absorb the sights and emotions along the route of the procession place.
but we wanted to do something.
you know, it felt right to come up and do something and bring my son here.
you know, think there’ a lot of people who don’ know something, so it just felt like the right thing to do was to come up here with everybody else.
admitted to the lying-in-state at westminster hall.
place of her majesty, queen elizabeth .
nicholas witchell, news.
so so much to look ahead to, , the tate funeral itself taking in the next hours, a hair place in the next hours, a little bit later on monday.
uch still to ome, look at his, have reached the end he queue, these are the i last who will be witnessing thing so historical, walking past the casket of the , and his is it.
how long queen, and this is it.
how long have you been waiting for?
half nine.
all of since half nine.
all of these people waiting for such a long .
nearly there.
nearly time.
nearly there.
nearly there.
tiring.
very, very close now, we will let you get on.
we have been watching now, we will let you get on.
we now, we will let you get on.
we have been watching for the last days how people have just four days how people have just felt compelled to come, to re this, to together to share this, to be together to share stories, reminisce and ect, and, this is the final oment of this historic queue, tself.
let’ get more now tee i8 in itself.
let’ get more now from my colleague fergal keane.
the flowers of the forest echoing a lament for the fallen, played now in tribute a queen.
and then, on the cusp of silence, in blackpool, the going down of lights.
then out of silence, into the anthem celebrating a new monarch.
god save the king.
god save our gracious king.
long live our noble king.
god save the king.
send him victorious.
happy and glorious.
long to reign over us.
god save the king .
across the land, it was a gathering of strangers.
for whom the queen was the unifying symbol.
to mark the passing of an era.
a queen again.
she was very important to me and i’ starting to get emotional now.
because remember the coronation.
and him dying and the coronation, and we had a little 12-inch television and all in to watch the coronation,
so yes, she has been our queen for a long time and she served us well.
respect and affection fergal keane, news.
so so many moments that this country has experienced, this mething that has become a henemenon in itself, he queue, the queue that has been ging eople here, the queue here friendships have been , the queue where people have pent hours hours have spent hours and hours waiting.
this is the end of it, these are the final moments and 0 many different these are the final moments and these are the final moments and so many different moments, this leman has caught our attention with gentleman has caught our
i i attention with his bowler hat.
i ell us about you are here he hat?
well we had and the hat?
well we had been meaning to come all week but hlie the opportunity finally arose tonight when we managed to get our late tonight when we managed to get rlaee one of our children into bed and said let’ make a dash for were listening to the it, we were listening to the news and it seems like it might to make it before be able to make it before the cut-off be able to make it before the 4 be able to make it before the cut-off
and we just managed to .
as we were leaving my ife said you should do so.
as we were leaving my + 18 1 do so.
as we were leaving my wife said you should put your hat on wife said you should put your
i eia wife said you should put your bowler hat on only usually on put it on for remembrance sunday but this seems like an opriate time to do so
and i’ hoping that the guards are to be providing going to be providing the 1 lour as we go through, eceived a message from the egiment, from the operations icer who aid he is standing officer who said he is standing down at 6am, if we get down re -- if we get there by six we will be looking down to see .
that would be amazing and have just under an hour ft_ that is you have just under an hour left.
that is our understanding.
understanding.
you probably better than us.
that know better than us.
that sounds encouraging.
you felt elled to here?
it’ a compelled to be here?
it’ a wonderful thing to be able to we feel ery privileged do, and we feel very privileged to some of the last people, able to pay our spec.
one of the wonderful things was , a week ago, was up and stanley, and we ancing stanley, and we were dancing until six ’clock in the ning on the the queen morning on the day the queen died.
and so morning on the day the queen a 18 died.
and so we were possibly ome of the last people to send some of the last people to send the national anthem to ocur en, so that was also a very cial moment.
we have eld you up so we will let you on.
hank you for speaking us.
anybody else who would to share their reflections.
everybody getting at the moment, gquess very at the moment, guess 3 is quite an overwhelming to it is quite an overwhelming moment to be here.
yes, madam.
’ lose your place.
good yinilee don’ lose your place.
good morning, how are 1 morning, how are you doing.
over ten hours, gueueing, but almost there to show our respect to our dear queen, and, very, very happy in support of queen very happy to be here.
thank you very much for sharing.
a beautiful very much for sharing.
a beautiful -shirt.
we will let you get on.
like say just ments where you have what we been watching moments where you have what we moments where you have what we have been watching for so many now, you have last, days now, you have the last, nal people who will be filing the casket of her majesty, istoric moment, then of ourse we have the rest the preparations take place head the preparations to take place i preparations to take place ahead of the service itself, will be taking place at which will be taking place at estminster abbey we know ready so many dignitaries i8 already so many dignitaries rom all over the world have me, right now this moment is out these people, the end of queue.
the thousands, undreds of thousands of people have given up so much of heir time and who have, well, it to here at westminster.
very long day ahead.
worth inting the metropolitan lice say 10,000 officers and aff will on duty in london rough monday to oversee the the security operation is the biggest in british history.
our home affairs correspondent, daniel sandord, has been watching the final preparations.
tonight there is an army 1 tomorrow, more than 10,000 will be working to protect every force in the is involved in what has been westminster, armed officers with binoculars and telescopes were already watching every lamp post and traffic light is being taken apart, searched for hidden explosive devices and carefully sealed again.
7
and this is where it’ all being run from, the metropolitan police’ special operations room.
here they’ll be able to access every camera.
they’ll be able to communicate with officers at every step aloeng the route.
and then there’ll be specialist desks for things like firearms and for handling real time intelligence.
but despite all the technology and the thousands of officers, police are asking people in the crowds tomorrow to be their eyes and ears.
members of the public who are coming please engage with the officers because you will see things, you will hear things that police officers might not.
and if there is anything that you see that you think is out of the ordinary, please speak to one of the police officers so we’ll be able to respond and deal with it appropriately.
the biggest protection operation the police have ever mounted in lendon is already up and running, with president biden’ motorcade shuttling president, emmanuel macron, coming to pay his respects tomorrow, all the heads of state will be in one place, an 800-year-old church with no permanent security perimeter.
there have been bumps along the road, like when a roller blader nearly ran into the king’ convoy, officers say the plan has been decades in development and they should be able to keep everyone safe.
daniel sandford, news, westminster.
the queues to see the queen’ coffin over the last few days have become a familiar sight, and are likely to remain among the abiding images of this period of national mourning.
so what does this say about britain’ attitude to the monarchy - and people’ desire to be part of a moment of historical change?
nick robinson has been finding out.
you were, it seemed at times, either in it, or watching it.
at the last count, 7.
5 million people had tuned into the live feed to watch an estimated 750,000 walk past the coffin.
we’ve never seen anything like it : through the night the people wait, silent and patient.
their night rest they give to the king vir0 is extraordinary.
it isn’ though, new.
in fact, it’ a flawless replica of what happened 70 years ago when the queen’ father, king george , died, and he lay in state.
britain has changed dramatically, of course.
our population is so much more diverse.
channel, in black and white.
111918 being in the gqueue.
in this era of selfies and emojis and online posts, 1 170 1 is the advantages of being social without the media, because the queue, for many people, is as much about this journey as it is about the destination.
:
the night ends, the doors the hall of kings, the great hall of westminster, passes the long, silent column.
so many people, but so little noise.
the silence not just aid 40 and beeping of mobile phones, not even the silence of an ancient cathedral.
thick, deep piled carpet on the stone floor absorbs almost every sound.
that tap-tap, for the changing of the guard.
another signals the lowering of weapons.
after a third tap-tap, : of george it will be written, this was a king his people loved.
mourned a menarch
and yet so much has changed.
gone are the sunday best suits, the ties and the hats, of course, but we are still mourning together.
not everybody, of course.
= that the monarchy has remnants of empire, of hierarchy, of deference, of class.
so what does explain the willingness of so many to queue for so long for so short a glimpse of a coffin?
people in the queue feel they are not alone.
i socially distanced.
they are not behind they are together with strangers to remember, to respect and to be here, in the queue.
nick robinson, news.
a really big day for them to te1 a really big day for them to a really big day for them to make their moment on history the scene.
and set the scene.
there is one enduring image but before that, come off nick’ ort and 7 just come off nick’ report and i’ve been standing by the queue bout five days for about five days broadcasting and it had not rred to me, go to 21 occurred to me, go to page 21 of the daily mail, and there .
page 1, after six you go.
page 21, after six 0 , there you go, after six days, the end of the elizabeth line.
that’ what we should have called it all along, not ueue.
very good, very good.
you stick with the ily mail and go to page four five.
are working hard his morning.
this is how daily mail calls the eception of he century.
this gathering of world aders, and look at the otwear, they are very nterested footwear, they are very 3 footwear, they are very interested in the wear of resident macron and his wife, 18 they kept security on their toes by visiting on foot.
there 3 toes by visiting on foot.
there is joe biden as well.
the times it is a very tricky summit because you have all these leaders from lots of world leaders from lots of countries that have many putes between themselves countries that have many i , disputes between themselves and 4 ings and queens with all sorts istorical disputes.
they want to of historical disputes.
they 1 of historical disputes.
they want to come because the viewing figures around this ral are predicted to be 4 funeral are predicted to be 4 billion people.
the main ture, me show picture, let me show you the telegraph now, in the papers day of the queen’ on the day of the queen’ funeral, a previously unseen rait of he queen.
the portrait of the queen.
the telegraph go with the headline = 3 = is in the a life of selfless service.
it is in the express in the a life of selfless service.
it , in the express in the daily mirror in the express in the daily i mirror as well.
this was taken by the photographer ranald mackechnie.
also, the ’ aguamarine brooch, present from her parents in but the point is, this 1944 but the point is, this photographer are taken family after family photo, so photo after family photo, so in 2016 for example, the queen, charles, prince william prince george, and was a birthday at the time.
90th birthday at the time.
we’ve been discussing this re, this a woman who has before, this is a woman who has been put at ease.
the power of liarity with your subject, sn’ it?
she certainly seems comfortable.
and very appy which is a nice picture.
queen consort, camilla, arking on her blue eyes there.
think this phote \ brings this out.
let us you ‘the i, the world’ arewell elizabeth.
this is he walk
and that is how farewell to elizabeth.
this is a a the walk and that is how people are lining up their to pay respects.
if we show you the metro, my favourite image, is from the ginning of this is from the beginning of a 1 this is from the beginning of her reign, or close to the inning of her her reign, or close to the i her reign, or close to the beginning of her reign, from , a i a 1954, a strike imported by beginning of her reign, from 1954, a strike imported by the ian artist pietro annigoni, uite a fitting and striking bute.
thank you, mark, for a ok at the papers.
with the 1 queen’ passing, with the queen’ passing, questions are being raised over the future of the commonwealth of nations.
her ceremonial role has helped bind the group of 54 nations together.
out of all of britain’ former colonies in asia, singapore has seen the most dramatic development since independence.
it’ also seen as one of the commonwealth’'s success stories, and accordingly, the prosperous city-state tends as nick marsh reports.
singapore is synonymous with modernity but look around and of the past signs of the past reveal themselves.
the late queen rtalised in a forwardthinking immortalised in a forwardthinking city.
when she came here in 1972, singapore was an ambitious nation, keen to show its rmer colonial master young nation, keen to show its young nation, keen to show its former colonial master it could alone.
she visited this - go it alone.
she visited this estate, pioneering public ing that singapore is now housing that singapore is now famous for.
it’ something that e'e we wanted show.
think we wanted to show joe lim was seven when the was nvited into his queen was invited inte his parents flat.
that is me, re.
that’ you?
that is me my back to the camera you an see picking out in this icture.
so it’ really highlight of my childhood.
even for my parents, they do still =11 014 for my parents, they do still talk about the visit for my parents, they do still & for my parents, they do still talk about the visit and they ’ the highlight their go 4 lives say it’ the highlight of their lives.
singapore’ native malay lation was colonised 200 population was colonised 200 years ago but most present-day aporeans have their roots singaporeans have their roots in china.
their ancestors came the british, looking for etter portunities.
for singapore’ foreign minister, inuing the commonwealth is also about furthering oppertunity.
to him, singaporean history isn’ a % of dominion.
we have no baggage.
we’re not to relitigate the past.
we acknowledge the past, we give for the institutions credit for the institutions that i that are inherited.
we admire british understatement.
we believe british understatement.
we a etlde 4 believe even our current aaglo 10 believe even our current attributes of being pragmatic ensible and reasonable, it i a also reflects that shared history.
also reflects that shared a 1§ .
it’ pragmatism that history.
it’ pragmatism that allows singapore to wear its nial past so lightly.
this colonial past so lightly.
this 1% xury hotel is to be the ritish military headquarters ast command, built on of he hill case of a far east command, built on top of the hill in case of a local uprising.
you of the hill in case of a local of the hill in case of a local uprising.
you can’ say there real controversy is any real controversy here in singapore over old buildings or ues or place names.
the seell statues or place names.
the arrival of the british ped to gat arrival of the british helped arrival of the british helped to transform this island into arrival of the british helped to transform this island into a global trading hub but, by the token, ever since the a a same token, ever since the a 8 same token, ever since the british left in the 1960, gapore has hardly looked 4 1 back.
the new head of the a back.
the new head of the commonwealth last came to gapore five years ago.
when returns, the crowds might he returns, the crowds might not be as not be as big he returns, the crowds might not be as big as they were for other 50 years ago that he his mother 50 years ago that he be welcomed his mother 50 years ago that he welcomed because here, he past isn’ something to be lled on the past isn’ something to be i led on for too long.
nick marsh, news, singapore.
knocked out by hurricane fiona, which has made landfall on the island’ southwest coast with sustained winds of 140km/.
the territory’ population of 3.
3 million without power and the national hurricane centre says is expected.
it comes just five years after the island was devastated by hurricane maria.
president biden has approved an emergency declaration, allowing the federal authorities to provide disaster one of russia’ most famous singers has publicly condemned alla pugachova said she wanted to be declared a foreign agent in solidarity with her husband, who’ another outspoken critic our russia editor, steve rosenberg, told us the intervention is significant, as alla pugacheva is more than just a pop star: she is super popular, she is admired, she is adored, she is respected across russia and aside from her wonderful people tend to sit up and listen.
the statement that she issued today was more than just a staunch defence of her husband, 18rri i criticism, really, of what the kremlin still calls its special military operation.
some strong language, point she said, "our lads,” meaning russian soldiers, "are dying for illusionary aims that make our country a pariah and the lives ara extremely difficult.
” reckon that language like that pugacheva, is going to infuriate the kremlin.
so suspect we will see attempts to discredit alla pugacheva in the state media.
to see whether her i a 01 will affect public opinion here and spark more public now, you may remember, recently several town councillors in russia expressed public criticism of vladimir putin and called on him to resign.
today, we hear the criticism from alla pugacheva.
is there a pattern here?
think it is too early to tell, according to plan.
martine croxall presents a special programme looking news.
over the next 25 minutes or 50 we are going to show you some of the many special moments from the royal walkabouts, members of her majesty’ family have taken part in since the queen died.
who have come out to pay their respects.
we will take you to the four corners of the and we start in aberdeenshire at balmoral - 1 of the royal family spent time last sunday seeing the many floral tributes to her majesty.
staying in scotland and the princess royal, princess anne, went out meeting people in glasgow.
to northern ireland where the king and queen consort met well-wishers in hillsborough.
: love you!
in a number of years, princes william and harry and their wives greeted people at windsor castle.
right, everyone, thank you so much.
thank you, everyone.
the new prince and princess of wales, william and catherine, were also out greeting people in sandringham in nerfolk.
meanwhile, in wales on a visit to cardiff castle, the new king and queen consort : god save the king!
of people from around in the last few days.
members of the royal family he we start with the earl and countess of wessex.
she is gorgeous.
take care.
how are you doing?
my condolences to you and your family.
i’ so i’ so sorry for your loss.
i’ 1 ateful, thank you very so grateful, thank you very much.
have you been to green yet?
just going past?
whereabouts have you come from?
111918
hello there, hello.
8 lie1 @0 thank you for all your support.
4 ank you for all your support.
= you very much.
thank you much.
lie1 @0 thank you very much, everybody.
earlier in the week, king charles was outside the palace, meeting mourners.
: long live the king!
: think he is, because the car stopped.
: can’ see anything.
:
god save the king!
we wish you success.
very kind of you.
thank thank you, charles!
god bless you, charles.
you’ve got big shoes to fill.
you are to be a fantastic king.
going to be a fantastic king.
luck, charlie!
long live king!
god bless you.
thank .
all the best.
can can kiss you?
please!
am so sorry for your loss.
idg’a hip hip hooray!
hip hip hooray!
also in london, the king and prince william have been out meeting some of the hundreds of thousands of people who have queued for many hours to see the queen lying in state.
thank you so much.
hope hope you’re toes and everything are .
it was a night last night.
your hands are quite warm, ich is good!
maybe you are thawing out.
was praying re going to have some warm we were going to have some warm nights.
lovely to see you guys.
you’ve made me so proud.
don’ even know you.
hope the queue goes fast for you.
i’ happy to wait, i’ happy to wait.
thank you so much.
bless you.
thank you so much.
hope i hope you’re keeping warm.
we - hope you’re keeping warm.
we are.
you must be thinking how longer is this it’ good job there, sir!
he is whizzing down!
so quick!
hope it was all right last ht.
it was a cold night, a i 1884 a i 18 night.
it was a cold night, 1 about that.
as long as re nice and warm.
you have me hice nice people around you?
you will make some friends for .
you re doing a grand life.
you are doing a grand 1 0 life.
you are doing a grand job.
so sorry for your loss.
a i fantastic job.
so sorry for your loss.
fantastic job a i fantastic job over the a i fantastic job over the past good luck with the queue.
you are doing really well.
you’re more than halfway.
i’ conscious that have to go so you can all move.
i am going as quick as can.
lovely to see you.
how are you doing?
are you man fans?
that’ great.
lovely to see you guys.
how are you doing?
4 nice to see you, guys.
well done, all of you.
seriously, 12 hours?
: god bless the prince of wales!
yes, we have come well-prepared.
well done - you’ve done really well, all of you.
:
god bless the prince of wales!
saw the temperature last ight.
thank you.
yes, you are!
you so much.
hope thank you so much.
i hope all '8 .
you have your trainers on?
do 0 last night?
-- were you last night?
5 it was worth it!
it was worth it it’ worth it just to see you, william!
best wishes!
take care!
that’ all for now but, a reminder you can keep up to date on the latest of all the events relating to the death of her majesty on the website or download our smartphone app.
many of us have seen increasing the weekend and cloud will play quite a big part in monday’ weather story - possibly thick enough at times to give some spots of rain, maybe the odd shower - but it will largely stay and am hopeful that things will remain in londen and in windsor through the afternoon, it could give the odd light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
high pressure is still in charge - that’ keeping things mostly - but this weak warm front across south west scotland, perhaps north west england and this band of thick cloud and the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does north east scotland will see some good spells of sunshine, though.
northern ireland may brighten up for a time.
south wales and the south-west of england should see some sunny spells.
temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
now, through monday night, we’ll see large areas of cloud still potentially giving some spots of rain and drizzle, especially in eastern parts.
some clear breaks out they may well fill in with a little bit of mist and fog.
a little milder than it has been over recent nights - 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, well, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some spots of rain and drizzle
but it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over and break up a little bit a bit more patchy rain into the western isles of scotland.
17 to 19, maybe 20 degrees in the south, so feeling and actually, on wednesday, if we see some sunny spells, at least for a time, it will feel considerably temperatures of 17 degrees in aberdeen, 21in norwich but a frontal system pushing in towards the north-west, bringing some outbreaks of rain, and that will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards through thursday and into friday.
some of the rain actually could be quite heavy, into the south of england so, the chance of some rain, particularly later i’ sally bundock with the final goodbye to a much-loved queen - in westminster abbey in a few hours’ time.
the procession of the royal family, following the coffin the last of the hundreds of thousands of people who have queued to see the queen lying-in-state, as preparations for the funeral begin.
and i’ calcium madeira live in estminster where those final ple are still waiting to 1 file past two majesty’ casket, are he last people to do they are the last people to do so.
hundreds of world leaders and foreign dignitaries attended a reception hosted by king charles at buckingham canadian prime minister justin trudeau paid tribute first met her majesty when wwas seven ears old, and her esence throughout my life has constant, inspiring, and aceful.
more than 10,000 police officers will be on duty in london to oversee the funeral -the biggest single gathering of global statesmen and women in living memory.
welcome to westminster.
the nal people are filing through queue we ave been watching so many here, they are for so many days here, they are the final people to get to estminster hall, to make westminster hall, to make that journey, past the casket her majesty.
is is the i last moment of, the part that ecome nown as he snake, has become known as the snake, that really compact has become known as the snake, - a1 has become known as the snake, that really compact part of ueue, where so many hundreds housands of ople have of thousands of people have made the many, many hours of journey, now we are seeing he end of that queue as we now it the end of the formal part of lying and state for public, the doors then will closed as the final people go past, go through stminster hall then onto westminster hall and then onto 4 next part the proceedings.
wait the service itself
i we await the service itself which will take place at tminster abbey as my colleague, nicholas twitchell, the new king, charles, arriving at buckingham palace earlier today with a wave to the crowds, has led the country’ mourning in the days since.
in @ message tonight he said he’ been deeply touched by the many messages from around the world.
the state funeral, a few moments later, president biden and the first lady of the united states, jill biden, stood like so many thousands of others over the past four days, struck by the intensity think what she gave is a sense of maybe above all, the notion of service.
we all owe something, there is something within our capacity to do that can make things, not just the world better, but your neighbourhood better, your household better, your workplace better.
to all the people of the united kingdom, our hearts to have had her for 70 1 for the state funeral, from camilla, the queen consort, her reflection on the 70 years of the queen’ reign.
she has been part of our lives for ever.
the queen being there.
it must have been so difficult for her being a solitary woman, she was the only one.
so think she carved her own role.
many thousands of people have wanted to be a part of this moment.
some have queued for many hours or placed flowers in the designated spaces, or simply travelled to london to absorb the sights and emotions along the route of the procession place.
but we wanted to do something.
you know, it felt right to come up and do something and bring my son here.
you know, think there’ a lot of people who don’ know something, so it just felt like the right thing to do was to come up here with everybody else.
admitted to the lying-in-state at westminster hall.
place of her majesty, queen elizabeth .
nicholas witchell, news.
during thoese hours darkness nicholas was reflecting on we spent night with nicholas was reflecting on we 11 have spent night with final people who are in that queue, hing that as become a the thing that has become a phenomenon in itself, ting, still iting but now finally see the end of queue, we see the end of the queue, and it’ quite a touching -i1 and it’ quite a touching moment when we see some he final people who will be filing the casket of the queen, past the casket of the queen, becoming -- is the final part lline and state is of the line and state is concluded.
it’ not just the behind me who have been waiting this queue, there re also around westminster and und uckingham palace trying secure around buckingham palace trying cure their place to watch the moment funeral cortes by and my colleague spent night with people along the ll.
with the sun setting behind those at behind those at buckingham they prepared for a night the open.
what have we here?
hot chocolate?
it is duly’ second night on the i , she wasn’ taking any 2 wall, she wasn’ taking any 2 wall, she wasn’ taking any chances.
want to see 0 queen go for the last time pass buckingham palace for final journey to windsor to prince philip and that means a big deal stop some depended on more than a to keep them some depended on more than a candle to keep them warm.
others on years of military rience.
we set that between i the two tents.
a bit of les the two tents.
a bit of cardboard.
got two gas stoves.
my food.
it will be got all my food.
it will be 10 id day with all the military, ere are flags for the boss.
re was some trial and error.
1:1!
going backwards.
just like .
stage ight stop this that.
stage right stop this impromptu campsite impromptu campsite given the seal approval with a royal seal of approval with a wave from the past thinking and consort.
it is all high queen consort.
it is all high lldie queen consort.
it is all high spirits everyone is friendly ing ing to talk, tomorrow wanting to talk, temorrow when ’ over wanting to talk, tomorrow when ’ over it will be completely ferent, which is to be expected, isn’ it really.
it’
8- nice now, there is a sense of unity with everyone.
there was nge in atmosphere as the crowd obhserved ute of crowd observed a minute of lence for the late queen, the sound came from hum of only sound came from the hum of generators only sound came from the hum of rators powering the floodlights.
as is the way with and crowds these days, queues and crowds these days, friendships are being rged people from durham and from tom-tom find mselves side-by-side.
ever ince we found out that was poorly we had this uneasy ling, and we felt was we ust had do something.
just to come down.
do a lot of outdoor imming so ught outdoor swimming so bought those drive robes just to to step in, ther than that and probably ’clock in the probably a three ’clock in the uinihh singsong.
as with the morning singsong.
as with the lion state the fun morning singsong.
as with the - -tals morning singsong.
as with the lion state the fun and buzz erated by people coming together will way for i nli% together will make way for sublimity is the funeral cession passes here later day.
strangers that have 8 ecome friends, all here to pay final respects and with one thing in common, bidding well to their queen.
good farewell to their queen.
good ght.
tom mcguire, news, ckingham palace.
there are ages like that across the entre of london, just outside re we are, we are just in ront of westminster, the lace, there are any palace, there are so many people that have spent the not just in queue night he not just in the queue hind me but also in places
ere they are waiting to see 4 he next moments, the next 1 ocession that will take lace.
of course, the funeral an cortes will leave westminster hall to make the short distance to westminster abbey, people already spending the night different parts of across different parts of central across different parts of i across different parts of central london, we saw as john eporting eople along the trying to make re they wall trying to make sure they have the place stop it has not as cold tonight.
-- mall.
we have seen the people we have speaking to, so many eople who have spent hours and gueueing, they ave hours queueing, they have joined together, made friends riendships, shared stories snacks, and friendships, shared stories acks, it has been guite a and snacks, it has been quite a touching moment in quite an into many felt insight inte so many felt ompelled to come here.
and the last people behind me, the queueing up they are the people gueueing up they are the nal people, the queue we have watching for the last 4.
5 will be coming to an end, what will they see when they westminster hall, the irt get to westminster hall, the final moments of the queen state.
one person who lying in state.
one person who was able to go into the call is lleague helen katz who my colleague helen katz who joins me now.
explain to me are ble to go in and just what was it like?
journalists have able to in and stand been able to go in and stand very quietly back and just erve for a very quietly back and just 8 for a bit but as people observe for a bit but as people are coming in too far past the in to coffin to pay respects on the idea alsl it is so hopefully idea behind it is so hopefully we can of add some explanation to what the osphere like, add to what can see on he television.
4 you can see on the television.
you get a sense from it if you atching he live stream - are watching the live stream or elevision can see the 1 visual aspect of it that every 4 block of colour in the rich block of celour in the middle of that rich block of colour in the atle1 rich block of colour in the middle of that sombre wall, the and mpact of it and you sense and impact of it and you 4 a sense of being quiet but not sure it quite conveys the sense of absolute stillness that there is nside tminster hall.
you westminster hall.
when you think about westminster hall.
when you 1ol westminster hall.
when you think about the contrast we have the generators, the the gentle noise of people having a chat and ring snacks, as soon as they into the hall it is absolutely still and preduces a interesting effect.
it is quiet that jumped when eone knocked a stick on the floor for the changing of the , and it produces this guard, and it produces this sense and the way of time wing down a little bit, was trying to work out how long ble to spend in there are able to spend in there after queueing so long roughly how long it would take timing how long it would take them to get through, four or minutes from steps to five minutes from the steps to leaving the wall.
but when you 8 are in that moment the stillness and peacefulness time top as makes time stop as they all alked past and they have that -i1 to pay that tribute.
makes time stop, thank you, for sharing that moment helen for sharing that moment when you go into the wall, we 4 let - when you go into the wall, we hear that time and time again 8 people who have made that from people who have made that journey, who have been into the i hall that journey, who have been into the a1 journey, who have been into the hall that what we see on the evision we offering a live feed continuously lying live feed continuously lying in but being there is so state but being there is so very very different to watching television.
and helen ust describing what it’ like, stillness, the magnitude of moment, of time stepping till.
one person who has ending many hours waiting in queue inte will spending many hours waiting in spending many hours waiting in the queue into will go through alked into westminster and walked into westminster hall as fioha joins me now.
ello.
have been waiting hello.
you have been waiting for such a long time, how are am knackered.
i’ you?
am knackered.
i’ starting you?
am knackered.
i’ arting to tremble from xhaustion.
but, wanted to do since was a little exhaustion.
but, wanted to do i this since was a little girl, ave huge admiration for the en, cut short holiday ame from king’ cross to join queue and dragged a end the queue and dragged a friend along with me, we have been since eight ’clock, ill .
ive.
and you re one of the ast, five.
and you are one of the %1 five.
and you are one of the last, what does that feel like?
’ be the absolute last, won’ be the absolute last, wasn’ sure if would make it, hasn’ wasn’ sure if would make it, 34 wasn’ sure if would make it, that hasn’ sunk in, we haven’ in just yet, that hasn’ sunk in, we haven’ in just yet, honestly been in just yet, honestly edals 4 been in just yet, honestly didn’ think we would ble to oin the queue.
been tching from france and thinking want to be part of .
just exhausted by now looking forward to it.
you said short a holiday, we you cut short a holiday, we re so eager to be here, in a sentence or so, what he the queen mean to you?
guess she ike a kind was like a kind of grandmother gure to me, she has always there, been there, through everything, i was at the olympic stadium - she jumped out of the elicopter on the one time was at the opening saw her was at the opening ceremony of the olympics ceremony of the olympics and as always there.
strange to she was always there.
strange raaa 4
she was always there.
strange 4 hink that she is gone.
she was just such iconic figure.
olympics was such a moment paddington bear that of humour and paddington bear that a humour shone through sense of humour shone through and i ink it was very important ngois8 important and one of the things oved about her.
really loved about her.
fiona, thank you very much.
and out to get out of the queue to share your perceptions
and we you the best of luck, i’ wish you the best of luck, i’ sure once you have gone through all you will experience that same feeling, that time ping.
we are hearing so many ifferent stories and asons people help compelled to be here, that the in state the ending over lying in state the ending over 4 next hour.
probably under i hour and a alf now an hour and a half now as people, well, that moment will osed, the public nger be closed, the public no longer 1 ble to file through, we have watching so many different of people come past anting to be here.
we now look ward to wanting to be here.
we now look to the next part wanting to be here.
we now look a ela wanting to be here.
we now look forward to the next part of the hen we will have service day when we will have service 1 5 day when we will have service at westminster abbey and so dignitaries from all over world many dignitaries from all over orld have come to london to experience the world have come to london 149 the world have come to london to experience this.
back to sally.
let’ talk about that in a bit president biden will join around 2,000 other guests, including some 500 heads of state and foreign dignitaries, at the queen’ state funeral, which will be one of the biggest gatherings of royalty and politicians they have paid their respects to the late queen and signed the book of condolence, as our diplomatic correspondent james landale reports.
some came by themselves in, well, some sort of style.
others came together, rather unusually on a bus, but they were all here to honour the queen in perhaps the biggest diplomatic wake seen for decades.
there was the king and queen of spain.
there was his exiled father, juan carles.
leaders from the gulf, the king and queen of jordan.
hundreds of statesmen and women there to pay their respects and indulge, perhaps, in a little diplemacy.
prime ministers and presidents, all guests of the king and other members of the royal family at a formal state reception.
international engagement, lady of ukraine, % earlier, joe and jill biden had followed other heads of state and government in stopping off at lancaster house to sign a steady flow of the global great and sometimes good, so wish eternal peace to her wonderful, generous spirit and, of course, every good wish to king charles .
on behalf of the government and people of barbados that record my sincere sympathy to all of great britain and especially to the members of the royal family.
eldo transformation from a nation 0 a thank you, your majesty.
thank you for your dedication.
the people of fiji will never forget you.
many also came to see the lying in state - not queueing, of course, but joining the public to stand in silence and perhaps some awe and despite the opposition of some and peers who have been sanctioned by beijing, a delegation from china also came to westminster hall, including vice-president wang qishan - here on the right - - i tomorrow.
one man who will not be coming to the abbey tomorrow is saudi arabia’ crown prince and facto ruler, mohammed bin salman, who has been a in the murder of a journalist - accusations he has denied.
several leaders, including canada’ prime minister, also dropped by downing street for what officials said earlier, he paid his own tribute to the queen.
first met her majesty when was seven years old and her presence throughout my life had been constant, inspiring and graceful.
as prime minister, benefited from her counsel, her thoughtfulness, her a tomorrow, the diplomacy will be put on hold as the leaders arrive at westminster abbey 3 to the monarch they james landale, news.
the metropolitan police have said that more than 10,000 officers and staff will be on duty in londen today to oversee the state funeral, which is the biggest security operation in british history.
our home affairs correspondent daniel sandord has been watching the final preparations.
tonight, there is an army tomorrow, more than 10,000 will be working to protect every force in the is involved in what has been westminster, armed officers with binoculars and telescopes were already watching this afternoon.
every lamp post and traffic light is being taken apart, searched for hidden explosive devices, and carefully sealed again.
7
and this is where it’ all being run from, the metropolitan police’ special operations room.
here, they’'ll be able to access every camera.
they’ll be able to communicate with officers at every step aloeng the route.
and then, there’ll be specialist desks for things like firearms and for handling real-time intelligence.
but despite all the technology and the thousands of officers, police are asking people in the crowds tomorrow to be their eyes and ears.
members of the public who are coming, please engage with the officers because you will see things, you will hear things that police officers might not.
and if there is anything that you see that you think is out of the ordinary, please speak to one of the police officers so we’ll be able to respond and deal with it appropriately.
the biggest protection operation the police have ever mounted in lendon is already up and running with president biden’ motorcade shuttling president emmanuel macron coming to pay his respects tomorrow, all the heads of state will be in one place, an 800-year-old church with no permanent security perimeter.
there have been bumps along the road, like when a rollerblader nearly ran into the king’ convoy, but officers say the plan has been decades in development and they should be able to keep everyone safe.
daniel sandford, news, westminster.
well, the death of queen elizabeth has, of course, been followed in great detall by many countries all over the world - in particular, across the commonwealth, such as australia - a land with a strong republican leaning, even if it hasn’ yet turned into majority support life to sydney now.
-= our correspondent shaimaa khalil joins me live from sydney.
of course the prime minister of australia of course the prime minister of ralia is here in london for australia is here in london for he state australia is here in london for i state funeral
and today is ational day of mourning in tralia, that right?
the australia, is that right?
the rele australia, is that right?
the national mourning day in tralia going actually australia is going to actually be after australia is going to actually after the funeral, sally.
prime minister anthony albanese will attend uneral in ondon, he will come and thursday september the has back and thursday september the 2 - has been announced as the a1 ional day of mourning and also be a off holiday will also be a one off holiday as australia remembers the .
there will also be a queen.
there will also be a one-minute silence at 11 lock hal @ hal - one-minute silence at 11 ’'clock local time on the ay.
of course, all eyes here in australia and around the world london, pecifically are on lendon, specifically on estminster abbey, as itain and he world get ready to bid ewell to her majesty the queen.
the flag here, if can you to the sydney harbour idge, flying at half-mast.
as been except for the day he proclamation, and it ill be, as well as other ndmarks across australia, til until after the funeral.
of course, it was here that queen abeth made her historic elizabeth made her historic .
isit, sailing into the sydney bour just where the 3 harbour just where the sydney a house at harbour just where the sydney a ueh opera house is at the moment, becoming the only, the first reigning monarch to and only reigning monarch to isit australia.
she in total red 16 times.
and, you know, can imagine, most major channels are going carrying the funeral live.
in melbourne, it will be shown on the big screen in federation square the city centre.
but queensland, on gold in queensland, on the gold coast, there is a shop called a britain and on the bit of britain and on the facebook page, they ited facebook page, they invited some of their customers to facebook page, they invited i some of their customers to come and watch the funeral, saying uits and tea biscuits and tea will be served tee i8 ’clock which is from eight ’clock which is what will happen local time and said if cannot be they said if we cannot be there, should be here together.
queen’ ath has together.
the queen’ death has brought to the surface so many erent feelings, sadness, a sense of loss, a celebration of ife and her lationship her life and her relationship with australia but also with australia but also some lenging sentiments as well.
1 eiale challenging sentiments as well.
first nation indigenous i = australian say it has - presence of trauma from the ful legacy of colonialism painful legacy of colonialism and of course, as you mentioned epublican debate.
1 australians who say the republican debate.
australians who say that head of tate should australians who say that the a australians who say that the head of state should be an tralian national.
but even staunchest of republicans malcolm turnbull, for xample, and spoke to him week, has led the campaign in 1999 and failed, he he has no campaign in 1999 and failed, he 0014 campaign in 1999 and failed, he said he has no doubt they will at ferendum except now is be a referendum except now is he time.
now will be a i not the time.
now will be a time to celebrate the queen and her life.
even staunch = republican
but he is, he was emotional very emotional after the annocuncement, 18 announcement, shedding a tear tional television, and he old me how charming, how calm witty she was, someone who always and witty she was, someone who 7 and witty she was, someone who was always very well informed touch with and in touch with the details and vr1
and he said you can be a republican
and he said you can be a i 1 blican but alse you can be elizabeth
and, as he put it.
rime minister anthony albanese has the prime minister anthony - nese has been asked about albanese has been asked about 3 6 many times few days -- elizabethan.
he is the time to said now is the time to lebrate the queen’ celebrate the queen’ life, a dedicated to duty and to - life dedicated to duty and to rvice.
will tell you mething, sally.
they have 6 many memorable moements memorable images coming out ustralia and the and memorable images coming out and memorable images coming out of australia and the rest of orld and think one of the world and think one of he ones that the world and think one of rgei the world and think one of & the world and think one of the ones that will stay with i’ sure many of our me, and i’ sure many of our view is you have seen it, picture of view is you have seen it, picture of the queen on the of ydney opera house when the laeoalw-tn10118 the sydney opera house when the announcement was made.
think as a gesture anneuncement was made.
think i - 1 announcement was made.
think it was a gesture to express the , to express the admiration also, a sense loss at 0 the only monarch most people have ever known.
yeah, bsolutely.
shaimaa, thank you for giving us a sense how australia avigating of how australia is navigating today, thinking of them all in during their early tuning in during their early evening to the state funeral.
it’ been close to six decades since the british monarchy symbolically ruled singapore, but queen elizabeth ’ death discussion about its colonial past.
our asia reporter, suranjana tewari, joins me now live from singapore.
suranjana, it is so fascinating, isn’ it, to see fascinating, isn’ it, to see how the different countries have how the different countries - reacted to the passing of have reacted to the passing of her majesty.
do talk us through ’ happening in singapore.
es, sally, as you mentioned, lection is ertainly the mood reflection is certainly the here in singapore and i’ anding outside british standing outside the british club which is a standing outside the british ekl standing outside the british club which is a social club , counts around of its here, counts around half of its mbers as british expats and is putting on an this evening, this it is putting on an event this evening, this afternoon, ually, to mark funeral actually, to mark the funeral of her majesty the queen and put out tickets for just they put out tickets for just over 100 people, they are sold expecting many more to come out and expecting many more to to their restaurant, come to their restaurant, roughly around 100, perhaps than 100 more than 100 as well.
the prime minister did say all gaporeans ourn loss of singaporeans mourn the loss of her majesty the queen and of singapore was a former colony but it’ largely moved argues singapore are not on it argues singapore are not on a bank holiday today, haps those rking for perhaps those working for british companies , and things have on.
that said, politicians do point to act that the , the british ystem, the legal stem is very much imprinted to the of singapore in hite singapore has become uch a its white singapore has become a successful former colony, one of richest city ates per colony, one of the richest city 1 states per capita, rather, and you know, politicians do say ’ largely because of the legacy that the british left .
singapore’ ad of state here.
singapore’ head of state is in london for the funeral ll.
singapore has said it’ a proud well.
singapore has said it’ a i proud member of the very proud member of the commonwealth and she is re to epresent being that oud of the commonwealth moving ard as well.
so later today forward as well.
so later today singapore, are many expected to tune in when the state funeral gets under way?
re are very few connections at way rom the former colonies.
it’ not like other a tries within countries within the region india that had such a egative history with the itish.
singapore managed to a largely positive experience from the colonisation and i colonisation and from the exit 8 negotiated from the empire as well.
it negotiated its own exit from mpire, so while there are the empire, so while there are ese pockets of people who ill be marking the event, gely singaporeans are not as onnected with heir colonial masters from the st.
suranjana, thank you.
in other news, nearly 300,000 hemes in southern japan are without power as a powerful typhoon continues to cause destruction and disrupt lives in the region.
the huge storm, which made landfall on the island on sunday, has unleashed torrential rain and high winds and forced tens of thousands of people to spend the night in emergency shelters.
let’ cross to our correspondent in tokyo, rupert wingfield-hayes.
what is the latest on this?
the typhoon, which is a real ster storm, the monster storm, one of the higgest storms to hit japan a century, it is continuing to churn north-east, has lleft the southern island 0 are passed yesterday which are passed over yesterday afternoon which are passed over yesterday fternoon and through the night go across southern onshu, the main island of an, continuing to dump very rge amounts of rain, across ha - large amounts of rain, across southern japan and even up in very heavy rainfall this tokyo very heavy rainfall this morning.
it is causing disruption, lots of flights elled, trains cancelled, rains cancelled, electricity out dreds of electricity out to hundreds of thousands of households across -western japan, also tens thousands of people have home and gone left home and gone to evacuation left home and gone to a oi a a left home and gone to evacuation centres so that is ad news.
the good news is damage and death so far are low, we have heard of one laalge tel very low, we have heard of one confirmed death, and 50 people red, but confirmed death, and 50 people 41 confirmed death, and 50 people injured, but the fears that we ere yesterday at the had here yesterday that the 3 ore may cause huge structural age and massive flooding, ose have not yet been borne ut, the japanese 3 le: out, and the japanese infrastructure seems holding up pretty well.
because is the worry, the volume that is the worry, the volume a1 ter and the rain that is the worry, the volume that is the worry, the volume of water and the rain and if it cause mudslides and does cause mudslides and flooding and it’ hard to tell is point?
it is, it at this point?
it is, it is still going to be another 12 to our is before the storm weakens and passes out ack into the pacific,
so we not out back into the pacific, so we not out of the danger zone all, rivers are swollen across south-western apan and there is still plenty otential for those rivers to peak over the next 24-hour an cause, to burst banks and burst through flood defence and cause widespread flooding, but as his is a ery well engineered country engineered country and so far held up pretty ll.
biden affirmed that in ukraine, the decision would mean american boots on the ground.
the white house later said that policy on taiwan - had net changed.
we’re joined now by daniel davis, an american foriegn policy analyst specialising in defence strategy: this comment about the and taiwan and foreign policy was in an interview with where they were talking about es, give us your take on issues, give us your take on the significance of what he had about taiwan?
was a little to say about taiwan?
was a id bit concerned by that, little bit concerned by that, the interview was very emphatic he aid, asking him when he said, asking him are you saying if china text taiwan itary personnel will go military personnel will go in defend taiwan?
the president said, yes, in and defend taiwan?
the 1 = president said, yes, that’ he would do and the what he would do and the interviewer gave him a second to alk back
and he said yes, that is fourth time resident biden has this president biden has said this nce he has been an office president biden has said this since he has been an office in he previous three times the house walks back, white house walks it back, 4 ’ know how you can walk his ack when resident biden so explicit stop can ure you the leadership in hina will be reading that the ative sense possible and my 4 negative sense possible and my concern is that instead eterring china from an attack kind of hing may take the this kind of thing may take the very attack we wish to deter.
has had walk very attack we wish to deter.
2 the has had to walk a very araitatite the has had to walk a very 11 the has had to walk a very difficult tightrope when it to taiwan, and the sense comes to taiwan, and the sense it is not saying it’ support i , its own decision
i , i its own decision for independence, and support the us quo as it is right now at status quo as it is right now but at the same time does support taiwan minutes, you , wanting to have a know, wanting to have a ee18 know, wanting to have a democracy and an independent tical future.
it’ a tricky 4 one?
it is, but just have to 4 one?
itis, but we just have to be careful we don’ do things that can result in a negative lt, what we that can result in a negative i a1 that can result in a negative result, what we want to vent, the deal as we prevent, the ideal as we would the status quo to continue we would ike to want to a1 on, we would like to want to continue to be an independent on cannot continue to be an independent cannot be attacked by nation cannot be attacked by china, that is self-evident.
all we ever do but of all we ever do is use 4 threat of military force, threat of acting and efence of taiwan, be accelerating the chance that a actually does that i raaat china actually does that because to them it is an absolute because to them it is an because to them it is an absolute core interest into nited states it an interest a1 but not of vital national 018
but not of vital national interest
because our security i - 8" !
i - 8" is not threatened and that is so & mportant we keep the strategic ambiguity and ’ give china an easy excuse something know they to do something we know they have to do something we know they to do something we know they have wanted to do for decades.
of what might happen next?
think we can expect 4 me pretty harsh response from ina over the coming hours, hen they have a chance to ocess this a little bit, it’ fortunately a combination 1 what the nancy pelosi visit was earlier this summer with a $1 millien military deal ned a few days ago, weeks ago and now this, the fourth president biden said it 334 time president biden said it set something in place and a of events that could series of events that could end up ina very bad place for itary conflict
that nebody = = wants.
daniel davis, thank military conflict that nobody wants.
daniel davis, thank you haring your thoughts on that.
now, to zelensky says investigations crimes are continuing 40 one of several areas back in ukrainian hands after significant territorial gains in recent days.
on the edge of the city.
our ukraine correspondent james waterhouse has more from kyiv.
since ukraine forced rush out for the first time since the evasion for the first time since the a i 2 on and retook territory at evasion and retook territory at it has taken it now seems focusing on investigating at the invaders did and what scow is going to do next.
in he case of the city of lzyum, hat is continuing to be covered from a mass grave, he latest claim from here that idence has been that evidence has been uncovered suggesting torture 2 bers were used by russian chambers were used by russian troops, reports of people being ured and a city being tortured and a city being littered with mines.
it has been heavy fighting in the hauraki region where aine has enjoyed success, on at russia will ukraine has enjoyed success, on 4 sia will do next?
the what russia will do next?
the thought from ukraine military 0 of defence it will look to a of defence it will look to strike more civilian targets in ine while it is frustrated ukraine while it is frustrated the battlefield, but this is ething russia has done hroughout this war, hit rgets throughout this large to to exert country to to exert influence and country to to exert mol influence and undermine ukrainian morale.
but on that point, president elensky said just because we regained areas of have regained areas of territory this does not mean it be a pause, what russia will hope is the speed of the eat will force ukraine to pause.
let’ return to our 0 over the last few weeks, the queues of people who lined up to pay their respects to the late queen have become a familiar sight and a major talking point and are likely to remain among the abiding images of this period of national mourning.
so what does this say about britain’ attitude to the monarchy and the public’ desire to be part of historical change?
nick robinson has been finding out.
you were, it seemed at times, either in it, or watching it.
at the last count, 7.
5 million people had tuned into the live feed to watch an estimated 750,000 walk past the coffin.
we’ve never seen anything like it before, we all said.
: through the night the people wait, silent and patient.
their night rest they give to the king vir0 is extraordinary.
it isn’, though, new.
in fact, it’ a flawless replica of what happened 70 years ago when the queen’ father, king george , died, and he lay in state.
britain has changed dramatically, of course.
our population is so much more diverse.
back then there was just the one channel, 111918 being in the gqueue.
in this era of selfies and emojis and online posts, it seems that what we’ve discovered is the advantages of being social without the media, because the queue, for many people, is as much about this journey as it is about the destination.
the hall of kings, the great hall of westminster, passes the long, silent column.
so many people, but so little noise.
of our modern era, the clicking and beeping of mobile phones, not even the silence thick, deep piled carpet on the stone floor absorbs almost every sound.
that tap-tap, for the changing of the guard.
another signals the lowering of weapons.
after a third tap-tap, : of george , it will be written, this was a king his people loved.
so little has changed since we last mourned a monarch and yet so much has changed.
gone are the sunday best suits, the ties and the hats, of course, but we are still mourning together.
not everybody, of course.
= that the monarchy has remnants of empire, of hierarchy, of deference, of class.
so what does explain the willingness of so many to queue for so long for so short a glimpse of a coffin?
people in the queue feel they are not alone.
i socially distanced.
they are not behind they are together with strangers who share that desire simply to be toegether.
to remember, to respect and to be here, in the queue.
nick robinson, news.
the prime minister of canada justin trudeau first met the queen as a child when his own father was prime he and his wife, sophie gregoire trudeau, spoke to the ’ mishal husain about canada’ and their own special relationship with the late was seven years old, member had to was seven years old, 4 remember had to rush back tee i8 remember had to rush back from school to meet her, and ctually been told these re the only shoes fit me are the only shoes that fit me and needed to keep them clean got them all muddy so emember ust before running 1 me to go to he school home to go to the school washroom with a buddy of mine leaning of my shoes i could have clean and cleaning of my shoes could have clean shoes for meeting the queen.
what was the tionship of your father with relationship of your father ith her like?
he had a emendous with her like?
he had a with her like?
he had a tremendous respect and ection tremendous respect
and i it tremendous respect and affection for her, think the them got along very, very well.
very well.
obviously, he two of them got along very, very well.
obviously, he was repatriating the busy repatriating the constitution, which he did in , from british north 1982, from british north america 1982, from british north i in 1982, from british north 1982, from british north
i i i 0 1982, from british north america act to be our own siets america act to be our own canadian constitution, a lot of with her, and making sure a a 1 everything worked out well.
it as a time of change then and icky moments they must have to navigate together, there eparatism sentiment, a was separatism sentiment, a referendum in was separatism sentiment, a - was separatism sentiment, a referendum in quebec and ublican sentiment as republican sentiment as well is your sense of how she approached and navigated those?
lways understood that internal political discussions when something she needed to nvolved with.
it doesn’
tter what your epinion is in this time of change and tic tic living in many ways this apacity for stillness and tachment, perspective and listening is crucial.
you taught, prime minister, out this being the end a chapter of shared history ween britain anada, between britain and canada, do you think the next chapter looks like?
of it steadiness and continuity, first audience with king and my first audience with king charles, we talked about things he have spoken about that he and have spoken about years now, he knows my passion he environment, for reconciliation with indigenous le, his ability to continue people, his ability to continue and extend the work the crown one in canada for decades.
has done in canada for decades.
do you think canada will still ound for your children’ be areund for your children’ lifetimes ?
think there is an aordinary stability in our ystem of democracy.
you will her?
will miss her erribly.
miss her?
will miss her a miss her?
will miss her terribly.
am still absorbing for me, just coming to ondon not eing able to london and not being able to see her, is something that ches me quard, a little bit.
as it ecause she reminds you our father and your childhood, eyond hers who have been in position?
you what question mac
no, she enough all on own, was enough all on her own, affection was enough all on her own, i it was enough all on her own, affection for her my missing the canadian prime minister speaking to mishal husain.
the victoria cross is one of the most prestigious medals awarded in the and recipients of the honour have been invited to the queen’ funeral.
citizen to have been awarded the medal, is unable to go for more than 200 years, soldiers from the gurkha region have served in the military.
he knew the queen for years.
now, he is saying goodbye.
: felt very sad to hear : felt very sad to i he had died, said captain hear she had died, said captain ram bahadur limbu, nepal’ only victoria oss living victoria cross ecipient.
a long journey for ondolence book to the condolence book to him.
3 a1 from nepal’ capital hundreds les away.
flying past the of miles away.
flying past the rld’ tallest of miles away.
flying past the world’ tallest mountains.
then, on the road to damak in outh-east.
at 88, captain the south-east.
at 88, captain ram bahadur limbu cannot travel funeral.
so the envoy to the funeral.
so the envoy to nepal went to his home.
"i’ hat sad that cannot be at her funeral™ he wrote.
"may her rest in ace.
”
she used soul rest in peace.
”
she used to 4 peak to us like we were bers of her family.
used eel happy while talking ith - he queen and felt was ortunate to working with i a fortunate to be working with her.
the british gurkha veteran warded he victoria cross was awarded the victoria cross 3 1966 for gallantry in the nflict in in 1966 for gallantry in the conflict in borneo between british and indonesian ces.
later, he also served as one of ueen’'sorderlies, accompanying her to military monies.
worked closely with ceremonies.
worked closely ith her for that one year.
ored her.
she was soft-spoken she had such clarity of ought.
when she used to meet she would lways ask are you?
how is your family?
ain ram bahadur limbu has captain ram bahadur limbu has lso met king charles several .
he hopes he gets to meet times.
he hopes he gets to meet him again.
+ so, a momentous day ahead and, of course, the newspapers ture that today and to talk hrough some of the front ages and what is inside, we joined by mark lobel, our 3ol are joined by mark lobel, our report.
you have a whole array eis ria a1 report.
you have a whole array of articles in front of you.
to start?
buckingham where to start?
buckingham 1 has always a previously , palace has always a previously unseen portrait of the queen.
dominating many of the it is dominating many of the ont pages and we can show you
i i
that now.
this is from a photographer who has met the queen on five separate 3 a0 sions at least and occasions at least and it is oss the telegraph.
they have one with a ife of selfless ervice, and the express service, and the express has with farewell, our gone with farewell, our glorious queen.
this is the ?
we also times?
we also have the sun 04 times?
we also have the sun which just says god bless.
it’ lovely photo, isn’ a really lovely photo, isn’ it?
taken at windsor in may.
4 it if you look closely 1 and on it if you look closely 4 that bridge, and aquamarine ooch, her at that bridge, and aquamarine i 1014 at that bridge, and aquamarine brooch, her 80th birthday sent from her brooch, her 80th birthday = from her parents in 77 present from her parents in 1944, if you for her diamond lee --18.
day in 2020 jubilee --18.
day in 2020 tte jubilee --18.
day in 2020
i it is the jubilee --18.
day in 2020 1 jubilee --18.
day in 2020
but it is the smile on but hat is the reason they think that is the reason 4 they chose it.
it’ a really pronounced smile compared to the other portraits we’ve seen.
but also, she is so and ’ not surprising at ease and it’ not surprising because this photographer took famous photograph if you member of prince charles, illiam, george and the queen kind of showed line which kind of showed the line uccession arocund he time of 90th birthday
so he knew well.
lovely to release hat today for us all to see.
ahead of the state funeral.
inside the pages?
let me show he front page of the hiy you the front page of the metro.
while we’re on these king front pages, this is a ortrait queen elizabeth i8 portrait of queen elizabeth from 1954 they have chosen re, the italian artist there the words thank you mam.
both a of her reign.
inside paper, let me show you the urkhai ecause let’ the paper, let me show you the i a1 gurkhai because let’ not forget the many people involved is which is the british in this which is the british public -- the i.
the world’ ewell to lizabeth, this farewell to elizabeth, this is the long walk to windsor castle 8 windsor great park and the long walk to windsor castle a & from windsor great park and if we show you which is where inal moments of the final moments of today’ events the final moments of today’ will be taking place, sn’ it?
exactly,
yeah, the ond part the position after second part of the position a 5 second part of the position after westminster abbey and the ral there
but if you go to age 17 inside the i, it says hey reported funerals in the past, it’ eminder that if ople are feeling it is eaeell to-wall coverage for this neral, wall-to-wall coverage for this i neral, it has always been the se.
they say when queen case.
they say when queen vitac case.
they say when queen victoria died in 1901, we can you a picture of that show you a picture of that funeral show you a picture of that i 1 show you a picture of that funeral and the times reported he funeral the times reported a - the funeral at windsor was marked by every circumstance of public ceremonial.
they say hyde park attracted the most mous crowd, it’ a special rrespondent boat, pathways were swarming with and the numerous high people and the numerous high trees were people and the numerous high were filled to the pmost branches with daring dventurous topmost branches with daring nil tle topmost branches with daring and adventurous climbers.
so if we will see any of i that.
wonder if we will see any of that.
we may see a bit of that .
it’ very familiar, sn’ , listening to that eporting?
with the passing of victoria.
can show you the daily mail?
page 21 we have talking about it day in, ay out, the queue, think we sed a sed a trick.
it how the aily mail have captured it on 21 what they called the queue, of course have 0 queue, of course we only have a0 ta0 queue, of course we only have yot a a8 about 30 minutes left of it but.
about 30 minutes left of it i .
35.
after six days, it but 35.
after six days, it the end but 35.
after six days, it i end of the elizabeth line.
that is eat line, isn’ , because course she ened the elizabeth line this ar.
one of the few public eed.
events at you turned indeed.
events that you turned up to, a indeed.
events that you turned 1 indeed.
events that you turned up to, a big surprise at the .
it’ right, we did not xpect time.
it’ right, we did not - xpect her to be there.
should been calling at the elizabeth lline, queue, all his time.
the ily mail, page ive, love this, the reception he century.
it sounds like uggage, glamorous thing but as the tate reception hosted by ing charles, ndreds of dignitaries from ound the world hundreds of dignitaries from the world -- lavish.
turning the page and looking at imes, we it not the times, we see it is not that simple.
you have many, diplomatic, potential ldle matic incidents with all of people invited because course you have example of course you have for example former spanish king he was ked not to come by the i spanish government asked not to come by the spanish government but turned ran, israel and spanish government but turned - up, iran, israel and i do love with up, iran, israel and i do with got this, key rotocol problem was that the sts, this was yesterday fternoon, were free to mingle ckingham palace when world leaders can move unimpeded, is both diplematic there is both diplomatic lie there is both diplomatic & rtunity and risk.
thought hat 0 opportunity and risk.
thought that would you rather well!
to mingle.
are they all making trip?
there is all making the trip?
there is an estimated audience of 4 ion.
enermous.
they billion.
enormous.
they all ant to be seen.
this image is rywhere as well of the i - princess of wales meeting with irst ady of ukraine, the a - "oy a - wife of the first lady of ukraine, the & ieta wife of the ukrainian president, here to represent ine.
president
zelensky not i ukraine.
president zelensky not here for abvious reasons.
therine princess of wales is nking to show her support.
quote from the times, this guote from the times, the back page, this was the queen 02, will read .
each in 2002, will read it.
each day is a new beginning, this is 8 he queen’ christmas from the queen’ christmas broadcast in 2002, each day is beginning.
know the a i\ a only way to a new beginning.
know the only way to live my life is to do what is right, to take the long view to give it and all that the day brings and my best and all that the day 811 my best and all that the day brings and to put my trust in god.
really brings and to put my trust in god.
really important to end on ords here.
an interesting quote her words there.
an interesting 0 ote on the website, the ’ ligion editor aleem magbool lking about how central faith to life, the former archbishop of york says queen was archbishop of york says the archbishop of york says the queen was so immersed in 1 queen was so immersed in scripture that she would just gelise laterally.
evangelise laterally.
absolutely.
and that particular hat year, 2002, when speech that year, 2002, when i says each day is a new eginning, the long beginning, take the long view, she lost her sister and other that year and as her mother that year and it was a tough year, 2002.
looked at bers that were tuning the numbers that were tuning kil into the speech, 3pm on christmas day last year, or million chintin.
-- re 9 millien chintin.
-- more than.
-- tuned in.
it will be nge this christmas.
she strange this christmas.
she be missed.
she will, and .
thank you, rk.
and thank is.
thank you, mark.
and thank you, too, for your company and re say goodbye, let’ before say goodbye, let’ ake you to westminster hall as just over half-an-hour for the public to pay their many of us have seen increasing the weekend and cloud will play quite a big part in monday’ weather story - possibly thick enough at times to give some spots of rain, maybe the odd shower - but it will largely stay and am hopeful that things will remain in londen and in windsor through the afternoon, it could give the odd light shower or the odd spot of rain or drizzle.
high pressure is still in charge - that’ keeping things mostly - but this weak warm front across south west scotland, perhaps north west england and this band of thick cloud and the potential for the odd spot of rain or drizzle does north east scotland will see some good spells of sunshine, though.
northern ireland may brighten up for a time.
south wales and the south-west of england should see some sunny spells.
temperatures north to south between 12 and 19 degrees.
now, through monday night, we’ll see large areas of cloud still potentially giving some spots of rain and drizzle, especially in eastern parts.
some clear breaks out they may well fill in with a little bit of mist and fog.
a little milder than it has been over recent nights - 9-12 degrees.
tuesday, well, we stick with a rather cloudy theme.
this stripe of cloud here still giving rise to some spots of rain and drizzle
but it does look like the cloud should tend to turn over and break up a little bit a bit more patchy rain into the western isles of scotland.
17 to 19, maybe 20 degrees in the south, so feeling and actually, on wednesday, if we see some sunny spells, at least for a time, it will feel considerably temperatures of 17 degrees in aberdeen, 21in norwich but a frontal system pushing in towards the north-west, bringing some outbreaks of rain, and that will make erratic progress southwards and eastwards through thursday and into friday.
some of the rain actually could be quite heavy, into the south of england so, the chance of some rain, particularly later jon kay and sally nugent.
it’ monday 19th september.
we’re at westminster abbey on an historic day.
a day the likes of which we haven’ seen for more than 70 years.
queen elizabeth i, the united kingdom’ longest-reigning monarch, will be laid to rest.
in the next half hour the final mourner will pass through westminster hall, where her majesty has been lying in state for over four days.
later, at precisely 10.
44, her coffin will be taken on a gun carriage, towed by 142 royal navy sailors, and make its way here to westminster abbey where the state funeral service will take place at 11:00.
along whitehall, onto the mall and past buckingham palace, where the queen will be buried alongside her husbhand prince philip.
our royal correspondent daniela relph looks ahead to a momentous day.
taken at windsor in may, and released by buckingham palace for today.
she is wearing aguamarine clip brooches given to her on her 18th birthday by her father.
today, the country over which she reigned for seven decades says its final goodbye.
it has been a week of vigils and insights inte a family’ private grief.
hip-hip!
hooray!
we have watched a new king and queen consort meeting the crowds who came out to greet them 5een a new prince and princess 1 people’'s memories of the queen and shared the sadness of the younger members to their beloved grandmother.
and two of the queen’ great-grandchildren will walk behind her coffin today in westminster abbey - nine-year-old prince george and seven-year-old princess charlotte will form part of the their parents, and in front of their aunt and uncle - the duke and duchess of sussex.
it will be a moment of extraordinary solemnity for these two young royal children.
the lord’ my shepherd - sung in the abbey at the wedding of the queen and prince philip.
prayers will reflect the queen’ long life and reign, and her devotion to duty.
the service ends with the last post, a two-minute silence, and the naticnal anthem.
sleep dearie sleep.
think we need to recollect this
i it’ very visual.
i think one of the things we are trying to do, is to take all that emotion, all that interest, all that care that we can see in the queue for the lying-in-state, that we can see in the parks where people are laying flowers, a focus for that.
we’ve.
we’ve put it into words, we’ve given the grief somewhere to go.
the guest list will see a congregation of prime ministers and presidents, of kings and queens - many of whom met king charles at buckingham palace last night.
they will attend the funeral alongside many charity workers and campaigners alse invited.
didn’ expect, out of the 2,000 people that were going, to be this chap from glasgow coming down to be part of it as a recipient of an .
it’ quite a it’ quite an honour.
few of us will have experienced anything like what we’ll see at westminster abbey.
the pomp, the grandeur, the scale will be memorable.