this is news.
and around the world.
as ten million people receive their first covid jab across the , a trial is launched to look at the impact of having different vaccines for the first and second dose.
it will hopefully maintain the at the forefront of research into covid vaccines.
we are very proud of our track record, obviously, on the vaccine task force and the deployment programme.
this is another part of the armoury.
with pressure growing to ease lockdown restrictions in the , a scientist advising the government says things could be more or less back to normal for the summer.
what do you think about the restrictions where you are?
if you’d like to get in touch about that or any of our stories you can contact us on twitter @annita—mcveigh or bbcyourquestions the state department calls for "serious consequences" for china after a report alleging women were systemically raped and tortured in uighur camps.
but china calls it ‘lies and disinformation’.
the and agree to work intensively to sort out problems with post-brexit trade in northern ireland.
myanmar’s military blocks facebook after protests continue to spread against monday’s military coup.
and coming up this hour: tennis officials say the australian open will start as planned on monday, despite hundreds of players and staff being forced to isolate again in melbourne.
or around the world.
a new trial has launched here in the to look at the impact of giving people different coronavirus vaccines for their first and second doses.
the mix—and—match approach could provide more flexibility in the event of any supply problems.
scientists say it’s possible that having different vaccines might even provide better protection than having the same one twice.
it comes as the yesterday passed the milestone of giving 10 million people their first jabs.
dominic hughes reports.
with more than ten million people now having had their firstjabs across the , the vaccination roll—out is well under way.
but could mixing doses of the oxford—astrazeneca and the pfizer—biontech vaccines offer the body even more chances to develop defences against the virus?
that’s what’s behind a new trial being unveiled today.
the study will involve 820 volunteers, none of whom have yet had the vaccine.
all will be aged 50 or over, part of the group to be vaccinated in the next priority wave.
the trial will run initially at eight sites across england.
what we’re doing here is we are looking to see how well people’s immune systems respond if you give the first dose with one covid vaccine, the second with another.
and the reason we want to do that is to build flexibility into the immunisation schedule for covid vaccines, and even globally.
it makes it much easier to administer these vaccines if you don’t have to worry too much about always giving the second dose the same as the first dose.
that also brings resilience into the immunisation schedule.
if there were to be supply problems with one of the vaccines, then you are protected against that by being able to immunise with the other vaccine as an alternative.
researchers believe there are good reasons to think it may work.
for example, exactly this process was used in the fight against ebola.
introducing flexibility in the vaccination programme could also help, should there be disruption to vaccine supplies, and it may be of huge benefit to developing countries that have yet to get vaccination programmes up and running.
the first results should be known by the early summer.
dominic hughes, news.
let’s pick up on this with our chief political correpondent adam fleming at westminster.
m: we saw the grass at the press conference yesterday in that the of vaccinations is shooting up rapidly, the number of cases is ling rapidly the number of falling rapidly and the number of hospitalisations and deaths is ing down and following but not rapidly as the other indicators.
conservative will be looking at this and asking if we can aster with ting the lockdown go faster with lifting the lockdown in england.
good schools open ier than the 8th of march?
the overnment is icking to its approach which it describes as ious rather than a slow and that s, look at the data on the 15th of mary, uary, published a plan on the week of 22nd and the schools on he eighth.
the prime minister has made it very clear that, on the 22nd of february, there will be a road map for how we intend to reopen the economy, beginning with schools on the 8th of march and then gradually the rest of the economy.
you have to set yourself targets.
and you hope everything goes well.
scientists seem very cautious at the moment and chris whitty said there in the data that the vaccination programme are starting and effect the progress of the virus in the over 805 but they hints and he has not convinced and it will be two weeks re that happens.
in the scientific community some people are ting to talk how bright starting to talk about how bright the future might be fairly soon.
is professor from this is the professor from university college london on the ittee which advises the committee which advises the government on new respiratory es.
once the most vulnerable people, and particularly those over 50 and those with chronic illnesses, are vaccinated, then, yes, i think we can see a significant return to normality.
and that, you know, in addition to the fact that coronavirus is a seasonal disease, i think will make a big difference and allow us to open up.
and i think what we will see is a phased opening up as the vaccination levels increase.
and then we will be more or less back to normal for the summer, i would imagine.
another part of this complex equation of opening up is stopping a potentially bringing their ims people potentially bringing their virus in in the first place.
we have ooking at hotel quarantine ver the last two weeks.
what is the ernment ying?
it is getting government saying?
it is getting confusing, the prime minister said ancock, they help secretary would make a statement today.
we were then told that the prime ster had misspoke in and that as not the intention.
if you look at the recordings of parliamentary proceedings last week, me secretary said matt hancock ould be making a statement this k.
there was an expectation and overnment that something would pen and something has not happened yet.
the chief executive of western hotels group was on he radio this morning and he is strated because he says his hotel ain has plan ready to go to implement the quarantine for rning travellers but he has had ery little engagement from the ernment.
i think we are going to to wait and see although they pointed out to me it is a big istical challenge and sometimes tehall takes a little while to its head around big logistical llanges.
the united states has condemned china after reports of allegations of systematic rape and torture of women in so—called re—education camps for the uighur muslim minority.
the state department says it is "deeply disturbed" by what it called "the atrocities" outlined in the report broadcast on this channel.
and its demanding a powerful response — urging that china’s actions, which it says "shock the conscience, be met with serious consequences.
"a group of republican senators has joined human rights groups in calling on the international olympic committee to move next year’s winter games out of china — but the biden adminstration says it won’t stop athletes attending.
report as ‘lies and disinformation’.
this from the ministry’s weekly press conference.
: there is no so—called systemic sexual assault and abuse against women.
china is a country ruled by law.
our constitution guarantees and protect human rights and it is embodied in our legal system and the government’s work.
the education and training centres strictly abide by constitutional laws to guarantee the students’ basic rights and forbids any insult or abuse.
matthew hill is the reporter who did the story.
he says the piece was thoroughly researched.
we spent a long time, over a year, really, looking at this in greater detail.
we’ve spoken to several women outside of xinjiang, intensively interrogated them to make sure what they are telling us is credible.
and we have also, you know, we have done a lot of checking of our sources on this one.
and so, yeah, it has had a big reaction internationally.
including senator menendez, chair of the senate foreign relations committee in the , and also australia, they have done a statement.
marise payne the australian foreign minister, has made a statement where she is calling on china to allow international observers, including the commission of human rights, to be allowed access, and get access to the country of the back of this.
m: we will have more on this story where an urgent question is going to in the house of commons be asked in the house of commons about uighur women in camps.
the and have said they will work hard to resolve these checks were agreed as part of the brexit trade deal.
talks last described as constructive are continuing between the governments border controls were stopped this week.
our europe correspondent explains.
it was a joint statement and a virtual ing that a0 minutes last night, the deputy ister for northern reland and the first minister from , and ultimately, it is a the , and ultimately, it is a history of last week’s trouble with tastrophe in which it has dmitted by the intended to ger article 15 to suspend its sual application meaning there be a border between ireland northern ireland with the ine checks happening there.
they had stopped that, but a letter erday morning published by michael gove was sent to the saying after that problem, we have hreats to northern irish taff at the board, staff being ended from work since tuesday, still off work at the moment, those not in place on certain foodstuffs, we need some resolution.
is a grace period for certain products, supermarket products, meat edicines, we need to continue his scenario up until 2022.
it was nute meeting, the end result was it ould be a constructive way inding solutions, the ego will ome to northern ireland next week.
will continue to impose fully checks and the are still pushing for a grace period to it.
in the last few minutes we have radio ulster, the foreign nister or ireland and he said at the idea of the grace period w, we will look to put in place possibla to extend some of the race period, i think it is under sideration but nothing dramatic erms of protocol.
perhaps some small room for manoeuvre but wants assurances now for the aff to go back to work at the safely.
let’s talk to stephen kelly, chief executive of manufacturing northern ireland, a trade body that has been helping business adjust to the new trading arrangements.
i spoke to roberts a while ago and i was asking him, we talk about on like article 16, what does it jargon like artida 16, what does it actually mean on a practical level?
he situation affecting on a how is the situation affecting on a practical level the people you esent?
there is no doubt that anuary was an redibly difficult month, he business community did in the absence of detail, people did not have the time to get y.
that is what we experienced the 1st of january.
it was a bit the cene from wallace and romit when gromit lays down the in front of the train avert saster.
businesses were working in dibly hard to keep going in the idst of the turmoil that was the inning of this year.
on top of at, the covid—19 pandemic ecting us ll.
yes, we know that scene.
in the meantime, if you can’t ems you normally get from get items you normally get from great britain because of the ation, where are you getting hem from?
one of the benefits of rotocol is that business and orthern ireland can continue to the .
there are more restrictions and customs and tariffs of origin, but many on rules of origin, but many manufacturing businesses have rientated how they are supplied.
membership in the last few days, % of businesses have said they have ked out a way to get the products they would normally have make the things that they got to make the things that they make, shipping them from continental through southern irish ports are using transit systems to transit the , across great britain ack into northern ireland.
one efit of the protocol in terms of european trade, that shouldn’t at all.
at the moment, businesses in great britain are out because of the situation.
hey would normally, before the , have been supplying the farms hat you represent and now they not?
they are not to.
this is a sovereign choice of the government to make this decision.
land of britain was a centre distribution for this as well.
ly, that has been hindered in ignificant ways that the government ecided it wishes to be out of the single market, the customs n, with that comes cost and mplaxity and businesses will find he least resistance in terms of de.
people are moving to different supply modes.
from your ective, what is the answer to this conundrum?
we are hearing about grace riod being extended.
that doesn’t really solve anything in the immediate future, does it?
it buys time in terms of trying to find native and workable solutions.
alternative and workable solutions.
there is no doubt that there are ificant frictions on the irish sea between great britain and hern ireland.
they are painful or businesses trying to adjust.
have had no time to do that and will take considerable time to ose adjustments.
the reality the protocol is not going away, an international treaty that the has signed alongside the pean union and has legal obligations.
both parties need to strate that they want to make he protocol work.
the government ing its best, working hard with us as a business community, the ean union has to do more.
thank you very much.
the headlines on news: f.
is 10 million people received the jab across the , look at a ferent dosage.
the state epartment looks part serious sequences for china after women they were raped and tortured in ghur ramps.
he and agreed ork intensively to sort out roblams with post—brexit trade in rthern ireland.
days after staging a coup, myanamar’s military leaders have blocked facebook, the main source of internet access for people in the country.
officials say it was shutdown to boost stability.
the secretary—general, antonio guterres, has pledged to mobilise international pressure to ensure, as he put it, that the military coup in myanmarfails.
there’s been no word on the whereabouts of the country’s factor leader aung san suu kyi and president win myint since monday.
for a second day protesters banged pots and sounded car horns in the country’s largest city.
our reporter nye—in chan aye filed this report from yangon.
this is where people are showing their frustration and anger against the military coup that has taken place on monday.
this is the second night in a row people in yangon have been banging pots and pans, honking their car horns, in protest against the military coup that took place on monday.
essentially, what people here are saying is that they don’t want to live or work under the military any more.
: we only respect our elected president, no one else.
if the president wanted the military to take over, then we would have accepted that.
but this coup is not fair, so we are expressing our feelings in a peaceful way.
we are the voice of the little people.
: i witnessed the coups in 1962 and 1988.
we know all about what happens under military takeovers, so we have to do this.
if we take to the streets, they will shoot us dead.
under these circumstances, i support this kind of protest.
we want the elected leaders back.
: people don’t accept the coup.
that’s we want to drive them out, by doing this.
on the other hand, the military is taking total control of the country.
the military have installed an ii—memberjunta, which they say will rule under the year—long state of emergency.
the people of yangon have come out here tonight again, in larger numbers than yesterday, to say they want their vote on voice to be heard.
our correspondent jonathan head is in bangkok in neighbouring thailand.
i think everyday people are trying to find other ways in which they can show their opposition to this coup.
you have to remember that the reason people are so angry, apart from the depressing prospect of being thrown back to military governments that have chronically failed the country in the past, is that they have just had an election in which there was a surprisingly large turnout, during the covid pandemic, and voted overwhelmingly again for aung san even though her party has been a power for five years.
they gave her another term in office.
this week, parliament was supposed to be sitting to formalise that new term of office.
the new were supposed to sit.
that has been stopped by the coup.
in fact, some of the mp5 that were detained initially have now started to come together, and they are trying to form a kind of informal parliament away from the parliament building, to to establish a kind of alternative, legitimate government.
so, this kind of tussle are still going on.
we are hearing very little from the military government themselves.
they have mostly acted in the capital, naypyida.
they are still holding aung san suu kyi herself and her ally, the president, in custody.
and they have charged them with what seemed like it, frankly, absurd charges.
she is charged with having illegal walkie—talkies in her house, used by her security guards.
but it looks like they are going to and get a criminal charge against her, because that would disqualify her from running for office.
remember, the military is talking about, eventually, holding another election once they have got through this year long period of emergency rule.
everyone is sitting and waiting to see whether they can find ways to oppose the military safely without getting shot.
we are seeing small protests today, they have been chased away by police.
and waiting to see what the military says about how they are going to handle the power they have now given themselves.
is there any more word on how aung san suu kyi is?
because the , for example, saying they are concerned about her well—being 7 well, we understand she has been remanded in custody for two weeks on these rather bizarre charges.
before she will be formally charged, we are not sure how long it will take to bring her to trial.
we have heard that she is in good health and there is nothing particularly wrong with her.
she is a 75—year—old woman.
i imagine, probably knowing her, that the biggest problem is how angry she must feel about what has happened.
but the concern, i think, is much more for the future, particularly of myanmar itself.
this is a country whose economy has been badly hit already by covid.
there is a lot of extreme poverty there.
what the military has done is bound to have a very negative effect on that economy.
that can make people angry enough in the future to come out and challenge the military.
and everybody should remember from them a’s history that in the past, when it has happened, the military has not hesitated to shoot people.
in russia, officials have charged lyubov sobol, an ally of kremlin critic alexei navalny, with breaching —19 restrictions by calling on people to join a nationwide protest last month, that’s according to her lawyer.
the case against sobol is part of a police crackdown on navalny’s allies after they staged nationwide rallies to protest his imprisonment.
there are big problems for organisers of the australian open tennis.
up to 600 players, officials and support staff, have been forced to go into isolation after a worker at one of the event’s quarantine hotels, tested positive for coronavirus.
the tournament starts on monday, and tennis australia says it’ll go ahead as planned.
another few days of the main event on monday that we are told by cials is going to go ahead as it tands.
i am ere melbourne park normally things would be much ier, it is pretty empty here now.
we were expecting some profile names, some top names he sport, to be playing, to be apart some warm up events.
it has been cancelled.
this was a ance for some practice especially ded for the players who were oled up in quarantine last month covid—19 cases were recorded on heir aeroplanes.
of that is their aeroplanes.
none of that is happening today.
another big blow to stralian open, much to the frustration of the players and anisers the people of organisers and the people of melbourne who are really excited this is happening.
this city as seen one of the longest and shest lockdown is and they are oking forward to coming back to fe.
the 500 to 600 players and ficials and coaches have to come with negative test before they ran return to the competition.
we are expecting those results to come today within the next few in later today within the next few hours.
as tennis australia being mistic saying things will go head from monday as planned?
from a perspective they are right to confident in the sense that the not have been directly in contact with the players because were antining in their they were quarantining in their rooms, they are confident here should not be too many transmissions, however, the bigger is the wider community concern is the wider community transmission, they are a few days the worker at the hotel behind the worker at the hotel who had a taste on the 29th of january here is positive test came up the 2nd of february.
there are a days when he could have created ike within the community in eory or something.
if the state forced into lockdown, that would serious pressure on the ournament.
in terms of player smission, they are tentatively onfident there won’t be too many blems.
the organisers are pecting tens of thousands of ctators that they are hoping to st.
could there be an impact re?
where are the spectators ming from?
date from the state re right across australia?
i think re coming from the state.
that one of the things to be watched for at the minute.
it will depend on the number of cases, how people are allowed an, at the many peopla are allowed an, at the minute, they are planning to go full ahead.
they were looking at steam ahead.
they were looking at around 30,000 a day.
i’d be prised if they are aware that any in the end now but the next few i going to be important to see he capacity crowds are allowed an.
alia is then a better position with regards to coronavirus than other parts of the world, to a major tournament under way and see it through to a conclusion uld be an achievement in this time demic.
it been a massive a pandemic.
it been a massive operation, charter ﬂights to ring re than 1000 people into the ountry, ranged a separate visa ist to other australians who want ome back, put them into a uarantine, some of them are allowed actice every day and those were unfortunate to be on flights re ere there were positive tests have not been allowed to tice and have been shoved into a hard quarantine.
it is a massive ation and the idea of it being ancelled, they have spent a lot of ey, paid for and money, paid for flights and accommodation, it has been a really, expensive operation for the ry.
i hope for their sake does appen and they are confident at the that it will but it is a minute that it will but it is a changing situation and you can never nything certainty whether say anything with certainty whether the virus.
thank you very much.
’s hope erything goes smoothly let’s hope everything goes smoothly come monday.
some breaking news, the ator ofcom is revoking or has revoked the licence of n, china television network.
they are global telavision network.
they are saying that after a study, they have uded that the licence was concluded that the licence was wrongfully hailed by star china a limited.
has a right of esponse and a right to question mling but ofcom has revoked he license of the satellite channel the licence was wrongfully eard by star china media limited.
is all have at the moment on the piece of breaking news.
take a look at these images of the white cliffs of dover.
this footage, captured by a local fisherman, shows chunks of the famous chalk—lined cliffs crumbling and falling into the english channel.
dave waterfield said he heard a loud crack and then started filming.
seconds later the ground at the top started to buckle, before an entire section gave way.
a study carried out in 2016 found the cliffs are retreating by up to 12 inches a year because of coastal erosion.
some of scotland’s mountain ski centres are having their best winter conditions in years but frustratingly for boarders and skiiers remain closed due to lockdown restrictions.
this is cairngorm mountain in the scottish highlands, as you can see, with plenty of high quality snow on its slopes.
glencoe mountain said it was experiencing the best conditions it had ever seen for the time of year following weeks of frequent snowfalls and freezing temperatures, with more wintry weather expected this weekend.
however, ski centres, like the vast majority of businesses, remain closed in line with restrictions.
the headlines as 10 million peopla receive their first covid jab the , trailers launched a look at impact of having ifferent vaccines for the first and dose.
it will hopefully aintain the at the forefront of earch into covid vaccines.
we are proud of our track record, as know, on the vaccine task force, the deployment programme.
this other part of the armoury.
with essure owing to ease lockdown restrictions in the , a scientist ing the government says things ould be more or less back to normal the mmer.
the state for the summer.
the state department calls for serious consequences for china after a report alleging women were ematically raped and tortured in uigher ramps, china because it and disinformation.
the and agree to work intensively to sort oblems with post—brexit out problams with post-brexit trading northern ireland.
the mar military box facebook after tests continue to spread against days ’s military coup.
boris borisjohnson has praised what he described as the colossal effort to nate 10 million people.
this vaccinate 10 million people.
this milestone means the looks likely the government target of protecting 15 million of the most erable people by the middle of this month.
how feeling?
excited, please we are on with the show.
thank you.
the ess is simple and quick.
first, everybody is checked in.
then a wait, just a few minutes.
oday is my first day of working as se.
i have rejoined the nursing egister.
imogen, who will give his vaccine, nursing five years to start a family.
but she is ck.
i thought it was a very xciting opportunity and i wanted to part in it.
fantastic, a step play a part in it.
fantastic, a step in the right direction.
thank you.
my wife is being done tomorrow.
i have just been reading a whatsapp age rom a brother—in—law in south africa, is in hospital ere with it.
with covid.
and he is well at l.
so, yeah, you know, not well at all.
so, yeah, you know, it’s touching everybody in some way.
line, another who is next in line, another john who is being looked after by his neighbour, ah.
john’s wife is in a care ome and as not been able to see her.
it has been a bad year everybody, gardless of who you e.
everybody has suffered in some or another.
hard not seeing your fe?
very difficult.
and this is all people in care homes and for all peopla in rare homes and hospitals, it’s very difficult.
rah was here a few days ago with her husband, who have a heart splant three years ago.
it has een a very worrying time.
we have been shielding since last march.
i brought in for his vaccination on rday.
it was thrilling.
pulling from that report to go to the ouse of commons, where we are nigel adams, the minister asia, nswering an urgent question treatment of uigher women.
report that my honourable friend refers to is chilling.
it includes deeply distressing imony of the rape, torture and humanisation of uigher women in jiang detention centres.
it is a her body of evidence of the uman rights violations perpetrated uigher minorities in the of the scale and severity of these paints a harrowing picture.
if china a wishes to dispute this ence, it must allow unfettered cess to the region for the high mmissioner human ights, commissioner for human rights, or another independent fact—finding this overnment is committed body.
this government is committed to robust action on xinjiang, which the foreign secretary announced a series of targeted ures to ensure that british rganisations are not complicit in ofiting from human rights or profiting from human rights violations in the region.
this udes a review of export controls they apply to xinjiang, the roduction of financial penalties sinesses that do not comply for businesses that do not comply with the modern slavery act, and ort for government bodies to exclude suppliers complicit in labour.
it represents to hina that there is a epresentational and economic cost policies in xinjiang.
it is the has played and will tinue to play a leading role in building rnational pressure on china to change course.
in october june 020, the led the 2019 and june 2020, the lad the first two joint statements on iang at the .
38 countries oined the in a statement at the hird committee on october 2020.
diplomatic action is vitally important.
more countries than ever eaking out about xinjiang.
hina has already been forced to nge its narrative about the mps, and denial of these violations is increasingly hard to in.
the foreign secretary has made clear the extent of our concern to his counterpart, the foreign minister, and i have raised sue with the chinese ambassador, the former chinese ssador in london.
on forced birth control, we have used our ement to draw attention to this deeply concerning issue.
i have red the house that i will continue to work with international partners, including with the new administration and through our g7 dency, to hold trainer account for its actions.
we have repeatedly for those to be released to ave been arbitrarily detained.
i am the honourable members will join me in reiterating that fall.
i thank the minister for his powerful statement.
yesterday, the broadcast harrowing footage of estrated abuse against uigher omen on an unprecedented scale.
had an ctric stick, and it they had an electric stick, and it was pushed inside my genital tract, ring me with electric shocks.
at is the testimony of person pha-macro.
did whatever their alpha-macro.
they did whatever their evil minds could think of, they were rians.
ifelt i had died.
i was barbarians.
ifeltl had died.
iwas dead, she said.
then there were the apes, by the police, in front of other ramp etainees, as a form re—education, seeking out those look ush them even further.
the horrifying stories add to the and worrying body of evidence, tailing evidence of atrocities trated in xinjiang, which may even be genocidal.
this has led to oard of deputies of british ews comparing the holocaust.
but thing is presented to the nothing is being presented to the european court of justice.
how is inister going to get the court udgment it needs to act, when all ernational routes are paralysed hina.
we cannot be bystanders to deliberate attempt to terminate a group of people.
not ain.
well the minister make a omise today that no further epening of any ties of any kind, pening of any ties of any kind take place with china until a judicial quiry has fulljudicial inquiry has investigated these crimes?
and will nister commit to meet with a uigher survivor, a brave woman ing her safety to save her risking her safety to save her family and her people.
finally, the kingdom cannot stand by and do nothing the extermination the uigher.
mass rapes, scalping or terilisations.
we can act and for sterilisations.
we ran act and we must act.
thank you.
can i thank her for her powerful know how important this is to her.
i would reiterate we have announced a of measures, the foreign secretary, the 12th of january, of he human rights situation xinjiang.
this will help ensure businesses are not complicit in human rights violations.
we are international efforts to hold china to account.
of course, i will meet with the uigher lady that the honourable friend refers to.
i will be delighted too.
but it is rtant that we continue to work this incredibly crucial issue , alongside our international artners, pulling together alongside any, 38 other countries to make statement that we did late last year.
we will work with the new administration under president n.
can i thank her again for ringing this edibly powerful bringing this incredibly powerful testimony to the house.
anybody that the report that the , i congratulate the on this ort, anybody who has seen that annot help be moved and distressed by what are clearly evil ts.
phen kinnock, fifa minutes acts.
stephen kinnock, fifa minutes was to knock the chinese ernment’s brutal campaign of oppression injiang is a scar on the nscience of the world and the bour party ands shoulder to shoulder with the uigher people.
we already know about the forced labour .
yesterday we heard utterly heartbreaking testimonies from women who have been uigher women who have been systematically raped, sexually abused and tortured.
it follows sommer’s harrowing accounts from women were victims of uigher women who were victims of forced to sterilisation and forced sert station.
the chinese government statistics show that nancies fell by a third, meaning that it may meet the definition of cide.
last month, the foreign cretary condemned the in xinjiang is barbarism that ped was lost to another era.
urely the time for tangible action come?
first, where on earth the magnitsky sanctions that way benches on the cross the house had been calling for since june?
foreign secretary said the ody of evidence is large growing, and we know the names the senior chinese officials sponsible for these atrocities.
sanctioned them last summer.
committee is holding this up?
20% of he well’s cotton comes from xinjiang.
come the steps the xinjiang.
we welcome the steps the cover and has state are taken to ent businesses from being omplicit in forced labour.
but they ’t do enough.
they must be didn’t do enough.
they must be accountable, not just transparent.
he bring rward legislation will he bring forward lagislation that brings mandatory due diligence?
uesday, when the trade bill eturns, this house has a chance to a united message to the world at genocide can never be met with ndifference, or inaction.
indifference, impunity or inaction.
this should not be a partisan issue.
it is a long—standing given it is a long—standing government commitment that courts, government, must rule on not the government, must mle on genocide, will he join with us and eagues across the house to give courts the power is to determine ide, and therefore prevent the from ever doing trade deals with genocidal states?
thank you, speaker.
i thank the honourable raises a number of issues.
he mentioned the announcement rding genocide.
it is worth ointing out that the has a ferent process for determining enocide that is not linked to a decision.
with regards to the ssue of anctions, we have had rgeted measures in response to s.
onjanuary 12th, he this.
on january the 12th, the foreign secretary announced a series ions, robust actions, to of actions, robust actions, to ensure that no companies will be iting from forced labour.
and we will target in a forensic way those nies that are doing so, whether deliberately or otherwise.
of course, we are carefully considering rther designations under our global human rights regime, with all nce on nigel adams, evidence on nigel adams, responding to the urgent question the treatment of uigher women in ramps.
that llows a report leging that omen were raped and ortured in these camps.
nigel ams, ying the government was committed to taking robust action.
china’s denial of these he said china’s denial of these allegations is increasingly hard to in.
nusrat ghani, responding, said that we could not be bystanders s.
that continues in the house to this.
that continues in the house of commons.
one of the world’s leading climate scientists says borisjohnson risks humiliation if he allows a new coal mine to begin operating at whitehaven in cumbria.
drjames hansen, whose testimony in the congress in 1988 helped raise awareness of global warming, has urged the prime minister to step in — and halt production.
borisjohnson has the opportunity to change the whole climate story.
he could be the knight in shining armour who puts the world on a different pathway.
all he has to do is follow the science.
a downing street spokeswoman said the government was a world leader in climate policy, but would not be changing its decision on the coal mine.
our environment analyst is roger harrabin is here.
when doctor james hansen say something like this, i think most will sit up and listen.
but we people will sit up and listen.
but as we have just heard, the ernment, the government, says is not changing its policy with ards to this coalmine.
tell us ore about the background?
0k, background is that a firm put in for ssion to dig a coalmine off the coast of cumbria.
that application cumbria county council, the county council has said they could good grounds for opposing it.
so they passed it.
now, that t, the government could have stepped in, the community secretary jenrick ould have called in robert jenrick could have rallad in that that decision and overruled it.
he chose not to.
he said the county cil was the appropriate level of nment for the decision to be ade at.
that caused an outcry with enpeace saying, well, let’s hope the chinese provinces don’t this attitude, otherwise the is toast.
since then, the row as rumbled on.
now doctor hansen involved.
as you say, he is a trivial figure.
he knows joe biden, he ows biden’s climate nvoy john rry.
he is a powerful aracter has copied the character and he has copied the letter that he sent to boris son.
he has copied that to johnson.
he has copied that to john kerry.
he is trying to stir up as you think the government in the is going to have to do more to say got these green credentials, re a leading government when it mes to going green, and yet we are lowing this coalmine to open and rate?
there is some disagreement government itself over this?
there is indeed.
have eatedly, over the past several 575- ars, complained that the overnment is very good at talking en, and much less get up actually livering policies.
people are ncerned about this one because of impact on the international age.
so, 0, the , with boris ohnson in harge, is going to be ading a lobal climate conference ovember, a climate summit, which really big deal in climate rms.
it has also set up an anisation that it calls powering organisation that it rails powering past coal, so people do not burn in power tions.
the fact coal in power stations.
the fact that it is permitting a coalmine on territory is proving extremely controversial.
you ioned downing street.
they say off the record that the issue is this is not an organisation that is trying to dig for coal to power stations, it is an organisation digging for coking coal steel industry.
the for the steel industry.
the committee on climate change says not wash, because this does not wash, because permission has been given for the to continue producing right up to the middle of the century, eas we need to have stopped urning coking coal to make steel by .
they are saying the permission should not have been given.
but it like downing street are looks like downing street are bathening down hatches and are ing to willing to have a row on this one.
i must say, just from an analytical of view, it could cause quite lot of international stress, for a tively small number of .
obs.
it’s interesting the decision made.
it will be has been made.
it will be interesting to watch that one in the of what you have been ing.
thank you very much.
the number of people in critical rare beds has started to fall, but in ten major hospital trusts in england had no spare adult tical beds last week, critical care beds last week, according to the latest figures from gland.
a total of 15 out of england.
a total of 15 out of 140 acute trusts reported 100% cupancy open beds each day occupancy of all open beds each day from january the 25th to the 31st.
to alk about what the figures here to talk about what the figures mean for front line staff is mike s, director england the adams, director for england at the royal college of nursing.
thank you uch for oining us.
i want to very much for joining us.
i want to get you first of all to explain what figures mean.
we are being told a number of people in critical beds ngland is starting to rare beds in england is starting to fall.
but we’re told that one in ten tals had no spare critical care hospitals had no spare critiral rare beds?
what is important to erstand in a position around itiral care bed capacity at the oment is that the amount of beds we have available has dramatically been increased over ave of the pandemic.
so while this wave of the pandemic.
so while there might be some drop in the of beds right now, this is oming from a point where some trusts have increased their capacity by 200%.
so any dropping of eful beds now is very much the useful beds now is very much an earty sign that things are in the direction.
it is not a change ssure on front line staff at his moment in time who are working the most incredibly trying conditions.
mikey, tell us what that means for front line staff terms of the hours they are orking, the number of patients they ooking after, compared to the umbers they would normally be king after?
what are the ratios e?
we are seeing lots of reports taff staying on for hours after shift has ended to ensure that peopla are property looked after.
i think the word is exhaustion.
most front line staff will be reporting right now.
it is, obviously, we talk a lot about areas and there have been changes to ing levels there that, in ormal circumstances, we would not want to see.
specialist trained nurses are looking after more than tients, with support from other staff.
that is not what is ening in normal circumstances.
need to get back to that.
here is pressure all across the em, not ust .
it is general actice nurses, community district es, all under pressure from taffing levels, all under pressure having to be spread more thinly, as there was more sickness as people are ill with covid levels as peopla are ill with covid and have to isolate.
but also as ices are not available, as in normal mes, that puts more ressure on other services to pensate.
so, it is hugely ssurised at the moment.
there is doubt that at some point staff ross all professions, but from a sing perspective, staff are going a rest.
they leave has been ncelled, as you say, many staff doing wildly over the normal rs.
this will have a long—term on the ple we have to look toll on the peopla we have to look after.
we have often talked about can be done in the medium and onger term to rove things for client staff.
in the short term, the hing that will make a only thing that will make a difference for front line staff is sticking to the rules and not peopla sticking to the mles and not getting ill or not passing on this to other people, who then get ill and end up in pital?
yeah, bsolutely.
probably my words do to actually convey the little to actually convey the pressure that people are under and nditions people are working the conditions peopla are working under right ow.
i don’t know if i do it justice, see and what do it justice, what you see and what we talk to members about, what and family of mine who are in nursing staff convey.
at the way through this in the short erm is to get the spread of the down, so that there are less virus down, so that there are lass peopla becoming ill.
we do have some progress on the vaccination rogramme, which again is a huge ort from staff within health rvices.
but everyone still needs doing their bit by making ure this virus does not spread in.
you say you don’t know if you do justice to nvey that ran do justice to convey that message to the general public about hey need to do.
what is the thing that ople need to do to elp the front line staff, nurses, tors, everybody who is working in ospital settings, really.
of the main things that keeps emerging moment is any kind of doubt at the moment is any kind of doubt that this is really happening.
really need to challenge that.
this is a very real experience rsing staff.
they are having deal with circumstances, the unt of people they are saying to the end their lives is beyond at people would reasonably expect they come into nursing.
please believe when you see nurses in press talking about their periences, please believe them and believe that you can have an mpact on their erience by making sure that this virus does not ad.
you are watching news.
joanna gosling will be here next to take you through to one o’clock.
re that, a look at the weather ith carol.
hello again.
over the next few days, particularly into the weekend, we are looking at where it’s been mild turning much colder, for some of us a drop of 13 degrees or so.
and we will see further snow coming further south than it has gone through this week.
today, though, we’ve got some cloud, rain and sleet at levels with some snow mostly on the hills, but coming down to lower levels in parts of northern scotland during the day and also gusty winds blowing that snow.
at the same time, we’ve got some heavy, potentially thundery showers moving north, but in between, a lot of weather.
those showers move towards north north—east england through this evening and overnight, there is a risk of localised flooding from them and at the same time, you can see how the rain and snow pushes north across scotland, the rain curling into northern ireland with a few showers in the west.
cold in the south but colder in the north.
from midnight tonight until 6pm on saturday, the met office has an amber weather warning in force in parts of scotland for a heavy snow.
that means increased likelihood of impact due to the severity of the weather.
we could have as much as ten to 15 centimetres, that is roughly six inches of fresh snow at lower levels, double that above 150 metres.
so you can see how it is moving across parts of the highlands, grampians, up to caithness and sutherland.
some more showers coming in across the west and gusty winds coming in to north—east england where we’ll have some rain and eastern scotland, but still relatively mild across southern areas.
as we head into the weekend, our low pressure moves further east and south and that has an impact on the weather, you can see some snow on that chart.
so on saturday, further snow coming in across scotland and northern england, blowing in the wind, for the rest of england we are looking at outbreaks of rain, some of that affecting northern ireland at times, these are our temperatures, going down where it has been so mild.
as we head into sunday, that cold air eventually moves across the whole of the , this is when we will see the big drop in temperatures, down to maybe 2 degrees in the london area and there is a potential for some snow across southern parts of england and also wales.
don’t take this as gospel, the position of this snow could change but this is what we think at the moment and, again, blowing, and with temperatures like this, and the wind, it will feel bitter.
this is news.
the headlines at 11 i 10 million people are vaccinated in the .
a new trial is looked at different vaccines for ifferent doses.
this will hopefully the is at the forefront of research in to vaccines.
this is her part of the armoury.
with pressure owing to ease lockdown strictions, 3 sage member suggests ings could be or less back to things could be more or lass back to normal for the summer.
the and agreed to work intensively to out problems with post—brexit trading hern ireland.
the and has condemned china after a alleging that women were ystematically raped and tortured in ramps.
china calls this lies and disinformation.
they did ever they wanted and they didn’t spare any part of my body.
tennis officials say the australian open will start as planned on monday, despite hundreds of players and staff being forced to isolate again in melbourne.
and coming up in the next hour.
the scheme that helps young children in care reconnect with family members a new trial has launched here in the to look at the impact of giving people different coronavirus vaccines for their first and second doses.
the mix—and—match approach could provide more flexibility in the event of any supply problems.
scientists say it’s possible that having different vaccines might even provide better protection than having the same one twice.
it comes as the yesterday passed the milestone of giving 10 million people their first jabs.
dominic hughes reports.
with more than ten million people now having had their firstjabs across the , the vaccination roll—out is well under way.
but could mixing doses of the oxford—astrazeneca and the pfizer—biontech vaccines offer the body even more chances to develop defences against the virus?
that’s what’s behind a new trial being unveiled today.
the study will involve 820 volunteers, none of whom have yet had the vaccine.
all will be aged 50 or over, part of the group to be vaccinated in the next priority wave.
the trial will run initially at eight sites across england.
what we’re doing here is we are looking to see how well people’s immune systems respond if you give the first dose with one covid vaccine, the second with another.
and the reason we want to do that is to build flexibility into the immunisation schedule for covid vaccines, and even globally.
it makes it much easier to administer these vaccines if you don’t have to worry too much about always giving the second dose the same as the first dose.
that also brings resilience into the immunisation schedule.
if there were to be supply problems with one of the vaccines, then you are protected against that by being able to immunise with the other vaccine as an alternative.
researchers believe there are good reasons to think it may work.
for example, exactly this process was used in the fight against ebola.
introducing flexibility in the vaccination programme could also help, should there be disruption to vaccine supplies, and it may be of huge benefit to developing countries that have yet to get vaccination programmes up and running.
the first results should be known by the early summer.
dominic hughes, news.
our political correpondent nick eardley is at westminster.
he first time, 1 rumblings not for the first time, there are rumblings of politicians and ntists being at odds over what he next steps are.
what are you ing at estminster?
you’re bsolutely right.
there’s a ways tension between some of the cientists who are saying this needs a slow process coming out of ockdown, and some of boris hnson’s party who were knocking on door regularly aying, we to get out of lockdown.
as soon as possible.
we had that yesterday from the navirus research group saying at coronavims research group saying that england should and resume earlier than the target date schools eartier than the target date of march, following the example of and, where some schools are going back on the 22nd of february.
is johnson is going to see so boris johnson is going to see some more pressure in the next few to spell out how he is going get things back to normal, given the vaccine roll—out seems to going xtremely well, given that ose graphs we see from downing et, a number of cases are going down pretty quickly, even if the of hospitalisations are going a lot slower.
we heard from the cines minister this morning and was asked about this about the ssure to set out how england will unlocked.
the prime minister has made it very clear that, on the 22nd of february, there will be a road map for how we intend to reopen the economy, beginning with schools on the 8th of march and then gradually the rest of the economy.
you have to set yourself targets.
and you hope everything goes well.
the government isn’t moving away at the moment from the timetable of details of what things are going to look like towards the end bruary.
but this is the tension have had the whole time, isn’t wanting to keep the virus under trol, which is boris nson’s control, which is borisjohnson’s priority and i think is actually thing that is really high in the minds of people at number ten just ecause they don’t want to now because they don’t want to unlock and then have to go into down again like resort just before christmas, but at the same , feeling that political heat those who are saying, we need get schools back and start the nomy moving again.
we got the derstanding that quarantine hotels oing to be something considered the quite some time ago now we are yet to understand what rotocols are.
we set out a set protocols, we’ve shared that ormation of suggested protocols we’ve offered our support and we to hear anything.
that was boss of great western hotels king about something very ferent, he was talking about the uarantine plans, one of the areas re the government is also feeling sure, because we heard a couple weeks ago that quarantining in is going to come in four hotels is going to come in four peopla arriving in england from the at—risk countries.
we don’t what that is going to look like .
you very much.
institute of epidemiology and a member of sage.
welcome.
thank you very much.
you have said that the could be more ack to normal by the summer.
us what you envisage by at.
well, ithink we need to that.
well, i think what we need to bear in mind is that at the moment, still in a very fragile position.
despite the fact that are coming down, we still have high levels of disease and the highest levels in the world of both disease and deaths.
it is too earty to be unlocking yet and we are essentially needing to is to time that with the ccination programme which fortunately is going very well.
i think obviously, as more people get inated, ere is more pressure vaccinated, there is more pressure to unlock, but what we need to bear is that whilst we vaccinate delay limit had vaccinated a high ortion of the very most proportion of the very most vulnerable groups, really there are plenty of people who remain still plenty of people who remain vulnerable to being hospitalised, oping severe disease and ending up in .
so we do have to take cautiously, but as those groups to be vaccinated, and as the tural seasonality of coronavirus in, then i think we will be in very different landscape towards of spring and summer.
50, the end of spring and summer.
so, just jog through the timeframe that visage ith that.
because just you envisage with that.
because just looking at the figures, 10 million have een vaccinated so far, people have been vaccinated so far, looking at the group of nine due to ccinated, the 505 and over and he vulnerable, that is a total oup of 32 llion.
50 going by the group of 32 million.
so going by the pace of vaccination so far, that take is to the end of april.
but that’s not taking into account who would need to have the those who would need to have the second vaccination.
which would umably in another month also presumably add in another month also to that timeframe.
that would then end of may.
is that what you uld say is actually the time you looking at?
i’m envisaging what are likely to see, this is just talking, i’m not talking on half of sage.
i would envisage, as vaccination rates then we be able to ease restrictions time, on’t be a case of, over time, it won’t be a use of, it’s suddenly 0k to go back to al, it will be phased.
and so, hat would unlock first?
obviously, with got in the schedule what with got in the schedule thursday schools on the 8th of march but that’s yet to be confirmed.
i think it will be schools that will and it’s likely to be primary schools before secondary ls.
certainly, what we can see schools.
certainly, what we ran see is that primary schools are less of ncern erms of community a concern in terms of community transmission, so secondary schools to see, when rates start we tend to see, when rates start increase in secondary school dren, they move up the age ups and of course it takes time them to move up the age groups during that time is whilst we vaccinating towards those people are ill vulnerable.
and when you talk about life looking back to by the summer, deeming normal by the summer, deeming everything with that, like the pect of foreign travel over the summer holidays, nor is it going to bit more like what is look a bit more like what is happening in australia and new and, where it is life pretty uch back to normal, but the minutes is any use, ase, it’s stamped on there is any case, it’s stamped on very firmly on the board is, ctively, remain shut?
well, we are still going to need to be ful about travel, particularly with epidemic being very ifferent in different parts of the and new variants arising in ifferent parts of the world, so is one area that will be affected.
and i think it’s difficult , for example, whether mass gatherings and those sorts of things would be a good idea at this time.
i think we do need to play that bit by and see how the epidemiological situation plays out.
so, when we about life looking back to talk about life looking back to normal by the summer, it’s not ntially what people are going to isage.
to think it’s important to ery careful on the language round this because obviously, will have expectations and people will have expectations and hopes and we are in very difficult when people are vulnerable and eed to know, want to know what lies it’s difficult to balance the anguage.
i think we do well to nify that there is some light at he end of the tunnel here.
and ously we’re not talking about lockdown measures and intensive rictions being something that is going to be needed long-term, i think there is a certain amount of rtainty about next winter in of understanding how long nity will last and of course there is always new variants to into the picture.
50 i don’t think we be completely confident bout nything, but i think the mmer in particular should be a me when things will be much asier.
professor, thank you.
is considering whether to extend grace periods for checks on goods entering northern ireland from great britain, that were agreed as part of the brexit trade deal.
talks, described last night as constructive, are continuing between the and the governments after border controls were stopped this week.
i spoke to our europe correspondent, gavin lee, a little earlier and he explained where both sides were in the talks at the start of this morning.
as a joint statement, vertigo, from michael gove, from the side, the vice president, and in addition to that meeting virtual meeting that lasted a0 minutes last night with the deputy first minister of northern ireland from sinn fein and the first ministerfrom the , and ultimately, the potted history of this, after last week’s trouble with the catastrophe, which is admitted by the that it intended to trigger article 15 of the northern ireland protocol, basically suspending its usual application and meaning there could be a border between ireland and northern ireland, with the vaccine checks happening there.
they stopped that, but a letter yesterday morning, published by michael gove, sent to the , said, actually, after that problem, they have seen threats to northern ireland, staff at the ports, those staff something suspended for the moment, so those checks are not in place on certain food stuffs.
and we need some resolution here.
there is a grace period for certain products, supermarket products, chilled meats, parcels, medicines, things like that, other pets, we need to continue this scenario up until the end of 2022, so there is 3 a0 minute meeting, the end result was this will be a constructive way of finding solutions, it means maros sefcovic estimates will come to northern ireland next week, different implications in brief, essentially, the is saying it will continue to impose fully these checks and the still pushing for a grace period to extend it.
i should say this, the last two minutes, we have had simon coveney, on radio ulster, he is the foreign minister for ireland, and also a significant official in the past, who said, "the idea of the grace period now, we will look to put in place, if it is possible, to extend some of the grace periods, i think that is under consideration, but nothing drastic here in terms of the protocol.
" stephen kelly is the chief executive of manufacturing northern ireland, a trade body that has been helping business adjust to the new trading arrangements.
earlier he explained what the situation meant on a practical level for the business community.
there was no doubt that january was a difficult month.
the business unity here did one for some time that in the absence of detail, just didn’t have the time to get ready and that’s what we rienced come the 1st of january.
many espects, it was a bit like at scene from wallace and gromit, he is laying tracks down in front of the train to avoid aster.
businesses were working to keep going in the midst of turmoil that was the beginning his year and on top of that, the ovid pandemic which is affected at the headlines on news.
i tried is not to look at the impact of having a different vaccine for irst and second dose.
cientists from the sage advisory ttee say things could be more or lass back to normal the ummer.
the and the agreed to intensively to sort out roblams with post—brexit to trade northern ireland.
the united states has condemned china after reports of allegations of systematic rape and torture of women in so—called re—education camps for the uighur muslim minority.
the state department says it is "deeply disturbed" by what it called "the atrocities" outlined in the report broadcast on this channel.
and its demanding a powerful response — urging that china’s actions, which it says "shock the conscience, be met with serious consequences.
" a group the report has been described as chilling.
the spoke with a woman held at one of the camps in injiang region.
id she was xinjiang region.
she said she was held in a cell with 13 other women ramps seen in the satellite mages.
she said three men visited ll.
they did whatever evil they could think of and didn’t spare any part body.
to the extent that it as disgusting to look at.
they n’t just ape.
they were didn’tjust rape.
they were barbaric.
they had bitten all over y.
inmate who now lives in istanbul.
i worked six months as a cleaning for the men.
chinese men worker for the women.
chinese men would pay money to have their pick pretty young inmates.
myjob is to emove their clothes mpletely and then handcuff them on beds so they can’t move.
the inese foreign ministry has missed the report as lies and sinformation.
there is no systemic assault and abuse against men.
our constitution guarantees protect human rights and it is id in our legal system and to hich governments work.
nstitutional laws to guarantee and forbid any insult nor buse.
sneaking in the commons in last hour, nigel adams told the was putting international ssure on china to change course.
acknowledge the strength of ling by honourable members right oss this house and the report at my honourable friend refers to illing.
it includes deeply istressing testimony of the rape, re and dehumanisation of uighur women in xinjiang region dimension es.
gross human rights centres.
gross human rights violations being perpetrated against muslims and other minorities in xinjiang region.
the evidence of ale and the severity of these violations is now far-reaching.
it paints a arrowing picture.
if china shes to dispute this vidence, they must allow unfettered for law another access for law another fact-finding body.
let’s speak to the reporter who did the story, matthew hill.
m: looking at this in great detail.
we spoke to several women outside of iang region.
we forensically nterrogated them to make sure what ere telling us is credible.
e’ve also done a lot of checking of sources on this one, and so it had a big reaction internationally.
the international amentary alliance in china oduced a statement saying 50 ading politicians around the world 19 different countries had all gned a letter, joint statement of ncern of genocide.
there has been, uding the chair of the senate oreign relations committee in the also in australia, they’ve and also in australia, therve released a statement, they’ve done a ment where they are calling on statement where they are falling on china to llow including the commission for human rights to be wed access to the country off he back of this.
days after staging a coup, myanamar’s military leaders have blocked facebook, the main source of internet access for people in the country.
officials say it was shutdown to boost stability.
the secretary—general, antonio guterres, has pledged to mobilise international pressure to ensure, as he put it, that the military coup in myanmarfails.
there’s been no word on the whereabouts of the country’s factor leader aung san suu kyi, and president win myint since monday.
for a second day, protesters banged pots and sounded car horns in the country’s largest city.
our reporter nye—in chan aye filed this report from yangon.
this is where people are showing their frustration and anger against the military coup that has taken place on monday.
this is the second night in a row people in yangon have been banging pots and pans, honking their car horns, in protest against the military coup that took place on monday.
essentially, what people here are saying is that they don’t want to live or work under the military any more.
: we only respect our elected president, no one else.
if the president wanted the military to take over, then we would have accepted that.
but this coup is not fair, so we are expressing our feelings in a peaceful way.
we are the voice of the little people.
: i witnessed the coups in 1962 and 1988.
we know all about what happens under military takeovers, so we have to do this.
if we take to the streets, they will shoot us dead.
under these circumstances, i support this kind of protest.
we want the elected leaders back.
: people don’t accept the coup.
that’s we want to drive them out, by doing this.
on the other hand, the military is taking total control of the country.
the military have installed an ii—memberjunta, which they say will rule under the year—long state of emergency.
the people of yangon have come out here tonight again, in larger numbers than yesterday, to say they want their vote and voice to be heard.
our correspondentjonathan head is in bangkok in neighbouring thailand.
he told us blocking facebook was such a big step.
you have to remember, even just ten years ago, in myanmar there was virtually no telecommunications at all.
nope we had mobile phones, there was no internet for most bumese.
and when mobile phones arrived, as myanmar opened up, the phone companies were offering data packages.
facebook offered its platform without the use of data.
and almost everyone in myanmar latched on to that and used facebook as a kind of default browser to access everything.
now, there have been problems with that, serious problems with misinformation, hate speech whipping up ethnic tension in the last few years.
but it is how everybody accesses information.
this ban that the military has imposed is apparently only for four days.
i think they realise that you simply cannot shut down something so essential for a very long period.
indeed, the military itself is still using facebook, although its senior officers have been banned from its platforms.
so, they are trying to, at this stage, it looks like they are very nervous in the early days of the coup about young people in particular, or others organising through social media.
some form of resistance of opposition.
and they hope that by shutting down the main platform, they can slow that down.
but, of course, the more tech savvy urban burmese will find ways round it.
they are using vpns, there is a big move over to twitter, which hadn’t been used much until now.
i think even the generals will understand that trying to put a plug in the whole of social media doesn’t last very long.
tennis officials have insisted the australian open will begin next week, despite more than five hundred players and support staff being forced to self—isolate.
they were forced to take the action after a security guard at the hotel in which they were quarantined, tested positive for covid.
we can speak to the former british number one and current tennis pundit, annabel croft.
thanks for joining us.
are you feeling positive that it will go on monday?
well, i’ve been listening to the statements of is australia, and they sound etty positive.
i think there’s a of protocols in place.
this is tra precaution.
ithink have have to test all of these and staff and urage in the hope that one of hem tests positive.
even if 12 of do test positive overnight, hey will probably have something in to make those players isolate, place to make those players isolate, they male may not and they can go ahead the open, but still go ahead with the open, but one things for sure, you wouldn’t to be in the shoes of tennis stralia now, because they are australia now, because they are juggling quite a lot the moment.
you hink of the weights been handled so far on the way the have onded?
well, you know, ithink first when the players all went there and everybody was in the ess about a few players omplaining, it didn’t go down very with the australian public cause of course they’ve all been kdown for quite some time and then being let out, they certainly want these players who were they would consider to be on their ittle bubble coming in trying own little bubbla coming in trying to make money playing tennis when ealth of their nation in their untry was at stake.
so i think at’s happened is that a lot of yers tennis australia fail at otto lot of players have been arkable now, the statement erve y’ve made, they feel that they got it, ’s a much bigger have got it, it’s a much bigger problam, though no the tournament is small in comparison to everything, so all the protocols are ce, everyday could have possibly been doing, working very with the victorian closely with the victorian government and health officials, tournament wouldn’t go ahead ithout all of that in place.
if you this tournament played and players are able to make money, fans are able to watch some nnis, then that some ticks on the direction, isn’t it?
i think everybody put it in perspective to what it is, it a bit of a risis going on globally.
not a at way to prepare for a tournament, though.
how have they to do that in lockdown?
managed to do that in lockdown?
well, that’s a really good question.
wanting to sound it’s ifficult or anybody who has to olate in one room, have your meals vered to the door and for thletes who are free—spirited, they their routines, their are used to their routines, their schedules, they usually very rstitious, so they want everything to be how they wanted in ration so that their minds can preparation so that their minds ran be in the right place to be able to competitive tennis and of ourse you have this situation where of the tour were allowed out or five hours a to practice and prepare and the rest who arrived on where somebody had tested positive on those planes, suddenly ere locked down for days they were locked down for 14 days with no ccess to get outside and hits tennis balls.
50 they were even hits tennis balls.
so they were resorting to hitting balls across ll, doing the fitness the wall, doing the fitness routines, running up and down in room doing five kilometres their room and doing five kilometres in a short space, so it’s been very icult, but hink they’ve all difficult, but i think therve all accepted now that to put it in pective, if they are able to play the tournament, then great, but going to have a situation where some of the players are much better prepared than others and i think what it will come down to is a hology- do you get over the psychology.
how do you get over the fact that your preparation isn’t ect, it’s got to be about how your attitude is to the adversity everyone is facing and it’s not asy for anyone.
and that’s a really inating aspect of it, isn’t it?
ecause when you say the players now it in perspective, you can’t have a mental shift so quickly, i wouldn’t think, when basically, is, of any sportsperson, that their lives and you talk about the ines it’s going to be an eresting one to watch, isn’t it?
s, it really is.
i think tennis is about your character and your rength of character and adversity, have to ride the crest of waves pressure and you can’t get a more urised situation.
this is the irst grand slam of the year.
this he first big event, before mally we have the french open, bledon and the open.
in tennis erms, we have the big grand slams this is the start of the year.
it’s a big event, it holds a lot weight in history, it holds the money, there is a lot attached it, so they all want to play well hese grand slam events are normally, you would have perfect aration so that you peek at the time in a grand slam.
but of ourse, it’s been anything but fect operation because as i said, ertain characters will cope without rsity better than others.
the highly emotional players might, you lose it a little bit mentally.
roger federer isn’t going to be e, but we are used to say of m, he’s so relaxed about any enario, you can imagine that he ould coped well with this cenario, but he won’t be there.
have watch and see.
thanks will have to watch and see.
thanks so much.
now it’s time for a look at the weather with carol.
hello again.
where it has been so mild of late, it is going to turn much colder, particularly so by sunday and more of us will see some snow.
today, there is a snow in the forecast and in the hills of the north pennines, in scotland, at times in scotland, that will be down at lower levels, but generally speaking, maybe some sleet.
the north at lower levels is going to be rain, maybe some sleet.
meanwhile in the south, we have a band of heavy showers, potentially thundery, moving across england and wales, in in between something drier and brighter.
eventually, this band arrives across north—east england and a band of rain, sleet and snow continues to migrate northwards across the northern half of the country.
it will be cold up there, with a risk of some ice to untreated surfaces and some fast, not as cold as we push further south.
from midnight tonight, until 6pm on saturday, the met office has an amber weather warning for heavy snow across parts of scotland.
we could have as much is between 10—15 centimetres, that is roughly six inches, at lower levels, and double that above 150 metres, so take care.
hello, you’re watching news.
i will headline set as a people ive their first covid—19 jab ross he , china is lighter to ok at the impact of having fferent vaccines for the first and dose.
it well, hopefully aintain the in the forefront of earch into covid—19 vaccines, we very proud of track record, are very proud of our track record, obviously, i’m vaccines parcels, and in a deployment programme, others in a deployment programme, but this is another part of the ury.
with pressure growing to ase kdown restrictions, the scientist on the sage advisory ission says that things could be ore or less back to normal he or the summer.
and the have agreed to work intensively to sort oblems with post brexits trade in rthern ireland.
the and the condemn china after a report leging women were systemically ped and tortured in uighur camps.
ina it lies and china calls it lies and disinformation.
time fro full spots and we can get the full ran up and we can get the full violators.
hello there.
that makes ull round—up.
the cross for a full round-up.
the cross question marks over at the austrian the man in charge, though, 5575 says he is absolutely confident that urnament will go ahead.
that despite the latest problems used by the pandemic.
more than 0 people connected to the ournament are in self isolation, a number of tough to after a number of tough to quarantine at a hotel and tested tive there.
160 players are amongst those isolating.
m: we fully expect will be negative.
and hopefully can play like we nned that if we had to go planned was that if we had to go through this again, we were at those do so.
we have another three and have weeks of tests, lots of and we fully expect to keep schedule want to get past that.
wimbledon meanwhile is "likely to look very different this year" according to the all england club.
organisers say they remain committed to staging the championships this year and — although a reduced capacity is the most likely option — they haven’t ruled out having full stadia.
the tournament is scheduled to start at the end ofjune.
liverpool have now lost back—to—back games at anfield, after previously going 68 games unbeaten at home in the premier league.
the champions lost 1—0 to brighton, who were impressive on the night and fully deserved the win.
steven alzatey, with the only goal of the game.
brighton are now unbeaten in four league matches.
liverpool meanwhile are seven points off leaders manchester city.
they’ve played a game more, and the two sides meet on sunday.
the solution is always the players, the information that the players and at the moment, they have to the physical condition to do say, is a tough time it.
now i say, is a tough time anyway, but they did it really well.
years ago, six days ago, that is fine.
for the night, it not enough.
we have now one more day city come and visit they are ﬂying.
so we until city come and visit they are flying.
so we have these in time, t’s it is.
so as liverpool struggle, manchester city look unstoppable.
they won their 13th game in a row by beating burnley 2—0.
gabrieljesus opened the scoring at turf moor, before raheem sterling added a second.
there were wins too last night for leicester, everton and west ham.
ian wright says he’s ‘tired’ and ‘disappointed’ after a teenager who sent him racist abuse avoided a criminal conviction.
the former arsenal and england striker, who’s now a pundit, was sent the messages on social media by 18—year—old patrick o’brien from ireland, who sent them after losing a match on the computer game.
he was given probation, with the judge saying he saw nothing to gain from a criminal conviction.
however, wright says that sends the wrong message.
meanwhile, southampton say their teenage midfielder alex jankervitch, has been racially abused on social media.
he was sent off early on in their 9—0 defeat to manchester united.
the club say they’ve passed the messages to the police.
zak crawley’s been ruled out of the first two tests against india after injuring himself in what’s been called a ‘freak’ accident.
the opener slipped on a marble floor during practice yesterday and has sprained his wrist.
it’s expected he’ll be replaced in the battling line up by either ollie pope or dan lawrence.
meanwhile, former captain michael vaughan says current incumbentjoe root will end his career as england’s greatest player in history.
the first test in chennai will be root’s 100th, and he’s keen to make sure he remembers the occasion for the right reasons.
it will be a very special day, a special game, but there is business there are things that are to do, there are things that are more important and again, that is to read a good start.
that will be my full focus when we walk play.
out to play.
on friday, and i will sure i will look out on it very y, but once the game starts, it will be about scoring big brands and the team on.
that’s all the sport for now.
government sources have confirmed a bill will be introduced to finalise for officeholders.
it would llow them to take six months ernity leave on full pay.
until , arrangements have been agrees an informal basis at the discretion of the prime minister.
i’m joined by deputy tical ditor young.
it was political editor young.
it was effectively not going to be allowed llowed but i believe, less he always change.
this is quite prising in a way, this goes to way that cabinet ministers are ployed.
they are appointed by the minister, so they do not come under the normal employment law.
is not to say that women who been ministers in the past been denied maternity leave, but is use, case, they have been allowed not the use, they have been allowed to take it, but as i say, it has on an informal basis and been on an informal basis and really, it is up to the prime ster.
the issue of isabella raverman, she is the attorney ral, but is different, she is a officer, although she also does cabinet.
in her case, because of her particular nsibilities, of her particular responsibilities, they cannot just be delegated to body lse for six months or somebody else for six months or however long she wants to go on to rnity leave.
the government has ecided to formalise the whole ng, not ust for ministers, but or those have particular for those who have particularjobs in the opposition.
the leader of the ition, for example, and there are other posts in the opposition, you would also be allowed to where you would also be allowed to benefit from this.
i think it does , really, how rare it is for a abinet minister to be someone is having a baby.
and for so we let man it does mean that she can bradman it does mean that she ran keep a job and have her maternity and she will be paid in full pay for up to six months.
it does a light, on uality and how shine a light, on equality and how things work there.
is it likely to other aspects.
i think it is sign, that very few women still been in the cabinets, i think has shown that really it has quite a time for the house of mmons to change.
there has been of campaigning over the year, rriet harman, a very senior labour of course, rsuing a lot of figure of course, pursuing a lot of this, but it is interesting that it january 2019 that the introduced proxy votes for women who are on maternity leave.
all of is quite recent.
50 i think it that is quite recent.
so i think it does show that it can take time to up with rest of the world.
catch up with the rest of the world.
i think it is worth remembering that cularty cabinet ministers, heir careers are not the same as people, because they can be, let’s face it, uffle, let’s face it, in a reshufﬂa, sacked over nights, they are not ect to the same kind of subject to the same kind of employment laws that the rest of us i think on the issue of are.
but i think on the issue of maternity leave, they clearly want make a more formal process to make this a more formal process and i think it would allow them for one to step in as attorney general, that’s a placement process, a lot easier.
especially if it is all formalised in law, so that through the house of will go through the house of commons, they hope, and has of s, in one day next thursday.
ust a quick hought, then does it fords reater protection if they ad a baby?
because they could then in and reshuffle immediately just go in and reshufﬂa immediately after or during it that there was a uffle?
that is a good question.
i think ically, for a prime i think politically, for 3 prime minister to sack a woman while she on aternity leave, probably it ould not be a good look, so i don’t that would happen anyway, but could well mean that they are orded some protection.
thank you.
is johnson as praised what he described as the "colossal" effort to vaccinate 10 million people.
this milestone means the looks likely to reach the government’s target of protecting 15 million of the most vulnerable people by the middle of this month.
our reporter graham satchell sent this report from epsom racecourse in surrey, one of the vaccination hubs.
how are you feeling about today?
fine.
excited, pleased that we are all on with the show.
thank you.
the process is simple and quick.
first, everyone is checked in.
then, a short wait, just a few minutes.
today is my first day of working as a nurse here.
i’ve rejoined the nursing register.
imogen, who will give john his vaccine, left nursing five years ago to start a family.
but she’s back.
i thought it was an exciting opportunity.
i wanted to, sort of, play a part in it.
fantastic.
yeah.
it’s a step in the right direction.
thank you.
my wife is being done tomorrow.
i’ve just been reading a whatsapp message from my brother—in—law in south africa who is in hospital there with it.
with covid.
and he’s not well at all.
oh, dear.
so, yeah, you know.
it’s touching everybody in somewhere.
next in line, another john who is being looked after by his neighbour, deborah.
john’s wife is in a care home and he hasn’t been able to see her.
well, it’s been a bad year.
for everybody.
regardless of who you are.
everybody has suffered in somewhere another.
hard not seeing your wife.
it’s very difficult.
to see her.
and this is for all people who have people in care homes.
very difficult.
debra was here just a few days ago with her husband who had heart transplant three years ago.
it’s been a very worrying time.
we have been shielding, really, since last march.
i brought him to his vaccination on saturday and it was brilliant.
it really was thrilling.
exciting, so, yeah.
it’s a relief?
it’s emotional.
very emotional.
they vaccinate around 70 people an hour here.
on average, between 700 and 900 every day.
the headlines on news is isa isa10 is a 10 million people receive a covid-19 vaccine across the , a is odged to have a look at china is lodged to have a look at the different impacts for the doses first and second.
the pressure is going to ease lockdown ictions, the site is an estate restrictions, the site is an estate advisory could make things do make ings could be back to normal for the summer.
you and the agreed to stop work intensively to prospective trade in work out prospective trade in northern ireland.
—— post—brexit.
here is at which to.
he has hopes that the plan is to step in and hop uction.
boris hnson has production.
boris johnson has amenity.
you can change the whole mate story.
ould be the climate story.
he could be the knight in shining armour.
he puts orld on a different pathway.
he has to do is follow the gns.
a downing street spokesman id that it was eight leading in olicy.
our analysis gave us the back end this.
the backline is that in a 3 coco crack cocaine, and the oast of cambrai, that acts like the ication went to the county council and the county cil said they could not find grounds for opposing it, as passed it.
at that point, the ernment could have stepped in.
he committee secretary could have ad in that decision and overruled it, but he chose not to.
id that the county council was the appropriate level of government decision to be made out.
hat caused an outcry and green saying, well, let’s hope the chinese provinces don’t take this ude otherwise you what is ast.
anyway, since then, the world the has rumbled on, and -- make the row has rumbled on, and she is not a trivial figure, he by hen, he knows his knows by then, he knows his climate, his envoy, john kerry, he werful haracter and he has is a powerful character and he has copied his letter, that he sent to ohnson, he has copied that to john kerry and is trying to stare as much mbarrassment as possible.
in the , there are many ies, the biggest struggle duﬂng families, the biggest struggle during the pandemic has been a big on personal finances.
the government boosted the amount of niversal credit available, but with xtra support due to come to an nd, many are worried about what it ean for them.
our political espondent alex has more.
ers might double—check, so we need see what you do for poem.
-- c.
jess is roiled in the ome schooling ruggle.
she is a ingla other to oliver, and money been tied but through the andemic, she says it has been se.
being at home has pushed up he bells and without a car, hopping ally can be pricey.
get shopping orally ran be pricey.
get mad although our cupboards are full, idge is a it mpty, and this our fridge is a bit empty, and this is the week when we don’t really much faster.
—— we don’t really ave much esh stuff.
it is bill eek.
she works in a supermarket but relies on supermarket it back universal credit.
the government put 20 a week at the start of the pandemic to help those like who has had make some tough choices.
to scrape together food from tens.
i have had to go to the bank, we always make sure oliver has everything he needs.
i would go without.
there have been times when i’ve had to stmggle, i had to phone up the utility and ask if i could set up a payment plan to pay off the month spell.
it has been a big part of mine and er’s out and playing half hockey has been a big lifeline for of them, and with support rom a charity, she has worked hard to support her finances.
the universal credit has helped, and she eful that things will get asier.
the one thing i have always orried about is if i’m doing the right thing for him.
hopefully, he learns the value of hard work.
we will get there eventually, i think.
has been a heavy economic rice to this pandemic.
it is ious in any high street.
the overnment has put billions into porting businesses and individuals.
it says that it is itted to helping the lowest paid families.
it points to the increases fare and grants for things like boot food and bills.
it is urged to make a decision on he extra income many of those has ome to ely on.
the government is under some pressure to keep the eased rate of universal credit, but if it does, that means a pretty ill for the treasury.
about £6 billion.
at the moment, the cellor’s working out his budget, the government says part of that ocess is looking at the state of pandemic and the state of public nces and also working out the children will never know that i stmggle.
my children will never that i worry.
because i will ays be daddy for them.
for nthony, the extra £20 a week has a lifeline.
he is a single dad wo, including 23—year—old lorence was that he said any drop ncome that would be a real stmggle.
as a household, if we were have the hits like that, we are ing to have to be constantly at food bank and we are going to to ask for assistance for bills, but it is difficult for ybody at the moment.
we have to ake do.
universal credit makes us make do.
the government has yet cide whether to keep the increased rates.
there is no ping the impact of this pandemic ublic and personal nances.
on public and personal finances.
anthony has had support from the stians against poverty charity, ich he says has been invaluable.
ere are places out there.
sometimes you do not know you can out those places because you are embarrassed because you are sted.
and i will have to say, do it, because it is the best thing .
the only way we can move i did.
the only way we ran move forwards is moving forward together.
there is high praise for a scheme that helps young children in care reconnect with family members.
‘lifelong links’ aims to help vulnerable children and young people build and maintain support networks that many take for granted.
young people who grow up in care are still more likely to do poorly at school and to end up in prison.
this scheme is trying to counter that.
lifelong links was set up by the family rights group, whose chief executive, cathy ashley, joins me now.
welcome, thank you for joining us.
pleasure.
so can you just expend a more out how this actually bit more about how this actually works?
how it works is that an pendent coordinator who we rain, well work with the young son to identify all the people who be important in their ives.
they could include extended ly, some they may have met, some they may never have met, but it also des other people who may care includes other peopla who may rare about them, but as a result of the system, may have ended up rare system, they may have ended up moving away or breaking those tionships.
for example, a child ay have been at school in an area have schoolmates and their ents may have looked out for that ild’s, but as a result of going rare, they may have ended up ing to leave he school, they may have ended up no longer living with brothers and sisters.
what his charity is and econnect those positive lationships in that child’s life.
nderstand it correct then, it effectively empowering the child y, tell us about the people who to say, tell us about the peopla who you have felt a connection with past, or the ones that you feel like uld like to develop that you would like to develop that connection with, or get in touch you -- ake they will get in uch with you to form a bond, a more urable bond, that ht?
yes, it is bout creating a lasting support network for the d.
not ust whilst are child.
not just whilst they are in the rare system, but throughout lives.
we all need people who know love and care about is, that ran turn to, that we have had to all for we can turn to, or that we have had to call for emotional things, hat is hat lifelong links aims to .
it is proving very effective.
re is one child, for example, who know about their did not know about their grandparents and yet his ndparents, ran at the ice cream, the child remembered having them bought but presence, being in cupboard, waiting for them, when were able to reconnect.
that ndparents did not know how to ntact the grandchild once the ndchild was in care and meanwhile, no one talked to the about their grandparents who hey loved and cared about.
it is tbreaking, isn’t it?
to think about, what must be going out on it on in a child for my cat, when back on in a child for my rat, when they have been abandoned, but is through circumstance.
how portant is it to reverse that for hild?
really important.
part of aim of the charity is not only recreate the network for that d, but also to encourage local uthorities to think about ways in those relationships are not roken in the first place.
if a does need to go into the care ystem, to at how they can system, to look at how they ran create those and maintain those as much as possible, and it is eally important as i say, for all s, but it is particularly important or children in rare.
it is one of easons why, often, particularty hen they leave the re system, they do feel so solated.
50 alone, and white that ould be for some children in could be as bad for some children in the rare system.
there it always out?
from what you have said, trying to work out that it like you might be contacted the coordinated team at ordinator on behalf of the child, is in that person as an mportant figure in their life, ther it is the parent of a friend the teacher or whatever, and it not be expecting to get all.
all.
and also, on the family side ings, is here a risk of of things, is there a risk of petting a child back into a uation that could cause problems putting a ild at a situation -- of putting a child at a situation that could cause the problem meant it went into care in the first ce?
many ldren will trying —— place?
many children will trying -- like many children in care will end rying to family members by up trying to find family members by themselves without support, without taken through all the being taken through all the potential risks and potential ections and the way that it is one is not in keeping with a sitive way for the kids.
what is sitive bout our charity is that is planned out, there is thought gh, that the child’s foster er, or erhaps in a children’s ome, there rent there is involved the process.
as well as a social ker, said that there are people, the child may be at risk from lour it is finding a way of suring that the child understands risk.
it is also enabling the is to know, the young person, know who could be a positive port for them in their lives, but lso who could maybe he ative, also who could maybe be negative, who to stay away from, or ways that ran have ontacts in a safe anner.
they can have contacts in a safe manner.
often, children in care do this anyway.
ecretly.
and it is treated as something that is to hamed of, as opposed to what we saying with lifelong licks, and should be said, we all need hose relationships out in the open, brated, and to do it any really sitive manner.
it will only happen he wants to.
the child will be oing at their pace and they will meet family members or friends they wish to.
thank you.
thank “- u, so much.
for talking is through at.
right, let’s get the weather.
hello again.
over the next few days, particularly into the weekend, we are looking at where it’s been mild turning much colder, for some of us a drop of 13 degrees or so.
my rest was ice and snow.
there is some snow in the hills of the north ines and in scotland.
meanwhile in the south, we have a band of heavy showers, potentially thundery, moving across england and wales, in between something drier and brighter.
eventually, this band arrives across north—east england and a band of rain, sleet and snow continues to migrate northwards across the northern half of the country.
it will be cold up there, with a risk of some ice to untreated surfaces and some fast, not as cold as we push further south.
from midnight tonight, until 6pm on saturday, the met office has an amber weather warning for heavy snow across parts of scotland.
we could have as much is between 10—15 centimetres, that is roughly six inches, at lower levels, and double that above 150 metres, so take care.
will have to watch and see.
thanks so much.
this is news.
the headlines.
is 10 million people receive their first dose of the vaccine across the ial has launched a look at the , trial has hunched a look at the impact of having different vaccines for the first and second dose.
it will hopefully make the at the front of research into covid accines.
we are very proud of our records on the vaccines task orce and of course, the deployment ramme.
this is another part of the armoury.
scientist on the sage advisory committee suggest things could be and the condemn china after a report alleges women were tematically raped and tortured in ghur ramps.
they did whatever evil mind thinks and they didn’t spare any part of my body.
the and agreed to work intensively to problems with post brexits trading hern ireland.
tennis officials say the australian open tart as planned on monday, will start as planned on monday, despite hundreds of players and being forced to isolate in lbourne.
any trial has launched in the to ook at the impact of giving people ferent coronavirus vaccines for heir first and second doses.
the —and—match approach could provide ability in he event of any supply problems.
scientists say it ssibla hat having different is possible that having different vaccines may provide better ection than having the same one wice.
it comes as the yesterday sed the milestone of giving 10 llion people their first njections.
dominic hughes reports.
with more than ten million people now having had their firstjabs across the , the vaccination roll—out is well under way.
but could mixing doses of the oxford—astrazeneca and the pfizer—biontech vaccines offer the body even more chances to develop defences against the virus?
that’s what’s behind a new trial being unveiled today.
the study will involve 820 volunteers, none of whom have yet had the vaccine.
all will be aged 50 or over, part of the group to be vaccinated in the next priority wave.
the trial will run initially at eight sites across england.
what we’re doing here is we are looking to see how well people’s immune systems respond if you give the first dose with one covid vaccine, the second with another.
and the reason we want to do that is to build flexibility into the immunisation schedule for covid vaccines, and even globally.
it makes it much easier to administer these vaccines if you don’t have to worry too much about always giving the second dose the same as the first dose.
that also brings resilience into the immunisation schedule.
if there were to be supply problems with one of the vaccines, then you are protected against that by being able to immunise with the other vaccine as an alternative.
researchers believe there are good reasons to think it may work.
for example, exactly this process was used in the fight against ebola.
introducing flexibility in the vaccination programme could also help, should there be disruption to vaccine supplies, and it may be of huge benefit to developing countries that have yet to get vaccination programmes up and running.
the first results should be known by the early summer.
dominic hughes, news.
professor andrew hayward, 3 member of sage said that as more people are cinated, re will be some form vaccinated, there will be some form of normality by the summer.
what we bear in mind is that at the moment, we are still in a very ile position.
despite the fact hat rates are coming down, we still ery high levels of disease, have very high levels of disease, amongst the highest levels in the of both disease and deaths.
50 so it is and at we are potentially eding to do is to time that with vaccination programme which, fortunately, is going very well.
i think obviously as more people get cinated, re is more pressure vaccinated, there is more pressure to unlock, but what we need to bear is that whilst we vaccinated a high proportion of the very most erable groups, really, there’s still plenty of people remain erable to being hospitalised, eveloping severe disease and ending from this disease and if release now, things will be bad.
do have to take that cautiously.
but as those groups to be vaccinated, and as the atural seasonality of coronavirus in, then i think we will be in very different landscape towards of spring and summer.
lets go to our political correspondent at westminster.
how in ther scientists and the tune other scientists and the politicians about this time frame?
i think we got a pretty clear signal from prime minister last at the ess conference that he is pretty onside with the ntists at the moment.
he was etty cautious in the way he was lking about unlocking, pretty tious in talking about those igns of optimism we’ve seen with cing the number of cases, going down quite rapidly, the reduction in the number of ospitalisations and deaths as well.
here are some and there have been for some time, those who repared to knock on boris are prepared to knock on boris johnson’s door as much as possible say to him, need to think and say to him, you need to think about the plan for getting the omy moving again and for unlocking.
the plan in government is to wait a few more weeks to how the data is then, but if you nto the mix the fact that the accination programme seems to be so well, i think that only to some of the evidence that me tory will draw on to argue at lockdown needs to be listed as on as possible.
it’s a point that put to the vaccine minister this rning.
the prime minister has made ery dear clear that on the 22nd of ebmary, it very clear that on the 22nd of february, they will be a road map how intend to reopen the for how we intend to reopen the economy, beginning with schools on of march and then gradually the 8th of march and then gradually the rest of the economy.
you have to urself targets and you hope erything goes well.
also, stions about what is actually the lan with hotel quarantine.
the boss hotel chain saying, they have not been given any advice at all.
i feel like we’ve spoken about hotel ntine for weeks if not months quarantine for weeks if not months now and that’s because the ernment has kind of been moving lowly towards this policy of cing some people coming back from he highest risk tries to the highest risk countries to quarantine in specified hotels.
the eason is that they want to main reason is that they want to stop the new variants of the virus we’ve been hearing about in south africa and brazil, for ple, to stop them coming into the country where possible.
a couple ago, there were hints this as going to happen, it was nounced it was going to happen, we still don’t know exactly what is actually going to happen.
we thought we were going to get that this week, we are now not and ooks like it will be next week fore we get the specifics about what this is going to look like.
so industry are quite frankly baffled at taken so long.
we heard that it’s taken so long.
we heard this morning from the boss of the western hotels about some of conversations he has been having the government.
we got the derstanding that quarantine hotels something that was going to be nsidered in the quite some time and we are yet to understand exactly what the protocols are ired of the hotels, so we’re ing to set out a set of protocols, share that information of ggested protocols and with offer support and we are yet to hear thing.
so, the government say we going to get an update on that he next few days.
but it’s one hese issues that has just ragged on and on and on and there many in the political world ing, has it taken so long?
t’s hard, operationally it’s hard, any people should have been but many peopla should have been brought in earlier and others think it hould go a lot further.
emember, scotland is saying that who arrives in scotland will be forced to quarantine in a rnment mandated hotel, which is lot further than the government ing.
thank you, nick.
the is going.
thank you, nick.
the vaccines minister is going to be a statement in the comments in the next half an hour about the ine roll—out and we will bring that to you just as soon as it arts.
we are also going to be ing from scotland as well, so oth of those live events running up the news channel.
there’s een international condemnation of a the reported alleged stematic rape and torture of women o—called re—education camps for in so-ralled re-eduration ramps for the uighur muslim minority.
cities outlined in the report roadcast it on news.
it is anding a powerful response, rging china’s actions be met with ious consequences.
in the commons, the foreign office minister ibes the report is chilling called upon china to allow ettered access to refute the llegations.
the spoke with a man was held at one of the woman who was held at one of the ramps in xinjiang region.
she said held in a cell with 13 other in the camp seen any satellite images.
she that three men images.
she said that three men visited the cell after midnight.
did whatever evil their minds ould think of.
and they didn’t re any part of my body.
biting it the extent that it was disgusting at.
they didn’t rape.
to look at.
they didn’t just rape.
they were barbaric.
they had bitten my body.
and, the is all over my body.
and, the is heard from a former inmate from the let our ives in istanbul.
she said she was employed at the and as forced to be complicit in the rape of women.
i worked months as a cleaning worker for women.
chinese men would pay ney to have their pick of the etty young nmates.
myjob is to emove heir clothes completely and handcuff them on their beds so hat they cannot move.
the chinese reign nistry has dismissed the report is lies and disinformation.
is no systemic and sexual there is no systemic and sexual abuse against women.
china’s titution guarantees and protect rights and it is embedded in our legal system and the government’s work.
the is strictly abide by constitutional guarantee the student’s basic rights and forbid any insult .
the foreign office minister told mp5 the was a leading international pressure on china.
i acknowledge the strength of feeling the human rights situation in about the human rights situation in xinjiang region shared by honourable quite across this house.
the reports that my honourable friend refers to is chilling.
it includes deeply distressing imony of the rape, torture and humanisation of uighur women in jiang region detention centres.
a further compelling addition the gross human rights violations perpetrated against uighur uslims and other minorities in jiang region.
the evidence of the and everity of these violations is now far-reaching.
it makes a arrowing picture.
if china shes to dispute this vidence, they must allow unfettered access to the region that the high commissioner for human rights another act—finding body.
reporter on piece says it was horoughly researched.
i spoke to women in istanbul, in several women in istanbul, in america, in holland, in sweden.
and i interview them forensically.
a consistent picture emerges from testimony of rape, of hair being shaved off.
on one occasion, men were forced to watch a 100 women were forced to watch a young woman being gang raped in one re—education camps and that of these re-eduration ramps and that they say it was a means of control.
who looked away, there were percussions for them.
ction of torture, a very ecific torture, ich involves an electric rod.
also, forcible, forcibly having iuds put in, and in some cases, forced ilisation.
so these are very erious and the women were in tears.
: get low by dillon francis & snake get, get, get, get low when the whistle go they’re going to talk about this forever, baby!
this is what an does.
let’s go!
this is our moment!
touchdown, tampa bay!
the super bowl, live from florida, tampa bay buccaneers versus kansas city chiefs well, president, that’s an act of war.
the incredible inside story i didn’t know what he was going to do.
looks not orange but red.
he ﬂipped.
of a president who tore up the international rule book.
they will be met with fire and fury.
trump takes on the world: it’s thursday, it’s 12:15pm, and we’re live in westminster.
joining me today, conservative and chair of the women and equalities committee, caroline nokes , shadow culture minister alison mcgovern, writer and commentator inaya folarin iman, and professor of black studies at birmingham city university, kehinde andrews.
today, the government say they will force arrivals from high—risk countries to quarantine in hotels.
but when?
the prime minister was saying within days no, he said it would be y.
my understanding is it was ways going to be in the next few s.
ten millionjabs here, but are poorer countries getting their fair share?
i need to be blunt.
the world is on the brink of a catastrophe of moral re.
i think it is time we stopped our cringe in embarrassment about our and we stop this general oat of self recrimination and ness.
we’ll ask this professor of black studies if he agrees with the prime minister.
m: we start today’s show with something hris whitty said at the downing eet riefing, here he is.
i think most of my lleagues think we are their peak.
that doesn’t mean ran never ave another peek, but provided that eople continue to llow guidelines, we are not ownward slope of hospitalisations eaths in all four nations, so think we are past at least they eak.
so my opening question to all u, did that feel like a moment?
hat you eel and how did you what did you feel and how did you react when you how to chris whitty about that?
time to ease restrictions or hunker down?
i think are all a bit it is not hat we are not looking for moments, have been through a lot as a country, and i think all of us are a ary for backing good news at the moment.
i think the bigger ure is making sure that the accine programme really works, and i think that is probably where i feel most helpful, rather than sing on individual moments.
caroline, what did you think when eard that?
i think it is good ews, but we have to be extremely tious.
the iority has always cautious.
the priority has always been about making sure people are e, so elcome the progress we are making with the vaccine -out, 10 million doses so far, and i think is about making sure at any plans to reopen the economy are done safely and cautiously.
it would be foolhardy, having come this so long, rush into far for so long, to into opening everything up too quickly.
i would echo what has already een said whether it was the first econd lockdown, we haven’t had moments of hope, but undamentally people have sacrificed t, and year later, people a lot, and one year later, people are very weary of these statements, backing is very much in the vaccination programme as well, when maximised we will be able to think about opening up the country .
kehinde, how did you react?
we have heard it before, one year we are hearing it again, and is just a eminder at we have to be extremely careful, opening up onomy, people’s individual the economy, people’s individual freedom to buy coffee is not more rtant than saving lives, so pefully we will not see this quick to open the economy and we are sensible about lives.
i just want to about this in the daily telagraph, are showing our view the headline, rishi sunak of cerned scientists are moving alposts on lockdown.
the treasury it, but are you concerned about is report?
i don think it is the , e, and i don’t think there is any lit between easury and the rest