and around the world.
i’ rebecca jones.
the roll—out of the oxford astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the government describes it as a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
the vaccine means everything to me.
i mean, to my mind, it’ the only way of getting back to a bit of normal life.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
the already has over half a million doses of the jab, with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today, when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, it felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
primary schools in most of england reopen this morning, but there’ growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
coming up, we’ll be speaking to the trades union congress, who are calling for all employers to offer furlough to all parents affected by school closures.
the health secretary says the tier system is no longer strong enough to control the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in england.
in scotland, the first minister is expected to announce new covid—19 restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
president trump is heard on tape asking an election official to "find" him enough extra votes to have won the state of georgia.
democrats call it a disgrace.
a coroner in malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure in the case of the franco—irish teenager, nora quoirin.
hello and welcome if you’re watching in the or around the world, and stay with us for the latest news and analysis from here and across the globe.
the first doses of the oxford—astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine have been given to patients in the this morning, at the start of what’ being described as the "biggest vaccination programme in the history of the ".
the has over half a million doses of the vaccines ready to go, with care home residents and staff, people aged over 80, and frontline staff being first to receive it.
the health secretary says it is a "pivotal moment" in the ’ fight against the virus.
the prime minister has warned that restrictions in england are "probably about to get tougher" as concern grows about a new, fast—spreading variant of the virus.
labour said coronavirus was "clearly out of control" and it was "inevitable more schools are going to have to close" as part of a wider strategy that has "a national lockdown in place in the next 2a hours".
more on that later.
the first patient to be given the oxford—astrazeneca vaccine this morning at oxford university hospital was 82—year—old brian pinker.
he gave this reaction just after he received it.
well, to be honest, i didn’ feel a thing.
brilliant, yeah.
the vaccine means everything to me.
i mean, to my mind, it’ the only way of getting back to a bit of normal life.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
saturday, first i knew that i was going to be here today, yeah.
very pleased, yeah, very pleased.
the nurse who administered the firstjab, sam foster, spoke to our medical editor, fergus walsh, shortly afterwards and explained what it was like.
it was a huge privilege.
every single patient that we have vaccinated over the last couple of weeks has got their own personal story as to the difference it’ going to make for them so no different in this morning with our first two patients.
and what about you?
have you been immunised yet?
i have been immunised, yes.
i was immunised, i’ve been working in the vaccine centre for a couple of weeks so i have received my vaccine.
so it is obviously all systems go now.
everybody wants to be immunised as soon as possible.
how quickly can you do this?
i think there is nothing more that the wants to do now than to get this programme going at real scale.
across the there are many, many, many peer vaccinators that will now go out and support staff vaccines, continue with our patient vaccines and with colleague vaccines across the nation.
so there is nothing more that we want to do than to get this vaccine programme done at a scale.
england, says this is a significant moment in the way out of the pandemic.
four weeks ago i had the privilege to be in coventry for the firstjab of the pfizer vaccine.
remember, maggie keenan got that firstjab.
that felt like a huge moment in this pandemic and, to be honest, today, when i saw the first jab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, it felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
and the health secretary, matt hancock, says 530,000 doses of the vaccine are ready for use this week, and that the distribution programme is being accelerated.
it is a matter of getting the vaccine, as soon as it is manufactured, and then goes through the crucial safety checks, which obviously are very important, and getting it into the and delivered into people’ arms.
in fact, we have been able to accelerate that process because we now know that you get your protection after the first dose and the second dose can wait until 12 weeks away.
that means that, over the first few months of the programme, we can effectively vaccinate twice as many people as we would have been able to otherwise.
and obviously that is very good news in terms of protecting people and saving people’ lives and of course getting us out of this pandemic and all the restrictions that we have to live with.
health secretary matt hancock.
our medical editor, fergus walsh, gave his assessment of today’ roll—out.
i really think it is a game changer because this vaccine doesn’ need to be transported at —70, it can be stored in a fridge, transported in a fridge, and that makes it vital not only for the but indeed globally.
because this is really the first global covid vaccine.
astrazeneca has said it will provide 100 million doses to the this year but 3 billion doses worldwide and it will do that at cost.
it is five times cheaper than the pfizer vaccine.
but across the world.
the first doses were given, there are people queueing behind me here to come in, health care workers and others who are in the priority groups.
and just to give you a reminder of those groups, it is people over 50, at the moment we are doing the over 805 but then there are front line health care workers and people with underlying health conditions aged 16—64.
a huge number of people, a million so far have received the pfizer vaccine but 30 million more — 30 million — saying they could do 2 million immunisations a week butjust to give you a sense of that, even if they managed 2 million immunisations a week, that would not give everyone one dose by easter so it is a huge task.
and of course what could be the bottleneck is getting those doses to these centres around the country — maybe a thousand by the end of the week.
the government says there will not be any hold—up but each batch of doses, whether it’ from pfizer or astrazeneca, needs to be approved and needs to be safety checked.
so i don’ think we should judge this roll—out on the first few days because initially it is just going to be a few hospitals that are giving this vaccine just to check that there are no unexpected side—effects and also to do surveillance but by the end of the week, 1000 centres around the country will be giving the vaccine and then we should see this thing really ramping up.
our medical editor, fergus walsh.
chris smith works as a consultant virologist at addenbrooke’ hospital in cambridge and presents the the naked scientists podcast.
hejoins us now.
good to have you with us.
fergus touched on the differences between vaccines, the oxford strazeneca vaccine and the fighter cine terms of how they are vaccine in terms of how they are stored but can you tell us a bit bout the differences between them?
-- the pfizer vaccine.
and fficient they .
the pfizer how efficient they are.
the pfizer vaccine is a genetic vaccine and taken the genetic code from the irus which it uses when in fact one cells to make one specific part of its outer coat, the 5 protein or spite we hear about.
that cial because that part of the is crucial because that part of the virus is what it uses to grab hold infect our cells so if you rovoke an immune response against that, you stop it in its tracks.
by wrapping up that in an oily bag is what pfizer have done and injecting it into the body, you cally get ourselves at the sight of the injection to pick up those icles, unwrap them, read the as though the coronavirus was those cells for real and make at part of the virus, thereby ucating the immune response and make white blood cells that can recognise that have virus in them and by was floating around the ream, you make antibodies blood stream, you make antibodies against it.
the oxford astrazeneca ine a bit different but also quite similar.
it is different in what they are doing is using a odified virus to get that same gene the body.
they use a chimpanzee old virus called chadox which has een oved by the removal of been removed by the removal of crucial genes it needs to run so it ’ grow in the but it works can’ grow in the body but it works a bit like a trojan horse and they nside that empty virus the gene or the outer coat of the ronavirus.
you can grow that in a aboratory and say they can laboratory and pfizer say they ran grow at fast producing one or 2 ion doses per week.
when million doses per week.
when injected into the body, cells at the of the injection are targeted this virus particle, they pick it and unwrap it that is in up and unwrap and all it that is in there is the coronavirus gene which hen read, they make it and they then read, they make it and educate the immune system in the way and you again get a white ood cells capable of recognising rally infected cells but also ibodies that can go round in the oodstream and soak up anything at should not be there and ially, in both cases, you get emory so hat if you really ncounter that threat in the future, create hat immune response from the get go ery and quickly.
is very interesting because you re saying that although, as you lained, they are different but oth have this memory but how ctive are both vaccines against this new variant of coronavirus we understand or are told riginated in kent?
and we are also told it is far more being told it is far more transmissible?
the changes that new ant rries, there are some 17 variant carries, there are some 17 genetic mutations or spelling errors genome of the virus, and they in the genome of the virus, and they are peppered across the genetic code virus but there was a concentration of them in the crucial that gene that codes that spike protein i was talking about.
it will change uter coat of the pie was a bit we think that probably it is a ural evolution of the virus to come more efficient at spreading ong humans —— outer coat of the us.
we also think the changes onferred those mutations are not ficient to make the spike different enough that the immune onse you make when you see the irus for real or when you receive vaccine will mean the protection immunity confers will not work more.
in other words, we don’ ink these changes are sufficient ace this new variant of the irus beyond the realms of the tection conferred by vaccination it needs be formally approved experiment which are quite easy do are ongoing and we are waiting the data to confirm that is the but hat i know about how the mune mune system works and this virus ks, we don’ think there’ a big at the moment that the new riant will not be prevented by the ccine.
-- a big .
what about vaccine.
-- a big risk.
what about the new variant discovered in south a because you might be aware africa because you might be aware that a key member of the oxford ine team, sir bell, has vaccine team, sir john bell, has suggested the south african variant be more likely to evade the could be more likely to evade the vaccine so what are your thoughts on it’ very important we study hese things and it’ very early .
the formation about these ariants and how they behave in the is quite sketchy and it’ early days so it is ortant that proper xperiments are done, vigorously and tifically come in order to test hese hypotheses to find out whether re rooted in fact or a ust a speculation.
it is certainly true viruses evolve and change that when vimses evolve and change they ran change shape and that can ble hem to sidestep the immune esponse but until we actually test formally and find out to what tent this may or may not be appening, i can’ say.
doctor chris , i know you would if you could!
always good to talk to you hank you for your time.
primary schools in many parts of england have reopened today.
that’ despite teaching unions and some councils asking the government to keep them closed to limit the spread of the new variant of covid—19.
ministers insist any move to online learning should be a last resort.
sian elliott is the women’ equality officer at the trades union congress.
the are calling for all employers to offer furlough to all parents affected by school closures.
welcome to you and thank you for joining us on news.
tell me more you think parents should be eligibla or the furlough scheme.
ents are eligible for the parents are eligibla for the furlough scheme and they have been april conductor retention since april conductor job retention scheme allows bosses to furlough who cannot work due to a parents who cannot work due to a lack of childcare and if your child ome because they cannot go to school, even if they are online ning, there is still a high ount of care and supervision eeded, ticularly for primary aged ildren and so we are calling all sses to proactively offer urlough to any working parents are ted by these school closures remote learning.
some parents eligible for the scheme, i know talking particularly about you’re talking particularty about parents who cannot work because their children are not at school.
i think 10 million people are on the lough heme at the moment but do furlough scheme at the moment but do we know how many employees are on scheme because of childcare ommitments at the moment?
we don’ hat precise figure but we know hat during the last lockdown there high number of particularly was a high number of particularty working mums who had to be loughed in order to balance work rare.
those that can do that at me and erhaps work more flexibly, home and perhaps work more ﬂaxihly, that might be another option, but icularty hose parents on low paid jobs, where only one in ten ran be done from home, we are saying those parents need to be oughed and there will be a vast number of parents affected.
in london alone there are 21,000 ary schools that are closed which will be effecting a huge of working families.
some mployers, as you don’ need me to you, are struggling to keep usinesses afloat and putting a ber of staff on furlough is not ithout costs for an employer.
they to pay pension contributions example.
it might not be perhaps traight you would like?
mployers can claim back up to 80% any wages cost of not of any wages and the cost of not furioughing staff, losing staff and icularly forcing women out of the rkplace, we have seen that ring the last nine months, it is erwhelmingly women who have had to up work and pay and employers annot afford to lose that talented, lled rkforce.
they have to work skillad workforce.
they have to work with their staff to come together is everybody’ issue and this is everybode issue and problem and we all have a role to in solving we can get play in solving it so we ran get through this latest crisis you say an claim, employers can claim they ran claim, employers ran claim back 80% but that means they are ving to a 20% contribution i wonder, would it not be better ave a specific childcare system parents rather than use this isting employer — employee lough cheme?
the government must do more to fix our broken parental system.
we know the childcare ctor has been under huge strain this crisis but parents do have any right to any periods of eave to deal with emergencies ike a child being sick at school so as well as the changes around urlough and as well at a day one to flexible working so you can right to ﬂaxible working so you ran to better balance work and care, falling or big changes to he parental leave system.
we have the least generous parental leave systems in europe and we think rgently needs fixing to put up days of paid parental leave help employers and workers alance at this period as well so olutely we are calling for more be ne.
its not about the to be done.
its not just about the furlough scheme but that is a line that parents and employers an use right .
sian elliott from , thank you for ining us.
the prime minister is under pressure to impose tougher coronavirus restrictions across the country, with coronavirus cases and hospital admissions soaring.
the labour leader, keir starmer, has called for a national lockdown starting today and this morning the health secretary, matt hancock, says the current restrictions are not working.
our political correspondent nick eardley has the latest.
i do think more restrictions are coming in england and it is a question of what they look like.
a couple of things we know, the government is looking at moving some of the areas are still in tier 3, about a fifth of the population in england, into tier 4 and that may happen at some point.
there is also the possibility that more schools will be kept closed over the next few weeks, there is a process whereby local authorities can apply to central government for that to happen and we know the government is considering some of those applications.
we heard from health secretary matt hancock this morning, that the tier system that was brought in at the end of the lockdown in england, at the start of december, was not strong enough which is tier 4 was brought in but it seems pretty clear that more people are going to end up in that top tier of restrictions.
this was the health secretary.
in some of the tier 3 areas, cases are rising sharply so clearly more action, as the prime minister said, is going to be needed.
and it is also about how we all behave.
if the vaccine roll—out is a national effort, so too is there now a national effort to keep people safe until that vaccine roll—out works.
some emphasis on individuals taking the rules 3 bit more seriously as well and the question many are asking is whether the government is prepared to go far enough and the labour party is saying at the moment that no, rather than hinting at new restrictions coming, they should just make the decision and get on with it so we have heard keir starmer saying there should be a national lockdown starting today.
what is less clear from the labour party is what they want to happen with the schools.
they have said they don’ necessarily want all schools to shut although they do think that it is inevitable that some will.
have a listen to the shadow education minister, kate green.
we don’ think schools should close, we want them to remain open, the right place for children to be if they can is safely in school.
what we do think and indeed what the prime minister admitted yesterday on the marr programme was that sadly more closures are inevitable and that is because the government has not got a grip of the virus and that’ we are pressing for the national lockdown.
it seems that more restrictions are coming in some form in england and it looks like they are coming in scotland today as well.
the scottish cabinet is meeting this morning to discuss what that might look like but my understanding is we could well see the school year delayed in scotland and a much stricter stay at home message with legal enforcement more akin to what we saw back in march so the start of the new year is looking like a pretty grim picture at the moment.
outside the european union.
negotiators came up with a deal which will allow tariff—free trading but additional paperwork is expected to cause delays at borders and customs hold—ups in the early days.
it’ also the first day of trading, so how are the markets reaacting to the having left the ?
let’ speak to our business correspondent, darshini david.
how is it looking?
good morning, i’ pleased to be able to bring you some ews because the 100 index good news because the ’se100 index of leading hares in london it’ up lmost 396 at one stage it was up by ore than 3%.
this is not just about lining the of those in about lining the pockets of those in the city because those are the kind res that are pension funds, of shares that are pension funds, investments, good news for er—term savings.
as well you can see the don market is doing substantially better those across but the mood is one more of lief and hope.
hope because of all those traders in the city re watching the pictures of the -out the oxford astrazeneca vaccine that getting under way relief that we have not seen any signs of disruption yet from visible signs of dismption yet from the new trading arrangements which in force at crossings are now in force at crossings between here and the rest of europe.
the whole, not a bad day for he markets and there are reasons that.
we are also seeing the llar weakening and when that ppens it means that the prophets like energy companies and iners as well tend to be higher ause commodities are cheaper if are buying them in that currency that has pushed up markets across board and it also means, the aker dollar, that the pound is at vel of almost three year high ainst the dollar which would be news if you were travelling to ountries like the but that is on the radar right now!
but oking at that you might think this qualified good news but as er, a closer look at what is going on behind the scenes with the 100 and we can see if we can get it up, nothing works is you back up, nothing ever works is you want it too!
over the last year you ee, here we go, that in actual fact the 100 is substantially , about 1000 points or even more ompared to where we were at the point last year and there are a uple of reasons for that.
firstly, on’ quite know as yet whether not there is going to be smption or not there is going to be disruption at the borders because of are not seeing the volume of traffic we normally do.
we don’ xactly how the trading know exactly how the trading arrangements are bedding down and are still questions, banking there are still questions, banking stocks are not doing great because are questions about the future inancial services under the new eal.
and the biggest question of of course is what is going to appen to our economy because we as we look down the barrel at erhaps further restrictions on ement and indeed school closures ell, that is the kind of ismption as well, that is the kind of disruption that weighs very heavily, this from looking at last we know this from looking at last year, on and we are already ing at an economy several looking at an economy several percentage points smaller than a ago so how much smaller could get and how long will it take to over?
the good news we have seen day is we have had a survey out in last hour which shows that ufacturing activity in factories at its highest for about three ars in december and part of that down to preparations ahead of exit as manufacturers were ncerned about possible disruption.
here are signs of life there also we saw some figures from bank of england showing that nsumers have been paying down bt, in other words sitting on a cash because they were not pending as soap went restricted easing there is hope that see businesses getting back to normal soon rather than later.
here are still big questions ver the near term and that is you look at the markets as they and at the moment, they are a way here they were a year ago and elatively speaking, that is an erperformance compared to some of major markets in europe and deed on wall street opened we have way to go as yet.
thank you or the update.
a recording has emerged which appears to show president trump putting pressure on a senior republican official to overturnjoe biden’ election victory in georgia.
the washington post says the audio is from an hour—long phone call with georgia’ secretary of state, brad raffensperger.
the vice president—elect, kamala harris, called it a "bold abuse of power".
paul hawkins reports.
impeachment, the russia scandal and catching covid in the middle of a pandemic.
the trump presidency has been a roller—coaster ride.
so, on one level, perhaps we shouldn’ be surprised.
after all, donald trump himself said losing is never easy.
not for me, it’ not.
but on another level, no—one could have foreseen that the president of the united states would ask georgia’ top election official to find the votes that would change november’ result.
the call lasted an hour, the president angrily making unsubstantiated claims that ballots had been shredded and voting machinery removed — claims that were denied by a lawyer for the state.
with secretary raffensperger saying the president called him a child.
condemnation of the call has been swift.
well, it was, yes, certainly the voice of desperation and it was a bold, bold—faced, bold abuse of power.
the president’ refusal to accept the result had split his own party with the former republican leader of the house of representatives saying it was difficult to conceive of a more anti—democratic and anti—conservative act.
well, it is tough to be shocked any more by what the president does but this was truly shocking.
extraordinary.
to put pressure on a republican secretary of state to find the votes, i mean, that’ awful stuff.
but 11 republican senators, led by ted cruz, are still planning to challenge the election result when it’ officially certified on wednesday.
we live in a world where truth, literally does not matter any more, evidently.
at least here in the and the american media truth does not matter.
it’ all about propaganda from the liberal media and so the reality is, you go listen to the call, all the narrative of that is literally a not a nonsense call.
donald trump is holding an election rally on monday night in georgia, where two republican—held senate seats are up for grabs in tuesday’ election.
polling suggests both races are tight, with the outcome deciding who controls the upper house of congress.
but with donald trump questioning the voting process in georgia, will republicans still turn out to vote?
paul hawkins, news.
lawrence douglas is a professor of law at amherst college in massachusetts.
he says the recording is significant on more than one level.
i think the problem with trump is less that he is engaging with violations of federal law, though again, you could arguably make the case that he is violating this federal statute that criminalises intimidating or trying to coerce people into engage in an act of election fraud.
but i think more generally, it is just this pattern we have seen throughout his presidency of trampling on norms.
and that of course, it has been going on for years and he has never really had to pay a political price for trampling on the soft underbelly of constitutional democracy.
maybe we can look at two possible things.
one is, could it have an effect on the run—off elections we are going to see in georgia on tuesday, january 5th?
maybe that is possible.
at least from my perspective, maybe the silver lining from this is that first that some republicans might take his claims of fraud seriously and think that, well, if the electoral system is rigged to begin with, should i even vote?
and secondly, it’ possible that some more moderate republicans and independents will be so appalled by the president’ blatant interference in the electoral process that they will cast their ballots for the democrats so that is one possible outcome.
hello, this is news with rebecca jones.
the headlines the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the government describes it as a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
the vaccine means everything to me.
i mean, to my mind, it’ the only way of getting back to a bit of normal life.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
the already has over half a million doses of the jab, with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today, when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, it felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
primary schools in most of england re—open this morning, but there’ growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
the health secretary says the tier system is no longer strong enough to control the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in england — in scotland the first minister is expected to announce new covid—19 restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
president trump is heard on tape asking an election official to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of georgia.
democrats call it a disgrace.
a malaysian coroner has delivered a verdict of misadventure in the case of more quoirin, the french—irish schoolgirl whose body was found in the jungle in 2019.
the 15—year—old had gone missing from an eco—resort outside kuala lumpur, where she’ been on holiday with her family.
howard johnson reports.
it was from this jungle resort in central malaysia that nora went missing on the morning of august the 4th, 2019.
she’ arrived at the dusun resort with her familyjust the day before.
the children and sebastian were tired because they really didn’ get much sleep on the plane.
they found the overnight flight quite tiring.
so we had no ambition for the first day beyond just acclimatising.
but around sam the following morning, father sebastian discovered nora was missing.
the site of where nora was staying was empty.
i looked around.
tried to keep my composure for a few seconds.
immediately after that, run downstairs and start started searching around.
mother meabh said a window in the downstairs kitchen area that she said she had closed the night before was found open.
the family insisted there was a criminal element to the case as their daughter had difficulty walking unassisted and had never wandered off alone.
but the police always maintained it was a missing persons case.
there is the possibility that the missing person had woken up from sleep.
maybe she wanted to go to the toilet and was confused by the sort of house which was new to her and left the house on her own.
nora during the inquest, the court heard how a massive manhunt was mobilised to search for the 15—year—old in the thickjungle surrounding the resort.
missing person flyers were handed out in nearby communities.
the owner of the dusun resort told the inquest the area had never experienced anything like it.
it has always been a safe place for my family.
we have never had a burglary, and we have never had an intruder in any of our houses.
nora’ naked body was eventually found ten days after she disappeared, close to a stream on a palm oil plantation.
there was no sign she had been physically assaulted.
autopsies carried out both in malaysia and london both concluded that nora had died because of a heavily ulcerated upper intestine caused by extreme stress and lack of food.
this is very unusual.
but there must be something more than the normal, i mean, stress.
this is tremendous.
a senior british pathologist said that scratches on nora’ torso, legs and feet were consistent with her moving through the densejungle.
today’ verdict of death by misadventure means that coroner maimoonah aid, believes that on the balance of probabilities, nora wandered off alone.
nora’ parents called for this inquest.
but it’ delivered a verdict that will undoubtedly disappoint them.
howard johnson, news.
and a little earlier, howard johnson explained how nora’ parents had reacted to today’ verdict.
in the last couple of hours we have heard from them, saying they are utterly disappointed with this verdict.
they were hoping for an open verdict which would have opened the way potentially for a criminal investigation if evidence emerged during the case.
they said it was improbable that nora could have wandered off alone.
they pointed to the open window which they said was, she was not capable of leaving through the window.
they also said it was impossible she wouldn’ have been found in thejungle, given that there were hundreds of search and rescue personnel looking for her and they said more really did not have the capability to hide, that wasn’ something she had ever done before.
in fact, she had never wandered off alone, according to the family.
and they also said that sniffer dogs could not pick up on the trace, so how had it been she had disappeared so quickly and they could not pick up on the scent?
they also said the evidence throughout the inquest, had concentrated on her physical abilities, rather than her personality and in a quote today, they said, "once again we see that justice struggles to support the most vulnerable in society, only engaging with special needs at a surface level and not at the level that truly reflects children like nora.
" that was our correspondent howard johnson.
as we’ve been hearing, millions of children should be going back to school in england today — but most senior school pupils are learning from home this week and many primaries will also remain closed to the majority of children.
it’ all to stop the spread of coronavirus.
graham satchell has been speaking to some parents in england about their concerns — and confusion.
parents across the country with tough decisions to make as the number of covid cases continues to rise.
sean and aiden live in cheshire, which hasjust moved into tier 4, but their school will be open this week.
for their mental health, it’ the right environment for them.
obviously, their education is key, but mine are only little — they’re still, you know, seven and nine, and you know, it’ more about the social aspect of it.
but, you know, if it’ for the greater good, and if keeping them off an extra couple of weeks, an extra few weeks, would bring the rates down and get it all under control, then, yeah, i’ be behind that 100%.
in the midlands, leo and lucy’ school is also open — but their mum isn’ sure they should go.
we are in a situation where we’re saying it’ not safe to go and get a haircut from someone in full , but we are expecting my sister, who teaches at a sixth form college in leicester, to go and mix with a group of 4,000 students on a daily basis.
and if what is necessary to keep everyone else safe is for me to, you know, pull myself up by my bootstraps and print off some worksheets for a few more weeks, i can do that.
this is amy and her three children in richmond, in london.
primary schools are closed in london.
amy is worried about her children, but needs them to go to school so she can work.
it’ scary seeing the cases rising all the time.
so on that sense, i don’ particularly want my children at school.
but to allow me to go to work, to allow me to earn the money that me and my children need to be able to survive, to pay the bills, to eat — yes, it is very important.
leyla preston’ children are enjoying some fresh air in the playground.
cases here in hertfordshire have been rising fast, and schools are shut.
we live in a very high—case area — hertsmere — and we haven’ i haven’ heard of one case at my kid’ school, so i think they’re doing really well in terms of safety.
so in that sense, i think it would probably be betterfor them to go back to schooljust because they need the socialising, they need the classroom environment, they need to have something different, something more in their lives.
in sussex, chloe found out late last night her school — which was due to be open tomorrow — will now be closed for at least two weeks.
she’ saying to me, "mum, is it safe for me to go back to school?
" and i’ like, "i don’ know!
" in september, i absolutely felt that it was safe to go back to school.
all of the information coming through was showing that transmission rates amongst children was really, really small.
and that felt really safe with the measures the school had in place.
what’ happened over the last few weeks indicates that that isn’ new the case with the new strain.
in north london, sam was told on friday that her daughter’ primary school would stay closed for the time being.
sam’ family really struggled with home schooling in the first lockdown.
oh, gosh, the amount of times ijust ended the day sobbing because it was just too much, trying to handle a child with learning difficulties remotely, a 6—year—old who was unwilling to learn remotely, on top of my dayjob and i think that’ my response to this one has been so much stronger than it was the first time — because i fear going back into that same position that we had earlier in the year.
there are no easy answers here — each family with its own concerns and worries.
graham satchell, news.
meanwhile, secondary school pupils are still on an extended christmas holiday, as senior schools remain closed for an extra two weeks to allow them time to set up mass testing.
earlier, i spoke to val masson, headteacher of a school in east london and elwyn boyle, whose daughter attends the school.
we discussed how ready they are for testing once the students go back.
there is a lot of guidance given through the government about how to implement the tests.
so we’ve been reading all the documentation.
the tests should arrive today so we’ve been working out where to run the testing stations and who is actually going to do it.
and where and who, tell me!
well, we had a bit of a chuckle about the nonporous ﬂooring that needs to be in place so we’ve got some plastic sheeting to put down in the hall, and you need at least seven members of staff to oversee the testing procedure.
it could amount to more if we wanted to and get it through more quickly but seven seems to be the minimum.
have you got those staff available and what sort of training will they need?
yes, you can find staff, in school, staff are generally very flexible and very supportive, they will do whatever they can to provide a good service for the students and families.
so i can use nonteaching staff because of course the teachers will all be teaching, it’ just that they will be teaching remotely so i think i will be able to find staff in the short term and that may buy me time to be able to get outside staff in but of course, that will prove to be difficult in itself, in that always inviting people into a school is unusual for the students.
i understand.
elwyn boyle, your daughter is a pupil at the school, do you welcome the testing?
yes, i do, i agree testing is needed in order to make the school safe for my daughter to return so, yes, iagree.
do you feel in your gut, i suppose, or perhaps it’ not in your gut, it’ your head or heart, perhaps, that a school is a safe place for your daughter to be?
that’ a difficult one and in some ways i do feel that a school is safe because of the communication i’ve had with the school and the systems that they have put in place and of course my daughter has not become ill.
but looking at the bigger picture, if there is no testing and students are allowed to go back to school, then come back and interact with their families, definitely i would not feel it is safe.
val masson, do you think the school will be safe?
well, the thing is there is no such thing as social distancing in schools amongst the students.
there is social distancing between adults but not among the students.
and so, it seems difficult to understand how it can be deemed as definitely safe — that seems to be factually incorrect in that the two things aren’ compatible.
no social distancing amongst older children seems to be a problem.
understood.
elwyn boyle, i know you have three children, you’ve also got a job and certainly, your eldest daughter cannot go back to school for a couple of weeks.
what kind of challenges is that going to post not only for her but also for you?
actually, the other two children who attend primary school are not going to be going back either so i have three children at home and my employer, barking and dagenham council, is very flexible in terms of childcare and letting me work from home although there are two days i was supposed to be in the office that i need cover for but as a magistrate, i have to be in court too so that is difficult.
the difficulty i will face — how do i get childcare for the entire day when i have to be in court?
us being told at such short notice is really distressing so i am scraping, trying to figure out how to get childcare so i can be in court.
staying in the , five teenagers are being held by police in connection with the fatal stabbing of a 13—year—old boy in reading yesterday afternoon.
four boys and a girl — all aged between 13 and 1a — have all been arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder.
thames valley police is appealing for witnesses.
the headlines on news the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the government describes it as a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
primary schools in most of england reopen this morning, but there’ growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
the health secretary says the tier system is no longer strong enough to control the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in england.
in scotland, the first minister is expected to announce new covid—19 restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
outside the european union.
negotiators came up with a deal which will allow tariff—free trading but additional paperwork is expected to cause delays at borders and customs hold ups in the early days.
our correspondent simonjones is in dover.
what’ happening there, simon?
we’ve seen a steady stream of lorries ving this morning, heading into ort, wanting to cross the channel to france, heading to calais kirk.
lorries arriving after or dunkirk.
lorries arriving after have the right customs declarations fety certificates otherwise will be turned away, plus also added complication, if they are ing to france, they need to have a gative coronavirus test.
50 , negative coronavirus test.
so far, over the past three days, the start new year, traffic has been light, we had new year’ day and move into the weekend, but it’ xpected to pick up the day and in coming days.
let’ speak to omeone at the sharp end, chris from one of he very companies 5, one of the very companies mnning from dover.
from your point , how running from dover.
from your point of view, how has it gone?
quite with how it’ gone.
traffic much less than last year, as we ught it was to be, so far, thought it was going to be, so far, we have kept the roads clear which important thing.
when people re talking out potential chaos the roads, traffic , stretching from mars, was that doom mongering or are we still days?
i think it’ early days from the ective it’ always a from the perspective it’ always a quiet time for freight traffic of ear.
but we have seen so far is actually freight customers have done ell in working out what they eed to do in terms of customs arance so we are actually very appy with compliance that we’ve seen on board and at customs.
so far, good news.
how does it work a lorry driver goes into the ort, what does he have to show you iano that they are border ready.
first thing they need to do a they are covid ready, they go rough the border control panel, documentation, as far as we showing documentation, as far as we are concerned as long as they have a customs clearance document hey will be allowed into the port at actually happens then, all the information is transferred to ustoms agency in calais and unkirk, we can actually tell the vers they are on board drivers when they are on board whether they have got the green or an orange light and i am appy to say at the moment the vast ority of freight drivers have a een light to go.
very important everybody as we know to keep the res dear, ere, in calais and nkirk.
today is described as the real test of the system but to fair, from what we’ve seen, fic is still light so when are you expecting it to build up and then will be see the real test?
i think over the next week or two we start to see traffic build—up gain, i think ’ fair to say after the last couple of brexit a period that we had, last ar, 2019 now, she’ say, we saw a dip in traffic for a few weeks that so i think that will take ime to clear and of course there lot of stockpiling by was a lot of stockpiling by companies in the run—up to new year and avoid to and avoid any problams.
as you ran see, it’ going well.
we are about lorries but obviously, looking ahead to the summer, fully, the return of the summer olidays, who knows with this uation?
how are you expecting that to effect tourist passengers?
i think we have a job to do to extend tomer is what it is they need to have in terms of some of the new mentation which may come through around health insurance or being to drive on the continent but are very confident we will have enty of time to explain exactly customers need and we are ally looking forward to bringing ack on board.
we have really them back on board.
we have really missed them over the last few hs, i’ sure everyone will nderstand.
as soon as we see the ortunity to open up travel again, we are talking with government can do that safely, we will welcome on board, give them a al, send them on their way.
thank forjoining us.
i can tell you from a wet windy dover the idea summer holidays seems a very long me away!
simon, thank you.
"helen’ law" finally comes into force in the today.
it means convicted killers remain behind bars if they refuse to say exactly where they put their victim’ body.
the change comes too late for marie mccourt, who fought for the law in her daughter’ name.
but she hopes it will spare other families from a similar ordeal.
marie’ been speaking to linda jones — whose daughter danielle was murdered in essex in 2001.
her body was never found.
jayne mccubbin reports.
i hope that one day helen will be found.
i hope that it could happen, but my faith is there is the reason.
there is a reason — we’re put on this earth for a reason and my reason, i think, is having helen’ law.
marie and linda’ daughters were both murdered by men who refused to admit their guilt, who refused to say where their victims were buried.
for years, marie fought for helen’ law — a law which would keep her daughter’ killer behind bars until he confessed.
that law comes into force today.
having to live day to day like this, it really is hard.
it’ the one thing that disturbs me the most — that i don’ know where she is.
you know, i walk along and just think, "did we search that field properly?
" it’ with you pretty much all the time.
i could have walked past her a million times and not know.
marie’ daughter, helen, was killed in 1988 by pub landlord ian simms.
he was the first to be convicted using evidence without the discovery of a body.
but almost a year before the law was enacted, simms was released.
since then, does he encroach on your thoughts?
absolutely, absolutely.
in every way.
her hope now is that helen’ law will force danielle’ killer to reveal where he has hidden her body.
stuart campbell is due for parole this year — 21 years after danielle disappeared.
and we’ve brought both mothers together to discuss their hopes.
the parole judges have to obey that law and they have to look into us a lot more careful than they did in my use.
hopefully, fingers crossed, we might benefit from this.
well, i’ sure we will.
and i’ just so sad for you that you didn’.
but i know i know how you feel.
sorry, i’ getting emotional now.
i know that you’ve done everything you can.
helen would be proud.
and i’ sure, hopefully, with everything you’ve done that we will benefit from this.
the law marie petitioned for won’ mean "no body, no parole" — which the government say would face legal challenges — but helen’ law does force parole boards to fully consider an offender’ decision not to disclose information.
i’ sure that, up there somewhere, helen and danielle are together and saying, "this is going to work.
" how are you coping?
because i know i know what that stress is like.
i am beginning to get a little bit anxious about the prospect of the parole hearing starting — yeah, very anxious.
i believe that it’ prayers that have got me to where i am today.
yeah.
and i will certainly be praying that this man is kept in prison until he says where he put danielle’ remains.
yeah, yeah.
and that is what is so important to us — to have her back.
this month, marie willjoin an independent forensic expert to begin afresh search for her daughter’ body, while linda prepares for campbell’ parole hearing.
no, and ijust hope i can take a little bit of your strength with me, marie, cos you’ve got strength in abundance.
so so have you — so have you.
you could move a mountain to get your danielle.
thank you.
both mothers say they will never give up hope that’ for me and helen, as well.
of one day being able to lay their daughters to rest.
and you stay strong.
jayne mccubbin, news.
the indian manufacturer of the oxford astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine says the government is preventing it from supplying other countries.
the serum institute said india wanted to protect its own people first.
it’ set to be the world’ biggest covid—19 vaccination programme, with 300 million people expected to be innoculated byjuly the japanese government says it’ considering declaring a state of emergency to and halt the spread of coronavirus in the tokyo region.
restaurants and karaoke parlours must now close two hours earlier than before, and businesses serving alcohol must close by seven in the evening.
you’re watching news.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with carol kirkwood.
hello again.
it’ been a cold start to the day and it’ going to be a cold day generally.
we still have wintry showers in the forecast, but for many of us, it’ going to be a day with some sunshine, but brisk and gusty winds, especially with exposure and especially so across parts of the south and also the east.
now, high pressure is dominating our weather.
you can see low pressure round the mediterranean and in between we’re pulling in this northeasterly wind.
that’ a cold direction.
plus, we’ve got a weather front draped across the southeast and the channel islands, and that’ producing some rain, which will be heavy at times across the channel islands.
you, too, could hear the rumble of thunder.
so a lot of weather, a fair bit of sunshine.
you can see where we’ve got the showers.
most of them will be of rain, but on the hills we could see some wintriness.
and if you’re exposed to that wind, it will feel cool.
these are the strength of the gusts of wind that we are expecting so 30 to 40, maybe 45 miles an hour.
so although we’ve got temperatures of three to six, which are poor for this time of year, it will feel colder than that if you’re exposed to the wind.
through this evening and overnight we hang on to this rain in the southeast, and the channel islands.
we still have some showers coming in across northern and central parts of the , wintry on the hills.
but at times we’ll see some of that get down to lower levels.
and there’ the risk of ice with those low temperatures and also some frost.
in fact, in the west highlands, temperatures could fall as low as minus six.
so tomorrow, still a lot of weather, still a fair bit of sunshine, still gusty winds.
and still this rain in the southeast and also into the channel islands.
some of that could be wintry in nature, particularly on higher ground.
and it’ the same in scotland and northern england, some wintry showers, some of those lower levels at times in the heavier bursts.
but through tuesday and into wednesday, high pressure moves away, allowing this area of low pressure with its front to come our way.
so basically, that means a lot of weather, lighter winds, still a few showers across some eastern and southern areas.
and then this weather front comes in, bringing in rain and also some snow across the far north west of scotland.
these are the temperatures, one to six degrees.
and as that weather front sinks southward during wednesday night into thursday, it will bring some further snow, but it’ weakening all the time.
and by the time it gets into the southeast, it won’ bring much more than some sleet or maybe the odd snow flurry.
this is news.
i’ i’mjoanna gosling.
the headlines at 11:00.
the roll—out of the oxford—astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the government describes it as a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
the vaccine means everything to me.
to my mind it’ the only way i’ll get back to a normal way of life.
this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
the already has over 500,000 doses of the jab, with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today when i saw the first jab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
primary schools in most of england re—open this morning, but there’ growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
the health secretary says the tier system is no longer strong enough to control the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in england.
in scotland, the first minister is expected to announce new covid—19 restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
president trump is heard on tape asking an election official to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of georgia.
democrats call it a disgrace.
a coroner in malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure in the case of the franco—irish teenager, nora quoirin.
hello, good morning.
it’ being described as the start of the ‘biggest vaccination programme in the history of the ’, as the first doses of the oxford—astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine have been given to patients this morning.
82—year—old dialysis patient, brian pinker, has become the first person to be vaccinated with the new vaccine.
he said he was "so pleased" and "really proud" it’ one that was invented in oxford.
the has over 500,000 doses of the vaccine ready to go, with care home residents and staff, people aged over 80, and front line staff being the first to receive it.
the health secretary says it is a "pivotal moment" in the ’ fight against the virus.
sirjohn bell, regius professor of medicine at oxford, said he was worried because the south african variant of the coronavirus is more likely to evade the vaccine than the new kent variant.
the prime minister has warned restrictions in england are "probably about to get tougher" as concern grows about a new, fast—spreading variant of the virus.
labour said coronavirus was "clearly out of control" and it was "inevitable more schools are going to have to close" as part of a wider strategy that has "a national lockdown in place in the next 2a hours".
brian pinker gave this reaction shortly after receiving the first patient to receive the oxford—astrazeneca vaccine.
well, to be honest, i didn’ feel a thing.
yeah, brilliant.
the vaccine means everything to me.
to my mind, it’ the only way of getting back to a bit of normal life.
this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
saturday the first i knew i was going to be in today.
pleased, yeah.
very pleased.
the nurse who administered the firstjab, sam foster, spoke to our medical editor fergus walsh shortly afterwards and explained what it was like.
it was a huge privilege.
every single patient we have vaccinated over the last couple of weeks have their own personal story of what difference it is going to make for them.
it’ no different this morning with our first two patients.
and what about you?
have you been immunised yet?
i have been immunised, yes.
i was immunised, i’ve been working in the vaccine centre for a couple of weeks so i have received my vaccine.
so it’ obviously all systems go now.
everybody wants to be immunised as soon as possible.
how quickly can you do this?
i think there is nothing more the wants to do more than get this programme going at real scale.
across the and there are many, many peer vaccinators that will now go out and support staff vaccines, continue with our patient vaccines and with colleague vaccines across the nation.
so there is nothing more that we want to do then get this programme rolled out at scale.
england says this is a significant moment in the way out of the pandemic.
four weeks ago i had the privilege to be in coventry for the firstjab of the pfizer vaccine, remember maggie keenan got that first jab.
that felt like a huge moment in this pandemic.
and to be honest, today when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
the health secretary, matt hancock says 530,000 doses of the vaccine are ready for use this week, and that the distribution programme is being accelerated.
it is a matter of getting the vaccine, as soon as it is manufactured, and then goes through the crucial safety checks, which obviously are very important, and getting it into the and delivered into people’ arms.
in fact, we have been able to accelerate that process because we now know that you get your protection after the first dose and the second dose can wait until 12 weeks away.
that means that, over the first few months of the programme, we can effectively vaccinate twice as many people as we would have been able to otherwise.
and obviously that is very good news in terms of protecting people and saving people’ lives and of course getting us out of this pandemic and all the restrictions that we have to live with.
costa who’ in oxford.
it is obviously a very big moment.
the question is, how quickly can it olled ?
it is a huge and be rolled out?
it is a huge and really significant day.
all morning have been people arriving for their vaccinations here.
they will xture of front line staff are ome workers, and people in eir 805 905.
this is one their 805 and 905.
this is just one of a small number of hospitals that tart using the jab from today, bout 1000 vaccination centres start using it by the end of he week.
and as you say, oxford is as a real game change in peeding up the vaccination gramme, and that’ because the ccine is much more adaptable than pfizerjab.
it doesn’ need the —cold storage meaning you can ultra-cold storage meaning you ran get it out to care homes and to ger ommunity vaccination centres sports stadium, conference ntres, village halls etc.
so the ity is to protect the majority of rare home residents and their by the end of this month, and he race is on to protect 30 million most vulnerable by the of the most vulnerable by the spring.
50 that will be people over he age of 50, front line workers and care home staff, as well opla with nderlying health onditions.
the hope is to vaccinate 2 million people a week.
that is a logistical challenge.
but pressure really, the sense of ency, is because of this fast preading variant.
although it was alised in london and the centralised in london and the south—east it has now been seen ading cross the rest of the ountry.
and although there is no gestion that it makes the illness serious, the fact that more eopla are getting ill with it means at more people are ending up in spital.
we are hearing stories of gnificant pressure on the health ice.
and so this vaccine is seen a way of relieving some of that ssure.
if you can get it out to as many of the vulnerable as quickly as possible you can relieve of hat pressure and ease the problems caused by the pandemic.
are questions now also around hether the priority on who gets the ine first up should be changed, with some suggesting teachers should be in the first wave too.
is there any prospect of there being on that front?
a change on that front?
well, the body that decides who gets ccine first, that’ the , hey advise government, they ave said that because the elderly vulnerable from this virus, they should get it first.
so that’ ome residents and their rare home residents and their rarers, and then it’ followed by pla in their 805 and 905, front ine workers, and then it comes in order of age and that will so include people with underlying ealth tions, then it comes all health conditions, then it comes all the way down to about nine different ity groups of those over 50, that they are hoping to protect by pring.
about 30 million people.
eachers, they are over 50, if have underlying health conditions, mongst some of the first to may be amongst some of the first to get the vaccine but at the moment ’ the priority.
thank you very uch indeed, katharine costa.
nwhile.
the health secretary matt hancock says he is incredibly worried about the new variant of the virus identified in south africa.
sirjohn bell — regius professor of medicine at university of oxford — who sits on the government’ vaccine task force said there was a big question mark as to whether the current coronavirus vaccines would work on the new variant.
professor lawrence young is a virologist and professor of molecular oncology at warwick medical school.
welcome, thank you for joining us.
let’ talk about the variant here is spreading much faster than he previous variant.
is there any ion around whether the vaccine will work against that variant?
well rse, we don’ know yet, but of course, we don’ know yet, but everything tells us that the way the current vaccines work uld mean that they will be ective against this variant, and understand it, public health gland are looking at that in a bit detail, but looking at the equence of the variant we can get a good due to whether or not rrent very good clue as to whether or not current vaccines will work and every ation is that the current indication is that the current vaccines that pfizer, biontech and zeneca oxford vaccines will be effective against this variant in .
what about the south african variant ecause there does not seem so much certainty there?
at’ right, that’ a bit more urbing, because as people have ard all the time we are dealing this so—called spike gene which encodes protein that sticks out the surface of the virus in the is important both for the way virus infects us, but also the hat our body generates an immune response, and it is that gene that forms the basis of he vaccine.
the worry about the african variant which has ead very rapidly to become the minant strain of the virus in south is that it contains more changes, more mutations in the gene, some of which are likely affect the body’ immune response, refore there is a bit ore of a question mark over that ticular variant.
lawrence young, with us, we to keep stay with us, we want to keep talking to you but we are hearing the prime minister who has been peaking so we want to break away moment to hear what the prime inister has been saying.
are rocketing, hospital dmissions are rising again, you said more restrictions are likely needed, what are you waiting for?
i think the crucial thing is to gnise that we have a new variant hat is requiring extra special lance and we will do everything ran to keep the virus under trol.
we can to keep the virus under control.
people should be in no that the government will do everything that is necessary.
but i must stress that at this critical it is also vital that people keep discipline.
huge numbers of are still following the uidance.
me people, nderstandably, are becoming strated, impatient, and they are following it in the way that should.
the most basic things, , face, space, they really, ally matter now, particularly with is new ant.
do you think there are more people not following the ?
i wouldn’ say that.
i think he public have just been fantastic way that they have tried to follow the guidance and done their est.
but i do think obviously months and months go by people’ ience and understandably begins ear thin, so what i’ saying to verybody is, look, we have tough, weeks to come now.
clearly, as say, got the virus you say, we’ve got the virus really surging.
it is vital, in tion to the tough tiering that have put in and the further easures we may well have to take, vital that everybody now does eir bit together.
on those further sures, this morning the health cretary said the older tier system longer strong enough, so what urther restrictions will be put in ?
i’ going to obviously ask to wait and we will be producing thing that we think is everything that we think is necessary to keep people from ading the virus.
if you think about it, we already got a lot of the country in tier 4, some of it 3.
what we have been waiting is to see impact of the tier for measures on the virus.
—— tier .
it is a bit lear at the four.
it is a bit unclear at the moment, but if you look at the ers there is no question that we are going to have to take tougher ures and we will be announcing hose in due course.
primary ools, some have stayed closed today spite your assurances that safe, they are effectively oring you.
are they simply doing what you inevitably tell them to the coming days?
i think it’ ery important to understand that in march one of the things that ok back on with the greatest isgivings was the closure of mary schools because it’ so portant for young people to get an ation.
the difference it can make to eir lives being in school not being at school at that age ery important.
that’ dosing is very important.
that’ closing primary schools, i think for us, is a resort.
all of us, is a last resort.
postponing the opening of primary is a last resort.
that’ schools is a last resort.
that’ we are looking at everything else we ssibly to avoid that, given ran possibly do to avoid that, given the social, the damage, the ational damage that is done.
hat i would say to teachers is, of all, to parents, thank to everybody for the immense that you have done to make schools safe.
and i would stress schools are safe.
and as you now, the risk to kids is very, very ll.
and the risk to teachers, and bviously we do everything we can to otect chers, but the risk to protect teachers, but the risk to teachers is no greater than it is to else in any other line of work.
i thank them for what they are .
my message would be, ok, we doing.
my message would he, look, we have a surging epidemic.
the reasons for wanting to keep schools open, i think, are very powerful.
what got to ook at is the extent you’ve got to look at is the extent of the epidemic in the areas where really surging and weather, not because schools are unsafe, but you ran actually do more to ontain the epidemic by closing ools as well.
that’ the issue.
there a trust issue?
you are it is safe, the government is aying stay open, and they are in numbers across the country noring you and closing so they ’ trust you when you say it is safe.
i think that’ not right, i think schools are safe.
huge numbers ools have opened and i thank them for what they are doing.
the is not the safety of the issue is not the safety of the school.
it’ very important to get cross.
the issue is the extent to which the mingling of kids in ols, by putting lots of households together, causes the emic to spread even faster.
las, that’ why, in some parts of country, we have had to ask imary schools as well to postpone eir return.
i don’ want to do but it is necessary.
we will keep all measures under review.
as it happens, it looks as though ndary schools, probably play ore of a role in the spread of the demic than primary schools, so we have to look very hard at what do with secondary schools later he month.
they could close be on nuary the 18th, do you think?
i want to ress to erybody the want to stress to everybody the efforts we are making as a ernment to to keep primary hools open.
i understand people’ rehensions, and i would just spectfully safe to them i think it wrong to say that schools are afe.
the schools are safe.
the xiety we have as a government is out the role of schools, or any ctivity, in eading the disease.
that’ i would really ask to focus now as we roll out the people to focus now as we roll out the vaccine on what we can all do to ansmission and what we can all do to llow the guidance.
very ickly before i ask you about ccines, can you see secondary ools closing beyond january the 18th?
are obviously going to keep erything under review.
education huge importance for young opla.
it is a real loss to them if don’ they don’ get it.
that’ why, i think, as a society we have done the thing to put such emphasis on it and we will look at everything we can do.
most of the country else we ran do.
most of the country is already in tier 4.
we will look erything else we can do to at everything else we ran do to control the virus but we will take ecessary decisions to protect “: health.
on vaccines, we have aited nearty a ear for this ment and planned for is moment for a ar.
oes the not immediately have the capacity to nister the 2 million doses a eek you are calling for?
that’ mpletely rue, we do have the completely untrue, we do have the capacity.
the issue is to do with upply of the vaccine.
it is not much a manufacturing issue, that is part of it, it is also that each batch needs to be erly approved and quality ontrolled because, it is fantastic we have a vaccine, we have two accines, several vaccines coming he track, and actually i think has been amazing that it’ taken tle as a year to produce this.
you’ve got to make sure it’ perly approved before it goes into ple’ arms and that’ what are doing.
people will be asking, is the big grand plan to get where is the big grand plan to get this done, going beyond hospitals, the army involved, getting as many people as possible to get as vaccines humanly many vaccines out as humanly possibla?
is that big grand , prime minister?
be in no ubt, this is the biggest vaccine -out the history of the roll—out in the history of the country.
i know that your viewers aware that this country has already done well over 1 llion accines, more than the rest of ope put together.
50 i don’ europe put together.
so i don’ think we’re being slowed by rnational comparisons.
but there a massive ramping up operation going on.
you mention the army, mention all sorts of volunteers, that is going to be involved.
what they call the rate limiting tor is not supply of vaccine, factor is now not supply of vaccine, though we want that to go faster, it ting them properly tested, getting to the .
the rate imiting factor is not the ability istribute the vaccine, it is not shortage of staff to get it into ple’ arms, it is getting it operly tested and out there.
that ill ramp up in weeks ahead.
will ramp up in the weeks ahead.
but, as i said yesterday, it’ icult to give exact numbers oday, except that it will be tens of millions by the end of march.
as soon as we have some better numbers you about the millions of to give you about the millions of vaccines, and we have already itted to 2 million a week, as you know, we will give them.
when we get the 2 million a will we get the first 2 million a week?
when will we hit that first?
on we can give you that data as soon as we ran give you that data we will.
not in the next few weeks?
may be until february or march?
i will not rule that out but we will you more across the next give you more detail across the next few days.
thank you, prime minister.
you.
thank you.
boris johnson covering a lot of nd, ome of the key points that emerged from what he was saying, he ying that there is no question was saying that there is no question we will have to take tough measures he numbers of covid cases with the numbers of covid rases increasing as they are in this try.
there is a government eeting this morning, so whether will be any sort of official uncement later today, we just ave to wait and see whether the 4, or omething ven beyond hat, will be expanded later.
he also spoke about schools in icular, with primary schools opening today.
not all primary ols, but the prime minister they are saying the ones that are opening ieves are absolutely safe to be doing so but he said it does look secondary schools play more of ola in transmission of the virus primary chools, so we will have to look hard at what we do with ndary schools later in the onth.
already the date for condary schools to return has been pushed back for students doing 6655 and pushed back for students doing gcses and a—levels back to the 11th, and thers the 18th.
he said that for others to the 18th.
he said that they will be looking at what happens in the month.
we will be later in the month.
we will be talking to our correspondence in minster in a moment.
first, et’ go back to professor lawrence , at warwick medical school, efore boris johnson through to speak.
ust a touch what was being said ough, we are a situation where we have the oxford vaccine going a roll out from today.
the ses are sing and the prime rases are rising and the prime minister is obviously talking about restrictive measures to curb spread of the virus.
how do you those factors playing out?
see those three factors playing out?
what do you think is the solution, est nswer to where we are the best answer to where we are right now?
i think we have got to gnise that even though we are aling with a variant, and possibly variants of the virus, they all transmit in the same way, they smit by people to people transmit by peopla to peopla contact, and therefore it’ really tant, as the prime minister was important, as the prime minister was stressing, that we restrict smission with hands, face and ace, and i think we are having to more strict and harsher estrictions, and that’ the only dampen down the infection, to protect the , and in so doing with the capacity in terms of vaccination.
i think we have a bit attle at the moment between fection and injection, and we need strict the number of people etting infected by harsher trictions and then vaccinate as peoplc as quickly as possible.
and on he decision the government taken to to vaccinate as any as quickly as possible, that ision to extend the gap between he first and the second dose from weeks up to 12 weeks, some are oncerned that that could fectively leave a window for the rus to mutate further, because it not be conferring full immunity ose who have only had the first dose, what do you think of that?
we are in a difficult situation and we have the need to vaccinate many people as possible and ovide initial protection up provide some initial protection up against the need for that full and long—lived protection that comes rom two doses.
certainly, rything from an immunological erspective suggests there are no issues in extending to three to three months and i think ’ just a ifficult dgment all.
is the right decision, we need to as many people vaccinated, get level of protection in the ommunity, whilst we and do our to block the chains of transmission by having harsher rictions.
i think it’ a very fficult balancing act, i have to , but don’ think say, but i don’ think immunologically there are any ous issues in delaying the econd booster vaccine, as long as ple are getting that second ccine, and that’ what is really portant.
important.
professor lawrence young, thank you uch.
let’ go to our political correspondent ben wright who was ening to the prime minister long with us.
the prime minister king about the prospect of more strictions.
is it feeling now a question of hen rather than if?
i think that’ right, whether hours or we don’ know at the moment, but it is clear that further rictions are coming to england the prime minister again, as he sterday, is putting england on notice that the restrictions across untry are likely to toughen up ery soon.
he said there were tough, weeks to come in the ernment would be taking tougher easures and announcing those in due se.
earlier day the health course.
eadier today the health secretary matt hancock said that in that were currently tier 3 the virus was growing exponentially, as tier 4 areas.
there is huge pressure on hospitals, there are people in wards than there were at the height of the first wave april, so this is obviously a essing crisis right now for the vernment.
it is going to have to and labour is saying, wait?
do they?
nounce a national lockdown now.
don’ wait any more, evel with the public and be just level with the public and be clear.
i think there is going to be pressure no 10 to do that over the ourse of today.
the ister making clear his determination to to keep schools saying that there is a open and saying that there is a difference between keeping primary condary schools open in terms of how much the virus spreads.
hers are saying that they would to be vaccinated in order to that reassurance to support the pening of schools.
is there any spect that that may change?
cause obviously at the moment chers are not in the first wave those being vaccinated.
they are and the teaching unions are ing very vocal in pressuring the ernment hard on these questions the moment.
i thought it was eresting too that the prime ister left a very big question over the return of secondary hools on january the 18th, the an is a hased return of secondary chools starting with those year ups taking exams with a full return byjanuary the 18th.
he acknowledged that there did seem to transmission from pupils to milies at secondary age than imary age.
there is busily a tchwork of return of primary oolchildren this week depending where you are in the country.
but abour as saying today, it looks inevitable that further school ures are coming, and i think are telling the government now be clear with people that that’ obably where we are likely be heading.
i thought that was an teresting part in the prime ister’ interview a few minutes .
thank you, ben.
in the last few nutes a judge at the old bailey ruled that wikileaks founder ulian ange cannot be extradited to the nited states.
our diplomatic espondent james landale is .
ere.
that is a amatic uling, james, hat was aid?
the judge went hrough in very close detail all of fence case made by lian the defence use made byjulian stange’ legal team about in view shouldn’ be xtradited to the united states to of these charges related to he release of thousands of military ents almost a decade ago now.
documents almost a decade ago now.
as she went through it she said, the assange eam claimed the julian assange team claimed the department of justice would throw at rshly, , i have no evidence for that, the lian assange teams aimed hat the judges were political and there was no evidence more hostility in the trump administration, and she went through guments dismissing the defence , but hen she came to the situation the mental state of lian uncheon.
and on that she ame to he conclusion.
—— julian sange.
if he re extradited and aken to an american prison come in tal isolation he would likely face, she said, "i’ satisfied that the procedures described by the will not prevent assange finding commit suicide.
by this a way to commit suicide.
by this reason i order his discharge as his dition could cause mental arm.
" as they are going to be an eal?
the american said they are likely to appeal and they have 14 days to do .
at the moment this is a district dge, it could go up to the igh court and the supreme rt.
50 there is a process to be court.
so there is a process to be gotten under way.
the americans have in which lodge that 14 days in which to lodge that appeal.
the interesting question is appens to ulian a sponge now.
what happens to julian a sponge now.
there is a question that he be ed.
-- ulian ssange.
’ been bailad.
-- julian assange.
he’ been in detention facing these charges in prison for the last 21 belmarsh prison for the last 21 months and before that he spent years voluntarily held up in ecuadorian embassy.
this is a who has been confined, initially ntarily and subsequently by the tate, for a very long period of .
the question now is, will he any bail conditions?
will he be owed or not?
that’ been cided at the moment.
how long the process go on for if there appeals?
as you say, this olves someone who is ncarcerated.
if it comes to an end be free to go.
you have to be very careful about judging the length of legal esses but potentially a long time.
this extradition process, to this point, pointy one months nce he was initially detained, you have a substantial appeals rocess, has to be granted or not, is then there is a process to through.
we are talking months, be years.
thank you very much.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with carol kirkwood another cold day in prospect, to go to much of this week that is the cast.
still some rain coming in cross the south—east, into the nnel slands, that will be thundery, some showers coming in eastern scotland and across eastern scotland and north—east england.
in the end ards midlands and wales to towards the midlands and walas to the course of the day.
wintry on the .
couple that with a gusty, hills.
coupla that with a gusty, brisk brisk and north-easterty wind i don’ will feel cold with peratures at best 3—6 .
this ening and vernight, hanging on to he rain in the south—east and nel islands, further when acher was coming in, some of those even at lower levels, it will a cold night with the risk of ice frost.
west islands, tempt us to etween 4; and —6.
tomorrow, showers a north ill wintry, still have and a north still wintry, still have rain in the south, i don’ wednesday ore snow comes in across the far north—west.
—— and on the esday.
hello, this is news.
the headlines the health secretary, matt hancock, has warned that the tiered system of covid restrictions in england is "no longer strong enough" to control the spread of the virusfurther been waiting to see the impact of the tier for measures editors ear at the moment stellar, but if you look at the numbers there is estion we are going to make no question we are going to make tougher measures.
the roll—out of the oxford astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
it means everything to me, to my mind it is the only way of getting to normal life.
this virus is terrible.
the already has over half a million doses of the jab, with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today when i saw the first jab in the building behind me, it felt like bigger moment.
another an even bigger moment.
another turning point in our way out of this mic.
primary schools in most of england re—open, but there’ growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
president trump is heard on tape asking an election official to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of georgia.
democrats call it a disgrace.
a coroner in malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure in the case of the franco—irish teenager, nora quoirin.
sport, and time for a full round—up, from the sport centre.
good morning.
the new world darts champion, gerwyn price, says he’ so thankful he won and wouldn’ care if he never took the trophy again.
the welshman was in incredible form as he raced into a 6—2 lead — but nerves then got the better of him.
eventually he managed to hit the winning double at the 12th time of asking to win by seven sets to three.
he takes home the £500,000 winner’ cheque and also becomes the new world number one.
ifi if i never when their stroke again, it doesn’ really matter, but there’ time it feels good, but i never put too much pressure on until tonight when i was ying to get that double, but it is ard to speak, i think i got hard to speak, but i think i got over the line today and i don’ have their trophy any more.
chelsea have dropped to eighth in the premier league after losing 3—1 at home to manchester city, putting the pressure on manager frank lampard.
the three points put city right back in the title race.
they got all their goals in the first half — including one from england midfielder phil foden — before kevin bruyne rounded off the scoring.
but for chelsea it’ another bad result, despite the millions of pounds they spent on players in the summer.
it puts pressure on me or not, regardlass, one month ago everyone sked me when i was signing a was asked me when i was signing a new contract and now people will be ing fferent things because in saying different things because in quick succession of a busy period we our games in football.
so the pressure lost four games in football.
50 the pressure remains content in their do know that in tough moments that will be there.
—— and you know.
leicester are up to third after a 2—1 win at newcastle.
james maddison, with a strike from the edge of the box.
obviously a big fan of the darts.
and youri tielemans doubled their lead with this brilliant finish.
newcastle did pull one back, but leicester held on.
there wasjust one match in rugby union’ premiership after london irish against northampton saints was postponed.
leicester tigers came from behind to beat bath 36—31 at welford road.
leicester scored three tries after bath had gone 14—0 up with harry wells’ second—half effort putting them into a lead they never relinquished.
they’re now seventh in the table, bath are ninth.
snooker’ masters event — starting onjanuary the 10th — has been moved from the alexandra palace to milton keynes so that strict covid—19 regulations can be followed.
the tournament features the world’ top 16 players, with stuart bingham defending the title against the likes ofjudd trump, ronnie ’sullivan, neil robertson, john higgins and mark selby.
all players will be tested the day before their first match, and will remain within the bubble as long as they are participating in the tournament.
cricket now, and australia bowler nathan lyon says players just need to "suck it up and get on with it" ahead of potentially stricter quarantine measures for their fourth test against india in brisbane.
the teams play the third match in sydney this week, but the fourth and last match in queensland would see the players forced to abide by stricter biosecurity protocols.
in my eyes, it is very small sacrifice for us to get out there lay the game that we love and put a lot of smiles on a lot of ople’ people’ faces around the world.
in my eyes, we just have to suck up and with it and get out there and play cricket for our respective tries and make sure that we are laying a really competitive brand icket.
and finally — you might have seen that fog forced oldham’ match against forest green to be cancelled at the weekend, well, it’ lucky they didn’ have to contend with the storms of portugal.
how the match between santa clara and benfica even got started — we’ll never know.
after five minutes of splashing around in the puddles, and the rain showing no sign of stopping — the referee eventually saw sense and called the game off.
that’ all the sport for now.
i’ll have more for you in the next hour.
outside the european union.
negotiators came up with a deal which will allow tariff—free trading but additional paperwork is expected to cause delays at borders and customs hold—ups in the early days.
it’ also the first day of trading, so how are the markets reaacting to the having left the ?
let’ speak to our business correspondent, dharshini david.
what is the picture?
this is the kind of news we like to bring you.
a look at what is going on, all the markets in europe are in the .
all on the up, the 100 green.
all on the up, the ’se100 up by almost %.
that is good news, means re is billions being wiped on to our pension funds and ike, goodness knows we need to see that happening.
it isn’ about he new trading arrangements ace, it is also about the hope hat investors are getting from ing the roll—out of the oxford accine rom today.
they are atching those pictures like the about.
we have seen the shares the company go up by 3% as we of the company go up by 396 as we speak.
there is lear water between and the rest of the markets it comes to how far we have sen.
also going on is this relief at as yet we are not seeing any smption that as yet we are not seeing any disruption when it comes to their trading angements.
we have new trading arrangements.
we have also had a survey this morning which more evidence that gave us more evidence that manufacturers were really churning goods in december and trying out the goods in december and trying to ship them ahead of the new ges coming into place.
that is reason we are seeing very traffic at the borders at the ment and it will be some time to fore that gets back up to normal els and we start to get that real of how the new arrangements are ng.
there are signs of caution behind all that euphoria going on the markets, banking shares for xample not doing quite so well.
one for that is that we do not go as yet exactly what the arrangements ing to be for financial are going to be for financial services with the rest of the .
has to be thrashed out in full.
king a closer look at what is ing on behind the picture, that is dars ’ figures, then see if we can it, doesn’ to play ball.
if i ran show what is going on a ago, ago, remember at?
ahead year ago, remember that?
ahead of those times we had never heard of ord coronavirus most of us, the ’se100 a year go more than 1000 higher han right now.
if the present also, that is because we economists are warning us that he economy is likely to have become aller than at the start of 1096 smaller than at the start of last year, the a question about ther restrictions in the coming eks and school closures, day estions being asked about how soon recovery could get under way, it ooks like there will be more damage pair to the economy when that ecovery does come.
the good news is ank of england figures today how us that consumers are sitting gger pile of cash than some on a bigger pila of rash than some have thought.
there could be more to be spent but we do not know those restrictions are going to asily, that is we have this ackdrop of unease still going on.
a recording has emerged which appears to show president trump putting pressure on a senior republican official to overturnjoe biden’ election victory in georgia.
the washington post says the audio is from an hour—long phone call with georgia’ secretary of state, brad raffensperger.
the vice president—elect — kamala harris — called it a "bold abuse of power".
impeachment, the russia scandal and catching covid in the middle of a pandemic.
the trump presidency has been a roller—coaster ride.
so on one level perhaps we shouldn’ be surprised.
after all, donald trump himself said losing is never easy.
not for me, it’ not.
but on another level, no—one could have foreseen that the president of the united states would ask georgia’ top election official to find enough votes to overturn november’ result.
the call lasted an hour, a lawyer for the state refuting the president’ unsubstantiated claim that ballots had been shredded and voting machinery had been removed.
condemnation of the call has been swift.
well, it was, yes, certainly the voice of desperation and it was a bold, bold—faced, bold abuse of power.
house of representatives said it is tough to be shocked any more by the president does, but this was ruly shocking.
extraordinary, pressure on a republican to put pressure on a republican secretary of state to find the .
that is of all staff.
—— ful.
but 11 republican senators, led by ted cruz, are still planning to challenge the election result when it’ officially certified on wednesday.
: we live in a world where truth no longer matters, at least here in the american media.
it is all and american media.
it is all about propaganda from the liberal so the reality is you go and isten to the call, although rative, it is a nonsense call.
donald trump is holding an election rally on monday night in georgia, where two republican—held senate seats are up for grabs in tuesday’ election.
polling suggests both races are tight, with the outcome deciding who controls the upper house of congress.
but with donald trump questioning the voting process in georgia, will republicans still turn out to vote?
paul hawkins, news.
a malaysian coroner has delivered a verdict of misadventure in the case of more quoirin, the french—irish schoolgirl whose body was found in the jungle in 2019.
the 15—year—old had gone missing from an eco—resort outside kuala lumpur, where she’ been on holiday with her family.
howard johnson reports.
it was from this jungle resort in central malaysia that nora went missing on the morning of august the 4th, 2019.
she’ arrived at the dusan resort with her familyjust the day before.
the children and sebastian were tired because they really didn’ get much sleep on the plane.
they found the overnight flight quite tiring.
so we had no ambition for the first day beyond just acclimatising.
but around sam the following morning, father sebastian discovered nora was missing.
the site of where nora was staying was empty.
i looked around.
tried to keep my composure for a few seconds.
immediately after that, run downstairs and start started searching around.
mother meabh said a window in the downstairs kitchen area that she said she had closed the night before was found open.
the family insisted there was a criminal element to the case as their daughter had difficulty walking unassisted and had never wandered off alone.
but the police always maintained it was a missing persons case.
there is the possibility that the missing person had woken up from sleep.
maybe she wanted to go to the toilet and was confused by the sort of house which was new to her and left the house on her own.
nora during the inquest, the court heard how a massive manhunt was mobilised to search for the 15—year—old in the thickjungle surrounding the resort.
missing person flyers were handed out in nearby communities.
the owner of the dusan resort told the inquest the area had never experienced anything like it.
it has always been a safe place for my family.
we have never had a burglary, and we have never had an intruder in any of our houses.
nora’ naked body was eventually found ten days after she disappeared, close to a stream on a palm oil plantation.
there was no sign she had been physically assaulted.
autopsies carried out both in malaysia and london both concluded that nora had died because of a heavily ulcerated upper intestine caused by extreme stress and lack of food.
this is very unusual.
but there must be something more than the normal, i mean, stress.
this is tremendous.
a senior british pathologist said that scratches on nora’ torso, legs and feet were consistent with her moving through the densejungle.
today’ verdict of death by misadventure means that coroner maimoonah aid believes that on the balance of probabilities, nora wandered off alone.
nora’ parents called for this inquest.
but it’ delivered a verdict that will undoubtedly disappoint them.
howard johnson, news.
the headlines on news further restrictions are expected to control the spread of coronavirus in both england and scotland —— in england, the prime minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab has begun — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
primary schools in most of england reopen this morning, but there’ growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
millions of children should be going back to school today — but most senior school pupils are learning from home this week and many primaries will also remain closed to the majority of children.
it’ all to stop the spread of coronavirus.
graham satchell has been speaking to some parents in england about their concerns and confusion.
parents across the country with tough decisions to make as the number of covid cases continues to rise.
sean and aiden live in cheshire, which hasjust moved into tier 4, but their school will be open this week.
for their mental health, it’ the right environment for them.
obviously, their education is key, but mine are only little — they’re still, you know, seven and nine, and you know, it’ more about the social aspect of it.
but, you know, if it’ for the greater good, and if keeping them off an extra couple of weeks, an extra few weeks, would bring the rates down and get it all under control, then, yeah, i’ be behind that 100%.
in the midlands, leo and lucy’ school is also open — but their mum isn’ sure they should go.
we are in a situation where we’re saying it’ not safe to go and get a haircut from someone in full , but we are expecting my sister, who teaches at a sixth form college in leicester, to go and mix with a group of 4,000 students on a daily basis.
and if what is necessary to keep everyone else safe is for me to, you know, pull myself up by my bootstraps and print off some worksheets for a few more weeks, i can do that.
this is amy and her three children in richmond, in london.
primary schools are closed in london.
amy is worried about her children, but needs them to go to school so she can work.
it’ scary seeing the cases rising all the time.
so in that sense, i don’ particularly want my children at school.
but to allow me to go to work, to allow me to earn the money that me and my children need to be able to survive, to pay the bills, to eat — yes, it is very important.
leyla preston’ children are enjoying some fresh air in the playground.
cases here in hertfordshire have been rising fast, and schools are shut.
we live in a very high—case area — hertsmere — and we haven’ i haven’ heard of one case at my kid’ school, so i think they’re doing really well in terms of safety.
so in that sense, i think it would probably be betterfor them to go back to schooljust because they need the socialising, they need the classroom environment, they need to have something different, something more in their lives.
in sussex, chloe found out late last night her school — which was due to be open tomorrow — will now be closed for at least two weeks.
she’ saying to me, "mum, is it safe for me to go back to school?
" and i’ like, "i don’ know!
" in september, i absolutely felt that it was safe to go back to school.
all of the information coming through was showing that transmission rates amongst children was really, really small.
and that felt really safe with the measures the school had in place.
what’ happened over the last few weeks indicates that that isn’ new the case with the new strain.
in north london, sam was told on friday that her daughter’ primary school would stay closed for the time being.
sam’ family really struggled with home schooling in the first lockdown.
oh, gosh, the amount of times ijust ended the day sobbing because it was just too much, trying to handle a child with learning difficulties remotely, a 6—year—old who was unwilling to learn remotely, on top of my dayjob and i think that’ my response to this one has been so much stronger than it was the first time — because i fear going back into that same position that we had earlier in the year.
there are no easy answers here — each family with its own concerns and worries.
graham satchell, news.
"helen’ law" finally comes into force in the today.
it means convicted killers remain behind bars if they refuse to say exactly where they put their victim’ body.
the change comes too late for marie mccourt, who fought for the law in her daughter’ name.
but she hopes it will spare other families from a similar ordeal.
marie’ been speaking to linda jones, whose daughter danielle was murdered in essex in 2001.
her body was never found.
jayne mccubbin reports.
i hope that one day helen will be found.
i hope that it could happen, but my faith is there is the reason.
there is a reason — we’re put on this earth for a reason and my reason, i think, is having helen’ law.
marie and linda’ daughters were both murdered by men who refused to admit their guilt, who refused to say where their victims were buried.
for years, marie fought for helen’ law — a law which would keep her daughter’ killer behind bars until he confessed.
that law comes into force today.
having to live day to day like this, it really is hard.
it’ the one thing that disturbs me the most — that i don’ know where she is.
you know, i walk along and just think, "did we search that field properly?
" it’ with you pretty much all the time.
i could have walked past her a million times and not know.
marie’ daughter, helen, was killed in 1988 by pub landlord ian simms.
he was the first to be convicted using evidence without the discovery of a body.
but almost a year before the law was enacted, simms was released.
since then, does he encroach on your thoughts?
absolutely, absolutely.
in every way.
her hope now is that helen’ law will force danielle’ killer to reveal where he has hidden her body.
stuart campbell is due for parole this year — 21 years after danielle disappeared.
and we’ve brought both mothers together to discuss their hopes.
the parole judges have to obey that law and they have to look into us a lot more careful than they did in my use.
hopefully, fingers crossed, we might benefit from this.
well, i’ sure we will.
and i’ just so sad for you that you didn’.
but i know i know how you feel.
sorry, i’ getting emotional now.
i know that you’ve done everything you can.
helen would be proud.
and i’ sure, hopefully, with everything you’ve done that we will benefit from this.
the law marie petitioned for won’ mean "no body, no parole" — which the government say would face legal challenges — but helen’ law does force parole boards to fully consider an offender’ decision not to disclose information.
i’ sure that, up there somewhere, helen and danielle are together and saying, "this is going to work.
" how are you coping?
because i know i know what that stress is like.
i am beginning to get a little bit anxious about the prospect of the parole hearing starting — yeah, very anxious.
i believe that it’ prayers that have got me to where i am today.
yeah.
and i will certainly be praying that this man is kept in prison until he says where he put danielle’ remains.
yeah, yeah.
and that is what is so important to us — to have her back.
this month, marie willjoin an independent forensic expert to begin afresh search for her daughter’ body, while linda prepares for campbell’ parole hearing.
no, and ijust hope i can take a little bit of your strength with me, marie, cos you’ve got strength in abundance.
so so have you — so have you.
you could move a mountain to get your danielle.
thank you.
both mothers say they will never give up hope that’ for me and helen, as well.
of one day being able to lay their daughters to rest.
and you stay strong.
jayne mccubbin, news.
now it’ time for a look at the weather.
yes been a cold start of the day and it will be cold day generally.
showers in the forecast, for many it will be with sunshine.
and gusty wind, especially ith the exposure, and especially so parts of the south and also st.
high pressure dominating our her, low pressure around the mediterranean.
in between pulling in —easterly wind, cold direction, north-easterty wind, cold direction, plus a weather front draped across utheast and the channel the southeast and the channel islands.
that is producing some rain will be heavy at times across the channel islands, you could hear rumble of thunder.
dry, the odd mmhle of thunder.
dry, sunshine, , we have the showers here, ain, in the hills we could see ome wintriness, and if you are sed to the wind it will feel old.
these are the of the we are expecting.
30—40, may be 45 mph.
emperatures of 3—6, poor the time year, it will feel older if you are exposed.
through evening and overnight, rain and outh—east and channel islands, still howers coming in across thern and central parts wintry in ills but at times we will see a down to lower levels.
if risk of with low temperatures, also some st, in the west highland emperatures could fall as low as this orning, still a lot of weather, if a bit sunshine, gusty thes rain, and also in the annel islands and south—east.
in ature are particularly on on higher ground.
same in cotland and northern england, wintry ers, some at lower levels and heavier bursts.
tuesday and esday, high—pressure moves away, wing this of low pressure allowing this area of low pressure with its front to come in.
that a lot of weather, light ind, still a few showers across tern and southern areas, and then weather front comes in, ringing rain and also some snow oss the far north—west of scotland.
these are the peratures, 1—6 , and as the ther ront sink outhwards during wednesday into thursday, it will further snow but it is a weakening all the time, by the time to the south—east it will bring uch more than some sleet maybe the odd snow flurry.
this is news.
the headlines: further restrictions are expected to control the spread of coronavirus in both england and scotland.
in england, the prime minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
what we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the tier 4 measures on the virus.
it is a bit unclear at the moment, but if you look at the numbers there is no question that we are going to have to take tougher measures and we will be announcing those in due course.
the roll—out of the oxford—astrazeneca jab has begun — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
the vaccine means everything to me.
to my mind it’ the only way of getting back to a bit of normal way of life.
this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
the already has over 500,000 doses of the jab, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today, when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
primary schools in most of england re—open, but there’ growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
president trump is heard on tape asking an election official to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of georgia.
democrats call it a disgrace.
a coroner in malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure in the case of the franco—irish teenager, nora quoirin.
good afternoon.
borisjohnson has said there is "no question" he will soon be forced to implement tighter coronavirus restrictions in england.
he warned people should be braced for "tough, tough" weeks to come.
he’ under pressure to announce the restrictions — with the labour leader keir starmer calling for a national lockdown starting today.
this morning the health secretary matt hancock said the current restrictions are not working.
our political correspondent ben wrightjoins us now.
is there any indication as to when we are likely to get any sort of uncement?
not yet.
all we have go on as the prime minister’ this morning during a hospital it in north london where the doses of the oxford—astrazeneca vaccine were rting to be inistered, in starting to be administered, in which he clearly again was putting gland on that further england on notice that further restrictions are coming, and this is oris johnson to say.
if you think about it, we have already got a lot of the country in tier 4, some of it in tier 3.
what we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the tier 4 measures on the virus.
it is a bit unclear still at the moment, but if you look at the numbers there is no question that we are going to have to take tougher measures and we will be announcing those in due course.
: we wait to see what "in due course" means.
the prime minister also said vernment was studying how effectively the tier for measures orking in terms of trying to ntain this particularly new ulent form of covid before vimlant form of covid before announcing what those new measures be.
remember, three quarters might be.
remember, three quarters of england are already in the est tier, tearful, so is the vernment considering tier for plus parts of england?
is it considering bringing areas in tier 3 earful, effectively another national lockdown, we wait and see have raised the possibility but they have raised the possibility that this coming around the corner.
as what has he said about schools?
he repeated he wants to see children at , he thinks that is where they school, he thinks that is where they should be and the harm done to ation is great and i think peopla cross the political spectrum work in the education sector nderstand that.
but the vernment’ current plan is to see primary schools and secondary hools returning from january 18, at’ he current aim.
but during is remarks this morning the prime ister, i thought, sed big minister, ithought, raised a big question mark over that date because epts that certainly the he accepts that certainly the secondary schools seem to be a much iable to transmit the virus from children to other families than schools do so this is primary schools do so this is something that is clearly under nse review at the moment and at current january 18 deadline, it to me, ould certainly slip.
looks to me, could certainly slip.
there is a meeting today in tminster as they weigh up all of hese issues.
that is correct.
tehall is considering this ntensely today because the fact is ospitals are now as full as hey were back in mid april during height of the first wave and his virus is spreading ponentially.
so whitehall is uckling down to work out what strictions to announce and when.
prime minister talked again trying to reinforce good haviour.
basic hygiene, social tancing, wearing masks, trying to ble down on that core message, i’ sure we will hear ministers eat that during the course of day.
also there is a meeting of scottish parliament in holyrood to cuss what the response should north of the border.
that frames wide action that we are ikely to see in the next day or so.
you very much, ben.
the roll—out of the coronavirus vaccine developed by oxford university and astrazeneca has begun in the .
more than 500,000 doses are ready for use from today and the health secretary, matt hancock has called it a "pivotal moment" in the fight against the pandemic.
brian pinker, an 82—year—old dialysis patient, was the first person to receive the jab this morning at oxford’ churchill hospital.
he said he was so pleased to get it.
well, to be honest, i didn’ feel a thing.
yeah, brilliant.
the vaccine means everything to me.
to my mind, it’ the only way of getting back to a bit of normal life.
this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
saturday the first i knew i was going to be in today.
pleased, yeah.
very pleased.
the nurse who administered the first jab, sam foster spoke to our medical editor fergus walsh shortly afterwards and explained what it was like.
it was a huge privilege.
every single patient we have vaccinated over the last couple of weeks have their own personal stories of what difference it is going to make for them.
it’ no different this morning with our first two patients.
and what about you?
have you been immunised yet?
i have been immunised, yes.
i was immunised, i’ve been working in the vaccine centre for a couple of weeks so i have received my vaccine.
so it’ obviously all systems go now.
everybody wants to be immunised as soon as possible.
how quickly can you do this?
i think there is nothing more the wants to do more than get this programme going at real scale.
across the and there are many, many peer vaccinators that will now go out and support staff vaccines, continue with our patient vaccines and with colleague vaccines across the nation.
so there is nothing more that we want to do then get this programme rolled out at scale.
england says this is a significant moment in the way out of the pandemic.
four weeks ago i had the privilege to be in coventry for the firstjab of the pfizer vaccine, remember maggie keenan got that first jab.
that felt like a huge moment in this pandemic.
and to be honest, today when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
the health secretary, matt hancock says 530,000 doses of the vaccine are ready for use this week, and that the distribution programme is being accelerated.
it is a matter of getting the vaccine, as soon as it is manufactured, and then goes through the crucial safety checks, which obviously are very important, and getting it into the and delivered into people’ arms.
in fact, we have been able to accelerate that process because we now know that you get your protection after the first dose and the second dose can wait until 12 weeks away.
that means that, over the first few months of the programme, we can effectively vaccinate twice as many people as we would have been able to otherwise.
and obviously that is very good news in terms of protecting people and saving people’ lives and of course getting us out of this pandemic and all the restrictions that we have to live with.
“: matt hancock.
costa who’ in oxford.
so, we are told it is an even bigger moment than the roll out of the vaccine last month.
tell us quickly it is going to be rolled .
a really significant moment.
heard from the first patient ian pinker, and the third person be vaccinated was professor rew pollard from oxford university.
he was on the team of ntists that helped develop this accine and get it through clinical in the last 12 months, and he id it was a really proud moment a triumph for british science.
to how quickly you can get it out, the rchill hospital in xford is one of a small number of pitals starting to use it from day so that patients can be tored before.
about 1000 vaccination centres across the will start using it towards the end week.
the race is on to rotect 30 million of the most nerable in this country, so hat’ front line workers, care me staff, over the age of home staff, people over the age of 50.
as well as people with derlying health conditions.
the eason oxford vaccine is seen as such a game changer in ing to speed that up is because is much more adaptable than the zer vaccine, can be restored pfizer vaccine, it ran be restored in a regular fridge which makes it to get care homes and easier to get to rare homes and community vaccination centres like stadium, conference centres and village halls etc.
that will it much easier to vaccinate as many people as quickly as possible.
riority is protect the the priority is to protect the majority of people in care homes and rers by the carers by the end of this month.
we know that 500,000 doses have been available from this week and he government says that will rease to tens of millions by the of march.
the hope is to ccinate about 2 million people a by the end of january.
that’ ong as upplies allow.
there are logistical challenges because batch of vaccine, whether or pfizer, has to be tested for quality standards before it is certified and released for use.
so there are challenges ahead.
but the of urgency is really being driven by this new variant of the that’ spreading across the country now, not in london and south—east, but wide.
that is tting real essure on hospitals and we have been hearing reports some are now busier than they ere at the first peak in the ring.
so to the pressure you need to accinate as many people as ran as quickly as possible and you can as quickly as possiblc and vaccines are seen as a way out of pandemic but we know the next weeks are going to be really ficult.
thank you very much, atharine costa.
just want to bring you ead on ijust want to bring you a thread on twitter from jeremy hunt, the former secretary and now air of health secretary and now chair of the health select committee.
he has a strong thread saying time put out a strong thread saying time to act, thread on we need to schools, borders, and ban all ousehold mixing right away.
i’ to through what he says.
those arguing that winter is ways like this in the you are ong.
ifaced four ious winter crisis as health secretary and the tion now is off the scale, situation now is off the stale, worse than any of those.
true we often had to cancel it is tme we often had to cancel elective care in january to protect gency re but that too is under emergency rare but that too is under severe pressure, with record trolley for the very sickest patients.
waits for the very sickest patients.
he says even more worryingly if you art attack patients appear to are heart attack patients appear to be presenting in intensive care ts, rhaps because they are not units, perhaps because they are not dialling 999 when they need to.
full to the for keeping cancer credit to the for keeping cancer services open, but in the first wave was still a two thirds drop in encer appointments.
people didn’ forward to gps, or want to go hospitals with many potentially able cancer deaths.
we hoped to avoid that this time, but now ing unlikely.
he says the number lesson is countries that act and ecisively save lives and their economies back to normal ter.
wuhan is free of any estrictions now but the university uthampton show if they had ocked down one week earlier they uld reduced infections by two thirds.
he says we therefore cannot to wait.
all schools should closed, international travel pped, household mixing limited the tier system reviewed so that ighest tier really does bring infection levels, as with the lockdown.
he says the good is that unlike before these trictions will be time limited to weeks or so that it will take get the vaccine out to those most rable to covid, so there is light at the end of the tunnel.
he 5575 i know all of these things will be under consideration with decisions potentially imminent.
my point is in the face of exponential , even waiting an extra day because as many avoidable deaths, so plans must now be urgently celerated.
50 strong words from a accelarated.
so strong words from a senior tory , former health etary, and now hair of the secretary, and now chair of the health select committee.
let’ get oughts now from jane clare rada, and former head of the college of general practitioners.
thank you for us.
did you what i was reading from jeremy hunt?
i did and remy is of ourse a very experienced, longest serving health etary we ever had, and secretary we have ever had, and makes a lot of sense.
i listen and on board what he says.
it is arty above take on board what he says.
it is clearly above my pay grade to make ose isions but i think we need those decisions but i think we need to be alert and cognisant of what he aying.
it is just hospitals is saying.
it is not just hospitals that are busy.
i know there is a focus on hospitals because they are easy to look at and easy to ure and easy to film, but general practice is also full.
it may not actually be full of covid but it’ full of everybody else.
i did a very long surgery on new ’ eve, and every single person ad contact with, some of those ce-to-face, me of those face-to-face, some of those remotely, where a step up in terms mplexity to, say, this time of complaxity to, say, this time last year.
and we are full, not just iving the ovid vaccines, but full giving the covid vaccines, but also keeping the taking a long should be for everybody else.
everybody has covid.
there are sorts of people out there with lnesses that we often see at this of the year and other problems.
to be mindful it is not we need to be mindful it is not just hospitals we need to protect by ing people vaccinated, it is lso neral practice and community are.
how long medical services arry on ike this, what are our thoughts and concerns about the alties of the limitations of the ealth service currently across all eas that you talk about and that jeremy unt mentions they are king about tients with heart issues not being able to come ard, cancer patients?
and also sorts of other patients.
well, , we might not physically take a hippocratic oath but we mentally hippocratic oath, doctors, urses and all health professionals all serve patients and we all our best in these times of crisis tinue providing care as we to continue providing rare as we need to.
we will do it despite being sted, despite many, including myself, cancelling annual leave.
we will continue to do what is best for tients.
this is, as many peopla have aid, not ust one marathon but a series of marathons, your piece said there hope at the end of the tunnel, we the vaccines.
i was part of the ogramme that vaccinated the last me round just before christmas and , icried ith joy.
he hope i wept, i cried with joy.
the hope of seeing these very elderly people, adn’ seen since march, many of them tucked up at home, not any outings, coming with their children, their grandchildren, us to give them their trusting us to give them their vaccination, that really gave me .
i’ like to also say that there is hope and light at the end tunnel.
but we’ve got of the tunnel.
but we’ve got probably 12—16 weeks of incredibly ork ahead of us and we hard work ahead of us and we will all pull together and we will all do ogether.
we heard from boris this together.
we heard from doris johnson earlier saying the issue rolling the vaccine as fast with rolling out the vaccine as fast as possibla is not because there ’ the ability to deliver it, but here are currently restrictions checking every batch and that lowing down the process of getting the batches to the front to then be administered.
how do see it?
is the infrastructure in lace to roll out ccine to the place to roll out the vaccine to the sort of scale the government is ing about, which is 2 million oses per week?
yes and no.
we are ring up now and hopefully we can more do more than 2 million per week.
i mean, we know everybody, we have a registered list on the system.
on the computer we have stratified ybody according to their covid ier, so at the push of a button we contact eople, and the further down you get tiers the easier becomes because the elderly ple not use smartphones, peopla might not use smartphones, don’ have —mails but further down can use those communication that we ran use those communication systems.
idon’ think the —limiting step will be the number of vaccines, to be honest.
i think the rate—limiting step will be eration and organisation issues, the venues you describe, the you describe to administer, getting the people into the spaces hey can present their arms.
that they ran present their arms.
and again, that’ not in my ritory, are helping with this ough so—called federations.
pefully an really scale this up and it houldn’ be a 9—5, should a 21, younger people it should be a 24/7, younger peopla ran come night, not?
and i think, it’ not i’ going to be organising but i hope those nising, this isn’ a organising, this isn’ just a daytime activity, for the first time we need to be providing a 4/7 17 system, if necessary ovide transport to the venues in to get massive numbers immunised across the next few weeks.
the evidence you have seen what is the evidence you have seen so far about take up and trust in accine?
incredibly well.
very arty on i think here was some icence among our black and asian nority groups about coming ward.
i think a lot of work has done to gain their trust.
looking at is coming, bearing in ind the first group with a very erty, please forgive me if you 80 plus, 90 plus.
iwas urprised how willing that group to come.
because a lot of these eople have got coexisting lnesses, they have not left their and they were coming.
we used of our vaccines, every last one them, 900 and something, in the group and i’ hoping that will ntinue with all the other vaccines are coming.
please come and get our vaccine if you are called for .
it is the only of this it.
it is the only way out of this as far as i can see.
do you have any cerns ound extending the gap between the first and second dose?
a very interesting question.
that is a very interesting question.
the science makes sense.
the science hat you get your immunity says that you get your immunity levels after the first dose and it’ cond dose that extends that mmunity time period.
50 the science akes sense, inly, for the makes sense, certainly, for the astrazeneca—oxford vaccine, and also he izer one when you start for the pfizer one when you start looking at the actual data.
so it make sense.
it makes sense to cinate as many people as possible a with the dose and then get eopla in for the second dose within 12 week window.
doctor dame gerada, thank you very much or joining us.
you very much.
happy new year.
new year to as well.
let’ go to cardiff the first minister vaughan ething is giving the first briefing he welsh government of the new year.
it is not the easiest vaccine because it has to be stored at ultralow temperatures and cannot red easily.
be stored easily.
we have been primarily vaccinating —line health and care staff at front-line health and rare staff at the 14 mass vaccination centres set ealth boards around wales.
up by health boards around walas.
however, care home residents and 805 ave also had the pfizer jab over the last few weeks.
ver, the new oxford—astrazeneca ccine is eal game change because it can be stored in a fridge is easier to transport.
the government invested in the arch for this vaccine and has ought 100 million doses for the .
will receive our population hare.
its approval will help us to up our vaccination programme more clinics closer to and more dinis closer to people’ and run more clinics closer to people’ homes.
we will also take accine into every care home to mplete the protection of care home idents staff.
we received the irst supply of 22,000 doses of the ord vaccine, and more will be ing.
the first oxford vaccines re being given today.
over the next of weeks we will increase the number of mass vaccination centres more than 60 general to 22 and more than 60 general practice surgeries will offer the vaccine.
mobile units will also be set up throughout walas.
we are training a range of health care kers give vaccine and we workers to give the vaccine and we have plans to work with local macists, dentists and optometrists to provide vaccination .
we will continue to use the zer vaccine at the mass vaccination centres across wales and working to the priority list greed by the joint ittee or agreed by the joint committee for vaccination and immunisation.
the the is working to the rest of the is working to the same priority list.
the immediate ity is to vaccinate front line health and care staff, care home dents and staff and people over age of 80.
this will help to otect our most vulnerable citizens elp to save the greatest number lives.
everyone in these groups be invited to come to a clinic or an appointment.
health boards oral authorities will be ting to and local authorities will be writing to everyone in wales with information about the vaccine in the coming days.
everyone will doses.
the second dose will given up to 12 weeks after the dose in line with the latest vice from not the , but from all our chief edical officers across the .
these two cines offer us a path out of this andemic.
but it will take a huge ort and time to vaccinate veryone.
we are not out of the yet.
we all need to keep on aking steps to protect ourselves, amilies, each other our families, and each other for some time yet, especially while of coronavirus remain so high.
hat means keeping the number of ple we are in close contact with an solute minimum.
it means eeping our distance, washing our ds, wearing a facemask, and rking from home where ever we can.
means keeping elves safe and it means keeping ourselves safe and keeping wales safe.
thank you very i will now take questions from journalists.
as always, the answers broadcast live on our social media channels.
: vaughan ing with the latest from wales, vaccine being rolled out, and of urse tough restrictions in place las as we wait to hear whether estrictions in england are going to anded.
be expanded.
the prime minister saying today it vitable.
primary schools in many parts of england have reopened despite teaching unions and ome councils asking the government them closed to limit the to keep them closed to limit the spread of the new variant of —19.
ministers insist any move to online learning should be a last resort.
rime minister sought to reassure parents, teachers and ents that he believes going to hool is safe.
the issue is not the fety of the schools, it is mportant to get this across, the is the extent to which the ngling of kids in schools by tting lots of households together ses the epidemic to spread even aster.
alas, that’ in some of the country we have had to primary schools as well to pone their return.
i don’ want do that but it is necessary.
and keep all measures under we will keep all measures under review.
as it happens, it looks as secondary schools probably lay more of a role in the spread of epidemic than primary schools.
we ill have to ook very hard at hat we do with secondary schools in the month.
i think it’ ong to say that schools are nsafe.
schools are safe.
the iety we have as a government is bout the role of schools, or any tivity, in eading the disease.
and that’ i would really ask to focus now, as we roll out the people to focus now, as we roll out the vaccine, on what we can all do top ansmission and what we can ran all do to ollow the guidance.
is johnson.
the trades union ongress is alling for all mployers to offer furlough to any all parents affected by school sures.
the women’ equality icer at the sian elliott xplained a little earlier what rents already entitled to.
rents are eligible for the fellow scheme and have been since april.
etention scheme allows thejob retention scheme allows bosses to furlough parents who work due to a lack of cannot work due to a lack of childcare and if your child is at because they can’ go to home because they can’ go to school, even if they are online ning, there is still a high ount of care and supervision eeded, ticularly for primary aged ildren, and so we are calling all sses to proactively offer urlough to any working parents cted by these school closures remote learning.
we know that ring the last lockdown there was a number of securely working mums had to be furloughed in order to alance work and care.
to those that do that ome and perhaps work more ﬂaxibly can do that at home and perhaps work more flexibly that may be another tion.
but icularly those option.
but particularty those parents in low—paid jobs where only ten jobs an be done from one in ten jobs ran be done from home, we are saying those parents to be furloughed and there will a vast number of parents fected.
in london alone there are 00 primary schools that are closed.
that will be effecting a umber of working families.
et’ catch up with the weather and att taylor.
i’ going to be selfish and ask a personal question it is my 50th birthday because it is my 50th birthday tomorrow and i have been monitoring ather to see if it will be the weather to see if it will be snowing because the forecast cates it might be.
is it going to?
as it is your 50th birthday, close your eyes, you can picture whatever ant but it is likely to be you want but it is most likely to be rain.
have a happy birthday from all of us at the weather centre.
mainly rain the south—east of the country as we going to morrow and it is ining quite heavily across parts south—east england towards the annel islands.
this is the zone re we could see minor flooding ver the few days as rain over the next few days as rain totals tot up.
there is some snow the southwest and the pennines and higher ground of a hern scotland.
rain and sleet or many at lower levels but still ing and going throughout the day, ots of the weather towards the .
it is a windy day across ngland and whilst today, it will it feel colder than 2—4 into he evening at mperatures dropping estern scotland and northern land again, widespread frost, icy itions into tomorrow.
tonight cross the south—east of scotland in outhern uplands and around the borders, we could see a good ring of snow over higher ground the showers continue to run in ross rthern parts of england producing some snow across the ines.
another cold, icy start omorrow.
i will have more details .
hello, this is news.
the headlines further restrictions are expected to control the spread of coronavirus in both england and scotland — in england, the prime minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
: we have been waiting to see the impact of the tier for measures on ims.
-- us.
—— tier 4.
it is unclear at the moment, but if you look at the numbers there is no question we are going to make tougher measures.
: we will be announcing those in due course.
the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab has begun — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
it means everything to me, to my mind it is the only way of getting back to normal life.
this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
the already has over half a million doses of the jab, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today when i saw the first jab in the building behind me, it felt like an even bigger moment.
another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
primary schools in most of england reopen, but there’ growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
president trump is heard on tape asking an election official to ‘find’ him enough extra votes to have won the state of georgia.
democrats call it a disgrace.
a coroner in malaysia delivers a verdict of death by misadventure in the case of the franco—irish teenager, nora quoirin.
a court in london has ruled that the wikileaks founder, julian assange, cannot be extradited to the united states to face charges relating to the disclosure of thousands of secret military documents.
the wikileaks disclosure in 2010 was the largest leak of classified documents in history.
a little earlier, our giplomatic correspondent, james landalec explained how the judge came to her decision.
thejudge went through a very close detail all the defence case made by ian sange’ legal team about julian assange’ legal team about why, in their view, he should not be ited to face all the charges relating to the release of thousands itary documents almost a of military documents almost a decade ago.
as you went through it aid, the lian assange team she said, the julian assange team had claimed that the department of would justice would treat him harshly, i have no evidence of that, the team laimed the charges were political, she said she found no ence of any more hostility in he evidence of any more hostility in the trump administration, and she through of these argument, went through all of these argument, dismissing the defence case, but came to the situation of the mental state of lian assange.
that, he came to the conclusion at if he were extradited and taken an american prison, and their isolation he would likely ce, she said, i am certifies that procedures described will not julian assange from finding prevent julian assange from finding a way to commit suicide.
for this on, i have decided exhibition uld be a present by reason of tal harm and i order his ischarge.
what happens now?
this old bailey, weatherby and peal?
the americans have said they appeal, they have days to do will appeal, they have 14 days to do so.
at the oment this is just a trict judge, could go to the high court or reme court.
there a process to be done.
the ericans have days in which to lodge that al.
the interesting question is what happens to an assange?
here has been a request he be bailed, because if you ink about it, he has been in etention, facing these charges in arsh prison for the last 20 other once.
before that he spent years voluntarily held up in ecuadorian embassy.
this is a an who has been confined, initially ntarily and subsequently by the tate, for a long period of time and question now is what he get any conditions, will be allowed , that is being decided at the ent.
outside the european union.
negotiators came up with a deal which will allow tariff—free trading but additional paperwork is expected to cause delays at borders and customs hold—ups in the early days.
our correspondent simonjones gave us the latest from dover.
: we have seen a steady stream of lorries arriving this morning, ing into the port, wanting to cross the channel to france, heading ais dunkirk.
lorries arriving have to have the right customs arations and safety declarations and safety certificates, otherwise they will be away, plus also the added complication if they are going to ce, they need a negative coronavirus test.
50 ar, over the ast three days, the start of the year, traffic has been light, we re into the weekend after the day, it is expected to pick up oday and in the coming days.
let’ to someone at the sharp end of eirs, chris, from one of the ferry mpanies.
from your point of view, has it gone?
we are quite happy how it has gone, as expected, traffic much less the last year.
people were ing about potential chaos on the roads, traffic stretching for milas, was ike doom mongering are till are early days?
we are ill early days from the erspective when it is always quiet is time of year, but what we’re een so far is that freight stomers have done very well and rking out what they need to do in of customs clearances so we happy with the compliance we seen and customs, so far it is news.
how does that work when a driver goes into the port?
at do hey have to show, to show hat they are already?
the first thing they need to do is come poor and show that they are ovid-19 ready, then they go hrough the erth for border control howing documentation.
as long they have a valid customs earance document they are allowed oard.
what happens then assault nformation is transferred to customs agent in calais and kirk and we can tell the drivers hen they are oard whether they are good to go, green light or light, and they have to pull ide.
i am happy say that the aside.
i am happy to say that the vast majority of freighter drivers green light to go, very important for every body to keep the dear lear here and in calais.
pores dear here and in calais.
today has been described as a first est of this new system but rom what we have seen, traffic is pretty light.
when i do xpecting to build up?
when will see he real test?
over the next or two we will start to see ffic build—up again.
it is fair say that ter the last couple of brexit build—up is we had, 2019 and ds, we a dip in traffic onwards, we saw a dip in traffic after that, that will take some time and there was a lot of stockpiling by companies in the to new year to to avoid any problems.
it is all going well ar.
are talking about lorries so far.
we are talking about lorries but obviously looking ahead to the , hopefully the return of the summer holidays, who knows?
but how pecting that to affect i do expecting that to affect tourist passengers?
we have a job to xplain to customers what it they need to have in terms of of the new documentation which ome through around health nsurance are being allowed to the continent but we are nfident we will have plenty of me to explain what customers need are looking forward to ringing them back on board.
we have them over the last few missed them over the last few months, as i’ sure everyone will rstand, so as soon as we see the portunity to open up travel again we are talking with government when we can do that safely, we about when we ran do that safely, we will welcome them back, give them a meal and set them on their way.
i ran tell you from a wet and windy the idea of summer holidays seem a very long time away.
a recording has emerged which appears to show president trump putting pressure on a senior republican official to overturnjoe biden’ election victory in georgia.
the washington post says the audio is from an hour—long phone call with georgia’ secretary of state, brad raffensperger.
the vice president—elect — kamala harris — called it a "bold abuse of power".
paul hawkins reports.
impeachment, the russia scandal and catching covid in the middle of a pandemic.
the trump presidency has been a roller—coaster ride.
so, on one level, perhaps we shouldn’ be surprised.
after all, donald trump himself said losing is never easy.
not for me, it’ not.
but on another level, no—one could have foreseen that the president of the united states would ask georgia’ top election official to find the votes that would change november’ result.
you can’ let it happen and you are letting it happen.
the call lasted an hour, the president angrily making unsubstantiated claim that ballots had been shredded and voting machinery removed — claims that were denied by a lawyer for the state.
with secretary raffensperger saying, "the challenge you have, president, is that the data you have is wrong.
" the president called him a child.
condemnation of the call has been swift.
well, it was, yes, certainly the voice of desperation and it was a bold, bald—faced, bold abuse of power.
the president’ refusal to accept the result had split his own party with the former republican leader of the house of representatives saying it was difficult to conceive of a more anti—democratic and anti—conservative act.
well, it is tough to be shocked any more by what the president does but this was truly shocking.
extraordinary.
to put pressure on a republican secretary of state to find the votes, i mean, that’ awful stuff.
but 11 republican senators, led by ted cruz, are still planning to challenge the election result when it’ officially certified on wednesday.
we live in a world where truth literally does not matter any more, evidently.
at least here in the and the american media truth does not matter.
it’ all about propaganda from the liberal media and so the reality is, you go listen to the call, all the narrative of that is literally a not a nonsense call.
donald trump is holding an election rally on monday night in georgia, where two republican—held senate seats are up for grabs in tuesday’ election.
polling suggests both races are tight, with the outcome deciding who controls the upper house of congress.
but with donald trump questioning the voting process in georgia, will republicans still turn out to vote?
paul hawkins, news.
a malaysian coroner has delivered a verdict of misadventure in the case of more quoirin, the french—irish schoolgirl whose body was found in the jungle in 2019.
the 15—year—old had gone missing from an eco—resort outside kuala lumpur, where she’ been on holiday with her family.
howard johnson reports.
it was from this jungle resort in central malaysia that nora went missing on the morning of august the 4th, 2019.
she’ arrived at the dusan resort with her familyjust the day before.
the children and sebastian were tired because they really didn’ get much sleep on the plane.
they found the overnight flight quite tiring.
so we had no ambition for the first day beyond just acclimatising.
but around sam the following morning, father sebastian discovered nora was missing.
the site of where nora was staying was empty.
i looked around.
tried to keep my composure for a few seconds.
immediately after that, run downstairs and start started searching around.
mother meabh said a window in the downstairs kitchen area that she said she had closed the night before was found open.
the family insisted there was a criminal element to the case as their daughter had difficulty walking unassisted and had never wandered off alone.
but the police always maintained it was a missing persons case.
there is the possibility that the missing person had woken up from sleep.
maybe she wanted to go to the toilet and was confused by the sort of house which was new to her and left the house on her own.
nora during the inquest, the court heard how a massive manhunt was mobilised to search for the 15—year—old in the thickjungle surrounding the resort.
missing person flyers were handed out in nearby communities.
the owner of the dusan resort told the inquest the area had never experienced anything like it.
it has always been a safe place for my family.
we have never had a burglary, and we have never had an intruder in any of our houses.
nora’ naked body was eventually found ten days after she disappeared, close to a stream on a palm oil plantation.
there was no sign she had been physically assaulted.
autopsies carried out both in malaysia and london both concluded that nora had died because of a heavily ulcerated upper intestine caused by extreme stress and lack of food.
this is very unusual.
but there must be something more than the normal, i mean, stress.
this is tremendous.
a senior british pathologist said that scratches on nora’ torso, legs and feet were consistent with her moving through the densejungle.
today’ verdict of death by misadventure means that coroner maimoonah aid believes that on the balance of probabilities, nora wandered off alone.
nora’ parents called for this inquest.
but it’ delivered a verdict that will undoubtedly disappoint them.
howard johnson, news.
millions of children should be going back to school today, but most senior school pupils are learning from home this week and many primaries will also remain closed to the majority of children.
it’ all to stop the spread of coronavirus.
graham satchell has been speaking to some parents in england about their concerns and confusion.
parents across the country with tough decisions to make as the number of covid cases continues to rise.
sean and aiden live in cheshire, which hasjust moved into tier 4, but their school will be open this week.
for their mental health, it’ the right environment for them.
obviously, their education is key, but mine are only little — they’re still, you know, seven and nine, and you know, it’ more about the social aspect of it.
but, you know, if it’ for the greater good, and if keeping them off an extra couple of weeks, an extra few weeks, would bring the rates down and get it all under control, then, yeah, i’ be behind that 100%.
in the midlands, leo and lucy’ school is also open — but their mum isn’ sure they should go.
we are in a situation where we’re saying it’ not safe to go and get a haircut from someone in full , but we are expecting my sister, who teaches at a sixth form college in leicester, to go and mix with a group of 4,000 students on a daily basis.
and if what is necessary to keep everyone else safe is for me to, you know, pull myself up by my bootstraps and print off some worksheets for a few more weeks, i can do that.
this is amy and her three children in richmond, in london.
primary schools are closed in london.
amy is worried about her children, but needs them to go to school so she can work.
it’ scary seeing the cases rising all the time.
so on that sense, i don’ particularly want my children at school.
but to allow me to go to work, to allow me to earn the money that me and my children need to be able to survive, to pay the bills, to eat — yes, it is very important.
leyla preston’ children are enjoying some fresh air in the playground.
cases here in hertfordshire have been rising fast, and schools are shut.
we live in a very high—case area — hertsmere — and we haven’ i haven’ heard of one case at my kid’ school, so i think they’re doing really well in terms of safety.
so in that sense, i think it would probably be betterfor them to go back to schooljust because they need the socialising, they need the classroom environment, they need to have something different, something more in their lives.
in sussex, chloe found out late last night her school — which was due to be open tomorrow — will now be closed for at least two weeks.
she’ saying to me, "mum, is it safe for me to go back to school?
" and i’ like, "i don’ know!
" in september, i absolutely felt that it was safe to go back to school.
all of the information coming through was showing that transmission rates amongst children was really, really small.
and that felt really safe with the measures the school had in place.
what’ happened over the last few weeks indicates that that isn’ new the case with the new strain.
in north london, sam was told on friday that her daughter’ primary school would stay closed for the time being.
sam’ family really struggled with home schooling in the first lockdown.
oh, gosh, the amount of times ijust ended the day sobbing because it was just too much, trying to handle a child with learning difficulties remotely, a 6—year—old who was unwilling to learn remotely, on top of my dayjob and i think that’ my response to this one has been so much stronger than it was the first time — because i fear going back into that same position that we had earlier in the year.
there are no easy answers here — each family with its own concerns and worries.
graham satchell, news.
the headlines on news further restrictions are expected to control the spread of coronavirus in both england and scotland — in england, the prime minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab has begun — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
primary schools in most of england reopen this morning, but there’ growing concern over safety and staff shortages.
ever since the brexit vote —— the has been looking forfresh trade deals around the world — and a free trade agreement with australia may be among the first to be signed.
australia’ winemakers are among those hoping to benefit —— they shipped more than £200 million worth of wine to britain in the last financial year.
shaimaa khalil reports from south australia.
quenching the international thirst for australian wine means doing things on a massive scale.
accolade is one of the country’ biggest producers.
each of these vats holds the equivalent of almost 400,000 bottles, and much of it is destined for britain.
pumped into shipping containers, it’ sent to the other side of the world to be packaged and sold.
brands made here are some of the ’ best sellers.
britain leaving the has allowed it to negotiate free trade deals, including with australia, a prospect they relish here.
but brexit isn’ all good news for australian winemakers who still don’ know what it will mean for moving their products from the into mainland europe.
and there are questions over how labelling requirements will change and the costs involved.
we’re doing everything possible to minimise any disruptions on the back of brexit.
i think for us, regardless of the outcome, what we’re looking for now is the potentials associated with the free trade agreement between the and australia.
at the moment, the tariffs imposed on australian wine imports into the are anywhere between 13 pence and 15 per litre.
that is compared to new world competitors such as chile and south africa which have a zero tariff.
australia exports more wine to the than anywhere else in the world, but most of it is that the cheaper end of the market.
so could a free trade deal with britain help producers here sell their more expensive brands competitively?
: we are going to the old bailey, the chief executive of coghlan is ing about the judge prospect ecision not extradite ian lian assange.
ank you for coming.
i had ped that today would be the day julian ould come home.
today that day.
that day will is not that day.
but that day will come soon.
as long as julian has to re suffering isolation as an endure suffering and isolation as an unconvicted prisoner in belmarsh , and as long as our children ontinue to be bereft of their her’ love and affection, we not celebrate.
we will celebrate day he comes home.
today is a tory for julian.
day’ victory or julian.
todars victory is the step towards justice in is case.
we are pleased that the ourt has gnised the seriousness court has recognised the seriousness and inhumanity of what he has red and what he faces.
but let’ not forget the indictment in the has not been dropped.
we are externally concerned that the government has decided to appeal decision, it continues to want to punish lian and make him isappear to the deepest, darkest hole of the prison system.
the of his .
—— for the rest of his life.
that never happen.
we will never that journalism is a crime in is country or any other.
let’ not forget that agents plotted to kill julian on ish soil, his british solicitors re deliberately targeted by name their documents were stolen.
illegal operations even targeted our six-month-old baby.
it is sickening at is also a threat to yone.
on behalf of ian and everyone.
on behalf of julian and myself i want to thank the millions pla around the world and the institutions that are already ing for falling for this persecution end.
i ask you to shout louder, lobby until he is free.
i call on harder until he is free.
i all on everyone else to come together to julian’ rights.
not just julian’ ts, they are your julian’ rights, they are your rights also.
julian’ freedom is lad to all our freedoms.
and our freedoms are lost in the blink of an all call on insiders to come out.
i all on insiders to come forward to expose the full extent of sconduct that has led to the misconduct that has lad to julian’ imprisonment.
—— the blink .
and i call on the president of the nited united states to end this now.
president, tear down these prison , let our little boys have walls, let our little boys have their father.
free julian, free the , free us ll.
three threejulian assange!
that was stella morris, the partner of julian ge, the other of his two assange, the mother of his two children, and as you can see and to quite a crowd.
ered at the go, quite a crowd.
gathered at the old bailey on the day the court he cannot be extradited to the nited tates.
this is the editor in ief of wikileaks, we have a moment listen him.
we have all experienced a horrible year in 2020, been horrible for most of it has been horrible for most of ours, but let’ remember it was yet a situation for lian ten of a situation for julian assange.
but what a glimpse of hope the new year and hopefully a new era.
it is a day with a when our julian sange.
the editor chief of kileaks.
the latest on at and he rest of the news coming in a few minutes on the one ’clock news.
i will say goodbye and you with the weather.
still wintry are therefore some of you but the weather set up for the day so different from last eek, high—pressure tendon —pressure south and east, more of ase to orth—easterly flow.
an ease to north-easterty ﬂow.
still cold and buying night temps ropping to freezing sleet and illsborough, but also rain, ticularly in the south—east, the ay to spar the next few days, hills of north kent, east of surrey ross the channel islands we and across the channel islands we could see as much as 50 millilitres in some spots, there could be some minor oding.
the rain ntinues that bristol went, howers across eastern irritated over the high ground, best of the weather towards the west.
a busy day for england and wales, wind hing gala orce are the eastern touching gale force are the eastern portion of the english channel.
that ake it feel colder, as we go will make it feel colder, as we go into the evening.
dropping below zing in parts of scotland and orthern ireland, and other cold night to come.
we could see gnificant snow showers on the of the borders, southern plands, some as well back into the nes in the morning making for icy conditions.
temperatures at lowest, where tyler —7 or —8, holding up in outh and east holding up in the south and east with the rain continues to fall.
out for ice in the morning, now showers in scotland should , sleet and snow pushing through thern include particularly across ennines, still raining what arts of southeast asia down towards hannel islands.
a lot of you will have a and bright day, aps feeling a little bit colder than today.
as we go to tuesday into wednesday, easterly flow, high—pressure stunts to hold firm the north, when following lighter, more in the way and ties wednesday morning, the showers he south—east across parts of ent by the outh—east across parts kent by this te, a subtle wind change, things improving.
showers around two central areas but ostly and bright but a pretty day after a frothy start.
the lue and the chart means another espread frost taking a suit when he night into thursday morning.
rain, sleet and snow across parts of scotland and northern and but brighter england and ireland but brighter for england and walas and most will be on ay.
as the government comes under pressure to announce another national lockdown.
visiting a hospital where the first oxford—astrazeneca jabs were administered, borisjohnson says covid—19 is surging and hospitals are under huge pressure.
what we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the tier 4 measures on the virus and it’ a bit unclear still at the moment but i think there’, you know, if you look at the numbers, there’ no question we’re going to have to take tougher measures and we’ll be announcing those in due course.
we’ll be live in westminster and asking what are the government’ options.
also this lunchtime 82—year—old dialysis patient brian pinker becomes the first person to receive the new vaccine.
it’ hailed a "pivotal" moment.
the vaccine means everything to me.
i mean, to my mind, it’ the only way of getting back to a bit of normal life.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
parents and teachers face a "confusing picture" of primary school closures in england as unions call for a delay to children returning to classrooms.
wikileaks founderjulian assange wins his battle against extradition to the united states after a judge at the old bailey rules he’ a suicide risk.
i just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have.
find me more votes — president trump is recorded on the phone ordering officials in georgia to change the election result.
and coming up on news, the new world darts champion, gerwyn price, says he’ thankful he won after securing the title at the 12th time of asking.
good afternoon, and welcome to the news at one.
the prime minister is warning of "tough, tough" weeks to come as the government faces pressure to announce another national lockdown amid concerns the new variant coronavirus is spreading out of control.
borisjohnson said there was "no question" about the need for tougher measures which would be announced "in due course".
it comes as infection levels are nearly four times higher now than they were at the start of december and that has put more pressure on hospitals.
there was some brighter news.
in what’ being described as a "pivotal moment" in the ’ fight against coronavirus, the first doses of the oxford university and astrazeneca covid—19 vaccine have been administered.
the first recipent was 82—year—old dialysis patient brian pinker who said, "to my mind, it’ the only way to getting back to a normal life.
" here’ our health correspondent anna collinson.
her report does contain some flash photography.
at 7:303 this morning, all eyes were on an 82—year—old man, dialysis patient brian pinker became the first person to receive the oxford—astrazeneca vaccine.
he is now looking forward to celebrating his 48th wedding anniversary.
the vaccine means everything to me.
to my mind, it’ the only way of getting back to a bit of normal life.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’ it?
sam foster administered the jab, which is seen as a crucial moment in the ’ fight against the coronavirus.
it was a huge privilege.
every single patient that we have vaccinated over the last couple of weeks have got their own personal stories to the difference it’ going to make for them, so no different this morning with our first two patients.
more than 500,000 doses are now being rolled out, starting with a small group of hospitals, including in oxford.
a thumbs up from one of the scientists who helped develop the vaccine.
it is a hugely proud moment.
it is a testament to the efforts of the teams both here and around the world who have been working on the vaccine.
but also, i think, especially important for all of those volunteers who came forward without really knowing whether this vaccine was going to work to actually see their involvement has brought us to this moment today.
the astrazeneca jab is cheaper and easier to store than the pfizer one so fewer resources are needed to reach the most vulnerable.
the phase one priority list is headed by those who live and work in care homes, followed by the over 805 and front line health workers, and then younger groups and the clinically vulnerable.
the first phase includes all adults aged 50 and over.
doctors say a fast roll—out is essential so patients will now wait 12 weeks for their second dose.
leading scientists say this delay will allow more people to be protected faster.