this is news.
these are the latest headlines in the and around the world.
mi5 and counter—terrorism police are investigating yesterday’s explosion in a taxi in liverpool yesterday which killed one man.
the taxi driver has been named locally as david perry.
detectives from counter terrorism police north west have arrested three men following the explosion, which happened just before 11am on remembrance sunday.
government advisers recommend the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy 40— to 49—year—olds, and 16— and17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
when you are called for your booster dose in the next phase you can come ward nfident that the benefits in preventing serious covid—19 utweigh any sks.
belarus is warned it faces more sanctions, including a ban on airlines taking migrants into the country.
rhe plight of migrants from afghanistan.
we’ve a special report from the serbia—romania border.
six months after a damning report into the ’s handling of princess diana’s 1995 panorama interview, her brother tells the corporation he believes there’s more to come out.
who have behaved in a way that is abysmal, and possibly criminal.
hello and welcome if you’re watching in the , or around the world.
the mayor of liverpool has praised the taxi driver, injured in yesterday’s car explosion in the city, for his heroic efforts.
joanne anderson said the man who’s been named locally as david perry, had managed to divert what, she said, could have been an absolutely awful disaster at the liverpool women’s hospital.
the ’s security service, mi5, is assisting counter—terrorism police with the investigation.
three men have been arrested.
this report by our correspondent james reynolds contains flashing images.
the police say they are working at speed to establish the circumstances of this, the car explosion just outside the liverpool women’s hospital in central liverpool.
it happened shortly before 11 o’clock yesterday morning, at a time when remembrance day services were about to begin across the country.
the driver survived the blast.
the passenger, who has not been named, was killed.
unfortunately, i can confirm that one person has died and another has been taken to hospital, where he is being treated for his injuries, which, thankfully, are not life—threatening.
so far we understand that the car involved was a taxi, which pulled up at the hospital shortly before the explosion occurred.
in the kensington area of liverpool, around a mile from the explosion, three men, aged 21, 26 and 29, were arrested under the terrorism act.
days without charge.
and late at night, a number of homes in liverpool’s rutland avenue and nearby cumberland avenue were evacuated.
they’re reported to be close to a house which was raided by the police in the hours after the incident.
counter terrorism police north west are leading the overall investigation.
they’re supported by officers from merseyside police, and the security service, mi5, is also assisting.
investigators say they’re keeping an open mind as to what caused the explosion.
james reynolds, news.
earlier i spoke with our security correspondent frank gardner about the explosion.
i spoke to our correspondent andy gill earlier.
liverpool women’s ital remains largely sealed off this morning, large area with this morning, it’s a large area with a big footprint and there is police around the perimeter and olice officers are standing guard gular intervals around the rimeter.
visiting is restricted ppointments are going ahead ith peopla driving and having their checked by police before they in.
the hospital is one of three cations in liverpool where this vestigation is centred, the other, mes’s eport mentioned, to the as james’s report mentioned, to the north of the city where three men arrested and another about a south of here were a house is ing searched and a number of homes evacuated, some families had to into emergency accommodation vided by liverpool council.
unterterrorism officers are ping an open mind about what lies this.
but as we know the explosion took place just before 11 ck, and that was the time o’clock, and that was the time across the country but also here in pool where the city’s remembrance service was about to place at the anglican cathedral hich was a short walk from this pital, and it is unusual the remembrance service here to take at that location.
it normally akes place in the city centre but ouldn’t this year because of adworks.
the home secretary priti is being kept up—to—date with ents, a vernment minister told he this morning that this is an ing situation.
merseyside emerging situation.
merseyside police say people can expect to see patrols officers on the more patrols and officers on the street in liverpool today as part of surance plan.
our security orrespondent frank gardner told me bout how the security operation will be going on now, with and his 5 working together.
yeah, there are essentially three bodies involved in the investigation, merseyside police, counter terrorism police north west who are leading the investigation, they are being supported by the security service mi5 which james mentioned.
there are a number of different strands they are going down with this.
one of the first lines of enquiries would normally be any forensic evidence that can be gathered from the scene of the explosion.
that is going to be much harder to do because as you have seen from the pictures fire very quickly engulfed the taxi so there was this initial explosion, it seemed, which caused the driver to run out of the vehicle and it then simply caught fire.
that would have destroyed a lot of the explosive residue that you would normally expect to be examined by the forensic explosive laboratory technicians.
there may well be other forensic evidence they can gather from other locations in the city.
but that bit is going to be harder.
mi5 will be looking at their known list of suspects who could possibly be in any way connected to this.
but they are not giving away anything at the moment on this.
they are unlikely to say anything publicly.
counterterrorism policing do have a lot of resources at their disposal.
there will be a lot of digital investigations going on into this, looking at any phone calls, any spikes in conversations.
so far, they are keeping a completely open mind, as you heard, about what is the motivation behind this.
yes, international jihadism, or terrorism, is one of the lines but only one of the lines they are looking at, and they are not coming down on one side or the other, not ruling it out or in at the moment which is frustrating for us because we are looking for answers but they are not giving them yet.
frank gardner.
the government’s vaccine advisors say all over 405 should be offered a booster of a covid vaccine.
thejoint committee on vaccination and immunisation says a third jab would top up protection and help limit the spread of the virus overwinter.
they’ve also advised that 16— and17—year—olds, who were initially offered only a single dose, should now get chair of thejcvi, professor wei shen lim, announced the two updates to the booster programme.
the first update relates to the booster programme.
could i have the slide, please?
just as a first slide, please?
just as a reminder, the current advice in the programme is that persons aged over 50 years, those adults in ical at risk group, front line and social care workers and dose contacts of persons who are munosuppressed should have a oster vaccine six months following pletion of their primary course, entially, have a third vaccine six months after the second se.
can i have the next slide, ase?
we are advising today that booster programme is extended to persons aged 40-49 years as well.
as previously, the booster dose is sed six months after the second se, and either the pfizer biontech ine or the moderna vaccine can used as the booster dose, gardless of the type of vaccine ived for the first two doses in primary course.
you may remember in earty august we advised a irst that in early august we advised a first dose of the pfizer biontech ine for 16 and 17—year—olds who not have underlying health ndition that puts them at higher from severe covid—19.
m: we said at the time and would review the data and that a second dose may be advise command that is indeed the case.
we have reviewed ecent information regarding the fety and benefits of a second se, and we are advising that 16 17—year—olds who have had a dose the pfizer biontech accine be offered a second dose of pfizer biontech vaccine.
as a minder, the first vaccine dose a high level of protection gainst serious disease, and that level of protection we know for at least 12—16 weeks.
the cond dose, netheless, reinforces protection from the first dose it is important in extending the tion of protection, not for duration of protection, not just for the winter months and christmas, but also looking into 2022 and we are also looking into 2022 and beyond.
anna collinsonjoins us now.
the booster programme being extended now to over 405.
what more do we this orning about the impact of the booster programme?
while vaccine obviously provide xcellent protection, we have seen the data the level of that in the data the level of hospitalisations from covid this this stage of the year year at this stage of the year compared to last year is much lower.
power ran wane, that’s ese their power can wane, that’s these booster programme has been in, initially for those over 0.
young adults with health onditions and front line health workers and so far more than 12 llion peopla in hat group have ad had that booster vaccine.
now they nting to expand it further, saying that boosters are safe, they dentified no new safety concerns, the majority of side they have found, the sore or tiredness, they want to and further based on some evidence that the health security has put forward suggesting agency has put forward suggesting boosters provide 90% protection to 5 after two weeks.
that’s just for ymptomatic infections.
50 is thought it is even higher tection from severe illness and death.
50 the hope is by from death.
so the hope is by extending this booster programme it to provide even more is going to provide even more protection this winter.
they have nnounced the extension to 16 and 17—year—olds who currently could one ose but they are now saying they ran two doses.
yes, decision for the first dose was over the summer.
the idea being they wanted to protect a 16 and 17-year-olds covid, and also educe isruption in schools, preventing smission amongst age - preventing transmission amongst age groups, teachers, and then hopefully nting transmission within preventing transmission within society in general, but also enting disruption in schools because that was having such a great on young people, including impact on young peopla, including mental health and their education.
were the big arguments for oing it.
however, there were cerns about a very, very rare ide effect, heart inflammation iled yocarditis.
which was shown rallad myorarditis.
which was shown to particularty affect young men, or boys.
50 there has been a bit young boys.
so there has been a bit of sensitivity around that, wanting more data, because we have alked about a lot, joanna, there is balancing between when you that balancing act between when you are looking at the younger age of they are less likely to get covid, y, they are less get covid, sorry, they are lass likely to become seriously ill from , it is likely they will have very mild symptoms, or not have toms at all, so you are at all, so you are balancing that up.
that was the that was holding that decision k.
the now say they have een closely monitoring heart lammation and they are confident hey have not any increased they have not noticed any increased risk, so the , the panel, the committee on vaccine and joint committee on vaccine and immunisation says they are now sing for that second dose to be given to that age group with a 12 gap.
thank you.
let’s get more on this from linda bauld, professor of public health at the university of edinburgh.
the message loud and clear from the news conference this morning was the advisers, the government ant people to come forward for eir ooster vaccines or second oses, or as soon as they are ed.
what difference does it ake?
where are we currently in of ptake when people become ligible?
if we start with the doses, we have seen phenomenal uptake in older age ps.
as you go down the age ranges, ido between devolved nations, you can see hose of our 505, not all of those of us in our 505, not all of us have had our second dose, fewer in their 405 and 305, i’m particularly concerned about 18-29 ar—old age group we the 18-29 wear-old age group we kind of stalled at the 70, 70 5% ptake, so to make our uptake, so we need to make our efforts there and communicate to that for the second dose and robably boosters, this is an evergreen offer.
in terms of the ters they will make a boosters they will make a significant difference.
a couple of of key evidence, i wasn’t ble to listen to the press iefing.
the pfizer trial ndomised people to boosters wing were over 90% showing they were over 90% effective, even when the mean gap een the second dose and the between the second dose and the booster was a far longer duration what we are recommending and ere is also compelling evidence israel with tens of thousands individuals receiving a booster at the risks of hospitalisation mortality are significantly less eople have that and we are when peopla have that and we are beginning to see those data picked data.
50 really up in our data.
so really important that we both take up our doses and when it is our portunity to do so take up the ster.
jonathan van—them said if he ooster programme is successful ill take away concerns for covid round christmas and for the of winter.
he said it really is that e.
what you think is going simple.
what do you think is going on with what has been happening with terms of the immunisation, not taking up even the second dose, have is that?
you would have thought of summary takes up the dose they would automatically have the second and go on.
yes, it’s eresting thing.
i think there are we are not looking at anti—vex iment, i think that is an issue or small numbers for taking up any doses at all.
we are looking at, i think, people’s complex lives ing in the way of taking up that econd appointment.
may be some understanding of the protection is provided by first dose, ich is definitely partial, and opla just not having a chance to it.
i think complacency or lack onvenience is there.
and people to come forward.
and also we to give an emphasis in our stem on that convenience.
we need intain droppings for those - to maintain droppings for those groups, not having people relying on pointments, and we need to just on appointments, and we need to continue to emphasise, back to young e, for our students, when we peopla, for our students, when we come back, even in the next centre, to have those vaccination nis clinics and links to the on us to eally pick up everybody campus to really pick up everybody who has not had the second dose.
—— ins.
ithink nvenience and drop ins.
i think convenience and may be some complacency has been the eature for that gap between first and second.
the experts were at the news conference whether oosters will inevitably roll out to adults.
the answer was may be.
oes it make sense?
because if unity starts to wane after six nths, that happens to everybody, viously, and the decision was to give all over eighteens and 16 and 17—year—olds another dose ay.
they are oking at relative anyway.
they are looking at relative risks and that’s what they have changed now for approval over 40.
we know the age gradient and those with tying conditions for the risk of underlying conditions for the risk of disease severity, hospitalisation rtality is so much greater the lder you are.
so it does make sense ove back down through the age anges, plus those with underlying itions and the extremely clinically vulnerable.
but going israel and number of other back to israel and number of other countries, boosters have been made able to adults as a whole, and i think you are right that if the is there and the evidence continues to build, it may be that age groups become eligible.
final point, the key priority now is to get through this r.
the boosters are going to make a huge difference as professor han van—them has aid.
looking jonathan van-tham has said.
looking ahead we have questions about when need to receive a covid—19 accine in longer term, and here are still many scientific stions about that.
professor inda bauld, thank you.
people going to cinemas, theatres and concert halls in wales will be required to show a covid pass from today.
it follows the introduction of passes for and big events in the nation last month.
covid case rates in wales are falling, but remain relatively high.
the headlines on news — mi5 and counter—terrorism police are investigating yesterday’s explosion in a taxi in liverpool yesterday — which killed one man.
the taxi driver has been named locally as david perry.
government advisers have recommended the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy 40— to a9—year—olds and 16— and17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
belarus is warned that it faces more sanctions — including a ban on airlines taking migrants into the country.
austria has introduced a partial lockdown for the two million people there who haven’t had two doses of a coronavirus vaccine.
they’ve been told to stay at home except for work and essential shopping.
the country has one of the highest infection rates in europe, but new restrictions are being brought in, or considered, across much of the continent.
courtney bembridge has more.
there was a last—minute rush at vaccination centres in upper austria, on the eve of new restrictions for those not yet protected.
unvaccinated austrians were already barred from visiting restaurants, hairdressers and cinemas, but they’re now told to stay home except for work and food shopping.
it’ll be policed using spot checks with hefty fines for those caught breaking the rules.
austria has one of the lowest vaccination rates in western europe — around 64% of the population is fully vaccinated, which leaves two million people yet to get two doses.
and the country has one of the highest infection rates in europe — more than 800 cases per 100,000 people.
the icus are starting to fill up.
it’s already projected that within two weeks we will have reached the limit, and we know that the cases we see now will be those that fill up the icus in two weeks, so there’s need for some measure right now.
but not everyone agrees.
crowds gathered over the weekend in salzburg and vienna to make their opposition clear.
: i’m here today because i want to fight for my rights.
these measures are absolutely discriminatory.
my body, our bodies, we have a right to decide about them.
a fourth wave of infections is gripping much of europe and the continent is once again the epicentre of the virus.
eastern european nations with lower vaccination rates like latvia and russia were among the first to bring back restrictions, but even the netherlands with a vaccination rate above 80% has reintroduced a partial lockdown for at least three weeks.
and germany is also weighing up new restrictions.
courtney bembridge, news.
teachers in new zealand will now be banned from the classroom if they have not been vaccinated against covid—19.
the measure is part of the country’s zero covid policy, but critics warn it could see some schools forced to return to online lessons as there will not be enough staff on site.
the authorities in new zealand have ramped up efforts to get people vaccinated since the delta variant got into the largely covid—free country in august.
90% of new zealanders have had their first dose.
around four—fifths are fully vaccinated.
the european union says it could impose sanctions against anyone involved in the transportation of migrants to the belarus border with poland.
it comes as countries are holding their first high level talks since the crisis began.
the ’s foreign policy chief, said such sanctions would also apply to airlines and travel agencies.
our moscow correspondent steve rosenberg is in bruzgi, on the border between poland and belarus.
tell us what is happening there.
tense scenes this morning in the ant ramp on the belarusian — olish migrant camp on the belarusian — polish border.
hundreds of migrants ust pushed their way through the gate right up to the checkpoint the belarusian side of the border.
from what we saw, belarusian made no attempt at all to forces made no attempt at all to stop them.
as you can see, there are dreds e.
they are sitting hundreds here.
they are sitting down, they are determined to get they want, in other words to be llowed into poland into the opean union.
and so you have this and-off, the grants on one side, on the her side of the razor ire the lines of polish police, ish troops.
there is a polish copter monitoring the situation.
ink this is a water cannon here, we have been hearing in the last minutes announcements from ish forces telling people to obey ers.
it is quite a tense ituation here.
now, the european has been saying all along that lams rus is using these migrants as a litical apon, encouraging people a to come belarus, facilitating llegal gration to europe to put essure on the european union.
that mething that the belarusian authorities deny.
but we know that is about to announce more anctions on belarus.
alexander ashenko says he will respond.
and i say, this has happened as i say, this has just happened minutes ago.
this flood of migrants the ramp up the road right up to the razor ire here.
and it is unclear how this is going to end.
we are just hearing, you mentioned tions, we are earing that sanctions, we arejust hearing that ursula on der leyen has said the will sanction airlines that support sport of grants.
so the transport of migrants.
so the details just coming through.
she there will be further sanctions belarus this afternoon.
so, some ail coming ough.
more later.
detail coming through.
more later.
it is extraordinary to see these where you are.
it looks etty peaceful at the moment.
but viously, as we are hearing, the kdrop to this is very tense indeed and the stakes are very high.
bsolutely.
we were in the camp yes, absolutely.
we were in the ramp last night and lots of people were ing up to saying, "what’s coming up to us and saying, "what’s the news?
when is poland going to through?
will the european nion us through?
" there was a our swirting through the camp yesterday on monday everything ould be and the would open doors to the migrants.
there was nothing to actually prove t, but clearly tensions were that, but dearty tensions were mnning high.
h.
and this morning there a een a rush, a flood of people has been a msh, a ﬂood of peopla who after has been a rush, a flood of people who after a week of living out in old here, have decided that his is the moment.
and as i say, no ence that they were being evidence that they were being stopped here by the belarusian es.
quite the opposite.
we saw soldiers standing around and just ing as the crowd came up to the razor wire.
long eople will razor wire.
how long peopla will stay here it’s not clear, and it’s lear what action the polish rces are going to take.
but poland ade it clear in recent days it determined not to let the ants through because it believes that belarus is using migrants to hybrid fare, not only wage hybrid warfare, not only against poland but also against the ean union.
can you give us a european union.
“an you give us a sense of many people are there, also we can see children and also we ran see children directly behind you.
how long have een there for?
what resources they have ile they are there?
ell, for many of these people this day camping out in the ld.
the temperature is close to eezing.
people have been trying to shelters for themselves in the using ranches and logs and foliage.
but ally that has given ttle protection against the cold, have been lighting bonfires and keep warm.
some manitarian aid has got through.
dearty a humanitarian aid has got through.
but clearly a decision has been ken ewhere that this is the taken somewhere that this is the moment to actually move things up a .
and in many ways, this is the kind of picture hat the belarusian orities would welcome, i think.
ause they have been accused by urope of trying to create, trying ineer a humanitarian crisis on order with europe.
50 as i say, the border with europe.
so as i say, it is unclear how this is going to men, women and children here, es.
we heard some very distressing ies in the camp about the conditions people have been living any eople said they were determined to get through to the .
people here from northern a lot of people here from northern iraq, a lot of people from distan.
and in fact, everyone we spoken to said they are not ing back.
they are not going to go to minsk, the belarusian capital, they are not going to go to their home countries.
they want to get rough.
but no sign so that the is about to let them rough.
thank you very much, steve berg in bruzgi on the border etween poland and belarus.
many of the migrants stranded on the border between poland and belarus, are from iraq and afghanistan.
others are trying to enter europe on the border between northeast serbia and romania.
our correspondent nick thorpe sent this special report from the area.
it doesn’t look like fortress europe.
there are no walls or fences, more like an observation post on the long road from afghanistan into the european union.
this is a thermal vision team of the romanian border police.
the and border is 260 kilometres long.
6,500 people are known to have crossed it so far this year.
the real number is certainly much higher.
the cameras can see for five kilometres in the dark.
the most important thing is to identify all people who to enter europe.
because we are the main gate to europe.
if they ask for asylum they will go in the procedure, what comes with this form of protection.
or if they don’t want asylum they are going to be taken back to serbia.
the police insist they never use force to push migrants back.
those who ask for protection or who get through undetected end up here in timisoara.
most are afghans and reached the balkans before the taliban took power.
this offers clothes, showers and the first kindness most have met for a long time.
we want to help them with sleeping bags, they sleep outside.
and it is so cold.
i think more people, they are on the road and they come here to timisoara.
this is the field in timisoara where asylum seekers traditionally congregate.
and in five years coming here, i have never seen so many people.
almost all of them are in transit.
you are afghani?
0k.
around 500 people are accommodated in the official refugee camp and at least 100 more sleep rough.
this man and his volunteers to ease their aches and pains.
romania seems less hostile than other countries.
what we are seeing now, that is an increase, we are seeing supportive messages.
we are seeing people saying, hey, we should help and remember how we used to be migrants all over europe and we were so happy when someone was at least notjudging us.
maybe they couldn’t help us but at least they weren’t throwing stones.
afghans reaching europe now hope the situation back home means their asylum requests will be looked on more favourably.
this field is just one more oasis on thatjourney.
nick thorpe, news, timisoara.
the headlines on news: the mayor of liverpool has praised the taxi driver, who was injured in yesterday’s car explosion in the city, for his heroic efforts.
joanne anderson said the man named locally as david perry, had managed to divert what, she said, could have been an absolutely awful disaster at the liverpool women’s hospital.
the security service, mi5, is assisting counter—terrorism police with the investigation.
three men have been arrested.
government advisers have recommended the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
belarus is warned that it faces more sanctions, including a ban on airlines taking migrants into the country.
a lockdown in austria for anyone who hasn’t been vaccinated against covid comes into force.
six months after a damning report into the ’s handling of princess diana’s 1995 parorama interview, her brother tells the corporation he believes there’s more to come out.
more new on our top story — that one person has been killed and another injured following an explosion outside liverpool women’s hospital on sunday.
the mayor of liverpool has praised the injured man, who is a taxi driver, for his heroic efforts.
our correspondent fiona trott is at the hospital in liverpool for us now.
still a lot of unanswered questions but increasingly the story seems to taxi driver potentially was uite a hero?
that is right.
vestigations around that part of are still continuing.
let me escribe where the police activity ncentrated this morning.
it is ere at liverpool women’s hospital.
ord and behind me has dozens of fficers patrolling the grounds rately.
there are offices at the efbon park area and there are a police officers on the street a mobile command unit has been up.
officers outside the wpe’ty- setup.
officers are outside the property, which we understand is police went at the start of this investigation.
they returned last night.
there appear to be omebody inside a house, trained otiators were seen on the streets omes have been evacuated.
the third area of police investigation kensington area, where three men were arrested yesterday under rrorism act.
they are 21, 26 and 29 years old.
two streets remain ned off in that part the city.
cordoned off in that part the city.
all those streets are less than two from the women’s hospital where miles from the women’s hospital where the blast occurred.
what is ocus this investigation?
you have the car at the hospital grounds letely out.
one expert has completely burnt out.
one expert has told the it looks like a lot of fire damage, little blast damage.
of course, that fire killed a passenger e.
his identity lam ing inside.
his identity lam going to continue as best as i can.
this joint vestigation.
: i can see that we are unable hear you right now, unfortunately.
there are police at ene surrounding fiona.
she is absolutely fine but someone was ning out what she was saying so are unable to continue with that articular adcast.
we will be back with her a little bit later.
major improvements in the care for sickle cell patients in england is being called for, after "serious failings", including avoidable deaths, were identified in an inquiry.
the report by a cross—party group of ’s found there was evidence of substandard levels of care and a lack of awareness of the condition amongst staff.
here’s our community affairs correspondent adina campbell.
a life cut short caused by failures in his care.
he was a loving and charming guy.
he always wanted to help people.
he was a very clever and brilliant boy.
21—year—old evan smith developed sepsis after having gall bladder stent removed.
he also lived with sickle cell disease and experienced a painful episode while in hospital in london known as a sickle cell crisis.
a coroner ruled he may have survived if he was offered a blood transfusion sooner.
things were happening so fast.
he was scared i mean, i could imagine the state he was in, and each time i think of it it’s something else.
i can’t believe we just lost him like that.
evan smith because my death was the cause of this new report.
it found a number of serious concerns, including substandard care for sickle cell patients admitted on general wards or in a&e.
inadequate training among health care staff.
and racism experienced by some patients.
people living with sickle—cell feel there is inequality in the way that they are being treated here.
no one wants to put one community above anyone else.
but they do want equality in treatment.
and right now with sickle—cell, we don’t have that.
england says it has overhauled the way treatment is delivered to patients, with ten new centres for sickle cell disease being set up across the country.
sickle—cell patients live with the long term, often excruciating pain.
it’s an inherited condition from both parents, predominantly affecting people with african or caribbean heritage.
and that’s some senior health campaigners feel it is not given the attention it deserves.
if these failures affected the general anglo—saxon population, there would be an outcry.
an immediate we must do something about this.
and what we are saying is that this has gone on far too long for people who live with sickle—cell and action, and urgent action must be taken now.
the report has made a number of recommendations, including more funding for sickle cell research, and better training for health care staff to help save lives and avoid painful tragic deaths.
adina campbell, news.
let’s talk now to aisatu beadford king and sumaiya mahmoud, who are both in their early 205 and both have sickle cell.
welcome, thank you for joining us.
if you could tell us first of all, ften you find yourself in how often you find yourself in hospital with sickle cell disease impact it has on your life?
i think for me recently over the couple of years i have found yself in hospital, i would say about 20 times, may more?
i currently am in sickle cell crisis ell now, a very mild one as well now, just a very mild one but i am in pain pretty much every week.
tjust epends on how severe he pain s, if it is earable or if it is not.
could you describe for us exactly what at means?
what is happening to body where are you feeling it, could you describe what the ing is like?
it is always really ard to describe a crisis, but it is ost like a stabbing pain, but it a bit more than that.
i had a is about two weeks ago and it as from my neck straight through to est.
every time i breathed, it urt.
every time i moved, i was in n.
and when i went to a&e i was hospital for a week.
in hospital for about a week.
then i was sent home and since then i have recovering from that one crisis.
it has been two weeks since been in hospital and i am still recovering and going through isis a little bit.
with the ess crisis for me, it is more of a rp, stabbing pain.
almost like if take a breath, someone is stabbing you while you are breathing is ind of hard.
but that is so it is kind of hard.
but that is kind of the pain i am going through.
is a lot less than it was a but it is a lot lass than it was a couple of weeks ago.
so it is blood els to that part of the body vessels to that part of the body basically becoming blocked, is it?
hat impact could it have, yes.
what impact could it have, potentially?
it is pretty much —threatening.
it is quite hard.
it is scary most but when you are to something you kinda don’t about it, it’s generally when down and understand how ife—threatening it really is.
you a step ack from everything and take a step back from everything and that is when you just kind of value a bit more.
you have the same ing, how often do you end up in spital with it?
with me, i go in gularly so i am there every other ay.
it is very for us because day.
it is very hard for us because this is a chronic illness so it us on our day—to—day life.
ith us, hatever we do, it is ikely have to a step back and hink about our health.
that’s how with us.
and today we have the eport that says they need to be or improvements in their careful ickle cell patients in england ter rious failings, including voidable deaths were identified in quiry.
how do you about that?
my opinion i feel like there eds to be more education with the care.
the reason being is cause ere has been many because there has been many experiences where i have gone into dmitted into hospital and have experienced ally horrible eatment.
like, they are not lowing my care plan.
they are rescribing any medication that i could easily ake at home.
and could easily just take at home.
and it is like you explained these to them and it is very hard them to understand.
have you countered similar?
you would think re both in and out of hospital frequently, you know what is going seems unbelievable that the reatment isn’t always efficient?
would say definitely the yes, i would say definitely the health care needs to, the health retary eds to educate nurses and doctors a lot more, especially .
when you come into a crisis the first place go is a&e, you expect a level are.
you expect hem to rovide you with the dication and the care that you d.
i think sometimes you don’t that.
i have also encountered eriences where i have gone into and i have not received the amount of care and i am right amount of rare and i am waiting for knows how long and i am sitting in sickle cell crisis for ours the most uncomfortable ten hours in the most uncomfortable bed.
asking for the medication that be given.
it is very should be given.
it is very frustrating and at times you sit in a&e and think, am i going there in “ and think, am i going to die right now?
is this the end just ecause octors and for me just because doctors and nurses, who you trust with your life really know what sickle cell don’t really know what sickla cell is an don’t know how to treat it or have misconceptions about ickla cell, or about you as a son coming in, thinking the ainkillers is too much and thinking on’t need what you are asking for.
there is so many different ies i have heard, not with stories i have heard, not just with me but other people with sickle cell know have told me so many that i know have told me so many different stories.
something that to be worked on and, yeah, needs to be worked on and, yeah, something that really needs to be on.
we appreciate you both aking time to tell us about your riences.
i have the crisis you are currently feeling passes soon.
you.
the prime minister says the climate deal reached at cop26 "sounds the death knell" for coal power, but says he was "tinged with disappointment" after china and india objected to tougher commitments on its use.
after negotiations at the conference in glasgow, countries agreed to "phase down" rather than "phase out" coal.
but it’s the first time plans to reduce coal have been mentioned in this type of climate deal.
critics say the move doesn’t go far enough.
earlier i spoke to lord nicholas stern, professor of economics at the london school of economics who gave this reaction to the deal.
well, it was a pity that we moved from phase—out to phase—down, but i don’t think it’s a huge significance.
you’ve got to look at the deal as a whole and you’ve got to look at all the things that happened in the first weekend leading up to the last—minute negotiations.
for example, 130 trillion, that’s the glasgow financial allowance of 400, 130 trillion private money declaring for net zero and that means they are going to move away from the dirty stuff of the last century to the much cleaner, sustainable technologies of this century.
south africa, vietnam, india indicating very strong moves towards renewables and in moving away from coal.
technology agreements around power and transport and green hydrogen and so on.
the meetings between, or the declaration of china and the united states, the first time they’ve got together constructively for a very long time.
so there were really quite a lot of positives there.
the big worry though, if you add it all up, we’re probably heading for around two celsius increase average global surface temperature.
we really need 1.
5, so the challenge is to move quickly starting next year when we are going to convene again to to raise ambition to drive towards 1.
5.
joining me now is kai saunders from the youth climate coalition.
thank you for joining us, what is your view of what cop26 achieved?
some of itives, there has some of the positives, there has been some incremental improvements.
ncrementally significant the act that china and america came ether to speak.
the whole deal bout deforestation and the itments that so many countries fame together.
however, it just ’t enough.
it looks like closer .
4 and that 1.
5, which many untries need to stay alive.
what re uld you have liked to have seen achieved?
every single we anting to see the action plans and the , to have a crete plan towards 1.
5.
and a ull commitment to phase out fossil by 2030.
that have been kicked the road to the next .
the this is the first agreement to ention coal in the way that it has is extraordinary in itself and hows how slow and incremental lution is on this path.
it is not viously the last of the summits this, there will be another one this next year and there after.
you sort of understand it is rocess that although you would to see progress much more ckly, inevitably takes the time does because of the nature of it he number of countries involved?
yes, of course it is to.
need to be sprinting when we re jogging.
ere do you go from ere?
now that we’re coming home , everybody is a ell—deserved rest to start with but that we will be keeping the overnments to their word and make hey match the pledges they are making.
thank you.
the headlines on news: the mayor of liverpool has praised a taxi driver as "heroic" for his efforts to limit the impact of an explosion in his vehicle yesterday.
mi5 and counter—terrorism police continue to investigate the incident.
government advisers have recommended the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
belarus is warned that it faces more sanctions, including a ban on airlines taking migrants into the country.
more than 300,000 people are getting a pay boost of up to 40p an hour from today.
the real living wage, which is a voluntary scheme for employers, is increasing from today to £9.
90 outside of london and to £11.
05 in the capital.
almost 9,000 employers across the are now signed up to the scheme, which aims to ensure all staff earn a wage that meets the real cost of living.
ryan elder says he used to struggle on the minimum wage, but now works at a frozen food supplier which is part of the real living wage scheme.
i used to work at the pub and i was working more and more just so i could get by.
basically paying for rent, you know, any bills i had to pay and at the end of the month i would and put a little better way to save and it would end up just coming back out of my account.
every day i was feeling down and i was thinking about money all the time.
joining me now is kim coles, the finance director at cosmetics company lush, which is a member of the scheme.
thanks for joining us.
what difference will it make to your wage ts?
for us staff it will make a ignificant difference.
it is ortant to keep up to date with at the real living wage costs are.
usiness it will cost about 1.
7 million but for an individual member of staff it is about £800, i think nationally.
it is important to veryone has enough to live on having it calculated this way by he living foundation they can the living wage foundation they can calculate the cost of living without rking two or crazy hours to working two jobs or crazy hours to make ends meet.
how important is for you as a business?
it is sively important.
it is a modern of capitalism that you can perate high dards in business and act responsibly and still make a t.
we never think it’s right profit.
we never think it’s right for a business to be taking out at and knowing there are people the lower end is not earning ough money to live on.
it is the compass point so it is tremendously important the staff are roperty.
do the staff feedback on it on how much it matters to ?
because obviously, not all sinesses do it.
we first did it in 11 in london first, because that where the most hardship was ppening.
the feedback was about being able to eat healthily, but the heating on and not having to jobs to be able to make work twojobs to be able to make ends meet.
it was practical that the part of the feedback.
that must give you then, knowing when you hose open conversations with our employees, what their lives are and it gives you a connection etween you as the boss and them as workers?
absolutely and that is are so grateful for the we are so grateful for the living wage foundation for ralmlating this rate for us.
to have the experts calculating it for “- have the experts ralmlating it for you, it makes the whole flow of you, it makes the whola ﬂow of earnings so much easier to work out.
in 48 markets and the is we are in 48 markets and the is the only place, although new zealand good, that has a way of is pretty good, that has a way of working this out for you.
thank you ining us.
hank you very much for joining us.
thank you very much for having me, thank you.
turkey farmers across the have spent several months worrying about christmas supply, following staffing shortages caused by the pandemic and brexit.
to ease pressure on the supply chain, last month, the government introduced a temporary visa scheme for seasonal poultry workers.
with more than 3,000 of them already on their way to the , the industry is now confident that turkey will still be on the festive menu — as our business correspondent emma simpson reports.
go christmas is coming and the turkeys are nice and fat.
after months of worry, paul kelly’s now got his seasonal workers, including 22 of them, through the temporary visa scheme.
it’s about 20% of our workforce so it was very touch and go for us.
we had many sleepless nights up until the last week in september when we got the green light when we could get some visas.
christmas has been saved.
at this point in time.
in the coming days.
that’s about half as many as the industry originally was asking for.
but it should be enough, partly because a few birds have been reared this year because some farmers were worried about getting enough staff.
so will there be enough turkeys to go round?
there will definitely be enough turkeys for christmas.
i think there will be a focus on whole birds and very simple crowns and roasts.
this streamlining of our product choice has helped us in terms of overall volume.
amid all the supply chain problems, turkeys at least are now back on track, but the industry’s calling for a permanent solution to ensure it gets the seasonal workers its needs.
emma simpson, news, chelmsford.
the son of the former libyan leader muammar gaddafi has registered as a presidential candidate.
saif al—islam gaddafi is one of the most prominent figures expected to run in december’s presidential election.
he was once the heir apparent to his father, but his support for a brutal crackdown on protesters ten years ago tarnished his image.
his father, muammar gaddafi, was swept from power in 2011 after a —backed uprising — which made way for a decade of chaos and violence.
this is what his son, said about his presidential bid.
: may god bring truth between us and our people and let ulnerable.
the vulnerable.
god makes the decision, even if the els hate it.
you’re watching news.
now it’s time for a look at the weather with carole.
hello again.
we have had some dense fog patches across parts of england and wales this morning.
and most of that now lifting.
we also have a weather front bumping into an area high pressure so it is weakening.
still some rain in it, though.
and later we have another front coming our way.
so for england and wales we will see some brighter breaks develop in this cloud but it will be thick enough for some drizzle in some western and south—western parts.
meanwhile, here is our band of rain.
but behind it for scotland and northern ireland, a lot of weather, a lot of sunshine, but the cloud building out towards the west with temperatures between 10—13 c.
as we head on through the evening and overnight, our week weather front continues its journey moving south, with some spots of rain.
there will be some patchy mist and fog forming, not as widespread as last night.
and at the same time, another weather front comes on across the north west bringing strengthening winds and also some rain.
overnight lows of between 6—9 c.
so tomorrow, we do still have that weather front coming in across the north west.
one look at those isobars tells you it’s going to be windy here.
but we also still have a ridge of high pressure in the southern areas.
50 things fairly quiet in the south.
any patchy mist and fog that is formed overnight should lift.
there will still be the remnants of a weather front producing a cloud, the odd spot of rain, but the heaviest rain will be coming on across the north west, with gusts to gale force in the northern and western isles and the far north of mainland scotland.
but you can see how the weather front starts to fragment through the course of the day.
temperatures very similar to today, we are looking at about ten — 13 north to south.
as we had from tuesday into wednesday, our weather friend eventually pushes down towards the south—east and clears away.
you can see too from the isobars across the far north of scotland it’s going to be windy here, and there will also be some showers.
some of those on the tops of the mountains are likely to be wintry.
but there will be a lot of weather around as well, and a decent amount of sunshine across parts of england and wales, and also eastern scotland.
a few showers and some drizzle getting into the west.
temperatures are lower in the north.
we are looking at eights and nines.
but as we come further south, 10—13 will be the order of the day.
then as we head on into the latter part of the week, still a fair bit of cloud around, still some rain at times across the north and the west, or showers, but still mild.
it’s as we go into the early part of next week it turns colder.
this is news.
the headlines at 11 borisjohnson pays tribute to the taxi driver — named locally as david perry — after his efforts to limit the impact of an explosion in his vehicle yesterday.
mi5 and counter—terrorism police continue to investigate the incident.
it does look as though the taxi driver in question did behave with dible presence of mind and bravery.
detectives from counter terrorism police north west have arrested three men following the explosion, which happened just before 11 am on remembrance sunday.
m: we will hear the very latest at a news conference by the police in rpool in a few moments.
the prime minister has been visiting a surgery as government advisers recommend the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
when you are cold for your booster dose in the next phase, you can come ward nfident that the benefits in preventing serious covid—19 utweigh any sks.
after borisjohnson admits he could have handled the row involving owen paterson better, the debate about parliamentary standards returns to the commons today.
a report by finds "serious failings" including avoidable deaths in the care for patients with sickle cell disease in england.
a lockdown in austria for anyone who hasn’t been vaccinated against covid comes into force.
assurances there will "definitely" be enough turkeys for christmas after fears there could be a shortage.
borisjohnson has praised the efforts of the taxi driver — saying it appears he behaved with incredible presence of mind and bravery.
the security service mi5 is a list assisting the police with the tigation.
the explosion appened just before ham on remembrance sunday as a national minute silence was about to begin.
boris son has been begin.
boris johnson has been speaking about it and says it ars the driver acted with appears the driver acted with incredible presence of mind and ery.
first of all this is an ngoing investigation so i can’t ment on the details of exactly at type of incident it was or what of crime it may have been.
it does look as though the taxi in question did behave with ncredible presence of mind and ery.
but ave got to say bravery.
but i have got to say this is something that is an oing investigation.
the prime minister on driver and what he did has lso been praised by the mayor of rpool.
we are expecting to hear from the police news conference tly.
but this video by ames eynolds which contains shing images.
the police say they are working at speed to establish the circumstances of this, the car explosion just outside the liverpool women’s hospital in central liverpool.
‘it happened shortly before 11 o’clock yesterday morning, at a time when remembrance day services were about to begin across the country.
the driver survived the blast.
the passenger, who has not been named, was killed.
unfortunately, i can confirm that one person has died and another has been taken to hospital, where he is being treated for his injuries, which, thankfully, are not life—threatening.
so far we understand that the car involved was a taxi, which pulled up at the hospital shortly before the explosion occurred.
in the kensington area of liverpool, around a mile from the explosion, three men, aged 21, 26 and 29, were arrested under the terrorism act.
days without charge.
and late at night, a number of homes in liverpool’s rutland avenue and nearby cumberland avenue were evacuated.
they’re reported to be close to a house which was raided by the police in the hours after the incident.
counter terrorism police north west are leading the overall investigation.
they’re supported by officers from merseyside police, and the security service, mi5, is also assisting.
investigators say they’re keeping an open mind as to what caused the explosion.
james reynolds, news.
the mayor of liverpool has also thanked the taxi driver for managing to avert what she said could have been an awful disaster.
obviously, the taxi driver in his heroic efforts has managed to divert what could have been an absolutely awful disaster at the hospital.
our thanks go to him.
and our emergency services and authorities have worked through the night to divert anything further.
11-1 mill?
we are waiting to hear from police at a news conference.
there is a bit ivity there but no one sitting the chairs at the news conference et.
there is nothing happening just yet.
there is nothing happening there right now.
so we will go as soon as things begin.
here with me now is kim johnson who is a labour member of parliament for liverpool riverside.
thank you very much for joining us.
there has been quite a lot of praise taxi driver and what looked to be some quite heroic actions yesterday.
i believe so.
i’ve had the full details yet.
i’m ecting a briefing at one o’clock.
like to say the emergency services and the authorities need to mending for responding so uickly and professionally to the losion at the hospital yesterday ning.
you said that he would be tting briefed at one o’clock.
how that process work?
councillors, police will be updating us in of what has been happening cause as you’ve heard, it is an oing investigation.
there has not a declaration that it was a errorist incident.
merseyside ce, counterterrorism and the , not i, anyway, the security ficers are working together llaboratively to look at all of information to see what happened erday.
and when we hear what the ayor of liverpool says in terms of ething so much worse being rted here it seems, it really bring home that it could have been a very different situation.
i agree.
it was a shocking incident, ings could have been a lot orse.
but the car did receive a lot fire damage there is little evidence to suggest that there was a bomb damage related to the lot of bomb damage related to the damage to that vehicle.
and so, what your today for your are your thoughts today for your constituents?
i think my thoughts constituents is that it was a for my constituents is that it was a very concerning and a very scary dent, collaborating with oinciding with the remembrance yesterday at the town hall.
ain, there is lots of speculation what happened, and i think we to allow the services to uct their investigations and not involved with bits of isinformation.
absolutely.
and as been discussing there, there re the police, the local police, hey nterterrorism police and the they counterherrorism police and the working together.
there are so unanswered questions, and we n’t know the significance iously of the arrests that have een made.
it does look like they been moving very quickly in of gathering what they need to .
iagree.
all the vices that ave responded very efficiently and uickly in terms of ensuring no further damage could be undertaken.
hink the arrest of the three nder counterterrorism act will ovide ose services the provide those services the information that they need going ard.
thank you very much.
we are aiting to hear police news iefing.
here are, i think, four eats at that news conference.
i’m entirely sure that will be sitting on those.
we’ll bring you up as far as we are able to to date as far as we are able to share a what has happened here.
but usly, there are many unanswered questions.
we don’t know yet the of the person who died in that axi.
there have been three arrests ere was also a building that was being staked out yesterday by ce.
50 there has been a lot of movement in terms of the police stigation under county counter ror laws.
they have days to suspects use of the law is hold suspects because of the law is the counterterrorism are strong in of olice powers it means they terms of police powers it means they do have that time to question any ects.
of course there is much being said about the role of the driver.
he is named locally as avid perry.
he was described by the of liverpool, joanne anderson, potentially ving managed to ivert what could have been a ster.
there has been a lot of ocus on what happened yesterday, unfolded, and it seems that how it unfolded, and it seems that he perhaps saw something that raised spicion and which led to him the suspicion and which lad to him locking the doors of the taxi with the person left in the back seat.
he went into the hospital and he was tance subsequently injured in he explosion that killed the senger in that taxi.
we are yet hear officially from police about quence of events but this was just happening moments before wo—minute silence for remembrance ay.
still no ement on the sunday.
still no movement on the news conference but we will go to it as soon as it happens.
the government’s vaccine advisers a third jab would top up protection and help to limited third wave of the virus for r.
it also says those.
chair of thejcvi, professor wei shen lim, announced the two updates to the booster programme.
the first update relates to the booster programme.
could i have the first slide, please?
just as a reminder, the current advice in the booster programme is that persons aged over 50 years, those adults in a clinical at risk group, front line health and social care workers and close contacts of persons who are immunosuppressed should have a booster vaccine six months following completion of their primary course, essentially, have a third vaccine dose six months after the second dose.
can i have the next slide, please?
we are advising today that the booster programme is extended to persons aged 40—49 years as well.
as previously, the booster dose is advised six months after the second dose, and either the pfizer biontech vaccine or the moderna vaccine can be used as the booster dose, regardless of the type of vaccine received for the first two doses in the primary course.
you may remember that in early august we advised a first dose of the pfizer biontech vaccine for 16 and 17—year—olds who do not have an underlying health condition that puts them at higher risk from severe covid—19.
we said at the time and would review the data and that a second dose may well be advise command that is indeed the case.
we have reviewed the recent information regarding the safety and benefits of a second dose, and we are advising that 16 and 17—year—olds who have had a first dose of the pfizer biontech vaccine be offered a second dose of the pfizer biontech vaccine.
as a reminder, the first vaccine dose gives a high level of protection against serious disease, and that high level of protection we know lasts for at least 12—16 weeks.
the second dose, nonetheless, reinforces that protection from the first dose and it is important in extending the duration of protection, not just for the winter months and christmas, but we are also looking into 2022 and beyond.
the prime minister has also welcomed this latest advice on boosterjabs.
mrjohnson highlighted the need for everyone to get vaccinated in the first place.
i think it is very good news that the has today authorised the ter the has today authorised the booster to be rolled out to rybody a0 plus.
when you look at what is ppening in the pandemic at moment, just hearing in europe that sadly there are peopla in a you who are suffering badly from d-19, they are all the covid—19, and they are all the unvaccinated.
what is happening is you ran get your booster, then your immunity goes right back 5%.
so far, we have got up to 9596.
so far, we have got 7596 of everybody 70 getting a oster.
that is a huge number of ople, but it is that further 25% 6 that make all the difference to the winter, to christmas, to our going forward, because it is that extra level of protection that need.
50 the messages, we really need.
so the messages, over 70, come forward and get your ter, anybody over 50 come forward and get your booster and the next week or so, anybody ver 40 from the next week or so, anybody over a0 come forward and get your ster.
are also doing a second dose for 16 and 17—year—olds.
last had to ntroduce last—minute year we had to introduce last—minute restrictions at christmas.
if we see this happening, could we see restrictions again?
we don’t see ing in their data at the moment suggest we need to go to plan b.
sticking with plan a, but we ertainly have got to recognise that is a stall of infection out ere in parts of europe.
you see those umbers ticking up very in some of our continental riends, and we have got to friends, and we have just got to recognise that there is always a that a blizzard could come from the east again months the east again as the months get colder.
the best protection for our is everybody to go forward get their booster.
back to the explosion in liverpool.
m: we are awaiting a new some from police.
our correspondent fiona trott is there now.
m: we are expecting to hear from police, but understand there is to be some that they will say.
tually, we are going to leave you an alpha because the police have arrived for the conference.
t’s listening.
assistant chief stable russ jackson from the ’u.
constabla russ jackson from the u.
they are going to give a brief iew and update on where we are up to at the moment.
that will be on suitable for recording.
once she has finished her talk we go to un—camera.
if you could please switch cameras offer fter that.
will hand you over.
ank you.
good morning.
lam erseyside chief constable serena dy, and at my side is assistant chief constabla russ jackson.
jackson will be giving an update on vestigation, and i will be dating you on the involvement of rseyside police.
good morning.
tigations into the explosion at verpool women’s hospital led by nterterrorism policing is counterherrorism policing is continuing at pace.
the cumstances as we understand them e, other yesterday, shortly fore 11am, 3 local taxi driver before “am, a oral taxi driver picked up a a fare in a rutland avenue a of verpool.
the fair, 3 man, area of liverpool.
the fair, a man, had asked to be taken to liverpool n’s hospital which was about ten inutes away.
as the taxi approach drop-off int at the hospital, an explosion curred from within far.
this quickly engulfed in s.
lames.
remarkably, the taxi driver ped from cab.
he is being escaped from the rah.
he is being treated for his injuries.
he has now eleased from hospital.
been released from hospital.
emergency services quickly attended ene, and merseyside fire and rescue extinguish the ﬂames.
it quickly became apparent then that ssenger remained in the icle and was deceased.
army dnance disposal officer had mined the scene at the hospital made the area safe.
following scussions at army ordnance and posal we are able to confirm that is is to be treated as the ition of an explosive device.
our nquiries also indicate that it was into the cab by the brought into the cab by the passenger.
we believe we know the tity of the passenger but we annot confirm it at this time.
our uiries have led us to two addresses.
the first was sutcliffe eet the kensington area of street in the kensington area of liverpool.
at this location, three , 26, and 29 were arrested men 21, 26, and 29 were arrested yesterday under section 21 of the orism act.
a short while ago, gain in the sington area, a urther man aged 20 was arrested section 41 of the terrorism t.
they will be interviewed later day by counterterrorism tectives.
the sutcliffe street dress was searched overnight and rther searches will take place day.
a second address has also searched at rutland avenue in efbon ark.
at this location, gnificant items have been found.
her searches will be necessary day, and potentially into the ming days.
according is in place his location and eight families have evacuated at this time.
he scene at the hospital remains in with specialist examinations place with specialist examinations ongoing.
it is not clear what the vation of this incident is.
aron crow 7 our enquiries indicate explosive device has been nufactured and that it was built the passenger in the taxi.
the son he then took it to the men’s hospital is unknown, as is reason for its sudden explosion.
are of course aware that the embrance events just a short stance away from the hospital, and the ignition occurred shortly re ham.
we cannot at this time before “am.
we cannot at this time draw any connection with this, but line of enquiry which we are ursuing.
although the motivation his incident is yet to be understood, given all the cumstances, it has been declared terrorist incident and nterterrorism policing are continuing the investigation.
enquiries will now seek to rstand how the device was built, he motivation for the incident and erstand if anyone else was involved in it.
thank you.
i completely understand that unities in the seaside may be concerned.
i can assure you that my are out and about on the offices are out and about on the ground providing high visibility and urance.
there is no specific threat to the area, but i have asked trols to be increased for patrols to be increased right across merseyside.
incidents such as re very rare.
but i would ask eopla to remain calm, but also be gilant and ert.
there has also been lots of speculation on social and false reports of further ncidents.
for at eason, would incidents.
for that reason, i would urge members of the public to rely ficial information which will released on our twitter feed at sey police and the merseyside lice website for information, or police.
the people of liverpool merseyside are well nown for supporting each other, and ime like this, this is needed ore than ever.
officers from nterterrorism policing north—west leading the stigation, are leading the investigation, supported by officers and staff from yside police, and we are merseyside police, and we are continuing to work with our partners erseyside fire and rescue service and the liverpool women’s tal to establish what has taken lace.
merseyside police will tinue to liaise with community roups and leaders, partner agencies ndividuals in the coming days weeks to make sure that any cerns are addressed and ensuring we provide the best possible ervice to our people here in eyside.
it is also important at peopla do not speculate about at has happened, but we will deavour to update our communities on as we are able.
i would continue to advise people to be ilant, and hey have any vigilant, and if they have any concerns to contact the police on 999 in an emergency.
thank ou.
thank you, that was the end of the statements.
now 0 and day and i would ask that you use this 0&a.
0k, hat is the they are going to that is the moment they are going to turn off the cameras.
journalists ay and uestion them, but that now an off the record briefing.
at we earned there is that there ave een for force arrest after explosion.
we were reporting men were arrested yesterday der the counter terrorism act, ere was subsequently for the rest.
more detail about the passenger in that taxi.
they said they believe they know the dentity of the passenger, but they confirm it at the moment.
advice as brought into the camp by passenger had called for a the passenger who had called for a taxi to take him to the women’s ital in liverpool.
we were aring there from merseyside chief table serena kennedy saying it not clear what the motivation of ncident is but there is an ssumption that it was, the device ilt by their passenger.
it is was built by their passenger.
it is unknown the passenger wanted to he women’s hospital all by he device decimated when it did.
are also looking at the timing it, just before the two—minute lence efore on remembrance nday.
that is a line of enquiry.
t’s go to vienna trott, cormpt upt correspondent at the ital.
there was a bit more detail on that briefing as we to up a picture of what happened.
build up a picture of what happened.
yes, and of course the striking coming from that news onference just now is that this has declared a terror incident now.
just to recap on we were hearing, it very interesting at we have learned that the taxi ver picked up the passenger from ﬂand tland avenue, that is less than iles away from the hospital self, and has asked to be taken to the hospital.
the explosion red inside the car, amazingly, occurred inside the far, amazingly, the driver himself escape that osion.
we can talk more about shortly.
he sustained injuries.
now been released from hospital, we have been told.
gency services quickly came to the scene, we knew that yesterday.
this cording and dozens of set up this cording and dozens of police officers still here while the investigation is sentence here.
on the ordinance, we have now learned they have made the area safe.
we are also hearing just now that there is nderstanding that the device rought into the taxi by the was brought into the taxi by the passenger, and they believe they his identity, but they can’t confirm it.
this led to more stigations on sutcliffe street in the nsington area.
that is ere those three men in their were arrested yesterday under the rism act, and we have now learned today a further man has been ted.
that is for people now.
arrested.
that is for peopla now.
second address on rutland avenue, nificant were found there, significant items were found there, we have been told, and also getting really that we know they ave been working very quickly on investigation.
it has been a very fast—moving investigation with developments and we are earing that further developments be continuing in the coming days.
we are also hearing they are clear on what the motivation as.
there is an assumption that the osive was built by the passenger.
they were coming to spital is nknown, but the reason for the sudden explosion.
to recap at we’re hearing just to recap what we’re hearing from the news conference that of that has been declared a error incident now.
as you can see hind me, estigations very much centred here.
also those residential that i’ve been talking about where armed police yesterday were ved in searching those involved in searching those properties.
what they are looking have the car here, which has at, we have the rar here, which has been burnt out.
any potential ence destroyed.
amazingly, of urse, that taxi driver escaped explosion.
it is not the that explosion.
it is not just the friends governance it is a joint stigation involving merseyside ice and mi5 is well no doubt police and is well no doubt sharing intelligence and munications they will be showing .
just to ecap all so we know he passenger at was asked to be rought to the hospital died in this sion.
his identity is still yet explosion.
his identity is still yet to be revealed, but investigators do they know who that was.
now, believe they know who that was.
now, the taxi driver.
there have been a reports this morning about his rola in all of this, but tainly, he has been given a lot praise.
investigations are still on exactly what happened, but he survived the explosion.
he has been named locally as david rry.
the or of liverpool, perry.
the mayor of liverpool, joanne anderson, has played tribute this morning saying his to him this morning saying his heroic efforts managed to divert could have been an awful disaster.
he has been treated for njuries as we have heard in his injuries as we have heard in the news conference a short while ago.
now been released from hospital.
in fact, a fundraising has been set up for him on social media.
we have also heard the prime minister this morning well, saying it does appear that id behave with an incredible esence of mind.
just to recap what ’ve eard from that news onference in the past few minutes, is now being treated as a error incident.
we have an vestigation continuing here at the ital itself where the explosion ook place.
you can see dozens of lice ficers surrounding the site re.
there are two other parts of ity, less than two miles from the city, loss than two milas from liverpool women’s hospital where the sion took place, to residential areas where there is also focus of investigation, properties ave been searched there, some ses have also been evacuated.
gotiators were on a residential eet last night.
we know that ree men were arrested yesterday the terrorism act.
they are in heir 205 and were arrested in kensington area.
we have learned the news conference that another man has been arrested.
hear he government is to ditch eastern leg of h52.
it’s a big deal to sell about how he public sees public transport ide london and elsewhere in gland working over the next coming es.
as part of that plan, there decades.
as part of that plan, there will be a lot of money, about £96 ion allocated to various billion allocated to various projects, around a0 billion of that old will be money we we are told will be money we have not heard about in the past.
one that is not happening is that of h52 which was designed to go the way up to leeds from birmingham.
it had been a big part government real plan until ow.
my understanding is that will apped in the coming days.
—— be scrapped in the coming days.
-- railway plan.
what i’m getting from hall is they will upgrade a whitehall is they will upgrade a number of other railway lines and oney into other projects and the idea is that they will be able liver quicker.
hs2 as a to deliver quicker.
as a long-term project and it would be her 0 years before that line to another 20 years before that line to leeds was realised in the argument hear from the government later this week as they are going aster and sically uicker for faster and basically quicker routes.
things that they can get in right y.
the scrapping of place right away.
the scrapping of that part of h52 is going to raise uestions about what it means or the government levelling up nda.
the government always talks wanting to distribute pportunity better across the , was seen as part of it and re will be some this morning parts of the north of england, of those red wall seats the onservatives won from labour at the election for the first time who ill be ally nervous about the ssage this sends out.
we have not the full package it in the ssage we are going to get from the ernment is that you need to look this integrated railway plan as a e, there is a whole lot of money going into it and there will be ificant upgrades that are really od, particularly for people tside cities so part of the case isters will make is that getting other parts of the high—speed network will be easier for rail network will be easier for people who do not live in some of big ansport hubs but the top line at the moment is that he ern leg of h52 between irmingham and leeds is not going to en.
hello, this is news with joanna gosling.
the headlines: police declare yesterday’s explossion in liverpool as a terrorst incident.
borisjohnson has praised the brave liverpool taxi driver — named locally as david perry — after his efforts to limit the impact of an explosion in his vehicle yesterday.
government advisers have recommended the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
after borisjohnson admits he could have handled the row involving owen paterson better, the debate about parliamentary standards returns to the commons today.
a report by has found "serious failings" including avoidable deaths — in the care for patients with sickle cell disease in england.
a lockdown in austria for anyone who hasn’t been vaccinated against covid has come into force.
more than 300,000 people are getting a pay boost of up to 40p an hour from today.
the real living wage, which is a voluntary scheme for employers, is increasing from today to nine pounds and ninety pence outside of london and to eleven pounds and five pence in the capital.
almost 9,000 employers across the are now signed up to the scheme, which aims to ensure all staff earn a wage that meets the real cost of living.
which aims to ensure all staff earn a wage that meets the real cost of living.
ryan elder says he used to struggle on the minimum wage, but now works at a frozen food supplier which is part of the real living wage scheme.
supplier which is part when i used to work at the pub and i was working more and more just so i could get by.
basically paying for rent, you know, any bills i had to pay and at the end of the month i will and put a little better way to save and it would end up just coming back out of my account.
every day i was feeling down and i was thinking about money all the time.
joining me now is director of the living wage foundation, katherine chapman.
how is it worked out?
the real living wage is the only rate ulated at actual what a cause labre calculated at actual what a cause celebre such as food and childcare ese are decided by members of the public and that’s how we get to tes which are about 40p an hour and the london living wage which £11 is makes a real difference to peoples lives and means not having orry about or putting food to worry about money or putting food on the table and pay bills at the the month.
it is great we have seen so many employers lining up for it.
about 9000 across the including companies and thousands of as this is like coffee shops and florists and it means 300,000 loyees employees will get a pay rise.
in the scheme of things what proportion of businesses in the ?
is that of businesses in the ?
about one inch 13 jobs with living employers but we have seen bout a third sign up since the demic and seeing the fastest rowth on record of employers wanting to peoplas rates.
when i speak to businesses they want to do thing by workers now and time to be difficult for inesses and everyone and a lot of the roles kept us going through the that kept us going through the pandemic —like cleaners and security and hop workers are on the wages so we see more businesses ing to sign up to payment rates and we hear about some labour tages in those sectors saw the centives are there and it is good families also for businesses.
what market is really esting third of companies have signed up since the pandemic.
i know you said it is because the age coming to you is they want do the right thing by their oyers but what you think it was particular about the pandemic made them understand the that made them understand the difficulties employers were facing?
employer puts it, suddenly he security team and the cleaning while we were locked and at were the most important people the organisation and we have one of the biggest barriers to igning up with the real living wage the organisation is so that as a real step to action in ghlighting how important the roles they overlooked a human face low pay and that was a spur to ion for many employers.
it is king a huge difference to housands of lives across the try.
do you go to companies?
you do not have to name and shame anyone ere must be companies you look but there must be companies you look at that are not doing it when think, are you not doing it?
do you knock on the door and to uade them?
i think it’s interesting this week we have reached the tipping point on he ftse100 sea are in a the ’seloo sea you are in a minority if the ftse100 see you are in a minority if you do not sign up and of our business leader said is our real rest not to pay the living wage rates now and it is eally great to see people go from ength to strength because as we the cost of living will be ing up over the next year with and fuel prices so it is more portant than ever we get as many anies as we can to sign up.
more new on our top story — that one person has been killed and another injured following an explosion outside liverpool women’s hospital on sunday.
the mayor of liverpool has praised the injured man, who is a taxi driver, for his heroic efforts.
what let’s talk to the mayor of liverpool, joanne anderson.
11-1 we just need to support our emergency services in making sure we calm and vigilant after this ncident.
this morning you praise tions of the taxi driver and said it was potentially could have orse.
he was actually in the rar when the explosion went off, it quite terrifying.
of course, what an awful experience and jumping taxi he was lucky in the way out the taxi he was lucky in the way that he did but it doesn’t bear king about what could have appened.
have you managed to speak ?
i know he is out of hospital to him?
i know he is out of hospital and i’m sure there are lots of want to speak to him.
i think is really portant we support in recovering.
our ommunications team will have been uch but it is really important his man is able to recover from much of been such an horrific shop yesterday.
—— shock.
we heard he chief constable saying there is no direct threat but they tepping up police patrols to eassure people.
i drove past the pital this morning, there is enty lanty of police presence and sibility and at the address as ll.
to reassure the community the are doing everything they can ran make ure are all safe.
it seems the police operation has moved very quickly from what we hear.
i can’t thank our emergency services h, fire service and police on the scene within minutes and arrests een made so quickly all day yesterday and overnight, working the night with our emergency service but also other authorities, one is on standby ready to take action and give support whenever it ded.
what is your role now?
viously to sure our residents get the information they need make sure everyone remains calm eal with any issues or queries may have and do everything we to follow the instructions given to us by the and the to us by the police and the counterterrorism unit.
we had in the onference that some residents particular have been disrupted by police ation and i think the police operation and i think they said eight households have been ated because of the searches they have been doing.
i was aware we ovided to tell accommodation ast night -- tel accommodation most eople are able to get about eir business in the city and police are doing everything they keep one of the things we an sort of ake in a positive sense just to look at it could have been, the concerns around the fact you say this morning it have been a worse situation we ere looking at.
it doesn’t bear king about and what an heroic ffort from the taxi driver, how he coped to lock the taxi and get out of the taxi.
thank you for oining us.
six months after a damning report into the ’s handling of princess diana’s 1995 parorama interview, her brother says he believes there’s "still more to come out".
speaking exclusively to breakfast, earl spencer said "big questions" remain, after former bbcjournalist martin bashir was found to have used "deceitful behaviour" to help secure her consent.
he made the comments while showing sally nugent around the althorp estate, which is the subject of a new documentary.
i’ve known forever that there was a lost village in the park here.
that block around the tree, that’s just not natural.
there’s always something new to find with this house and the park, there’s so much history contained in these walls and we’ve just scraped the surface with this one.
the archaeologists have uncovered evidence of an iron age roundhouse and now, where they thought there might be a buried road, they’re finding signs of ancient earthworks.
it’s very historic.
i reckon all of england was like this with so much underneath it.
but so much has been developed or farmed that it’s been lost.
but because this park is unspoiled, it’s still here.
is it right that the crown wanted to use this as a location?
they did, they applied, they wanted to shoot here.
i don’t really do that stuff.
so, yeah, these are all sort of members of the family here.
down the bottom here is more generals and all that sort of thing.
but it used to be an open courtyard this, within the tudor times.
and are you constantly repairing it?
yes, there’s a lot going on.
we are sitting here on this magnificent staircase, surrounded by lots of pairs of eyes looking at us.
how aware of all of these people are you?
i took over running this place 30 years ago when i was 27.
and i remember when i first walked through here as the sort of nominal owner, as it were, i really was nervous.
you look at these people, they’ve lived here many hundreds of years ago and i did feel, my goodness, they’rejudging how i’m going to play this hand.
you were really young!
i was really young but when you’re 27 you don’t know you are really young.
there’s a picture of you at the top of the staircase, what are you holding in your hand?
so there’s a painting of diana up there, which was painted by an american artist called nelson shanks and he came to view it in situ here.
and then he said he’d like to do one of me and link the two together.
so that’s actually the notes i made when writing the eulogy for diana’s funeral.
it’s several months now since the was found to have been woefully inadequate in its handling of the interview that martin bashir did with your late sister, the princess of wales, at the time.
now you’ve had some time to reflect on that and think about what happened, how do you feel about that finding?
actually, lord dyson did a very good job.
his brief was tiny, it was to look at a very specific area and there’s still so much more to look at in the broader terms of who was responsible for what and how did it come to this?
did documents get hidden from view and all sorts of really important stuff which is yet to come out.
so i see the lord dyson report as a very welcome development, but there’s still a very long way to go with this.
how far is there to go, what more can be done?
i’ve been doing quite a lot behind the scenes.
but it’s clear to me that there are certain people who were in the who have behaved in a way that is truly abysmal and possibly criminal.
how far can you take that now yourself, personally?
that’s the question and i’ve got people looking at that and we’ll see.
but it’s not going to end now, i’m not saying that as some ugly threat, itjust can’t stop here because there’s still more to come out.
when you look back on your childhood in this house, what are the things that stay in your mind now?
this staircase, of course it’s very grand, but for the children in my family it’s where you can get a lot of speed up on a tray, coming down on it like a toboggan, really.
no, i look in this hallway and i actually look forward to christmas.
so in a month or so we will put up a christmas tree that’s been grown especially on the estate each year.
we do a very traditional english christmas here and it just looks right.
today a flintshire mum—of—two who was left relying on a wheelchair after having her legs amputated 7 will see her specially adapted home for the first time after more than 70 volunteer builders from across the answered charity band of builders call to help transform her house.
cher little contracted meningococcal septicaemia this time last year — a rare and often fatal bloodstream infection — shejoins us now, along with kevin cox who is the project manager at band of builders.
cher, you have been through an awful experience.
tell us the impact it ad on you.
it had a massive has had on you.
it had a massive impact on my life, my whole life nged in a tter of months and it changed in a matter of months and it was a stmggle.
you were given, or family was a struggle.
you were given, or yourfamily were told there was only hance of you surviving.
i was a 2096 chance of you surviving.
i was only given a 2096 ance of surviving ause only given a 20% chance of surviving because all my organs had actually at that point so i am very ucky to be here.
but it has been changing for you, hasn’t it?
ell peopla out that and how your eds ave changed.
it has been life hanging not only for myself but for mily as well just having band of uilders come and do the most zing transformation on my home is unbelievable.
explain what eded to be done in order to enable to live there.
we needed the hole of the kitchen opened out and eeded a wet room installation a ground floor transformation a in as well.
and so the with a bed in as well.
and so the team of angels, as i assume you see , stepped up?
they really did.
bsolutely amazing what they have e, absolutely outstanding.
kevin, us more about what it is that do with band of builders.
we are charity set up by tradesmen to tradesmen in their time of need that through medical necessity or ship, we will go and adapt homes do changes improve oples oplas lives.
much satisfaction do you rom doing that work?
so much everything we do, all the hardships it to see the persons face are worth it to see the persons face when we do it and give it back em.
cher, how did you feel when saw the grand unveiling?
i was ust absolutely amazed and couldn’t eve how much work it actually een done.
i did not picture the unt of work needing done in my ind this is what we have been ing to see, i think this is the before and after here we go.
i don’t you ran see what we are know if you ran see what we are seeing.
is that you?
i cannot really evin.
that is not you.
you see, kevin.
that is not you.
you cannot see what i can see.
it is king rough midway through the walking through midway through the building work here and it is often inished that it looks like it been opened out at this point.
kitchen.
i am hoping that as video goes on, i do not know how there is to run on it.
maybe long there is to on it.
maybe we will see the fully finished job.
is the wet room you mentioned there, cher.
we are going along a corridor.
that leads to what?
leads to the new bedroom.
that is re we are now.
that was a massive oject and an amazing gift, kevin, you and all the others who orked on this for nothing.
we do ork alone, we have corporate ponsors that donate massive amounts netary terms and materials to projects and without them we not be able to do half as much we are able to do.
i was ondering about the materials and thing needed.
how does that everything needed.
how does that work?
it is alternated?
yes, we have mall budgets out of our own inances and rely on the generosity rge companies and even some of he small independent mpanies donated materials to us.
the time from the volunteers but every rson who gives an hour moves the ject on an hour.
everything works harmony together.
cher, band of ders had not stepped up and done this for you, what would life of been light?
a massive stmggle, i could not have got around that the erty and it would have been property and it would have been really difficult and physically icult as well.
what have you said?
i think my face said it all.
n, this is honestly really kevin, this is honestly really important job, they are all ously life changing for the peopla you work with.
how often are tually oing the sort of work?
you actually doing the sort of work?
we to do as many projects within as we ran but it takes a a yearaswe ran but ittakesa lot of planning and obviously in most ances we have to have planning ssion which takes time, so i think for the last two years we have ged five or six projects per which is pretty good going but iously we hope to improve on that treamline and get more done.
hank you so much for ning us.
turkey farmers across the have spent several months worrying about christmas supply, following staffing shortages caused by the pandemic and brexit.
to ease pressure on the supply chain, last month, the government introduced a temporary visa scheme for seasonal poultry workers.
with more than 3,000 of them already on their way to the , the industry is now confident that turkey will still be on the festive menu — as our business correspondent emma simpson reports.
christmas is coming and the turkeys are nice and fat.
after months of worry, paul kelly’s now got his seasonal workers, including 22 of them, through the temporary visa scheme.
it’s about 20% of our workforce so it was very touch and go for us.
we had many sleepless nights up until the last week in september when we got the green light when we could get some visas.
christmas has been saved.
at this point in time.
in the coming days.
that’s about half as many as the industry originally was asking for.
but it should be enough, partly because a few birds have been reared this year because some farmers were worried about getting enough staff.
so will there be enough turkeys to go round?
there will definitely be enough turkeys for christmas.
i think there will be a focus on whole birds and very simple crowns and roasts.
this streamlining of our product choice has helped us in terms of overall volume.
amid all the supply chain problems, turkeys at least are now back on track, but the industry’s calling for a permanent solution to ensure it gets the seasonal workers its needs.
emma simpson, news, chelmsford.
hello again.
we have had some dense fog patches across parts of england and wales this morning.
and most of that now lifting.
we also have a weather front bumping into an area of high pressure so it is weakening.
still some rain in it, though.
and later we have another front coming our way.
so for england and wales we will see some brighter breaks develop in this cloud but it will be thick enough for some drizzle in some western and south—western parts.
meanwhile, here is our band of rain.
but behind it for scotland and northern ireland, a lot of weather, a lot of sunshine, but the cloud building out towards the west with temperatures between 10—13 c.
as we head on through the evening and overnight, our week weather front continues its journey moving south, with some spots of rain.
there will be some patchy mist and fog forming, not as widespread as last night.
and at the same time, another weather front comes on across the north west bringing strengthening winds and also some rain.
overnight lows of between 6—9 c.
so tomorrow, we do still have that weather front coming in across the north west.
one look at those isobars tells you it’s going to be windy here.
but we also still have a ridge of high pressure in the southern areas.
50 things fairly quiet in the south.
any patchy mist and fog that is formed overnight should lift.
there will still be the remnants of a weather front producing a cloud, the odd spot of rain, but the heaviest rain will be coming on across the north west, with gusts to gale force in the northern and western isles and the far north of mainland scotland.
but you can see how the weather front starts to fragment through the course of the day.
temperatures very similar to today, we are looking at about ten — 13 north to south.
as we had from tuesday into wednesday, our weather front eventually pushes down towards the south—east and clears away.
you can see too from the isobars across the far north of scotland it’s going to be windy here, and there will also be some showers.
some of those on the tops of the mountains are likely to be wintry.
but there will be a lot of weather around as well, and a decent amount of sunshine across parts of england and wales, and also eastern scotland.
a few showers and some drizzle getting into the west.
temperatures are lower in the north.
we are looking at eights and nines.
but as we can further south, 10—13 will be the order of the day.
then as we head on into the latter part of the week, still a fair bit of cloud around, still some rain at times across the north and the west, or showers, but still mild.
it’s as we go into the early part of next week it turns colder.
this is news.
the headlines an explosion outside liverpool women’s hospital on remembrance sunday is declared a terror incident by police.
m: we are able to confirm that this is being treated at the ignition of an sive device.
our enquiries also indicate that the device was brought into the rah by the passenger.
we believe we know the identity of the nger but we cannot confirm this at this time.
borisjohnson has praised the ‘brave’ liverpool taxi driver — named locally as david perry — after his efforts to limit the impact of an explosion in his vehicle yesterday.
it does look as though the taxi driver in question did behave with incredible presence of mind and bravery.
the prime minister has been visiting a surgery as government advisers recommend the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
when you are called for your booster dose in the next phase, you can come forward confident that the benefits in preventing serious covid—19far outweigh any risks.
the understands that the integrated rail plan, to be published in just a few days’ time, is expected to reveal cuts to the eastern leg of h52 between the west midlands and leeds.
after borisjohnson admits he could have handled the row involving owen paterson better, the debate about parliamentary standards returns to the commons today.
a report by finds "serious failings" including avoidable deaths in the care for patients with sickle cell disease in england.
assurances there will "definitely" be enough turkeys for christmas after fears there could be a shortage.
an explosion in a taxi outside liverpool women’s hospital yesterday has been declared a terrorist incident.
a fourth person has been arrested under the terrorism act in connection with the explosion.
a male passenger in the cab was killed in the blast.
there has been praise for the taxi driver, david perry, who was injured in yesterday’s car explosion in the city, for his heroic efforts.
we’re about to show you pictures of the moment that the car exploded.
just a warning that some viewers may find it distressing and so may wish to turn away for a few moments.
here the car enters the liverpool women’s hospital car park.
and then this security camera footage shows the device being detonated.
it shows that exact moment of the explosion.
a short time later the driver, perry, can be seen getting out of the taxi.
people running as they obviously ealise what has happened and the starting, that huge amount of moke is the explosion happened it was so quick.
the vehicle a had to stop the ing and then the explosion happened.
the driver ged to get out and run away from managed to get out and away from that vehicle.
it happened just re 11am on remembrance sunday is a national two—minute silence was to begin.
within the last hour, merseyside police have given an update on their investigations.
russ jackson, head of counter terrorism north west, explained how events unfolded yesterday.
shortly before 11am, 3 oral taxi ver picked up a fare in the local taxi driver picked up a fare in the rutland area of liverpool.
fair, a , had asked to be the fair, a man, had asked to be taken to liverpool women’s hospital which was about ten minutes away.
as the taxi approach the drop—off point hospital, and explosion at the hospital, and explosion occurred from within the car.
this gulfed in flames.
quickly engulfed in flames.
remarkably, the taxi driver escaped he cab.
he is being treated from the rah.
he is being treated for his injuries and has been ased from hospital.
emergency rvices quickly attended the scene, erseyside fire and rescue xtinguish the flames.
it quickly apparent then that the became apparent then that the passenger remained in the vehicle deceased.
the army ordnance and was deceased.
the army ordnance and explosion officers have examined at the hospital and made it safe.
from discussions with army ance disposal, we are able to onfirm that this is being eated as the ignition of us an explosive ce.
our inquiries also indicate that it was brought into the cab by the passenger.
we believe we know the identity of the passenger but we cannot confirm it at this time.
our enquiries have led us to two addresses.
the first was sutcliffe street in the kensington area of liverpool.
at this location, three men 21, 26, and 29 were arrested yesterday under section 41 of the terrorism act.
a short while ago, again in the kensington area, a further man aged 20 was arrested under section 41 of the terrorism act.
they will be interviewed later today by counterterrorism detectives.
the sutcliffe street address was searched overnight and further searches will take place today.
a second address has also been searched at rutland avenue in sefton park.
at this location, significant items have been found.
further searches will be necessary today, and potentially into the coming days.
borisjohnson says the taxi driver involved in the incident behaved with incredible presence of mind and bravery.
this is an ongoing investigation so i can’t comment on the details of what type of incident it was, what type of crime it may have , but it does look as though the axi driver in question did behave ncredible presence of mind and bravery.
but to say this is omething that is an ongoing stigation and it would be emature to say much more of that.
and the mayor of liverpool, joanne anderson has also given her reaction to what happened.
m: we need to support our emergency services and ensure we remain calm gilant at the incident.
this morning you braves the actions of axi driver and said it could have been much worse.
we now have of a picture of what happened.
he was actually in the car when the losion off.
it must’ve been explosion went off.
it must’ve been terrifying.
of course, what an awful ience.
jumping of the taxi in experience.
jumping of the taxi in the way that he did.
obviously, it n’t bear thinking about what could have happened.
have you ged to speak to him?
i know he is out of hospital and i’m there are a lot of people who will to eak to him.
i think it is very important we support him covering.
our communications team een in touch, but it’s really mportant this man is able to over work from what must have been a horrific shop yesterday.
we heard in terms of security the chief able saying there is no direct threat, but they are stepping up patrols to reassure people.
s, i’ve driven past the hospital morning and there was plenty of lice presence and visibility in address at egg as well, and etty sure to reassure the ommunity that the police are doing ything they can to make sure we everything they ran to make sure we are all safe.
and it seems the operation has moved very quickly from what we hear.
i can’t our emergency services enough, know, fire and police on the within minutes.
arrests have made.
50 quickly all day been made.
so quickly all day yesterday and overnight, working the night with our emergency services, but also our own horities.
everyone is on standby to take action and give support wherever it is needed.
50 at is your now?
obviously, to what is your rola now?
obviously, to ensure our residents and give them mation that they need and make information that they need and make sure everyone remains calm and queries or issues that they have.
make sure we do everything to follow the we ran to follow the that are given to us by the police on the counter terrorism unit.
in terms of residence, we heard in the onference that some in particular have been disrupted by police ration.
they said that eight households have been evacuated of the searches they have een doing.
i was aware that we vided some hotel accommodation ast night.
most people are able to about with business today in the city and as you are aware the press conference, the olice are doing everything they can eep us all fe.
one of the to keep us all safe.
one of the things obviously that we can take on itive nses that ust to look a positive senses that just to look at how it could have been.
the erns around the fact that as you aid this morning it could have been situation we were looking a worse situation we were looking at.
it doesn’t bear thinking about at heroic effort from the taxi driver and quick thinking to lock axi and get out of the taxi.
get out of the taxi.
the mayor of liverpool, joanna mber.
the only trotters in december.
the only trotters in liverpool at the hospital where the sion happened.
what is explosion happened.
what is happening there now?
we can see estigation ontinuing very investigation is continuing very much here at the site.
dozens of cers patrolling the area and a bile indications unit has been set the grounds.
we understand the itself, the ntre of that explosion is ehind that yellow olice van.
investigation centred that, of course a lot of forensic evidence would have been oyed in that blaze.
also, destroyed in that blaze.
also, police activity centred in two rate residential areas of the city, as we heard during that news erence, that we were playing artier.
one of those areas is the sington area.
that is where three were arrested yesterday under terrorism act.
all three of them their 205.
we have also learned day that another man in his 205 arrested in the kensington area.
cond address in the sefton park ea, the police told us, area, the police have told us, significant items have been found .
that is where trained there.
that is where trained negotiators were seen on the street ight.
police have also told us hat further searches will be tinuing their today, and potentially in the coming days, families have been from their homes while investigations continue .
of course, we have learned bout these further arrests.
we know being treated as a terror this is being treated as a terror incident.
the question still remains this happened here at liverpool women’s hospital.
that is hing that they are still something that they are still working on.
they are also asking tions about this sudden xplosion.
of course, it happened minute before 11 o’clock.
just one minute before 11 o’clock.
people gathering for the silence membrance sunday, so probe stions have been raised about at.
the anglican cathedral not far liverpool women’s hospital here officers investigating the ncident says they can’t draw any nection between that and the plosion itself but it is a line of uiry.
thank you very much, fiona.
’s go to nick old joining me now is nick aldworth, former counter terrorism national co—ordinator.
what will be being done to ascertain how the device was made, what was in to pick who may have been volved?
first of all, as it has eady been indicated in the news dia, bomb disposal experts will examined the scene to ensure it safe, and from there they would probably taken an initial view of what that device was.
tainly from having just seen the explosion f, ithink here are a couple myself, i think there are a couple of assumptions that might be drawn that which is one, that it as a low yield explosive, possibly tent chanel incendiary evice, or much greater explosive have failed to detonate.
i’m sure the taxi driver feels very erently.
as to it being it’s monday, it’s 12:15 and we’re live in westminster.
with me today: conservative and chair of the women and equalities committee, caroline nokes, the shadow leader of the commons, thangam debbonaire, daily telegraph political editor ben riley—smith, and the i newspaper’s chief political commentator paul waugh.
today: covid boosterjabs will be offered to all over—405.
we can massively reduce the worry about hospitalisation and death due to covid at christmas.
the prime minister says he could have handled the owen paterson row better.
so will that draw a line under the matter?
is it time to finally apologise for your error ofjudgment?
i just want to salute you and the media generally for keeping going on this subject.
i’m here to talk about boosters.
but labour calls for an investigation into the transport secretary and says the rules need to be tougher.
no paid consultancies, no directorships, no second jobs, save for, let’s say public interest.
the number of migrants france’s interior minister says it’s not his fault: : we have no lessons to receive from our british friends, who are our allies.
but i would like to remind them that we are neither their collaborators, nor their auxiliaries.
and did the summit all end in tears?
starting a programme of some breaking news.
in the car blast side iverpool hospital outside 3 liverpool hospital yesterday has been declared a orist incident.
a police press onference has just taken place.
mack people already been arrested under the terrorism act.
if there are any other developments we ring them to you.
you heard jonathan van the deputy chief dical fficer in the headlines lking about the expansion of the oster jabs gramme to over 405, and opening up cond jabs were -17 —year—olds.
the question is one he aises which as he believes it will massively reduce about rising the worry about rising hospitalisation and death from covid he winter, do you agree, caroline?
it is good news.
i will be get my ooster because i was off to get my booster because i was not quite 15 yet.
i’m looking ard to that.
it is about —— not uite 50, yet.
it is allaying peoplas fears and the vaccination amme peoples fears and the vaccination programme has been successful so we now 12 million people have far.
we now 12 million peopla have had their third jab, there booster, is great news, but there is till a long way to go.
do you think be enough thangam?
i had to ok mine because i am in the over but i’m glad the over 405 are eing offered it as well.
we know there are pockets of low take-up in fferent demographic oups.
we know some worrying thing pockets of young people not is about pockets of young peopla not being given the first vaccination.
need to keep going with yes, we need to keep going with boosters, but we have two get those not had either who have not had either first or second to have those as well.
also is happening in other countries, that global val be made tect everybody that is not to protect everybody that is not really a reality.
in terms of other ean countries, in the netherlands, there are lockdown lite res being imposed and also enjoy many warnings of a pandemic of vaccinated and in austria, the unvaccinated and in austria, about 2 million people have not been accinated and have been fully vaccinated and have been placed in effective lockdown.
what make this expansion of the do you make of this expansion of the booster programme to the over 405?
it is booster programme to the over 4057 clearly it is welcome news but it is just those are ble to get not just those who are able to get the jab but those who are going to forward and take it up, so the rime minister earlier said over 5, s, still in four have not come 705, still one in four have not come forward to get the booster so it is that more people can come great that more peopla ran come forward to get it but they still to act and do that.
interesting in that dip from the prime minister at he spoke about their situation rope, he said we are aware that ere could be a blizzard of covid ming from ast, so clearly coming from the east, so dearty there is worry about that in downing t.
paul, your view?
the prime street.
paul, your view?
the prime minister is suffering us up for her winter wave.
so they