radio 2 - just like one of the family.
listen now on sounds.
and around the world.
the taliban says it’ taken control of the panjshir valley — the last part of afghanistan not under their control — but the claim’ being disputed by rebel forces.
the prime minister borisjohnson will tell that he’ll "use every economic, political and diplomatic lever to protect the , and help the afghan people.
the prime minister also faces a significant backlash from within his own party over plans to pay for social care reforms in england by increasing national insurance.
back to school for millions more children in england, wales and northern ireland, but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
for viewers in the — if your child 5 back to school, how concerned are you about their return?
is their school sticking with any measures like mask wearing to to reduce covid transmission?
get in touch with me on twitter @annita—mcveigh or using the hashtag yourquestions.
conjoined twins see each other for the first time, after undergoing a gruelling 12—hour operation to separate them.
a three—year—old boy is found alive, in rugged australian bushland, after going missing from his home on friday.
and coming up this hour — big ben gets its hands back!
we’ll be going live to the elizabeth tower.
hello and welcome if you’re watching in the or around the world.
the taliban say they have defeated resistance forces in the afghan provice of panjshir and that they are in full control of the area — the final part of the country that has remained outside their rule since they swept to power last month.
the taliban had been facing stubborn opposition in the mountainous province from fighters belonging to the national resistance front.
the front has rejected the taliban’ claims and denied that panjshir has fallen.
however, this photo, posted by a senior taliban official, is said to show a group of taliban fighters outside the building of njshir provincial governor.
let’ hear what the taliban spokesman had to say about the situation in panjshir at a news conference this morning.
: we have captured panjshir with the will of god.
the local elders and religious leaders have been coordinating with us and our operations went ahead with their help.
some of those who are still wanting to fight are missing at the moment.
we are trying to tell them that if they want to join a normal life, they are welcome to.
afghanistan is their home, there is no problem from our side, but they need to stop fuelling the instability.
that will be our condition.
we have received one report that says amrullah saleh has escaped to tajikistan, but we will work out on finding out if this is true or not.
it is not confirmed yet.
in the last hour, our south—east asia correspondent yogita limaye gave me this update on the situation.
they continue to reject the claims of the taliban, saying they’re not in control of the whole of the province, they say that their forces are still in strategic positions in the valley.
one of the reasons it’ very difficult to verify this information from eyewitnesses and people on the ground is because mobile phone and internet networks have been cut off there over the past week, when we saw heavy fighting between the taliban and the resistance forces.
the taliban spokesman, zabihullah mujahi, of course saying that we have taken control of the whole of the panjshir province.
they say that they were trying to resolve the issue through talks, but when those didn’ work, they acted militarily because they couldn’ accept a power island in afghanistan.
we have heard from the spokesman of the resistance front who, as i said, rejected the taliban’ claims.
we haven’ yet had a specific response to the offer of talks from the taliban, but what they’ve always maintained is that they are prepared to fight, but they’re also willing to talk, but they cannot accept an islamic dictatorship in afghanistan.
the two main people who’ve been leading the resistance movement are ahmad massoud, who’ the son of a very powerful guerrilla commander, a man considered a hero in afghanistan, ahmad shah massoud, who was assassinated in 2001.
the other person leading the resistance movement has been former vice president amrullah saleh, who says he’ the caretaker president of the country, after ashraf ghani fled from afghanistan.
the whereabouts of both massoud and saleh are not known.
the taliban, in their press conference today, claiming that saleh had fled to tajikistan, but we don’ have word from saleh or his representatives on that yet.
yogita limaye.
here in the , prime minister boris johnson will defend his handling of the afghanistan crisis in the commons later, as he vows to use "every economic, political and diplomatic lever" to help afghans.
he is expected to update mp5 on how the government plans to resettle 20,000 afghans in the over the coming years.
the prime minister and the foreign secretary, dominic raab, have both faced criticism over the ’ response to the taliban takeover.
let’ cross now to the royal united services institute, where former prime minister tony blair is speaking about the current situation in afghanistan.
to mark the anniversary of 9/11.
the turning of the religion into a puddla list -- into a political rine, in the ustification of struggle if necessary, armed gle, to achieve it.
other struggle, to achieve it.
other islamists agree with the ends, but ssue violence.
but the they issue violence.
but the ideology itself is in them —— is in itable nflict with open, tolerant societies.
nearly ything about 9/11 and its termath, particularly now, is ired in troversy.
what cannot be seriously sputed, however, is that 9/11, though thankfully there has no further terrorist attack that scale, radical islam has not clined orce.
what is disputed declined in force.
what is disputed is wide.
is radical is i’ a erent ideology, which represents irst—order threat to our ecurity, or we facing, despite ome common themes, 3 series of onnected security challenges, of which require handling on own terms based on local circumstances?
-- radical islam.
it is as a problem or only its ifestation in violent extremism.
akin to revolutionary mmunism and must be countered by urity and ideological measures the long—term, or is that erstate it, verestimate it, and the interventions in afghanistan raq, to elevate its appeal her than diminish it —— appeal ther han diminish it is a undamental strategic question and eds a clear answer.
in my view, islamism, both eological —— islamism, both the ideological -- ideology and the violence, is a —order security threat and checked, it will come to us, even entred far from us, as 9/11 demonstrated.
the analysis published from my institute shows how the roots of islamism stretch back any decades, and they grew in over many decades, and they grew in strength long before 9/11, and it ines the links between the deology and the violence.
this is plemented by the excellent alysis of the state concept and by nnual report we publish which ows that this is a global allenge and one that is getting rse.
the ideology, whether omulgated by the islamic republic ghanistan, shia, or sunni, through to al-qaeda, isis, boko and many others, has been the principal cause of destabilisation the middle east and beyond today in africa.
like volutionary communism, it operates different arenas and dimensions.
unlike it, its defeat ultimately through confronting will, ultimately through confronting both the violence and the ideology like it.
by a combination of -- and like it.
by a combination of hard and soft power.
now, if this is ect analysis, then especially a correct analysis, then especially after the fall of afghanistan, the powers must unite to develop an agreed strategy.
and even if ial discussion centred around stern nations, china and russia so have an interest in countering ideology and our best allies to be found in the many muslim untries, including in the middle st, desperate to retake their igion from extremism.
we need so to assess our vulnerability.
vid-19 as taught us about deadly athogens.
terror possibilities seem like the realm of science ion, but we would be wise now to epare for their potential use by —state actors.
on the other hand, his analysis is jected, the if this analysis is rejected, the alternative is, in effect, to say, a second order problem, this is a second order problam, where we are directly threatened, we iate through counterterrorism retaliate through counterherrorism measures, drone strikes, veillance, special ces, but surveillance, special forces, but otherwise, we leave alone.
but if is where policy is heading, we to understand it to its imitations.
we need to work out we mean by not remaking countries from which terrorist ats can arise.
i understand it means at we do not do what we ried to do in afghanistan.
the one that should be understood, our aking didn’ fail because the ople didn’ want the country ade.
for ure, we ould have remade.
for sure, we could have remade better, but afghans did not the taliban takeover.
the last opinion poll in 2019 showed the an with 4% support among the taliban with 496 support among the afghan eople.
they conquered the by violence, not persuasion.
barrier to nation building is ually not the people, but poor titutional capacity and governance including corruption, many rs.
and most of all, over many years.
and most of all, the challenge of trying to build internal elements combine external support are trying to roy.
but counterterrorism on its own won’ ove an entrenched hreat.
we could see a middle rse.
for example, we could adopt strategy of assisting countries, ecurity, but also supporting he government’ own attempts to lop their nations because develop their nations because poverty and underdevelopment ubtedly facilitate the extremists.
in a way, this is what in afghanistan post—2014 when ews nato’ mission went to train, advise assist.
ven here, this will and assist.
but even here, this will likely encompass more than conventional counterterrorism.
we need some boots on the ground.
rally, our preference is for the oots to be local, but that will not ays be possible.
western ocieties and their political ers have become quite understandably deeply averse to alties amongst our armed forces.
is is not a problem of the armed rces themselves who are brave and traordinary people, but it is now erwhelming political constraint commitment to western boots he ground, and special forces.
the problem this gives rise to obvious.
if the enemy we are ting knows the more casualties they inﬂict, the more our political rodes, they inflict, the more our political will erodes, then the incentive cture is plain.
there is an dditional challenge for europe and it is clear now, if it wasn’ efore, that merica has decided at for the foreseeable future, it a very -- it has limited is a very -- it has a very limited appetite for military engagement.
kosovo, i initiated european defence with france.
i did this isely because i realised that without the united states and ident clinton’ commitment, we ould ver have resolve the crisis.
today, the balkans, relative to istory, ran aspire to a eaceful future hopefully within ope.
yet the crisis was at your’ oorstep, not erican’, it is urope that aces the destabilisation of the hell.
is already facing the fallout rom libya and elsewhere in the dle east, and for these purposes, tain is part of europe, like it not.
so how do europe and nate eloped the capability to act when ica is unwilling?
answering hese questions, at least nfronting them, would also invigorate western policymakers acity to think strategically.
for one of the most alarming developments of recent times has a sense that the west has lost capacity to formulate strategy.
short—term political that short—term political imperatives have simply squeezed the of long—term thinking.
it is this sense, re than anything else, judgment, hich gives our in my judgment, which gives our allies anxiety and our opponents eve that our time is over.
finally, one of the most depressing i have heard regularly ticulated over the past weeks is that we are foolish in believing that western notions of democracy and freedom are liberal democracy and freedom are exportable.
or that they will ever oot except in a somewhat decadent terrain of western society.
aybe my generation of leaders now, maybe my generation of leaders were naive in thinking countries be remade, or maybe the could be remade, or maybe the remaking needed to last longer, but uld never forget as we see the we should never forget as we see the women of afghanistan in the media, re, civic society now fully in culture, civic society now fully in fear of their lives, that our values ill those which free people hoose.
covering confidence in hose values and in the universal lication is a necessary part of suring we stand up for them and we prepared to defend them.
thank very much.
blair, thank you very much for presentation.
and i should say he benefit of urnalists or for the benefit ofjournalists or people listening that both the entation and the discussion on he record.
50 it will be ecorded in any shape or that is in any shape or form that is required.
let me just start with criticism about how we handled the withdrawal from afghanistan over few weeks.
you mentioned at the beginning of your speech by ng, my views are known.
you use he rather strong, sometimes one argue a bit spicy, terminology erms of criticising the concept forever wars.
on packet —— on cket, tell us think the packet, tell us you think the concept is harmful, as you gested, and security questions.
erm or the phrase ending the term or the phrase ending forever wars has been used by ticians of all political of all political stripes, particularly in the united es.
me say right at the very states.
let me say right at the very beginning, i have deep respect for dent biden, i had me ajer and like him and agree with many of the things he is trying to do.
-- i admire and like him.
but not simply mocrat party but the the democrat party but the republican party, they use this and i think it is deeply disabling as a phrase.
because one, we haven’ ended this ar.
we have ended our participation , different concept.
number , it is not forever.
in 20 years, a lot of the groups we have been ghting, and if you take the ommunism analogy, we stayed with for 60, 70 years or more.
but ally, the of what we are oing post—2014 and by the end of 9 was obvious in a completely ifferent to what we do in 2005, 6, 2007 and in the years after problems arose in fghanistan.
50 ijust think it is a good making policy not a good way of making policy because in the end, it is a itical slogan.
not really political slogan.
it is not really based on an analysis of the correct egy.
i have the benefit of alking to you before this event and you’re thinking.
but ijust wonder if you tell us, the roposition at is now being put by lot of people including the rican president that we should some of bin laden, which by the took ten years, and somehow get , and leave the pieces to the ers, is it something you would been able to sell to the have been able to sell to the british public in 2001?
i think it ite important, it is a good uestion because it is important to and relive the events of 9/11.
i haven’ seen it yet, but i gather that is quite a good umentary done by the about at day and the events of the isions that were taken, at least the american president, president , at that time.
i don’ think eopla would felt a response that was merely about going and to deal with al-qaeda and trying to deal with al-anda and getting back out again, i don’ people would have found that acceptable time.
things can change officially over time.
but in ent, i don’ think you can any event, i don’ think you ran deal with these groups when they are nched, simply by ounterterrorism measures.
ijust ’ ink it is possible.
they hold territory.
they build capacity.
one thing that is very clear about them is they are prepared to take large numbers of casualties.
i mean, in the work my institute does when you look even in the ears 2017 and 2018, you know, and look round—the—world, the umbers people that die at the hands of extremists is large, the numbers of extremists emselves who die is even larger.
it hasn’ stopped them growing nﬂar tler of rating and they will tinue to do so.
and i think one the things that is most difficult us to get our heads round the elements of this to do with genuine ious conviction.
that may be ompletely misguided, but it is a uine religious belief that has een turned into this political ology.
and the interesting thing the work that my institute has one and i really recommend the on the roots of islamism and lso former prime minister of the blair at the royal united services institute delivering a marking the anniversary of 9/11, but also dealing with the ent situation in afghanistan, and one of the points he made was our best allies, referring to he west, our best allies can be he id in many countries, found he said in many countries, including the middle east, desperate back control of their to take back control of their religion from extremists.
we are to move on now with some of going to move on now with some of the days of the main stories.
millions of pupils are returning to classrooms in england and wales, amid fears of a spike in students with covid.
scientists have warned of a rapid rise in school cases without such measures and experts have not recommended jabs for healthy 12 to 15—year—olds.
in england, there are over 30 times more children with covid compared with last year.
in scotland, cases among the under—155 have trebled since school restarted in mid—august.
we can’ say that the rise has been solely caused by schools returning.
this graph shows cases in 2020 — in green — and this year — in red.
although cases were much lower at this point in 2020, they followed a similar pattern, rising before schools went back and then increasing more steeply later in september.
so what does this all mean in practical terms for schools as they ?
martine croxall is at a school in stockton—on—tees.
thank you very much.
you could be forgiven for thinking that this is ind of medical centre, but it is not, it is the hall at thshore academy in stockton upon eas.
and it has gone really quiet.
as really noisy a few minutes when the students were in here, this is where 700 students have tested and have their lateral ests done to keep the ommunity safe.
we will be talking moment about the challenges of rating under these covid onditions.
this is the first day for the new term here at academy and everybody is that it will be a much better ear than last year.
but there are asks, no bubbles, but it doesn’ ean things are quite back to normal verybody yet, as our education itor reports.
teacher owen harvey started 2021 in hospital with coronavirus.
he was away from his primary school class for months.
barely able to walk, owen gradually built back his strength in his garden.
so this school year is a big step back to normal for this teacher, now vaccinated, and for pupils, who’ll be able to mix freely in the playground.
we’re just excited to get everybody back into school and to get back to something like a normal curriculum, do assemblies again, get that lovely social feeling that schools have been missing out on so much of, and just get back to being school as normal.
testing started in some of england’ secondary schools last week.
it’ the main precaution in place this term.
the top government doctors across the have another decision.
should they offer the vaccine to all 12 to 15—year—olds?
experts say the benefits aren’ great enough.
it’ a milder illness in teenagers.
schools will be trying to return to their usual routines and to reassure pupils.
school leaders need the choice to be able to adapt the contingency framework and actually make it relevant to the local need, rather than the national need.
so if we need to make adjustments to the measures we put in place to minimise the risk, that we have the choice to do that, and we can do it immediately, that we do not have to wait.
owen has been walking his way back to health, back to the classroom he loves, like many parents and pupils, hoping this school year will be so much better than the last.
branwen jefferys, news.
that must be a sentiment shared by so many millions of people across country.
chers, parents and the country.
teachers, parents and students alike.
and of course, ols still have to be kept safe ecause covid is still very much in community.
we are joined gareth edmonds, the chief operating for the northern cation officer for the northern education trust, made up of 21 different academy is serving 1a,000 school academy is sewing 14,000 pupils, it is a a very big community ok after.
we are here in a testing centre for the 700 students thshore academy, how difficult it been setting this up compared the other challenges you face?
followed the government guidance, worked over the summer to the test centre is up.
the essed centres are running in all the secondary mies this week, the secondary academies this week, students will receive two tests and be back into the normal student day within the academies.
it looks like the most peculiar thing up in a school, but this is to set up in a school, but this is the easy hit, you are saying.
yes, ain challenge has been around eeping a high—quality education for dren who haven’ been in the academy, delivering remote learning ges through , supporting our packages through ’, supporting our workforce, evising our financial throughout the year to support students and office three intaining the estates while the ademies have been closed.
5,000 of pupils needed laptops, a lot of came from the government, the provided the rest.
but getting ptop to a pupil was the first it of it.
there was a lot more plication and just the and the ware.
yes, that is right, no tudent in the northern education you needed a device didn’ get , we got devices to all students who had a need, but for the teams, there was a lot of work maintaining the remote orking for students in lessons and the 00 devices needed, then the 5,000 devices needed, anti—software, safeguarding software tudents remain safe and the feguarding to keep in touch with to make sure they were ported.
it sounds like you had to end a team and to get erybody up and running quite ickly, but as quite successful, the pupils did well with learning?
yes, it has been of the positives of this ndemic over the last 18 months, udents have taken remarkably well mote learning, teachers have orked well with it and new ways of king have been developed.
nificant investment in to be ble to share work, to host shared rning across a number of eographical boundaries has been a success.
50 now you are back in the first day rm, very kind of you to invite us in when it is ously a settling in day for a of people.
you are trying to he place safe and there is a of emphasis at the moment on air lity and monitoring airflow.
how re you doing , what guidance and support have you had to keep ticking over properly?
yes, we that ticking over property?
yes, we are testing five monitors in hshore at present.
02 monitors rthshore.
but it forms part of ider risk assessment that we have the school.
so that is one area, but we have a really rigorous ssessment around cleaning, round how students move around the my, it is one area that we are ooking at to keep students and say.
i am wondering if there some changes you made because of andemic you would be quite keen to keep?
yes, there are a few.
in terms of the remote learning, that rked really well for a number students.
it has worked really that best practice across our demies.
certainly, in the test entre the hygiene factor, we would to keep, particularly around unchtimes and breaks where we are ing that will help with attendance rates around the normal vimses, ruses, etc that we would bugs, viruses, etc that we would have.
and i think just the general he chool has been set , it way the school has been set up, it it is a lot safer and the hygiene mproved.
wednesday night onwards.
—— thunder from wednesday.
vaccines are under a lot of discussion at the moment and whether is any merit in giving a covid cine to 12 to 15—year—olds and is very the group that you are teaching here at this academy.
your iew on whether they what is your view on whether they should be vaccinated?
spoke to two this morning, it remains a personal view for those students to hat decision themselves.
but rom the trust perspective i think certainly something we would rage and like to have as the step beyond these test centres erate.
the argument is from a ealth point of view there is no need because they do not tract covid very badly.
there is isk of lung covid for some dren like anybody but should we be vaccinated children to protect people?
what are the merits of oing so in your ew?
that is part a wider risk assessment for ping everybody safe.
if children to participate in that vaccination programme and it has benefits and i would welcome hat.
other vaccines are given in ool ike the vaccine are school like the vaccine are sometimes delivered to this age so how well—equipped would you to dminister the vaccine on te?
this shows how resilient ools have been over the last 18 onths and if there was that desire that it is something the trust ould be able to encourage to ldren and families should they ish.
you serve pockets of the munity that are under privileged, advantaged, you have quite a few ildren here on free school meals that was very much a nsideration to make sure they were roperty during the pandemic, in terms of recovery, we hear a about what education needs to ecover.
her back you think is an academy failed during the emic?
with the learning, emote earning, the shared learning the trust, those students had a real high quality level education.
their lessons were intained, their subjects are intained.
a number of pastoral contacted children, every had a call once a weekend of child had a all once a weekend of the child was deemed vulnerable was a number of calls need there was a number of falls need daily to support that child and family.
the progress the theirfamily.
the progress the children made, yes, we have had some ups that have been funded and catch ups that have been funded and they have been well received but the sion that children have had provision that children have had across the trust been a real credit chers.
you have had hundreds of children you are telling me ering for master classes which amazing, gning up for stuff tside the school day, which is a tament to the learning here.
ank you very much.
obviously some dren need more support than others.
those who have special ational needs in particular und it quite a struggle during the ndemic if they were having to arn online.
we will be speaking to ouple of those in a few minutes, thin the next hour or so, and also special educational needs —ordinator here.
thank you very much.
a few more responses on twitter to the stion we asked earlier, how are feeling your children going back to school?
how concerned ?
are there any measures in lace?
this one says my 11—year—old hter returned last wednesday and of covid positive already along mum and myself.
someone says ing the exact same thing time ter time expecting different sults as a theme of madness away nglish people expected to throw heir kids to the lines scotland trebled since schools reopened the stats show that in the under group cases have trebled in cotland.
schools there went back in iddle of august.
john says your interview the commissioner for chools was concerning and she ssured that pupils and students uld be safe and no mention of the der public.
teenagers do not tend wear masks on public transport.
your thoughts coming in on his.
lam sure it is a subject we be returning to again and in.
you can do that on twitter.
and viewers in the can find out more about some of the big questions about the school return — on catch—up plans, mental health news channel this evening.
discussing those issues will be mary bousted from the national education union, natalie perea from the education policy institute, and jules white, head teacher at tanbridge house school in surrey.
that’ at half—past eight tonight in the .
the headlines on news: the taliban says it’ taken control of panjshir valley — the last part of afghanistan not under their control.
but the claim’ being disputed by rebel forces.
the prime minister borisjohnson will tell that he’ll "use every economic, political and diplomatic lever to protect the , and help the afghan people.
" the prime minister also faces a significant backlash from within his own party, over plans to pay for social care reforms in england by increasing national insurance.
back to school for millions more children in england, wales and northern ireland 7 but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
conjoined twins see each other for the first time — after undergoing a gruelling 12—hour operation to separate them.
a three—year—old boy is found alive, in rugged australian bushland, after going missing from his home on friday.
borisjohnson is facing a backlash from as they return to westminster, over plans for reforming the funding of social care and the in england.
many, including prominent conservatives, are angry about reports that he’ considering raising national insurance rates, which would break a manifesto pledge.
reports suggest £5.
5 billion of funding has been agreed to plug shortfalls, including the backlog of treatment caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
the government is also considering increasing national insurance contributions by at least 1% to improve social care.
national insurance is paid by workers until they reach the state pension age, and by their employers.
for someone on average earnings of £29,500, a 1% increase in national insurance would cost them about £200 a year.
our chief political correspondent, adam fleming, has been giving us more details.
eli”.
are coming back to westminster today and it is the first day of iament sitting as normal.
all he mp5 re going to be there and at means the atmosphere is going be heightened and one nservative backbencher said to me already pretty feeble before yone has even got here.
what we expecting is things.
the irst is this extra £5.
5 billion for this financial year for the econd half of this year and that is elp health service get through winter to deal with covid and so to help deal with the backlog, pla who missed out on other treatment because the pandemic.
that less controversial starter if like.
then as soon as tomorrow could get the more controversial ourse which is the main course which is the government’ proposals for reforming social care in england and we adult social rare in england and we think the centrepiece of that will ising this idea of a cap on be revising this idea of a rap on the total amount that an individual be liable for their care costs over their etime which would rotect people from extortionate lls, but would mean more bills, but that would mean more taxpayer money going into the social ystem it looks like care system and it looks like ministers have decided an increase ional insurance contributions mployees and employers is the ay to do that.
details of the otiations between government partments have been coming out in and drabs over the last couple months, but because of the nce of a concrete proposal that eans the field has been kind of open to the left open to the critics to get their arguments in first so you get a lot of tory seeing national insurance is the wrong tax it is paid by people of because it is paid by peopla of working age and once you get to pension age you do not pay tional insurance any more even it is quite likely you may be the one benefiting from the care nding you are that age, and you get cut some conservatives, uding some in the cabinet, who ay this would be a clear breach of eir nifesto at the last election.
what we are starting to is peopla the government see is people in the government making the case for the change and morning it the armed forces this morning it was the armed forces minister james healy.
far too many of my constituents who are retired rely on their state pension, and they’re certainly not in a house that is entirely bought and paid for, and they’re terrified of falling ill and not being able to afford their own care.
this is something that shouldn’ be pitted as generation against generation.
the social contract is that, whilst you’re of working age, you pay your taxes to pay for those who are not working, in anticipation that when you yourself are retired those who are of working age at that time will do the same for you.
that social contract has become dangerously out of balance.
this isn’ an intergenerational thing.
there are people who are young who are in need and need support, and there are people who are old who are in need and need support.
we need a social contract that is fair for all.
going back to when boris johnson mentioned this in his first speech me minister he said we will the social care crisis with a plan we prepared, but dear plan we have prepared, but dearty the he plan on how to fund it far from worked out.
is there a this could lead to a delay in he reforms that social care needs?
vernment is still negotiating with itself over the proposal it is to put forward so there are prospects of a delay there because already been delayed once ecause this was meant to happen ore the summer holiday.
then the vernment will have to negotiate its own backbenchers and other ies in parliament because they said they to do this on a said they wanted to do this on a cross-party basis, so more scope for they are, introducing a delay they are, and introducing a rap on social care costs is very to say.
it requires quite a lot logistic and ractice that would volve local authorities across the country and roviders of the country and rare providers of the scope for a massive delay there as , and it is worth remembering his is already been delayed and ked into the long grass multiple imes over the last few decades, but his precise mechanism of a cap rap and a hange to the means test about is eligible for care anyway is actually ady on the statute books, it exists as a piece of slation, passed by david cameron’ government.
it is ready to is just that they oppose the introduction of it for various tical, economic and logistical easons.
it is desired to think that whole big changes kind of sitting re already in legislation, in hibernation, ready but the things that make it to go, but the things that make it ready to go on a whole load of very licated political values and financial decisions.
adam fleming.
conjoined twins from israel have been able to see each other for the first time after being separated.
the one—year—old sisters underwent a 12—hour operation that took months of preparation and involved dozens of experts.
claire sedman reports.
sisters face—to—face for the first time after surviving a miraculous marathon operation.
conjoined at the back of their heads from birth a year ago, separation surgery was meticulously planned between major blood vessels in their heads.
a very delicate task — one bleed could be catastrophic.
: of course, after all the preparations and all of the models we have built in a designated surgery room, we specifically prepared for this thing with a surgical theatre and of the twins and with 3 model we prepared in advance.
where the two were attached, there was no skin and skull, so doctors needed the babies to essentially grow more skin.
inflatable silicon bags were inserted into their heads and gently expanded to stretch their skin slowly.
this meant that, when doctors reconstructed their skulls after the separation, they had excess skin, which could be used to seal their new heads.
we are just finishing the twins’ separation procedure.
it has gone extremely well and i’ delighted how well the whole team’ done.
it’ an excellent team here and it’ been a real pleasure to be a part of it.
medics say this type of surgery, a first for israel, has only ever happened 20 times worldwide.
separating them so young, they say there is now a high chance they will live normal lives — already breathing and eating on their own.
there is rehabilitation for their physical and cognitive development planned which will, no doubt, be spurred on by these remarkable sisters’ own determination to succeed.
claire sedman, news.
a three—year—old boy missing in australian bushland since friday has been found alive.
anthony a elfalak was feared to have been abducted.
but he was discovered after police helicopter pilots spotted him in amongst trees in a deep gully in new south wales.
here is the moment anthony was spotted after the four day search.
he was seen sitting in a puddle using his hands to drink water.
he has since been reunited with his family after he went vanished on his parents’ rural property.
our sydney correspondent, shaimaa khalil, told me his family are describing the rescue as a miracle.
i cannot stop watching that footage that you were just chewing and ing about.
that moment when he was found by the police saying i have got the boy, and you can see scooping with his little him scooping water with his little hands and washing his face, four after he had gone missing and very unforgiving very rugged ain, rocks and secretaries.
here was another extraordinary ent right after this where he was eing held by the rescue teams and mother saying they have found my by, and he was reunited with his ther, cradled into the ambulance, just falling asleep.
his father said he at his mother and he just fell ashep in her arms.
he said generally he was and he had and bites, some nappy rash, it ooks as if he fell over, surprisingly because of where he on the terrain he was trying to vigate, but generally he is an condition.
usually for his arents and siblings but the larger and community, search dogs, undreds of volunteer personnel, 3 lice copter, so many people police helicopter, so many people trying to find him.
finding him in a they had searched before.
one of the relatives were speaking to edia saying this was an absolute nightmare but now that he ebak with his family they are is sivehak with his family they are describing it a medical.
has this a huge story in australia?
yes, it has been headline news since it ened.
we woke up this morning and it was one of the big stories could hear the concern in the fact that this may not end well.
were concerns about him being abducted.
investigations by the ce.
the family saying they police.
the family saying they themselves were not thinking it was father’ day at the weekend and of all the days he was ing for his missing son this ending has lifted up so many people ching story quite closely, watching the story quite closely, not expecting a happy ending but the way, the manner in which he was found, just sitting on his own, ing water, trying to fend for imself, and the minute he was nited with his mother, and also at moment when his family found .
you could hear someone shouting ten, they got ten, and everybody cheering and celebrating, andmother celebrating, hands in the air, thanking the police.
ory that was followed closely in ustralia.
the original hands from big ben’ clockface are to be returned to the elizabeth tower in london after three years of conservation work.
experts have painted them to match the original prussian blue colour scheme.
it’ the latest stage of the 80—million—pound restoration project.
the iconic clock and bell were due to resume chiming this year, but work was delayed because of the pandemic.
tim muffett has climbed the tower to see how the work has progressed.
what a morning it is to be 96 metres above the streets of london.
i am standing just in front of the eastern clock face of the elizabeth tower, home to the world—famous big ben.
pretty much surrounded by scaffolding for four years.
the biggest restoration project in its history has been under way.
it has gone on for longer and cost more money than had originally been planned.
the team behind us are delighted to say that the finish line is finally in sight.
countdown to completion.
one of the biggest restoration jobs ever undertaken on a landmark british building is approaching the finish line.
good to see you, ian.
and you.
what is it you’re doing here?
we’re servicing the rollers.
this is one of the bits that we couldn’ actually get to and service while the minute hands were on.
if you’re a clock mechanic, this is like the champions league and the world cup rolled into one, i’ imagine, this project.
working on this clock will be a once—in—a—lifetime opportunity.
to actually have taken it all to pieces, putting it back together again, and then carry on looking after it for a few more years — it’ just going to be fantastic.
typically, it’ this — the great clock of westminster — that activates the hammer, which strikes the great bell — or big ben, as it’ known.
we filmed the clock before it was taken off site for restoration.
it should be reinstalled soon.
and five years ago, we also saw restoration was necessary.
this elevation, the water ingress is actually coming into this clock face.
and as you can see, it’ actually affecting and rusting away the ironwork.
this is in so much better condition than it was four or five years ago, isn’ it?
it’ all been taken back to the bare frame.
any damage that was done to it, it’ now been coated, painted back up to its original colour.
one of the most striking things you notice is the colour of the clock faces.
for many years, the minute demarcations, the numbers and the clock hands were painted black.
but during the refurbishment, as many layers of paint were stripped away, it became clear that they were originally this shade of blue — it’ called prussian blue — and that is what they’ve been repainted in.
this restoration project was originally budgeted at £29 million.
the total bill is now set to exceed 80 million.
as you peel off the layers of this building, you find more and more that needs to be done.
when we’re taking out one piece of stain, adjacent stains often needed to be replaced.
it’ one of those things, until you can get up close to it, it’ very difficult to see the scope of repair.
the pandemic also brought work to a halt for several months, so the tower’ been covered up for longer than expected.
it’ sad that i can’ see it, you know — just, we’re here for one night and then big ben’, like, covered.
yeah, it’ covered.
we’ve been here for two years.
we haven’ seen it open.
it looks ugly, doesn’ it?
yeah, no, we need it back.
i mean, already, you can kind of see the restoration.
with the clock mechanism out of action, a computerised system has meant that, on special occasions, big ben has still been struck.
we’re standing in the belfry of the elizabeth tower and it was specially constructed so that the chiming bells for the four quarters could be heard right across london.
there’ one piece of damage here that’ been deliberately left alone.
this crack appeared when big ben was struck during a test in 1858.
the hammer was too heavy, but it gives the bell its unique tone.
this is london.
it should be — the note — but it does give it a ﬂat sound — a very serious sound, in fact.
so, that’ one bit of repairing you didn’ want to do.
that’ right, yes.
no change to the bell whatsoever because it’ become the familiar note.
a much—loved building — largely hidden for the past few years — slowly revealing itself once more.
tim muffett, news.
we can chat to the chair of the elizabeth tower project.
so many bits of restoration you can see but also a lot we cannot.
such a huge project.
it is a huge project and there are amazing things you can see today, the restored hand which has been conserved and brought back and just finished reinstalling the clock hands.
the paint work which has gone back to the original colour scheme in the 19th century, gilding, stain work that has been re—carved in many places by craftsmen working on site and carving by hand.
that is amazing.
what you cannot see we are installing a completely new fire safety system.
so this building will be in good order for the next 160 years as .
the range of skills that have been used to do this restoration is extraordinary, hundreds of people based right around the .
yeah, we reckon maybe around 500 people worked on the project at different stages and obviously as you see it is a london project but it is also a nationwide project.
the stonework has been quarried in yorkshire, cast—iron has been made and new parts made in scotland, south yorkshire, the glass has been hand cut in a studio in london.
it is a huge range of skills.
notjust those classic heritage skills but also cutting—edge stuff like the university of lincoln doing work with us to help establish through analysis of paint samples to work out the original paint.
the timescale now, we are in the final stages, when will the elizabeth tower and big ben be finished and fully restored 7 we are in the final stages.
: we are starting to take down the scaffolding.
certainly by new year’ eve these clock faces will be visible to everyone.
from next year we will be bringing back the great clock which has been taken apart and lovingly restored and reconnecting the bells and you will be hearing big ben chiming again certainly before easter and then after that we will be taking the scaffolding down i hope before the summer.
you have a lot on your plate.
it is spectacular to be up here.
the views are incredible and it will be great to see this world—famous site with the scaffolding off back to its glory and restored in a way it has never been restored before.
venice has been holding its historic regatta.
the event involves a parade on the grand canal and a series of boat races.
this year is the 1600th anniversary of the foundation of the city.
it was also the first time the winning men’ and women’ rowing teams were awarded the same cash prize.
you’re watching news.
now it’ time for a look at the weather.
hello.
a brief return to summer this week in which we could see temperatures, particularly in england, approach 30 celsius, but either way, we will see temperatures higher than at any point than they were during august.
after a bit of a murky start, there will be more sunshine around and that heat building.
things change from late wednesday onwards, traditional british cooldown coming in the form of thunderstorms and some outbreaks of rain.
this morning still a bit of rain around, we saw earlier, but this afternoon, across parts of western scotland, a bit drizzly, one or two isolated showers through eastern england, but a lot more sunshine across england and wales after a bit of a murky start to the day.
light winds here, more breeze across western scotland where we continue to see the cloud and the drizzle.
temperatures here in the mid to high teens but elsewhere widely into the 20 and even warmer than yesterday across england and wales, 27 or 28 celsius, 82 fahrenheit.
this evening and overnight, mist, low cloud and fog will form in the irish sea and across northern england, north midlands, north wales, a greater chance of some dense patches of fog to take us into tomorrow morning.
wherever you are, though, it won’ be a cold night, quite a muggy and humid one for some, down to 12 to 17 celsius, the warmest across the channel islands.
this is the setup for tuesday.
high pressure to the east of us, winds go around that in a clockwise fashion and that is what is helping to bring in ever warmer air from the near continent.
so, we’ve got mist and fog to begin with, northern england, north midlands, north wales.
that will be dense through the morning rush hour, gradually clearing.
cloud across scotland and northern ireland breaking up a bit more readily through tuesday compared with today and temperatures here will start to climb into the mid 205 in inland areas.
some fog around the coast in northern ireland.
but england and wales, we could see 30 celsius.
into wednesday, more sunshine for scotland and northern ireland to begin with, a few developing northern ireland later.
through the day, channel islands, south—west england, wales, we are going to see some thundery downpours gradually break out.
temperatures maybe not quite as high across england and wales compared with tuesday but a warmer day in scotland, 26, 27 celsius.
if it all gets too much, a humid night will follow through wednesday night into thursday, but quite a thundery one.
that lasts until thursday.
in the sunshine on thursday it will still leasant even though it is not cooler.
-- cooler.
this is news.
the headlines at 11: the prime minister is facing a significant backlash from his own over plans to pay for social care reforms in england by increasing national insurance.
but ministers say the elderly desperately need reform.
the social contract in the is broken.
the contract between those of working age, paying taxes to support those that aren’ of working age, it is not affordable any more, it doesn’ work.
the taliban says it’ taken control of panjshir valley — the last part of afghanistan not under their control.
but the claim’ being disputed by rebel forces.
back to school for millions more children in england, wales and northern ireland — but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
breast cancer charities urge people to get checked after the death of sarah harding hello baby — twins joined at the back of their heads see each other for the first time — after undergoing a gruelling 12—hour operation to separate them.
a three—year—old boy is found alive, in rugged australian bushland, after going missing from his home on friday.
and coming up this hour — four years after restorations began, big ben gets its hands back!
borisjohnson is facing a backlash from as they return to westminster, over plans for reforming the funding of social care and the in england.
many, including prominent conservatives, are angry about reports that he’ considering raising national insurance rates, which would break a manifesto pledge.
reports suggest £5.
5 billion of funding has been agreed to plug shortfalls, including the backlog of treatment caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
the government is also considering increasing national insurance contributions by at least1% to improve social care.
national insurance is paid by workers until they reach the state pension age, and by their employers.
for someone on average earnings of £29,500, a1% increase in national insurance would cost them about £200 a year.
let’ speak to lone wells, who’ in westminster.
quite a storm over this.
tell us more.
the first thing to say is are two different there are two different announcements at play.
we are cting this announcement of £5.
5 illion the , something billion for the , something specifically to tackle things like cklogs, also upcoming winter pressures given the fact winter is busy for the but in always busy for the but in addition to ongoing covid pressures cklogs of the waiting list.
and backlogs of the waiting list.
separately this row is brewing about new plan for social care is going to be ded after reports hat the government were considering national insurance by at east % to pay for this.
this has caused cern both by opposition arties but also within the nservative party as well.
there is mber of different reasons have been concerned about this he tory backbenches.
firstly, effect it breaks a manifesto mise not to raise any taxes.
ere are a number of conservatives erned about that.
there is concerned about that.
there is concern about it hitting lower wage work harder because it is income work harder because it is paid up until state pension age.
have been some like the ormer minister and tory mpjake arguing come tax would be a better way to pay for this.
it would ter to raise income tax across be better to raise income tax across the spectmm.
at least everyone pay for the spectrum.
at least everyone would pay for that.
including ioners who receive a very high alue pension, some of them tens of usands of pounds.
what we are ing here is ere are concerns rom about financially mfortable people, some people of a pensionabla age not having pensionabla working age not having to pay certain costs but those costs shouldered by younger being shouldered by younger generations and low income workers.
ere have been ministers today but there have been ministers today defending this saying we shouldn’ ing this as a generation be seeing this as a generation versus generation thing, ticularly because there is an overall reement among all parties something needs to be done to ckle the social care crisis.
the act that are people of all fact that there are people of all ages, both older generations but disable people who require ay-to-day are to help with veryday ings, as we have had eople like the defence minister ay arguing that rather than being as a generation to generation ing, we should look at this as of the social contract we all into.
far too many of my nstituents who are retired rely on state pension and they are not a house entirely bought and paid and they are terrified of falling ill and not being able to their own care.
this is afford their own rare.
this is something that shouldn’ be fitted eration against generation, the social contract is that whilst of working age, you pay your you are of working age, you pay your taxes to pay for those who aren’ ing.
in anticipation that when are retired, those that are of king age will do the same for .
that contract is out of lance.
this isn’ an ntergenerational thing, there are who are young who are in need support and here are people who re old need support.
we need a ocial contract that is fair for .
the other thing to stress about his is confirmation hasn’ been yet about whether it will definitely be a rise to national rance but one thing that is also ncerning is both that they ven’ had this sented to them in parliament before some of these orts have coming out about reports have been coming out about how this will be paid for, but a lot are searching and wanting nswers to what the plan itself will eling one conservative told me the funding model was being think that is something a lot of are concerned about.
also worth ssing that social care is something that is devolved, it is omething which the devolved tions can set their own plans for atever funding is announced ill have knock on implications for hole of the .
let’ talk to the whola of the .
let’ talk to an economist for fiscal studies.
adam.
let’ pick up on that oint about the funding model being ussed before the model of social are will like is.
in terms of how much needed and how much will raised by this proposal to ncrease national insurance, how do the balance in those two spects?
each one percentage point to national insurance to all ates of national insurance, loyees, employers and the lf—employed would raise you about llion across the .
now, in terms of how much funding is needed, re that is often talked about a figure that is often talked about is also about £10 billion.
that is igure that sir andrew dillon at he will lead a social care funding iew for the coalition overnment recently suggested would ough to take us from a care be enough to take us from a rare system we should be ashamed of to one that we could all be proud of.
i don’ have a view as to whether that right amount.
if you want to ay for increased spending as then you need to find funding or that.
that may be more of a rt-term ressure, particularly in erms of aling with ongoing costs covid and trying to reduce the acklogs.
what about the issue the ounger people bearing the unt of the national insurance rise cause the fact it stops once hit retirement age.
some would it is wrong, it is outdated that he national insurance payments stop irement age when a lot of at retirement age when a lot of people tarry on working and uldn’ they pay national nsurance on their earnings.
if that be changed, how much would that raise?
imposing national rance on the earnings of people rried on working after retirement age gets you a bit of but not a huge amount on this cale, about £1 billion or so.
the ere here may more one of issue there may be more one of principle that if you extended it to rnings of those above state pension age, may be people would see lass unfair to then raise national nsurance contributions to yone to raise the bigger amounts of money that will be needed.
the aspect of it that is more mportant quantitatively is that nal insurance isn’ levied on ension income as opposed to the nings of people over state pension .
and if you extended ational insurance to pension income uld potentially raise much arger amounts of money but you need careful about that because like with income tax, we don’ national insurance relief for ension contributions or at least employee pension contributions, if you just brought national urance on pension income there be an element of double taxation on pension saving that way.
ould you say are the other bla options that could raise this ort of oney?
the simplest way to large amounts of money is rough increasing the rates of tional insurance, income tax, ere is also as the third.
you also look more widely at other of the tax system, things ike capital gains tax, inheritance there has been talk of possibly troducing a wealth tax or anything , corporation tax for example, duties on fuel and tobacco and hol.
with those smaller taxes it rder raise really large sums so you either need to do something radical to those taxes or you would need to get little bit of from several different ones in rder to raise the revenue you would another issue that has been raised particularly in scotland with is that this is an england situation because there are ferent setups already in scotland, where social care is free nybody is assessed as for anybody who is assessed as needing it.
home care is free in thern eland for over 755 and rare care costs are in wales but an rease the national insurance would apply to everybody across the .
there is no way around that.
is that fair?
devolved funding ttlement is designed to to account of that so it is true at a tional insurance rise nlike an income tax rise would across the whole , but if the overnment increased health and care spending on england because that is a devolved matter, vernment automatically then up paying more grant to the tish, welsh and northern irish vernments which they could then ent on either health care and ocial re themselves or on other hings.
in the of the scottish vernment because income tax is volved, the scottish government use that revenue to reduce income tax and therefore partly the effect of the increase in national insurance.
it has been very esting talking to you.
thank for oining us.
the taliban say they have defeated resistance forces in the afghan provice of panjshir and that they are in full control of the area — the final part of the country that has remained outside their rule since they swept to power last month.
this video, published by a senior taliban official, it’ said to show taliban fighters raising their flag at the provincial this is the wrong video.
there is a video that purports to show the flag raised in ormer being raised in the former governor’ compound.
they are famous lding out against the taliban that area.
let’ hear what the ban spokesman had to say at a ews conference earlier today.
: we have captured panjshir with the will of god.
the local elders and religious leaders have been coordinating with us and our operations went ahead with their help.
some of those who are still wanting to fight are missing at the moment.
we are trying to tell them that if they want to join a normal life, they are welcome to.
afghanistan is their home, there is no problem from our side, but they need to stop fuelling the instability.
that will be our condition.
we have received one report that says amrullah saleh has escaped to tajikistan, but we will work out on finding out if this is true or not.
it is not confirmed yet.
our correspondent secunder kermani is in the capital kabul.
what is the latest?
we have still got these competing claims as we had over the past few days out what is happening in panjshir certainly seems today that he taliban are confident they have control of the province, nnouncing it through their official esman, something they had not previously done.
we also saw videos taliban raising their flag of the taliban raising their ﬂag above the governor ‘ compound in own, the provincial capital of panjshir.
these fighters calling elves the resistance front, themselves the resistance front, they say they still occupy strategic ions within panjshir.
it is not clear yet where their leadership is, include son of a legendary they include the son of a legendary anti—taliban fighter in the former resident in a staunch opponent of the taliban stop as you heard, are some reports he may have to tajikistan although that is confirmed as yet.
ahmad massoud aid untreated that he is safe has not provide details.
from he taliban’ perspective, at this conference, they are saying his marks the moment they have tured the entire country, the ole of afghanistan and they say it so the end of decades of war the country.
we will have to see hat is true, whether or not ere a further clashes or not but a gnificant significant moment nonetheless.
if is tme and they now move on to form ernment, they are going to then ad to deal with all of the detail ning a government they haven’ done before.
how is it envisaged is going to work with yellow bsolutely.
transforming themselves an insurgent group to a from an insurgent group to a government is going to be a far challenge than it was to take over the country using military .
it has been more than three eeks since the taliban took over and they have still yet to nounce or establish a new overnment.
many afghans feeling are in a state of limbo, hoping at even if they are not supporters taliban that a new government announced, they have a more ngibla idea of what the future look like, potentially the onomy can improve, a lot of people acing nancial dship at the facing financial hardship at the moment.
in this press conference, aid a new government would be announced within a number of days.
urce telling me it could come by the end of this week but the uncement has already been pushed back on a number of occasions, so we be delayed further.
we also had a question in that press erence about the status of the taliban’ supreme leader.
he has not een in public or heard from in pub“: lic and we have been hearing are some concerns within the iban about that was.
the okesman saying he would be making lic appearance very soon a public appearance very soon though.
thank you.
the headlines on news: back to school for millions more children in england, wales and northern ireland — but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
the taliban says it’ taken control of panjshir valley — the last part of afghanistan not under their control.
but the claim’ being disputed by rebel forces.
and a three—year—old boy is found , in rugged australian bushland, after going missing from his home on friday.
millions of pupils are returning to classrooms in england and wales, amid fears of a spike in students with covid.
scientists have warned of a rapid rise in school cases without such measures and experts have not recommended jabs for healthy 12 to 15—year—olds.
in england, there are over 30 times more children with covid compared with last year.
in scotland cases among the under—155 have trebled since school restarted in mid—august.
we can’ say that the rise has been solely caused by schools returning.
this graph shows cases in 2020 — in green — and this year — in red.
although cases were much lower at this point in 2020, they followed a similar pattern, rising before schools went back and then increasing more steeply later in september.
martine croxall is at a school in stockton—on—tees.
welcome to the north shore academy in stockton—on—tees.
isn’ this an space?
is surrounded by amazing space?
it is surrounded by classrooms and incredible facilities academy.
as we know, the ast academic year was immensely ruptive for so many pupils.
they re in and out of school, they had used to online learning and hen they got back to school, if bubbles were affected by an utbreak of covid, they had to late.
it was all very disrupted.
verybody is ing for a much better year this year but it still be quite back to normal as won’ be quite back to normal as jefferies reports.
teacher owen harvey started 2021 in hospital with coronavirus.
he was away from his primary school class for months.
barely able to walk, owen gradually built back his strength in his garden.
so this school year is a big step back to normal for this teacher, now vaccinated, and for pupils, who’ll be able to mix freely in the playground.
we’re just excited to get everybody back into school and to get back to something like a normal curriculum, do assemblies again, get that lovely social feeling that schools have been missing out on so much of, and just get back to being school as normal.
testing started in some of england’ secondary schools last week.
it’ the main precaution in place this term.
the top government doctors across the have another decision.
should they offer the vaccine to all 12 to 15—year—olds?
experts say the benefits aren’ great enough.
it’ a milder illness in teenagers.
schools will be trying to return to their usual routines and to reassure pupils.
school leaders need the choice to be able to adapt the contingency framework and actually make it relevant to the local need rather than the national need.
so if we need to make adjustments to the measures we put in place to minimise the risk, that we have the choice to do that, and we can do it immediately, that we do not have to wait.
owen has been walking his way back to health, back to the classroom he loves, like many parents and pupils, hoping this school year will be so much better than the last.
branwen jefferys, news.
when it comes to covid safety protocols in schools for this new emic year, the new commissioner 5575 says we must place our trust in head ers.
we have to trust our heads, they know what they are doing and they reach out and ask.
we are listening very hard, working with all professionals, me particularly working with children, to make sure that the right solutions that need to be global solutions are in place.
but things like masks and other issues are very much local issues.
headteachers know their buildings, they note the size of their corridors.
they know where their issues are and we need to support them to lead.
they are incredible trustworthy and, i can tell you, unbelievably excited to have the children back and it’ just great to be back at school and a big welcome back to everyone.
that was the children’ commissioner.
as we have said, ols and pupils had to get used a lot of online learning last , but some students need more elp than others when it comes to they learn and i’ thinking of ildren with special educational eds.
i have been speaking to cial educational needs coordinator emma and she was joined year 11 students, harley by three year 11 students, harley clark, logan jefferson and lorna and aid, uring the lockdown they emma said, during the lockdown they had to be very clear about what each ’ individual learning needs ere.
the google class and allow the interactive lesson.
we were ble to see what typing they were ing and how they were responding questions and we were able to vide feedback.
we had to adapt resources to different ituations and we were able to meet needs through different coloured books, different screens and we able to adapt because we were ching our own classes so we knew students in front of me and that crucial to ensure the pace of rning was where it needed to be.
rley, you and your fellow students some of the ninth not in chool and pretty much all of year not in school.
how did it suit working online from home?
i had a very comfortable working environment where i was away from the downstairs and i was just able to get on with the work on my computer without worrying about many other distractions around the house.
sounds like you have got a good environment to work in.
what about you, logan?
what were the difficult bits?
re definitely focusing, because a lot of the time at home you had a lot of distractions like doing your own things and stuff, but it was a lot easier at home as well because you could find a place where you are comfortable and do what you wanted and the work, obviously, like, it didn’ feel as though you needed to get, like, seven things, going at other people’ paces.
that is a really good point and during the second lockdown, things had settled down quite a bit, haven’ they?
you are back now for your last year at north shore academy.
how different do you think this year is going to be?
i feel like it is going to be a lot easier now we don’ have to wear masks as much, which is really difficult, and back to our almost normal way of working.
let’ hope so.
it will be a bit different but not as bad as last year, we hope.
emma, looking forward to this year, how much catching up have students got to do, particularly students with special educational needs?
because we keep hearing from the government about this need for a recovery plan.
absolutely, there is a need but i have been extremely proud of how our students responded through the lockdown because we had such a tailored programme that we were able to keep apace with the curriculum, but now returning back into school, ourjob is to find gaps in the learning, we have significant revision classes, we have got workshops going on, we have got weekend work.
the special educational needs coordinator here, acknowledging that that there is some catching up do but they are well placed to do those three students in their year here have got some good bitions.
lorna was to be a hildren’ nurse, harley intends to politics and then go live in nada or a while, so no lack of canada for a whila, so no lack of ambition.
we are here all day.
hope stay with us throughout the ay and in about an hour ‘ time we speak to two year seven tudents who have just arrived here .
it is their very first day at secondary school.
we will find out is going for them.
tributes have been coming in from across the music world for the former girls aloud singer sarah harding — who’ died from breast cancer at the age of 39.
her mum marie made the announcement on social media yesterday, calling her a "bright, shining star.
" sarah found lumps under her arms in 2019 and in an extract from her memoir published in the times, she admitted putting off getting medical help, which was further complicated by the outbreak of the pandemic.
let’ speak to sophia lowes from cancer research .
thank you for joining us.
it is a really understandable instinct, when ody finds something that somebody finds something that worries them to not want to deal it.
yes.
there is always a with it.
yes.
there is always a worry when we find something wrong matter what it is, it is but no matter what it is, it is always better to get it checked out if it is cases, and in most rases it on’ be, but if it is, treatment is former likely to successful.
we will talk more the statistics but in terms of impact of pandemic and the the impact of the pandemic and the backlog for people who will be, ingle day finding lumps, omething they are worried about and get checked out, how quickly an somebody be seen now?
what is issue the backlog in terms of waiting lists?
we know that because pandemic we have seen about 10,000 fewer cases of cancer gnosed tween april 2020 and april 2021, so that is a huge number pla who haven’ been able to of people who haven’ been able to be diagnosed.
but have adapted know a lot of are now more able to talk to people over the , so even if you can’ get a ace—to—face appointment, you might to peak to a or nurse be able to speak to a or nurse over the phone and if they are erned about any symptoms, they will organise further tests.
it probably can’ be said enough what a need to look out for so tell peoplo need to look out for so tell us what the warning signs are.
with cancer or any other type of breast cancer or any other type of rancer it is about telling your tor if you notice anything that ’ normal for you.
while is this use isn’ normal for you.
whila in this rase sarah noticed a lump, it isn’ out out lumps.
it could be any change to your breast, that could be ze, shape or feel.
it could be a rash, pain in your breast or a to your nipple.
just that wide range of ptoms just to breast cancer.
it’ not about mbering a whole list, it is remembering a whole list, it is about knowing what is normal for you lling your doctor if you and telling your doctor if you notice something wrong.
you would ything that is not normal, say anything that is not normal, just at the moment you spot it, in with your doctor?
exactly.
there is no need to check your in a set time or set way, but you know what your breasts mally look and feel like, and you otice something that is different hat, particularly something hat esn’ go away, that is when is important to talk to your ctor and what is normal for you not be for someone else, so it about getting to know your body eing confident when something sn’ right.
what difference does it there is an early diagnosis?
it makes difference.
when reast ancer is caught at the early stage, almost one survives and stage, almost everyone survives and that is because treatment is more to be successful when the ncer as spread, so that is it so important to tell your doctor the earlier you talk to your because the eartier you talk to your doctor, the greater your chances of diagnosis.
you mention the 10,000 fewer breast rancer diagnosis during the demic, people have been reluctant and speak to their about mething that they think might wait we are in the middle of something as serious as the emic.
is there evidence people re getting in touch for things like more now?
with fewer cases, many could be eople not many could be due to peopla not attending breast screening because he last year, breast screening has paused during part of the down, so those cases might have lockdown, so those rases might have been missed.
but the important thing breast screening is for hose without symptoms, so if you do any or you have issed your breast screening ointment, if you notice anything, contact your doctor and we are eing the same number or more ple begin to contact their doctor, is really reassuring.
it is important those people are to access to a doctor and he test they need.
thank you very for joining time for a much for joining us.
time for a sports round—up.
players under way oval the final day of the at the oval on the final day of the fourth test.
england start the day another 291 runs for victory against india all ten wickets in hand.
this is the latest.
a big target and it would be a record run chase if they get there.
series evel at 1—1 and the inal test tarts on friday.
england maintained their perfect start to world cup qualifying.
the 4—0 victory against andorra made it five winds out of five to stay well clear at the top of their group.
they were playing at wembley for the first time since their euro 2020 final defeat against italy.
the starting was completely different to the one that faced hungary a few days earlier.
manchester united’sjesse lingaard scored twice, captain harry kane came off the bench and scored a penalty before bakayo saka marked his 20th birthday by scoring a fourth.
gareth southgate praised the arsenal man, who was one of those to have his penalty saved in the euro final penalty shoot—out.
: we think he is a super player, his 20 years old, the way he has gressed and the maturity he has layed with and the talent that he , he is a hugely exciting player has already produced big erformances for england, so no need our side foreclosure.
—— for losure.
gareth bale scored his first competitive hatrick for wales to keep their hopes of qualification alive.
they came from behind to beat belarus 3—2, with bale’ winner coming in injury time.
they are third in the table but have two games in hand on belgium and czech republic above them.
if they beat estonia on wednesday, they’ll move up to second.
they might have a look at what happened in tallinn last night for a few pointers — northern ireland beat estonia 1—0 in a friendly there.
rotherham’ shane ferguson with this belter to win the game.
we’ve just had the opening weekend in the women’ super league.
champions chelsea lost against arsenal 3—2 in a thriller at the emriates.
it was 1—1 at halftime, but two second half strikes from beth mead proved to be the difference in front of more than 8,000 fans.
covid quarantine confusion and chaos reigned in sao paulo last night.
brazil and argentina’ world cup qualifier was abandoned just minutes after kick—off, when brazilian health officials walked onto the pitch to confront three —based argentine players.
they say that giovani selso and cristian romero of tottenham and aston villa’ emiliano martinez all posed a serious health risk, another villa player, emiliano buendia, who wasn’ in the squad, has also been accused of breaching covid protocols after travelling from the , a red list country.
the brazilian health authorities say that all four had been told to isolate and leave the country hours before the match, but failed to comply, which is they took such drastic action, forcing the game to be called off.
fifa yet to comment on proceedings there.
or non—proceedings.
britain’ emma raducanu faces home favourite shelby rogers in the last 16 at the open tonight.
the 18—year—old is playing in her first overseas grand slam, and is yet to drop a set.
but dan evans is out.
he was outclassed in his fourth round match against the russian second seed daniil medvedev.
he went down in staright sets but his run in new york will see evans reach a career high ranking inside the world’ top 25.
and over in ohio, it’ all set for an enthralling final day at the solheim cup.
the dominated yesterday’ early foursomes to reduce europes ——europe’ lead to a single point.
but after topsy—turvey afternoon fourballs, europe have a slender 9—7 lead going into todays singles.
they need just 5 points from the 12 matches to retain the trophy.
that’ all the sport for now.
i’ll have more for you in the next hour.
england’ opener still going strong as they are chasing 368 for victory india.
conjoined twins from israel have been able to see each other for the first time after being separated.
the one—year—old sisters underwent a twelve—hour operation that took months of preparation and involved dozens of experts.
claire sedman reports.
sisters face—to—face for the first time after surviving a miraculous marathon operation.
conjoined at the back of their heads from birth a year ago, separation surgery was meticulously planned between major blood vessels in their heads.
a very delicate task — one bleed could be catastrophic.
: of course, after all the preparations and all of the models we have built in a designated surgery room, we specifically prepared for this thing with a surgical theatre and of the twins and with 3 model we prepared in advance.
where the two were attached, there was no skin and skull, so doctors needed the babies to essentially grow more skin.
inflatable silicon bags were inserted into their heads and gently expanded to stretch their skin slowly.
this meant that, when doctors reconstructed their skulls after the separation, they had excess skin, which could be used to seal their new heads.
we are just finishing the twins’ separation procedure.
it has gone extremely well and i’ delighted how well the whole team’ done.
it’ an excellent team here and it’ been a real pleasure to be a part of it.
medics say this type of surgery, a first for israel, has only ever happened 20 times worldwide.
separating them so young, they say there is now a high chance they will live normal lives — already breathing and eating on their own.
there is rehabilitation for their physical and cognitive development planned which will, no doubt, be spurred on by these remarkable sisters’ own determination to succeed.
claire sedman, news.
the footballer marcus rashford is backing a new campaign to end what he calls the "child hunger pandemic".
it’ part of henry dimbleby’ national food strategy.
the manchester united forward is calling on people to write to their to support the report’ recommendations, as lebo diseko reports.
marcus rashford knows what it is like to go hungry as a child.
his mum worked three jobs just to put food on the table and sometimes even that wasn’ enough.
sometimes we didn’ even have a loaf of bread in house, it’ embarrassing to say but we didn’.
all them little struggles and sacrifices you made, it helps you appreciate everything ten times more.
his campaigning on free school meals forced the government to change its policy in the past.
now the england and manchester united player is hoping to do so again.
he wants people to write to their about backing recommendations to end what he calls the child hunger pandemic.
they include raising the income threshold for free school meals to include households earning £20,000 a year or less.
it comes as new data from the food foundation shows that more households with children under 18 are experiencing food insecurity than during the first wave of the pandemic.
for marcus, this is personal.
speaking about the latest campaign he said and he continued lebo diseko, news.
as pupils across england, wales and northern ireland start their first full week of the new school year, research suggests there has been an increase in young people suffering with mental health problems.
the says that one in six may now have issues with their mental health, that’ up from one in nine in 2017.
with me is drjo casebourne, chief executive at the early intervention foundation, and luke, who is from northampton and is currently in his first year of a—levels.
he was diagnosed with at 12 years old.
and i’ alsojoined by deirdre kehoe, director of training and services at the mental health charity young minds.
welcome all of you and thank you for joining us.
deirdre, first of all, a statistic, up from one in quite a statistic, up from one in nine to one in six now.
tell us what you are experiencing at he charity.
pandemic has had a stating effect on young people’ tal health and there is a growing of evidence to show the impact ikely to be significant and ong-term.
you say, the numbers ave ncreased in the year, and we so saw last year the number of errals to mental health services up 7296 went up 7296 on the year before.
it has been ncredibly difficult for people and we are seeing that young people cannot get atment, their problems get worse, re at young minds, we have rents talking about their young son starting to self—harm, having cidal oughts, dropping out suicidal thoughts, or dropping out from school in that period when they iting for treatment.
and also that means that pressure falls on to support those young people a which difficult.
what have you seen appening with waiting and treatment?
it has been very difficult, particularly uﬂng very very difficult, particularty during the pandemic.
we know that umber of young people who can be een in rvices dropped dramatically and only a third of who are in treatment could continue.
we recognise the services and those within it have incredibly hard to keep the rvice going, as had schools who schools counselling and school rvices as well, they haven’ services as well, they just haven’ been able to keep up with the tment, unfortunately.
look, ticed billy mac noted that you -- uke, i mention that you had when you re 12 years old, so at is your experience been?
i was agnosed when i was 12 years old thankfully i have made a big rovement so have not really eded to receive too much support during the pandemic, but i definitely felt more isolated whilst at home and not at school.
and obviously that is something echoed any kids.
did you feel like you need it smack you say you come a long way since being iagnosed did you feel you needed support?
absolutely.
i used to ave a lot of anxiety going to ools in the morning, and being of a routine, it was quite nting to go back.
it’ definitely time after being at home for he lockdowns.
you are from the learning oundation —— early intervention foundation, and it for itself, but with more oung people needing to be seen, is happening in people being een as soon as they need it now?
we think is really important is role chools can play because chools so well—placed to pport children and young people’ because they see all children ardless of circumstances and ily backgrounds, so we think hools have a vital role to play in he year ead with helping children ith their mental health, and there hings schools can do to do that.
and would they be?
say a school has one councillor and lots ldren who need to see that of children who need to see that counsellor, there is a finite amount ources there.
we think it is vital schools spend what they have the things that need work and got on the things that need work and our review looks at things and we that , cognitive behavioural therapy interventions, elivered to pupils had strong results delivering results for ndary school pupils.
so you are lking about giving advice and port to kids in a whole class support to kids in a whola class setting or maybe even bigger, in an setting?
is that what you mean?
yes, these kind of programmes delivered by teachers.
there the sparks rogramme going though elivered in schools, and they are he classroom and the teacher is hand to support them.
or another gramme is strong evidence is the uth awareness of mental health ogramme, where students learn out a positive mental health and -being rough a mixture of well—being through a mixture of lectures from teachers and also -play, that seems to be very effective reducing the anxiety and depression.
deirdre, are your thoughts on that?
some kids only very specific individual rt, but in terms of getting as much support as possible to as many ossible, joe was talking about, it ould be a helpful thing.
sumably it is happening in a lot schools anyway.
it is and we are ortive of going a step further than what has been described, is a whole school approach.
adults the person who might eet you abrogate going in, to chers and teaching staff, support ff, to the person who serves nner, oil orts oaches, they all dinner, oil sports coaches, they all have a really important part to play at goes with the universal, doing things that are inclusive of body and funnelling things hrough to giving very specific port to those who need that professional help, that step up in of the support they would terms of the support they would need.
we recognise that is very rtant and would love to see that reflected in the accountability ctures that schools have, so the fsted structure for example, we uld to see that prioritised when in there.
we are also conscious chools face intense pressure at the moment to prioritise academic and safety measures around vid as we go back to school, and now in this first week of september when kids are going —to—school, it is not clear what those safety asures will be until the pandemic until later.
we think schools have an important part .
we are very keen in the vernment to invest in local herbs, oral drop-in ntres where young opla ran local drop—in centres where young people can come in that a least a of they pport and perhaps when they need support and perhaps just getting that support airlie, do not a referral and they do not need a referral and ran just drop in and that may stop getting to a crisis point and etting to where it needs to go.
the elpful thing for me was efinitely being spoken to as an ividual, because many people when see the letters , they omatically think, oh, it is auma, this is the therapy he ds, but it is important that it individuals and we need ecialised help, if that makes nse.
so all the young people, it easy to feel like a burden, pecially when you are struggling ntal health and when there is much else going on, but you till valid and still matter.
that tme and a really nice thing or you to say.
hank you so much to of you.
the original hands from big ben’ clock face are to be returned to the elizabeth tower in london after three years of conservation work.
experts have painted them to match the original prussian blue colour scheme.
it’ the latest stage of the £80 million restoration project.
the iconic clock and bell were due to resume chiming this year, but work was delayed because of the pandemic.
what a morning it is to be 96 metres above the streets of london.
i am standing just in front of the eastern clock face of the elizabeth tower, home to the world—famous big ben.
pretty much surrounded by scaffolding for four years.
the biggest restoration project in its history has been under way.
it has gone on for longer and cost more money than had originally been planned.
the team behind us are delighted to say that the finish line is finally in sight.
countdown to completion.
one of the biggest restoration jobs ever undertaken on a landmark british building is approaching the finish line.
good to see you, ian.
and you.
what is it you’re doing here?
we’re servicing the rollers.
this is one of the bits that we couldn’ actually get to and service while the minute hands were on.
if you’re a clock mechanic, this is like the champions league and the world cup rolled into one, i’ imagine, this project.
working on this clock will be a once—in—a—lifetime opportunity.
to actually have taken it all to pieces, putting it back together again, and then carry on looking after it for a few more years — it’ just going to be fantastic.
typically, it’ this — the great clock of westminster — that activates the hammer, which strikes the great bell — or big ben, as it’ known.
we filmed the clock before it was taken off site for restoration.
it should be reinstalled soon.
and five years ago, we also saw restoration was necessary.
this elevation, the water ingress is actually coming into this clock face.
and as you can see, it’ actually affecting and rusting away the ironwork.
this is in so much better condition than it was four or five years ago, isn’ it?
it’ all been taken back to the bare frame.
any damage that was done to it, it’ now been coated, painted back up to its original colour.
one of the most striking things you notice is the colour of the clock faces.
for many years, the minute demarcations, the numbers and the clock hands were painted black.
but during the refurbishment, as many layers of paint were stripped away, it became clear that they were originally this shade of blue — it’ called prussian blue — and that is what they’ve been repainted in.
this restoration project was originally budgeted at £29 million.
the total bill is now set to exceed £80 million.
as you peel off the layers of this building, you find more and more that needs to be done.
when we’re taking out one piece of stain, adjacent stains often needed to be replaced.
it’ one of those things, until you can get up close to it, it’ very difficult to see the scope of repair.
the pandemic also brought work to a halt for several months, so the tower’ been covered up for longer than expected.
it’ sad that i can’ see it, you know — just, we’re here for one night and then big ben’, like, covered.
yeah, it’ covered.
we’ve been here for two years.
we haven’ seen it open.
it looks ugly, doesn’ it?
yeah, no, we need it back.
i mean, already, you can kind of see the restoration.
with the clock mechanism out of action, a computerised system has meant that, on special occasions, big ben has still been struck.
we’re standing in the belfry of the elizabeth tower and it was specially constructed so that the chiming bells for the four quarters could be heard right across london.
there’ one piece of damage here that’ been deliberately left alone.
this crack appeared when big ben was struck during a test in 1858.
the hammer was too heavy, but it gives the bell its unique tone.
this is london.
it should be — the note — but it does give it a ﬂat sound — a very serious sound, in fact.
so, that’ one bit of repairing you didn’ want to do.
that’ right, yes.
no change to the bell whatsoever because it’ become the familiar note.
a much—loved building — largely hidden for the past few years — slowly revealing itself once more.
tim muffett, news.
we can chat to the chair of the elizabeth tower project.
so many bits of restoration you can see but also a lot we cannot.
such a huge project.
it is a huge project and there are amazing things you can see today, the restored hand which has been conserved and brought back and just finished reinstalling the clock hands.
the paint work, which has gone back to the original colour scheme from the 19th century, gilding, stone work that has been re—carved in many places by craftsmen working on site and carving by hand.
that is amazing.
what you cannot see, maybe just as important, we are installing a completely new fire safety system.
so this building will be in good order for the next 160 years as well.
and the range of skills that have been used to do this restoration is extraordinary, isn’ it?
hundreds of people based right around the .
yeah, we reckon maybe around 500 people worked on the project at different stages and obviously, as you say, it is a london project but it is also a nationwide project.
the stonework has been quarried in yorkshire, cast—iron has been made and new parts made or renovated in scotland, south yorkshire, the glass has been hand cut in a studio in london.
it is a huge range of skills.
notjust those classic heritage skills, but also cutting—edge stuff like the university of lincoln doing work with us to help establish through analysis of paint samples the original paint colour.
the timescale now, we are in the final stages, when will the elizabeth tower and big ben be finished and fully restored 7 we are in the home straight.
we are starting to take down the scaffolding.
certainly by new year’ eve, these clock faces will be visible to everyone.
from next year, we will be bringing back the great clock, which has been taken apart and lovingly restored and reconnecting it to the bells and you will be hearing big ben chiming again certainly before easter and then after that, we will be taking the scaffolding down, i hope, before the summer.
it is spectacular to be up here.
the views are incredible and it will be great to see this world—famous site with the scaffolding off, back to its glory and restored in a way it has never been restored before.
lucky tim getting to go up there.
now it’ time for a look at the weather with matt taylor.
hello.
after a murky start to monday for many, certainly across england and wales, lots of sunshine and building heat through the afternoon.
still a bit more cloud across parts of northern england, a bit of mist and fog through the irish sea and northern ireland, scotland will see some sunny spells, but there will be plenty of cloud here producing some rain or drizzle in the west.
temperatures at the highest across england and wales, even higher than yesterday, 27, 28 degrees possible.
this evening and overnight, the cloud will sit in place across parts of scotland, northern ireland.
still a bit of drizzle in places but northern england, north midlands, north wales into tomorrow morning, a greater chance of some dense fog patches hampering the morning commute and a humid start, 13—17 degrees.
the fog, though, will clear, england and wales, lots of sunshine around by late morning.
some fog lapping onto the shores of northern ireland, but for much of northern ireland, southern scotland, a sunnier day compared with today, feeling warmer, too.
warmest of all, though, through the heart of and wales, 29, maybe 30 degrees.
similar sort of temperatures on wednesday with the sunshine, but storms make it cooler from wednesday night onwards.
this is news.
the headlines: the prime minister is facing a significant backlash from his own over plans to pay for social care reforms in england by increasing national insurance.
but ministers say the elderly desperately need reform.
the social contract in the is broken.
that contract between those of working age, paying taxes to support those that aren’ of working age, it’ not affordable any more, it doesn’ work.
the taliban says it’ taken control of panjshir valley — the last part of afghanistan not under their control.
but the claim’ being disputed by rebel forces.
back to school for millions more children in england, wales and northern ireland 7 but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
lam spending the day at a school in stockton—on—tees, looking at the of covid one education as the new term gets under way.
hello baby — twins joined at the back of their heads see each other for the first time — after undergoing a gruelling 12—hour operation to separate them.
breast cancer charities urge people to get checked after the death of sarah harding.
and coming up this hour — four years after restorations began, big ben gets its hands back!
borisjohnson is facing a backlash from as they return to westminster, over plans for reforming the funding of social care and the in england.
many, including prominent conservatives, are angry about reports that he’ considering raising national insurance rates, which would break a manifesto pledge.
reports suggest £5.
5 billion of funding has been agreed to plug shortfalls, including the backlog of treatment caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
the government is also considering increasing national insurance contributions by at least1% to improve social care.
national insurance is paid by workers until they reach the state pension age, and by their employers.
for someone on average earnings of £29,500, a1% increase in national insurance would cost them about £200 a year.
government ministers have been argueing there’ a need for a social contract that’ fair for everyone.
far too many of my constituents who are retired rely on their state pension, and they’re certainly not in a house that is entirely bought and paid for, and they’re terrified of falling ill and not being able to afford their own care.
this is something that shouldn’ be pitted as generation against generation.
the social contract is that whilst you’re of working age, you pay your taxes to pay for those who are not working, in anticipation that when you yourself are retired, those who are of working age at that time will do the same for you.
that social contract has become dangerously out of balance.
this isn’ an intergenerational thing.
there are people who are young who are in need and need support, and there are people who are old who are in need and need support.
we need a social contract that is fair for all.
i will speak to jake berry, conservative , who is opposed to crease in national insurance.
you don’ like the idea of increasing national insurance to pay cial care?
of us have for social rare?
none of us have seen the plans yet and the prime ster must be congratulated for rasping what is a difficult issue.
onal insurance is an national insurance is an exceptionally aggressive tax.
one £35,000 will pay a high roportion of their income or ional insurance than someone arning a quarter of £8 million and i accept his is something we while i accept this is something we must do something about, this isn’ way of going about it and it sets north against south, high ers against lower earners and it’ not the way to solve the lem.
what is the way to solve the problem?
i don’ have access to data but it seems to me that looking at income tax, which of is a less of regressive ax and is a tax that everyone pays.
who are retired, even if they ave an eye income went pay national ance and i favour the a of insurance and i favour the idea of looking at a one—off windfall tax on digital latforms which we all know which have made millions if llions of pounds to give a one windfall payment to our to sure it has the funds to fight the challenges that winter will us.
a way to even the playing field be to say that nyone over 65 still earning should ing national insurance on that be paying national insurance on that income?
that would be some way of lling the playing field but let’ not forget if you are self oyed, you pay a different rate national insurance.
those earning over 50,000 just to pay 2% national insurance and earnings over and below pay over 12%.
it is 51000 and below pay over 1296.
it is a complicate with differential depending on your employment tatus.
a far rer way eems to be status.
a far fairer way seems to be increasing income tax rates.
it’ me to say what bands should go up and by how much but it seems uitable way of doing this if it ust be done.
it would still break tory party manifesto.
what pact do think that would have voters’ trust when boris son on was on the eps of downing street.
said they had a plan.
not to rease any form of tax.
i think opla will understand that we have een through a huge crisis.
it is the prime minister does have a lan.
this crisis hasn’ impacted on care, social care has been an social rare, social rare has been an issue for a very long time and the dall mott report was a long ago.
boris hnson said you time ago.
boris johnson said you have a preprepared plan ready to go was saying that at the same and he was saying that at the same time on just winning and election a manifesto saying you based on a manifesto saying you wouldn’ increase tax.
what i would there is a of public say is there is a lot of public support out there to tackle this challenging issue.
there were me polling over the weekend which owed over three quarters would port finding a way to support ial care but the government has level the people.
let’ to level with the people.
let’ understand the challenges that are us, the challenges facing us with an older population and have a crease if required that is fair and doesn’ see lower earners a larger proportion of their ncome than people who are high ners.
just say one earners.
i’lljust say one additional thing, there was a 3% in ere or eabouts increase in there or thereabouts increase in most people’ council tax bills to ocial care and what we haven’ fund social rare and what we haven’ heard from the government is what happen to that health and social care precept on people’ cil tax bills if we move to a council tax bills if we move to a system funded by national insurance.
are lots of questions still utstanding, i look forward to ring the detail from the prime nister and his team but i hope think again, look at that one indfall tax on big online companies like amazon and google.
you ink that windfall tax what do you think that windfall tax would raise?
i don’ know, i don’ the data.
ijust hark back to tony blair, not someone i find often agreeing with, coming into power in 1997, having a fall tax on the recently rivatised utilities companies to this sort of issue.
we should be looking at all these sibilities including that ndfall tax on digital companies then talking to the british and levelling with them and saying, this is one of the great lenges of our generation and this is way we can solve it.
this is the way we ran solve it.
thank you for joining us.
in about nutes’ time i will speak to the 20 minutes“ time i will speak to the shadow care minister liz kendall.
the taliban say they have defeated resistance forces in the afghan provice of panjshir and that they are in full control of the area — the final part of the country that has remained outside their rule since they swept to power last month.
this video, published by a senior taliban official, is said to show taliban fighters raising their flag at the provincial governor’ compound.
but anti—taliban resistance forces in the mountainous provice in eastern afghanistan have denied the claim — and thousands of their fighters may still be massed there.
they are famous for holding out against the soviet army in the 19805 and the taliban in the 19905.
the anti—taliban movement calls itself the national resistance front of afghanistan.
you can see their fighters here in a series of training drills.
it’ made up of a multi—ethnic group of militias and former afghan security force members.
its leader is ahmad massoud.
he 5 the son of the late ahmad shah massoud 7 who was known as the lion of panjshir.
massoud says he is open to peace talks.
in the past few hours he has tweeted that he is safe, although his precise whereabouts are unknown.
let’ hear what the taliban spokesman, zabihullah mujahid, had to say about the situation in panjshir at a news conference earlier today.
: we have captured panjshir with the will of god.
the local elders and religious leaders have been coordinating with us and our operations went ahead with their help.
some of those who are still wanting to fight are missing at the moment.
we are trying to tell them that if they want to join a normal life, they are welcome to.
afghanistan is their home, there is no problem from our side, but they need to stop fuelling the instability.
that will be our condition.
we have received one report that says amrullah saleh has escaped to tajikistan, but we will work out on finding out if this is true or not.
it is not confirmed yet.
: we still have these competing claims as we have had over the past few about what is happening in njshir but it seems today that the liban are confident they have control of the province, nouncing it through their official esman, something they had not previously done.
we also saw videos taliban raising their flag of the taliban raising their ﬂag above the governor’ compound, the ncial capital of panjshir.
provincial capital of panjshir.
these fighters calling themselves sistance, they say they still ccupy strategic positions within shir.
it is not clear yet where heir leadership is.
they include massoud, the son of a ahmad massoud, the son of a legendary taliban fighter and a vice president and staunch pponent of the taliban.
the kesman saying he may have fled to ted duke one though that is not onfirmed as yet.
ahmad massoud has on twitter he is safe but not rovided any further details.
from aliban’ perspective, they are saying that this marks the moment have captured the entire country, the whole of afghanistan they say lso marks the end of decades of war in the country.
we will have to see if that is true, her or not there are a further ashes or not but a significant ment nonetheless.
if that is true they now on to form a and they now move on to form a government, they are going to then deal with all of the detail mnning a have to deal with all of the detail of running a government that they en’ before.
how is it haven’ done before.
how is it envisaged that is going to work with absolutely.
transforming yellow absolutely.
transforming themselves to a government will be a gger challenge.
it has been more than three weeks since the ban took over kabul and they ave yet to announce or establish a vernment.
many afghans feeling new government.
many afghans feeling they are in limbo, hoping that if are not necessarily supporters he tella man, that a new overnment ‘ announced so they have of what the future will look ike, so potentially the economy can ove, a lot people facing financial hardship at the moment.
in this press conference, the spokesman new government would be announced in a number of days.
one telling me it could come by end of this week but the nnouncement has been pushed back on ber of occasions.
he could be layed further.
we also had a tion in that press conference about the status of the taliban’ eme leader.
he has not been seen heard from in public and we have hearing there were some cerns being raised within the liban about that was.
this summer, the magic continues.
welcome to the proms.
with captivating performances and concerts unique collaborations heroic and a final breathtaking flourish.
the greatest adventure in classical music, live.
the proms season streaming now.
last night live you just open your mouth and the poison comes spilling out.
i’ scared of what you’re capable of!
not guilty.
it’ like i never left.
it’ monday, it’ 12:15, it’ a new parliamentary term.
we’re back and we’re live in westminster.
with me today — conservative vice chair andrew bowie, shadow policing minister sarahjones, former government adviser anita boateng, and tony blair’ former director of communications alastair campbell.
today : without raising our income tax, or national insurance contributions.
our guarantee.
is boris johnson about to break that election promise to pay for his social care plans?
also today supply issues and labour shortages — employers say they could last for up to two years unless the government takes more action.
so what — if anything — should the government do?
our values are still those which free people choose.
tony blair says the west should still be ready to intervene in foreign wars.
but is that era now over?
: breathe by the prodigy and extinction rebellion say their latest protests have been "incredibly successful".
have they?
so, 50, mp5 are back in westminster, we have two of them here in the studio, he first day for the new term parliament.
the domestic olitical nda is packed, so, after 18 months of focus on the pandemic in the main, does it ook, alistair and anita, as if itic is politic is returning to normal?
i don’ find anything normal about our at all, i’ afraid.
i think is normal —— don’ think it is we re still in the covid normal we are still in the covid crisis and sajid javid hasn’ done a ing in two onths he has been briefing in two months he has been here, and a speaker in parliament re worried about whether you wear chinos than if the prime ster tells the truth and i don’ hink is normal that ave this code word for get brexit done the supply chain issues, and my is we are normalising the abnormal, if that makes sense.
it does, just about.
we will talk about the issues you have raised.
anita, what about you?
do you think sues we are going to talk out today and the rest of the week indication of politics returning normal?
yes, i think it and it may shock you that i don’ with alastair, but the example one of the things we are probably to talk about today like social care is something that the rnment is grasping a big, fundamental challenge that has ued this country for decades and think that is the sign of the ernment really tackling these big in addition to dealing with ovid.
sarah, different, do hink the pandemic, which is ngoing to some extent, has changed tic for good?
andrew and i both fame came in in 2017 and there has been rmal during at whole time, no normal during that whole time, because we had a whole brexit ation and now we have had covid alastair because my point is portant, covid hasn’ gone away, reds are being hospitalised every day still in our country and to deal with that.
i think hat covid has done, apart from thing else, is expose a lot of he inequalities in the system that here before that we need to ackle, so social care, the , come, jobs, is a raft of income, jobs, there is a raft of issues that have been there and for ten years that covid has hone a light on and we need to to tackle them.
andrew?
like arah, i would like to know what mal is.
having dealt with brexit, re straight into the oval we were straight into the oval crisis that was the global pandemic aling with that and sarah is ht, there are hundreds of people being hospitalised by this irus every day so we can’ take our off the ball but it’ only right proper that the government deals some of the big picture issues are grappling with as a country i’ very glad to see that is at will dominate the agenda over next couple of weeks.
that is at we are going to look at now, issue of reform of social care, a pledge made ris ohnson in a pledge made by boris johnson in the election, or just after it.
have a look at some of the ont pages, very clear where they nd.
daily telegraph, tory party randees tax ise revolt, grandees joint tax rise revolt, about the plans