the prime minister calls for people to "socialise carefully" this christmas, due to the threat from the new omicron variant, after covid cases hit a record high yesterday.
as the virus continues to spread, business groups ask for more government help as customers cancel bookings.
and, in the ashes, england under pressure as australia start well in the second test.
british tourists are being banned from france as the country tries to slow the spread of omicron.
they will have to provide a negative covid test which is less than 2a hours old.
it comes as the prime minister and england’s chief medical officer warn people to think carefully before going to pubs and restaurants this christmas.
the warnings come as the recorded more than 78,000 new infections yesterday — the highest figure since the start of the pandemic.
many schools across the have said they are prepared to switch to online learning if they have to next term, as more children stay at home because of covid.
we’ll have more on those stories throughout the next hour and we’ll be hearing from england’s chief medical officer professor chris whitty — who will be giving evidence to in the next half an hour.
but, first, on those new measures introduced by france.
here’s hugh schofield, our paris correspondent, on what the new restrictions for travellers mean.
there are going to be much tighter restrictions from saturday, first thing saturday, midnight friday into saturday and they cover two things.
one, restrictions on who can come into france and there is a long list, which we have seen before, of what constitutes an essential travel and nonessential travel.
the other side is then that the testing is being ramped up.
you will have to have a test done within 2a hours, or less than 2a hours before you come.
that can be a lateral flow test or a test.
but you can test yourself after 48 hours and, if you are negative, you are free to move about, otherwise you will have to stay isolating for seven days.
and it looks like the french are going to be quite strict about enforcing that quarantine because, in the past, they have often said it is a sort of voluntary quarantine, implying they won’t really check up on it but it looks like they will check up on this one so in a way a mirror on what is happening in britain, if you’re going from britain to france, it is quite similar, you have to isolate for 48 hours and if you test negative, you can move so a big ramping up of the restrictions.
our paris correspondent with the latest on those restrictions.
i guess it is not a matter of icial government guidance, tainly no official restrictions is making people think, if want to your family for example, over christmas, do you alise with your friends first or it put you at risk of catching virus that is rampaging through untry, doubling every couple days.
we have already had a ord number of covid cases, he alked about one pandemic above the r, deltas still in circulation, on over and above that, so the message was pretty bleak from chris y, he aid everything he knew about micron was bad.
and if omicron with more rash.
and if omicron surges, as everyone is predicting it to do, there is likely to more pressure on the prime ister for more strictions and, vet.
that’s ight, it was a big and broad bellion and people feel not only prime minister lost some authority, but also he is reluctant in any other restrictions and risk another rebellion and her spectacle of a divided another spectada of a divided party- .
he has said he will recall iament if re restrictions are partiament if more restrictions are needed and certainly circulating in hall, there are some pretty scary projections about the number ple who could end up in of peopla who could end up in hospital early in january and chris was lking about, as whitty was talking about, as infections continue to tumble, aps the real pressure is coming ust after christmas so the question ecall can’t be entirely ruled out but ere are other weapons and government’s armoury and boris hnson ouldn’t even go there sterday, he could, for xample, do what nicola sturgeon, minister of scotland has done, issue guidance about how salt example, which is a bit stronger just advice -- guidance than just advice -- my guidance about household mixing.
andrew hayward is a professor of infectious disease epidemiology and inclusion health research at university college london.
he explained what yesterday’s record—breaking case numbers could mean for people over the next few weeks.
if you think about 75,000 positive tests yesterday, that’s probably only about half, or maybe even fewer people who do have covid ever get tested, so maybe that’s about 150,000 people or more with the infection and we know that that’s doubling approximately every two days, so, in two days’ time, it would be 150,000.
2 million, if it carries on doubling at that same rate, so you can see from that maths that this is an extraordinary number of cases on our way, because the strain is so highly transmissible and it escapes, certainly, immunity related to just the two doses, much better with three doses, so that’s going to lead to a huge wave of infection and the way i think of it is like, really, if you think about getting a year’s worth of rain over a month, then you are going to get flooding and potentially severe flooding, no matter how much you’ve shored up your defences and that’s the concern here, that that huge wave is going to cause lots of people to be off work, having to isolate, which is going to cause disruption and it’s also going to cause, it’s going to spillover into people going into hospital.
we know that covid is always going to be less severe if you’ve been immunised, but it may be that, rather than the strain itself, that’s making a lot of cases look less severe.
in a moment, we are going to be speaking to professor tim spector from king’s college london, who helped found the covid app which helps gather research on the spread of the virus as well as its symptoms, but first let’s take a quick look at the latest data from .
the covid data team estimated there are currently 87,131 new cases of covid in the .
meanwhile, in the official government data, a further 78,610 new cases were confirmed in the latest data.
currently have covid.
well, what is your view and your insight on what omicron in ticular is doing at the moment.
ll, to look at what omicron is ng, it is best to look regionally and the people reporting on the app in london and the south—east been iving us fascinating nformation and if anyone out there downloaded the app, please do so now and help us look, like we did first wave, to see what is oing on but we now know the jority of cases in london are now icron and so, by looking at the ptoms of people in london of peopla in london compared to other regions, we get an what is happening and what are seeing is not only the rates up very fast and people going up very fast and peopla getting infected generally two days a contact, rather than, after a contact, rather than, previously with delta, four or five we are seeing predominately days, we are seeing predominately cold like in people who een vaccinated or triple accinated.
so the majority of pla who are testing positive only ave cold like symptoms, so adaches, sore throats, runny nose, neezing and gue and a minority now have the old classic symptoms.
but it is a really infectious blood, we ask people to reports of big outbreaks or parties they have been too and we’ve veral of these where people attended parties of 20 or 30 people, aving lateral flow tests all having done lateral ﬂow tests before hand and three quarters of have ended up with proven icron afterwards, so it is really to control this.
so i think hat we need to have is a new way of ling with this, the time scale at it happens, we don’t have much warning, test and trace doesn’t , we knew —— do need to get the word out out symptoms, avoiding yone who has cold like symptoms, is highly likely to be omicron depending on where you live and you are and make sure the where you are and make sure the lateral flow test is really close to you are ting people, because when you are meeting people, because you may well have caught it in the erim that is what is causing ese problems.
hearing from chris whitty esterday, , the are ild but don’t be complacent because are going to be so many more ases that at will still mean lots hospitalisations.
yes, it means ews for the individual and bad news for the country and that is, in you know, it is too early to a way, you know, it is too earty to know the exact percentage of people re going to go to hospital that are going to go to hospital potentially have a long covert as , which we mustn’t forget, we on’t talk about that much —— long id, but hese are all problems of having a spread infection, it is not just like a because that all proportion will get severe lness but so far, of the reports have been getting, we haven’t any hospitalisations based on a housand of our early reporters, few thousand of our earty reporters, but we will know much more about next week.
there has been a lot talk throughout this pandemic , as it goes on, coronavirus becomes milder, we learn to live it, it becomes more like a cold.
do you this omicron is perhaps part of that pattern, part of that ess?
and i think we have seen a very slow t, because it was looking like elta was behaving a bit like this way, so we are not seeing dramatic shifts from delta
business groups in the are increasing pressure on the government to help firms suffering from the rise in covid cases — which has led to cancelled bookings.
the , which represents british businesses, urged ministers to provide support "in lockstep with future restrictions", and hospitality has called for business rates to be deferred and discounts extended.
thank you very much indeed for being with us and i suppose the fear for businesses, whether it is a ub, a restaurant, theatres, there a lockdown but people are just isn’t a lockdown but peopla are just cancelling, so almost the effect is me?
yes, there has been a huge mpact on businesses so far, from ellad bookings in restaurants oo, of course, the aviation sector, been hit by some of the really been hit by some of the restrictions on flying and, then, it an portant time for is such an important time for gymnasiums and leisure centres, when re looking for people to renew heir annual memberships and so many are working from home now, so here is a real impact on businesses moment
and i think what we are falling on the government to do now, to get some of the money they have already set aside to businesses through the risis, really get that money at the but also be clear now that, if these restrictions continue beyond ry, that hey will stand ready january, that they will stand ready to support cash flow in some of the eally cted businesses and really affected businesses and sectors.
it is not like a lockdown where all businesses are ted in exactly the same way.
what sinesses are saying is let’s use of the tools at our disposal, testing, the boosters, to keep ings as open as possible.
that is and foremost, they want to be to trade their way through the test crisis we are facing.
it must have been a real cker punch, omicron, for many sinesses, who thought perhaps they starting to see the back of the ndemic, starting to see a ecovery, starting to see their inesses return to something like ormality and, then, it has all come ing down again.
but, cheer in the christmas period but, understandably, they are just not the footfall at the moment i was speaking to a tour operator who said last summer was really difficult, ere able to start bringing in some revenue but there were still a lot of restrictions, so they ere really looking forward to this stmas period, the all—important uary oment where people look head to summer and start booking their mmer holidays and so think it eally important as well, and this builds on what tim ter was saying, we need to learn to live with this virus and we need derstand that the economy will able to reopen and businesses recover but we need to make ure that we have to support to that bridge to the other side that we give individuals the fidence that we are facing a eriod where we need to be more tious, but it is important we ave the businesses there to support we emerge from this latest us as we emerge from this latest wave and we learn to live with the being around us and use the tools from boosters and testing to make it practical for us to really make it practical for us to do that.
police said two girls and two boys died at the scene and another died in hospital later, with five others in a critical condition following the incident, which took place during an end—of—year party in devonport, in tasmania.
let’s return new to omicron and the concern caused by the rise in cases.
in response, england’s chief medical officer professor chris whitty has urged people to be cautious when socialising.
indeed, that was in response to the rising number of s, nearty 9,000 infections cases, nearly 79,000 infections confirmed yesterday, that is the est since the pandemic began, though i must say we didn’t have, lly, any testing in place during at first wave so it is unclear how cases got then.
but the message clear, ause we are facing, he was quite honest, we are going to he numbers rise and rise in the oming days and, of course, people do me into contact and test positive, they will then have to ate over the christmas period if hey test positive for no one so the sage was think about the social tacts you have an prioritise those that are important.
there is a certain degree in this, because of logic in this, because infections, re—infections and ctions after vaccination, are ikely to be milder, but i think is whitty lus my point yesterday as ven if you have a virus, the verity of which is halved, as soon get more than a doubling of es, cases, than the pressure increases.
it is a period of the year when lots of have got things that really atter to them family —wise and parts of eir life, my point other parts of their life, my point was, and i hope i can reiterate s, people to protect the time that is most important to them at does therefore mean in ractice it is sensible for people down on work or other nteractions with people, tentially social ones that are portant to them, they reduce their chances of catching covid—19 ssing it n.
she was saying that if you to a stadium it is an opportunity to have a booster.
obviously, we want to back to a tuation where we are on a more normal track, the life through the booster rogramme.
she was saying we are ning up stadiums over this ekend for booster, that there is a tive message from someone eavily embedded in the booster gramme, if that means going to a adium, that should be the iority.
work from home if you tan government guidance and remain .
“an i move to more questions bout omicron itself and what we do and what we don’t know.
so far, as i understand it, the studies show quite a lot of vaccine is given after two doses but much lass after a third dose.
“an i ask if those figures elate to antibody rioration and cell deterioration or only antibodies?
for all ese, i know you know this, i am oing out for people watching, there hree things we are interested , the ability of the vaccine to people getting infected, the lity to stop people getting evere disease and ending up in pital and the ability to stop eopla dying.
at the moment on the lab site, different looking a lot of different labs are looking at the antibody data, half of the system, that suggests immune system, that suggests antibody response is much less ctive against this variant than elta and the original wuhan strain.
that does not necessarily is likely to translate into reduced ity to reduce infection and that is what we are seeing.
the clinical are showing that lots of peopla are getting reinfected with ron who previously had been accinated or had a combination of vaccines and natural infection.
it definitely is likely to bypass some ability to reduce infection.
what we do not have is very good cell studies in the same way as they onger to do from the lab site, do not have clinical studies, her rom south africa or the or anywhere that say with confidence what the level of ection of two doses, one dose, doses and a booster dose our own pitalisation and death.
i think people think on the positive de, we also think there will be preserved immunity, particularly on the non—antibody e, cell other site, site, cell and other site, therefore it is likely that someone had one or two vaccines who has had one or two vaccines already will have some protection a booster considerably more protection against hospitalisation ath, even though the protection against infection is less .
inally, on the booster, it good.
finally, on the booster, it looks as though they restore some of ility to actually reduce the ability to actually reduce infection, probably quite a lot of ually, at least for a period time, and so there are multiple ons to get the booster.
it will educe a risk of severity, it will uce the risk of mortality and lmost certainly reduce the risk of mitting and getting sease.
we really want to push the that booster is critical to heirs.
we will reasonable data from south frica ore the , but that will be for two doses because they n’t got a booster programme in way we have yet.
in terms of the ster that would take longer cause as of two weeks ago, almost ody had a booster and now we have really good levels in the older pulation.
but we haven’t got all way down to the group which is tually being infected by omicron.
what we is eed about know is we need about 250 individuals in hospital before we a severity assessment ran make a severity assessment compared to delta.
also vaccine ctiveness assessment.
we start nning that ssessment when we art having ough cases who had start having enough rases who had been admitted to hospitals and we daily until we have enough arity to determine that the results ffective to allow us to are effective to allow us to basically make assessments to ase.
how many omicron patients do we have in hospital as of today sterday?
the points we made about ritising, interactions, matter most to you, advise to work from e, all designed to slow it down, he beginning to buy us time to through the booster.
the number ople who have already been nfected and have got immunity from ooster or from icron itself the booster or from omicron itself will mean that the group of people an infect is getting smaller it ran now infect is getting smaller and that will also slow it down and reaches a peak.
and we are seeing it south africa, is that it will credibly fast, even if people are more conscious actions, that ill help slow it down but it is to be very fast and will peak ally fast, my anticipation as it come down faster than previous aks but i can’t say that for sure, is a possibility.
the london school of medicine ropical medicine expect over he winter months 20 to 30 million ish people will be infected with omicron, ill peak at 600,000 nfections per day around the end of ary, hospitalisations between hree 7000 per day.
we obviously do not know level it is going to peak, we not yet know what the effects in of hospitalisations of two of vaccine, prior infection of the booster dose are, and re is still debate about could this be a milder version?
i am very careful, all the way through the not all the way through the pandemic i resisted reaching for ection numbers except a short ime period when it is more reliable ublic domain because i do not think they are reliable and you put enough caveats on them.
you thought we might end up ecause of the time—lag to spitalisations and deaths, we end up with a record number of ospitalisations at the daily rate ll, we don’t know, but we could that.
the general view is that starts to really struggle if have to cope with more than 000 per day, and the previous peak anuary was 00.
the peak of over possibilities.
the peak ofjust over 4500, 4583 to be exact people tted at the absolute peak, it is possible, because it is going to be oncentrated, even if it is milder, because it is concentrated short period of time we could ave a higher number of that going hospital on a single day.
if peopla stay in hospital for a shorter period use they are protected by prior accination, that means the total ber could still be lower even if he peak number per day is higher.
total number, peak total number patients was just under 40,000, 39,254 to be xact, it could be a her daily 39,251; to be exact, it could be a higher daily rate, but ill or tient rate if there is short ospitalisation.
we had the previous peak in anuary, what did then was re—controlled by locking down the and brought that number country and that brought that number down.
have you advised the ernment that we need to be doing ore now than we are currently doing to reduce the spread of omicron?
which got a clear plan of action, which is which has two strands, working ome all the things to slow from home and all the things to slow things down at the initial stage of swing and the other really ritically is the booster programme.
can add which will happen i add brisk which will happen irrespective, because of the pness of theirs, even if this up in a situation where booster olders to a large degree for a lot eople, this is not an point, lot of peopla simultaneously all ill and be unwell, isolating raring for hers across the our raring for others across the whola economy, so that side of we need to take seriously.
you have been dear ear that covid—19 will be with us or a long time, if not for r.
if i project forward, i would icipate in a number of years, ossibly 8 months, possibly less or ore, that ill have polyvalent more, that we will have polyvalant vaccines that cover a wider range will have several antivirals, ad two reasonable ones, and the ariety of other countermeasures mean that the great majority probably almost all of the heavy ing when you get a new variant unless it is extremely different, made by medical means because he the vaccines have a coverage and the antivirus recovers the slack.
we have come from a place where we had ing so everything had to be done social distancing and all the that went with that at the inning.
ido see —— the booster is essential.
is is something ich will happen in this ansition, how we are responding to variant is very different to we would have responded before ad the vaccine.
vaccines, faster clinical trials, faster new drugs than i would have predicted at the beginning of the epidemic and that i did predict at the beginning.
you foresee a situation where we will be learning to live covid—19 as we do with influenza and that is the longer plan?
at is how we have dealt ith every single major infectious ase.
historically, one of the ings medical science has been most tive act is every time it has effective act is every time it has been fazed by a major infectious at, we have found a counter easure, including ones came from the last big pandemic, was different, we have countermeasures to that.
the future long run, it is not going to away as a problem, some years it be a big will be a big problam, the way i would see this with covid—19 at the t, this is like a hairpin bend that has been put on our way.
and now we have to get back rack with the booster.
amanda hard wrote to leaders to encourage discharge from hospital by ing the need for social care avoiding the need for social rare support with personal budgets and beds.
many of the decisions we have taken health service and care in the health service and rare system had been way things we never want to do under ordinary circumstances.
to accept it is a very we have to accept it is a very difficult period and was always to be difficult and omicron has made it more difficult, and we end up with some compromises hich are not things we would mally wish to do.
you are atching the chief medical officer.
the most icult situation with omicron is how to balance the needs to allow lies and very close friends to people in care, particularly in elderty rare, to the risk of elderty rare, to reduce the risk of the infectious infection getting an ticular before people had a oster and their immune system sponding.
do you think the limited capacity and workforce will limit how many patients ran can leave hospital beds and go into mmunity and do we need to think about what measures need to be to deal with that if it is the ase because it seems to me that week, hat is the case.
you know this week there has been a debate about the introduction of measures.
one is could share the positive if you could share the positive rases and the trend is becoming more ic?
on positive test versus test reported, this is a issue.
we put atistics under regular regular asis, the mber of tests positive.
testing channel versus on—site ing versus dult social care and lateral w.
walk and esting has highest test positivity use these people are because these people are symptomatic.
adult social care has ositivity cause we are low positivity because we are testing people who are well gularty repeatedly to avoid infection is coming in.
that data is ekly basis and forms part of the traditional test and trace stics.
we report the number of est erformed on a daily basis on coronavirus one of the comments i have heard it one of the comments i have heard it is because we are now addressing dren age to age five, the chances of having a higher rate of ctions is going to go up because sample data is higher.
we release on our weekly age testing rate and also ther liberty rates by children of groups.
the only change in the advice that has come out this a daily testing if you are in contact will go down to children as five to reduce as young as five to reduce transmissions in schools.
in terms of one of the other comments i have heard is that people are erned that we are prioritising covid—19 over other things, cially ith the omicron variant.
covid-19 cancer, covid—19 over serious issues.
the is, if you ask any doctor any part of the system they will say what is threatening our this, what is threatening our ability to do cancer, all these is the fact that so much of effort, so many beds are ing to be put over to covid—19 we are having to work in a less ficient way because covid—19 is .
got any more evidence about what impact they could be that is erent from the delta variant?
what should the vernment doing to increase the ake-up and what it mistake to on the first one, i completely agree he uptake of vaccination in regnant women is depressingly low.
almost of the women in hospital where see you with this are people a who have been vaccinated.
so vaccination protects pregnant women.
but it is true that covid—19 pregnancy dangerous and pregnancy is a dangerous combination we should encourage yone who is pregnant to get accinated because that helps tect them and that in the long is in the interest of the baby their future.
ere is a strong communications to make sure that we are much ore focused in making sure we get off messages on vaccination hrough to people from every munity the , including community in the , including ethnic minority communities, and essential.
i know individual titioners as well as particular laces where there are high ncentrations of an ethnic minority ups are doing everything they can get this sage home that to get this message home that vaccination in pregnancy is really tant, that the safety of mum important, that the safety of mum and for the long—term safety and fits of baby as well.
with the read of micron, do you think regnant women should be better ported to work from home all tay-at-home financially upported they cannot work from me?
i think i will revert back to int i made earlier, that is not edical estion that i have a medical question that i have particular expertise to say, except neral point that i want the general point that i want pregnant women to be supported cally very strongly, and the important thing is vaccination.
it is time to move on from focusing on our national vaccine statistics and towards a global vaccination rates, regarding the think i very strongly believe and i am very confident that everybody, fellow panellists and the ommittee believes, that we should ximising the number of be maximising the number of vaccinations available in lower me countries.
however, it should be oticed that there are two current iants, delta which is relatively ble, and omicron which is increasing very rapidly.
and with a ing time of every two days for doubling time of every two days for omicron is estimated to be much er.
what bsolute risk to those vaccinated unvaccinated of the delta iant?
what is a of mortality those who have delta versus the vaccinated risk is reduces that risk of of delta is reduces that risk of death by 1990 95%.
so the risk varies with age and vaccine is the key to reducing .
do we know the relative omicron with regards to risk of omicron with regards to vaccinated and unvaccinated people.
or verity of mortality.
we do not for severity of mortality.
we do know that the vaccine effectiveness for omicron than it is for delta stop after two doses of five ccine, for example, at eight eks, more than eight weeks i take vaccine effectiveness is about 01: and once you’ve got boosters, hat goes up to 75% for that goes up to about 75% for omicron.
you talked at the in the very first pandemic out how the whole plan is a population reduction.
do we know hand washing reduces by, say, 10%, mask 5%?
if you ake it in isolation, you would never say randomise one group to a face mask, another group what would ay in reality is due the hole lot because they build each other.
one of the biggest problems facing us in uture is a fact that there are about 10% of the population currently cinated in the currently unvaccinated in the current first vaccine rate is about 0, 22,000 over a seven day 20,000, 22,000 over a seven day average.
and it is a combination of making sure are corrected politely ientifically addressed and and scientifically addressed and make it convenient, and i hope this ooster campaign also gives people an opportunity to come back get their cine and now is a and get their vaccine and now is a really good time to get my first vaccine.
my final question s, one thing we have agreed is to end a 15 minute wait post fighter vaccine for business.
what is a ernment oing practically from the opposition that may well make a rence to making the booster programme as successful as possible?
that applies just of the very vaccine not just of the very large vaccine centres, but also i had the vilege of working some community pharmacies makes a real pharmacies and it makes a real difference there because there is limited number of places only a limited number of places where people can sit to wait.
the first is opening extra very large booster centres.
i work with a in west london who opened a vaccine in a community centre as part a mosque, ing to places that eopla trust and seen people who are mmunity aders being part of the lanning of the vaccine programme at community but also it helps to ncrease the number of slots and the ity of people to be able to get ability of peopla to be able to get to a centre that feels relevant to .
professor whitty, i want to go into some more detail about the link case numbers and between case numbers and hospitalisations.
obviously, with ccines we are broken that link a large extent to cases and italisations, so can you take a three way you we are in terms the percentage of ospitalisations we expect from cron and how that differs from ta?
and i’m going to make ssumption which i think is safe that naturally omicron is not re dangerous than delta.
this is before vaccination.
if we compare where we were, let’s say he last big wave, not the with the last big wave, not the delta but the one before that, the ction hospitalisation rate of eopla 65 or over, for that way or to the vaccination programme as about 22%.
2296 of older peopla who got fected but end up in hospital.
two doses and a big accination programme, that drops to 6% of people who were infected ended up in hospital over lower in younger people, to 65.
the question with omicron is is it intrinsically milder?
and the question is, after you have ad two doses of a vaccine and then doses with a booster, at what centage does it reduce its severity compared to what it would een?
and if that is good as delta?
it is unlikely it will be than delta because it is less matched, but if it is as good elta, and reduction in that ity?
and that it is a key question with what is going to for the health service over the next period.
i think it is ally critical we wait for really critical that we wait for those data before we jump into saint what is going to happen, but worst that would happen would be we were back in the alpha wave artier this r.
we are with a 6% for delta, but it is sible that with a boost we are tter off with omicron than are with two vaccines with delta severe disease.
in this we a significant change in terms ospitalisation rates, with a ype of numbers we are talking about ith omicron infections, we are here with omicron infections, we are looking at some very serious ital admissions.
antibody changes, at least one of the drugs we have lost.
and on the effects of booster vaccines.
if they don’t, and so far we have not been in covid-19, i think lucky in covid-19, so i think planning on the basis they will, the out in hospital over a short period could be very high indeed.
in terms of hospital ired infections, which we know as been significant throughout the ess of this disease, what more ran we do on that front?
because it viously ven more what seems to be, even more infectious and previous ways?
this is more infectious revious ones.
and the mainstays of our oach was vaccination.
vaccination will probably reduce mission, but it is not going to transmission, but it is not going to take it right down to where it would een with booster vaccination have been with booster vaccination against delta.
i think we will do erything we the everything we ran in the health service
but i think we can’t claim get away scott free, even ith really good, rigorous proaches, there will be hospital tbreaks and other health and cial outbreaks.
we have had very significant lock s, regional ars, detailed downs, regional tears, detailad specific restrictions.
have we reached and are we in a phase in broad advice rather than tailed, because you put it should is, shouldn’t do that, restrictions on people, is that re are?
let us consider the optimistic side of this, we get through omicron ker than we might have thought the spike comes down quickly.
at would trigger the exit from the rrent of restrictions on the advice you and others are giving?
there is a longer exit, the situation where it is not an omicron fic vaccine based on what the manufacturers say and that is the strategy.
will you able intervene and stand down advice to minimise social tacts for example to advise that plan restrictions should be down before the time that they xpire at the end of ry?
erms of my own advice, if i put stringent advice to the general ub“: because of omicron, we have stringent advice before omicron ved.
this ice any chief medical officer ould have given and i do not think minister thinks i am treading on eir dose on this one, this is my
but i also consider questions out things like further measures, are very much the minister’s it is drawing the line between two, the expectations between edical officers and medical isers, they can talk as a doctor dependently and give advice as as they do not stray into the which is specifically for isters.
i started the whole pandemic with high confidence in the to see risk and make ability to see risk and make sensible political judgments and as only strengthened over time actually my experience has been the way through and what people do onstrate this in the polling emonstrates this, people take these very seriously.
we have been hearing professor chris giving evidence to mp5 since alf past ten is morning about the pread of omicron.
professor whitty said the uld surpass the peak of people admitted to hospital.
he underlined the importance of ting a booster and arned that even if the boosters a lot of people will fall do hold a lot of peopla will fall ill simultaneously.
the point we were making prioritising busy interactions, the government advice working from home, they are about working from home, they are all designed to slow this down, to his time to get this through he system.
a second point, the ber of people already infected have immunity either posting or omicron itself will an hat the group of people it can mean that the group of peopla it ran no infect is getting smaller and will also slow down until the oint at reaches its peak.
earlier in the house of mons, glen gave this commons, john glen gave this response to the situation for the itality sector in the amid a ise in coronavirus cases.
we put in a package of sures at the budget offering ditional support and just esterday the covid additional ief fund provides an additional .
but of ourse vernment recognises the course the government recognises the additional pressures that these ures and this strength the virus ngs.
is introducing tight france is introducing tight restrictions to travellers to the schofield reports from paris.
they cover two gs, restrictions on who can come into france there is a long list hich we have seen before of what stitutes nonessential travel and ential travel.
the other side as testing has ramped up, you will have to a test done within 21 hours or than 1 hours before you come.
that can be a lateral flow test or a test when you come you have test and when you come you have to self—isolate at an address you to the uthorities on this give to the authorities on this website you can test yourself after and if you are negative 48 hours and if you are negative than you’re free to move about.
it looks the french will be strict about enforcing quarantine this time.
in the past they have often said it is ntary quarantine, implying they will not check up on you but it like they will check up on looks like they will check up on this one
if you me to britain from france it is lar, you have to isolate for 48 urs, test yourself.
so they are ping up on the restrictions.
police said two girls and two boys died at the scene and another died in hospital later, with five others in a critical condition following the incident, which took place during an end—of—year party in devonport, in tasmania.
coronavirus and energy prices are on the agenda.
m: we have been hearing professor chris whitty answer questions from the ons health and social care this orning about spread of omicron and of course the government has to introduce some estrictions again.
borisjohnson denied he was imposing a lockdown by stealth.
nobody wants to get omicron and nwell and be orced to isolate but the fastest back to normality is for everybody to get boosted now.
we are saying is hat peopla ill understandably not ant to catch covid in the next few or ever.
have to understand some people ill be essed about christmas gatherings, hospitality are laining about mass complaining about mass cancellations, is this lockdown by th?
no, because what we are seeing as this is very different last year, we have is the additional protection of the ines and the ability to test so if you want to do something, you to go to an event or a party wanttogotoan eventora party then the sensible thing to do as if is a priority, the sensible hing to do is get a test to make you are being cautious but are not saying we want to cancel f.
yesterday saw the highest ever number of id tests yet we still have inimal restrictions in place, what happen for you to integrate ther restrictions?
we are doing things at once, we are mplementing plan which has some nsible trictions, it is balanced and proportionate and it the balance of risk and reﬂects the balance of risk and uncertainty that we currently have omicron but we are adding to that this incredibly fast booster out.
we have talked site and advisers and we are to our site and advisers and we are in a very difficult position as to the vaccination programme where we were last year and we are saying to people as ere is a lot of omicron around, he areful, exercise caution if you to avoid isolation and getting well over christmas.
implement but get boosted now as the astest route back to normality ause the booster does give you an xcellent level of protection and an is to offer everybody in the plan is to offer everybody in the country who is eligible booster end of the year and the speed which this is happening here in ramsgate is absolutely amazing
britain’s oldest brewery has said the hospitality ctor is a zombie economy, because current government advice, what nancial support will be offering?
kept businesses going with ore than 412 in pounds worth of port and we will continue to upport business with the covid like very loan, with business rate eductions.
best thing, we are offering a ckage, we already have measures in supporting businesses through business rate relief, through reductions, the loans i have ribed, all that is there but hat we are also saying is we want eep businesses going, keep them as we have done for a long time through the vaccination programme.
covid has obviously had an impact — but there is one place where the festive spirit can never be extinguished — the ’s tim allman explains.
visitor numbers obviously took a big hit in the last two years as the pandemic took hold, santa’s business representative says people are coming back
the headlines the country’s chief medical officer says the could surpass previous records of people admitted to hospital with covid—19.
what we shouldn’t assume is that if we got the same number going in the front door, that necessarily translates into the same numbers in hospital in an at some point in the new year.
it will be the new year before we have reliable data on the spread of the omicron variant, according to a leading health official.
as the virus continues to spread — business groups ask for more government help as customers cancel bookings.
england’s chief medical officer has warned that the previous maximum daily number of people admitted to hospital — 4,500, seen injanuary — could be exceeded.
speaking to a committee of mps, chris whitty also said that omicron could peak quite quickly, and that there is still a debate about whether omicron could could inflict a milder version of coronavirus.
france puts new restrictions on travellers, effectively banning tourists.
business leaders have called for support for struggling firms as omicron’s spread hits consumer confidence.
cases of omicron have been doubling every two to three days.
and then at a certain point the number of people who have already been infected and have got immunity, either from the boosting orfrom omicron itself will mean that the group of people it can now infect is getting smaller, and that will also slow it down, and at a certain point that reaches a peak.
most in the city expected the bank of and to wait until next year, erhaps february or march before started raising interest rates use we still don’t know how the micron variant has affected the market, the economy, and it seems like the economy at the same as we are getting inflation is lowing .
those people are rtunate and are particularly unfortunate if they took out a huge age recently to pay these very nflated house prices that kept on sing, even ough the pandemic.
rising, even through the pandemic.
if you look at their ling of hospital admissions they show that the peak from the ron wave could be approaching uble what was seen previously, the 0 figure, it also could be 4500 figure, but it also could be half that level.
we have heard ggestions that the omicron variant be causing more milder illness, there is logic in that in terms einfection saw infections stvaccination are likely to be der.
but we know cases are going up and they are going up quickly.
the vaccination, and improvement in tment means patients who are dmitted spend less time in ital.
50 the overall numbers in hospital.
so the overall numbers in hospital could be very different, ith the same level of dmissions.
if omicron turns out to infectious and there are a lot of people who are catching it, if are mild, by even if the are mild, by virtue of the fact that so many might get it, people might get it, then hospitalisations would rise, is at ing?
sate the omicron variant is causing half the rate of us illness.
but they increase rfold, you have double the number admissions, so that is a fast eading variant, even if it is lder, is still the problem.
arly, and this was appointed ofessor, is whitty made this professor, chris whitty made this morning, it is about trying to nce that harms between more restrictions and the hands of the could cause.
and he described it virus could rause.
we were accelerating away from the a variant and suddenly we were onfronted with this sharp bend.
let’s urther about the spread of omicron.
believe omicron is spreading?
we only really knew about his three weeks ago and it is ady catching up with delta in this country.
the health security agency aid it is three times more ansmissible within households than a and five times more likely to -infect ople than delta.
we know re-infect peopla than delta.
we know from three studies published a of days ago that waning couple of days ago that waning immunity means that after a second particularly in elderly dose, particularty in elderty peopla, the immunity wears off after six six months or declines very sharply.
so, as chris whitty said erday, erything we know about this virus is bad.
the remaining rtainty is, is it milder and hat would be the impact on spitalisations and deaths?
50 we eed to hospital figures need to watch hospital figures incredibly carefully over the next to ten days to see exactly hat is happening.
today: is plan and the booster campaign enough to deal with omicron?
we’ll also be asking how we can start to live with covid.
is this inflation caused by ovid, ficulties in the supply chain?
but their concern was, if there is rest rates, even by a small mount, you then hit the recovery, is already stalling.
if you look at wall street, there are some ains they’re betting on a big brains therre betting on a burst of inflation this year or next r, and then deflation if the year, and then shop deﬂation if the recovery stalls.
perhaps thought they wouldn’t do it today use of omicron.
