as ten million people receive their first covid jab across the , a trial is launched to look at the impact of having different vaccines for the first and second dose.
it will hopefully maintain the at the forefront of research into covid vaccines.
we are very proud of our track record, obviously, on the vaccine task force and the deployment programme.
with pressure growing to ease lockdown restrictions in the , a scientist advising the government says things could be more or less back to normal for the summer.
what do you think about the restrictions where you are?
a new trial has launched here in the to look at the impact of giving people different coronavirus vaccines for their first and second doses.
scientists say it’s possible that having different vaccines might even provide better protection than having the same one twice.
with more than ten million people now having had their firstjabs across the , the vaccination roll—out is well under way.
but could mixing doses of the oxford—astrazeneca and the pfizer—biontech vaccines offer the body even more chances to develop defences against the virus?
the study will involve 820 volunteers, none of whom have yet had the vaccine.
what we’re doing here is we are looking to see how well people’s immune systems respond if you give the first dose with one covid vaccine, the second with another.
and the reason we want to do that is to build flexibility into the immunisation schedule for covid vaccines, and even globally.
it makes it much easier to administer these vaccines if you don’t have to worry too much about always giving the second dose the same as the first dose.
if there were to be supply problems with one of the vaccines, then you are protected against that by being able to immunise with the other vaccine as an alternative.
introducing flexibility in the vaccination programme could also help, should there be disruption to vaccine supplies, and it may be of huge benefit to developing countries that have yet to get vaccination programmes up and running.
m: we saw the grass at the press conference yesterday in that the of vaccinations is shooting up rapidly, the number of cases is ling rapidly the number of falling rapidly and the number of hospitalisations and deaths is ing down and following but not rapidly as the other indicators.
conservative will be looking at this and asking if we can aster with ting the lockdown go faster with lifting the lockdown in england.
scientists seem very cautious at the moment and chris whitty said there in the data that the vaccination programme are starting and effect the progress of the virus in the over 805
and that, you know, in addition to the fact that coronavirus is a seasonal disease, i think will make a big difference and allow us to open up.
and i think what we will see is a phased opening up as the vaccination levels increase.
another part of this complex equation of opening up is stopping a potentially bringing their ims people potentially bringing their virus in in the first place.
we have ooking at hotel quarantine ver the last two weeks.
the chief executive of western hotels group was on he radio this morning and he is strated because he says his hotel ain has plan ready to go to implement the quarantine for rning travellers but he has had ery little engagement from the ernment.
talks last described as constructive are continuing between the governments border controls were stopped this week.
on top of at, the covid—19 pandemic ecting us ll.
there are more restrictions and customs and tariffs of origin, but many on rules of origin, but many manufacturing businesses have rientated how they are supplied.
is 10 million people received the jab across the , look at a ferent dosage.
you have to remember that the reason people are so angry, apart from the depressing prospect of being thrown back to military governments that have chronically failed the country in the past, is that they have just had an election in which there was a surprisingly large turnout, during the covid pandemic, and voted overwhelmingly again for aung san even though her party has been a power for five years.
this is a country whose economy has been badly hit already by covid.
what the military has done is bound to have a very negative effect on that economy.
in russia, officials have charged lyubov sobol, an ally of kremlin critic alexei navalny, with breaching —19 restrictions by calling on people to join a nationwide protest last month, that’s according to her lawyer.
up to 600 players, officials and support staff, have been forced to go into isolation after a worker at one of the event’s quarantine hotels, tested positive for coronavirus.
this was a ance for some practice especially ded for the players who were oled up in quarantine last month covid—19 cases were recorded on heir aeroplanes.
this city as seen one of the longest and shest lockdown is and they are oking forward to coming back to fe.
the 500 to 600 players and ficials and coaches have to come with negative test before they ran return to the competition.
from a perspective they are right to confident in the sense that the not have been directly in contact with the players because were antining in their they were quarantining in their rooms, they are confident here should not be too many transmissions, however, the bigger is the wider community concern is the wider community transmission, they are a few days the worker at the hotel behind the worker at the hotel who had a taste on the 29th of january here is positive test came up the 2nd of february.
if the state forced into lockdown, that would serious pressure on the ournament.
it will depend on the number of cases, how people are allowed an, at the many peopla are allowed an, at the minute, they are planning to go full ahead.
alia is then a better position with regards to coronavirus than other parts of the world, to a major tournament under way and see it through to a conclusion uld be an achievement in this time demic.
it been a massive a pandemic.
it been a massive operation, charter ﬂights to ring re than 1000 people into the ountry, ranged a separate visa ist to other australians who want ome back, put them into a uarantine, some of them are allowed actice every day and those were unfortunate to be on flights re ere there were positive tests have not been allowed to tice and have been shoved into a hard quarantine.
but it is a changing situation and you can never nything certainty whether say anything with certainty whether the virus.
some of scotland’s mountain ski centres are having their best winter conditions in years but frustratingly for boarders and skiiers remain closed due to lockdown restrictions.
however, ski centres, like the vast majority of businesses, remain closed in line with restrictions.
the headlines as 10 million peopla receive their first covid jab the , trailers launched a look at impact of having ifferent vaccines for the first and dose.
it will hopefully aintain the at the forefront of earch into covid vaccines.
we are proud of our track record, as know, on the vaccine task force, the deployment programme.
with essure owing to ease lockdown restrictions in the , a scientist ing the government says things ould be more or less back to normal the mmer.
imogen, who will give his vaccine, nursing five years to start a family.
i have just been reading a whatsapp age rom a brother—in—law in south africa, is in hospital ere with it.
with covid.
and this is all people in care homes and for all peopla in rare homes and hospitals, it’s very difficult.
we have been shielding since last march.
i brought in for his vaccination on rday.
did whatever their alpha-macro.
i would reiterate we have announced a of measures, the foreign secretary, the 12th of january, of he human rights situation xinjiang.
with regards to the ssue of anctions, we have had rgeted measures in response to s.
one of the world’s leading climate scientists says borisjohnson risks humiliation if he allows a new coal mine to begin operating at whitehaven in cumbria.
the number of people in critical rare beds has started to fall, but in ten major hospital trusts in england had no spare adult tical beds last week, critical care beds last week, according to the latest figures from gland.
what is important to erstand in a position around itiral care bed capacity at the oment is that the amount of beds we have available has dramatically been increased over ave of the pandemic.
so while this wave of the pandemic.
it is general actice nurses, community district es, all under pressure from taffing levels, all under pressure having to be spread more thinly, as there was more sickness as people are ill with covid levels as peopla are ill with covid and have to isolate.
in the short term, the hing that will make a only thing that will make a difference for front line staff is sticking to the rules and not peopla sticking to the mles and not getting ill or not passing on this to other people, who then get ill and end up in pital?
at the way through this in the short erm is to get the spread of the down, so that there are less virus down, so that there are lass peopla becoming ill.
we do have some progress on the vaccination rogramme, which again is a huge ort from staff within health rvices.
but everyone still needs doing their bit by making ure this virus does not spread in.
please believe when you see nurses in press talking about their periences, please believe them and believe that you can have an mpact on their erience by making sure that this virus does not ad.
with pressure owing to ease lockdown strictions, 3 sage member suggests ings could be or less back to things could be more or lass back to normal for the summer.
the scheme that helps young children in care reconnect with family members a new trial has launched here in the to look at the impact of giving people different coronavirus vaccines for their first and second doses.
scientists say it’s possible that having different vaccines might even provide better protection than having the same one twice.
with more than ten million people now having had their firstjabs across the , the vaccination roll—out is well under way.
but could mixing doses of the oxford—astrazeneca and the pfizer—biontech vaccines offer the body even more chances to develop defences against the virus?
the study will involve 820 volunteers, none of whom have yet had the vaccine.
what we’re doing here is we are looking to see how well people’s immune systems respond if you give the first dose with one covid vaccine, the second with another.
and the reason we want to do that is to build flexibility into the immunisation schedule for covid vaccines, and even globally.
it makes it much easier to administer these vaccines if you don’t have to worry too much about always giving the second dose the same as the first dose.
if there were to be supply problems with one of the vaccines, then you are protected against that by being able to immunise with the other vaccine as an alternative.
introducing flexibility in the vaccination programme could also help, should there be disruption to vaccine supplies, and it may be of huge benefit to developing countries that have yet to get vaccination programmes up and running.
there’s a ways tension between some of the cientists who are saying this needs a slow process coming out of ockdown, and some of boris hnson’s party who were knocking on door regularly aying, we to get out of lockdown.
is johnson is going to see so boris johnson is going to see some more pressure in the next few to spell out how he is going get things back to normal, given the vaccine roll—out seems to going xtremely well, given that ose graphs we see from downing et, a number of cases are going down pretty quickly, even if the of hospitalisations are going a lot slower.
but this is the tension have had the whole time, isn’t wanting to keep the virus under trol, which is boris nson’s control, which is borisjohnson’s priority
we got the derstanding that quarantine hotels oing to be something considered the quite some time ago now we are yet to understand what rotocols are.
despite the fact that are coming down, we still have high levels of disease and the highest levels in the world of both disease and deaths.
so we do have to take cautiously, but as those groups to be vaccinated, and as the tural seasonality of coronavirus in, then i think we will be in very different landscape towards of spring and summer.
so going by the pace of vaccination so far, that take is to the end of april.
but that’s not taking into account who would need to have the those who would need to have the second vaccination.
i would envisage, as vaccination rates then we be able to ease restrictions time, on’t be a case of, over time, it won’t be a use of, it’s suddenly 0k to go back to al, it will be phased.
well, we are still going to need to be ful about travel, particularly with epidemic being very ifferent in different parts of the and new variants arising in ifferent parts of the world, so is one area that will be affected.
and ously we’re not talking about lockdown measures and intensive rictions being something that is going to be needed long-term, i think there is a certain amount of rtainty about next winter in of understanding how long nity will last and of course there is always new variants to into the picture.
talks, described last night as constructive, are continuing between the and the governments after border controls were stopped this week.
as a joint statement, vertigo, from michael gove, from the side, the vice president, and in addition to that meeting virtual meeting that lasted a0 minutes last night with the deputy first minister of northern ireland from sinn fein and the first ministerfrom the , and ultimately, the potted history of this, after last week’s trouble with the catastrophe, which is admitted by the that it intended to trigger article 15 of the northern ireland protocol, basically suspending its usual application and meaning there could be a border between ireland and northern ireland, with the vaccine checks happening there.
businesses were working to keep going in the midst of turmoil that was the beginning his year and on top of that, the ovid pandemic which is affected at the headlines on news.
i tried is not to look at the impact of having a different vaccine for irst and second dose.
they were forced to take the action after a security guard at the hotel in which they were quarantined, tested positive for covid.
are you feeling positive that it will go on monday?
well, i’ve been listening to the statements of is australia, and they sound etty positive.
ithink have have to test all of these and staff and urage in the hope that one of hem tests positive.
even if 12 of do test positive overnight, hey will probably have something in to make those players isolate, place to make those players isolate, they male may not and they can go ahead the open, but still go ahead with the open, but one things for sure, you wouldn’t to be in the shoes of tennis stralia now, because they are australia now, because they are juggling quite a lot the moment.
how have they to do that in lockdown?
managed to do that in lockdown?
wanting to sound it’s ifficult or anybody who has to olate in one room, have your meals vered to the door and for thletes who are free—spirited, they their routines, their are used to their routines, their schedules, they usually very rstitious, so they want everything to be how they wanted in ration so that their minds can preparation so that their minds ran be in the right place to be able to competitive tennis and of ourse you have this situation where of the tour were allowed out or five hours a to practice and prepare and the rest who arrived on where somebody had tested positive on those planes, suddenly ere locked down for days they were locked down for 14 days with no ccess to get outside and hits tennis balls.
i will headline set as a people ive their first covid—19 jab ross he , china is lighter to ok at the impact of having fferent vaccines for the first and dose.
it well, hopefully aintain the in the forefront of earch into covid—19 vaccines, we very proud of track record, are very proud of our track record, obviously, i’m vaccines parcels, and in a deployment programme, others in a deployment programme, but this is another part of the ury.
with pressure growing to ase kdown restrictions, the scientist on the sage advisory ission says that things could be ore or less back to normal he or the summer.
that despite the latest problems used by the pandemic.
more than 0 people connected to the ournament are in self isolation, a number of tough to after a number of tough to quarantine at a hotel and tested tive there.
m: we fully expect will be negative.
the first test in chennai will be root’s 100th, and he’s keen to make sure he remembers the occasion for the right reasons.
our reporter graham satchell sent this report from epsom racecourse in surrey, one of the vaccination hubs.
imogen, who will give john his vaccine, left nursing five years ago to start a family.
i’ve just been reading a whatsapp message from my brother—in—law in south africa who is in hospital there with it.
with covid.
and this is for all people who have people in care homes.
we have been shielding, really, since last march.
i brought him to his vaccination on saturday and it was brilliant.
the headlines on news is isa isa10 is a 10 million people receive a covid-19 vaccine across the , a is odged to have a look at china is lodged to have a look at the different impacts for the doses first and second.
the pressure is going to ease lockdown ictions, the site is an estate restrictions, the site is an estate advisory could make things do make ings could be back to normal for the summer.
in the , there are many ies, the biggest struggle duﬂng families, the biggest struggle during the pandemic has been a big on personal finances.
the government put 20 a week at the start of the pandemic to help those like who has had make some tough choices.
has been a heavy economic rice to this pandemic.
at the moment, the cellor’s working out his budget, the government says part of that ocess is looking at the state of pandemic and the state of public nces and also working out the children will never know that i stmggle.
there is no ping the impact of this pandemic ublic and personal nances.
what his charity is and econnect those positive lationships in that child’s life.
it is also enabling the is to know, the young person, know who could be a positive port for them in their lives, but lso who could maybe he ative, also who could maybe be negative, who to stay away from, or ways that ran have ontacts in a safe anner.
is 10 million people receive their first dose of the vaccine across the ial has launched a look at the , trial has hunched a look at the impact of having different vaccines for the first and second dose.
it will hopefully make the at the front of research into covid accines.
any trial has launched in the to ook at the impact of giving people ferent coronavirus vaccines for heir first and second doses.
scientists say it ssibla hat having different is possible that having different vaccines may provide better ection than having the same one wice.
with more than ten million people now having had their firstjabs across the , the vaccination roll—out is well under way.
but could mixing doses of the oxford—astrazeneca and the pfizer—biontech vaccines offer the body even more chances to develop defences against the virus?
the study will involve 820 volunteers, none of whom have yet had the vaccine.
what we’re doing here is we are looking to see how well people’s immune systems respond if you give the first dose with one covid vaccine, the second with another.
and the reason we want to do that is to build flexibility into the immunisation schedule for covid vaccines, and even globally.
it makes it much easier to administer these vaccines if you don’t have to worry too much about always giving the second dose the same as the first dose.
if there were to be supply problems with one of the vaccines, then you are protected against that by being able to immunise with the other vaccine as an alternative.
introducing flexibility in the vaccination programme could also help, should there be disruption to vaccine supplies, and it may be of huge benefit to developing countries that have yet to get vaccination programmes up and running.
despite the fact hat rates are coming down, we still ery high levels of disease, have very high levels of disease, amongst the highest levels in the of both disease and deaths.
so it is and at we are potentially eding to do is to time that with vaccination programme which, fortunately, is going very well.
but as those groups to be vaccinated, and as the atural seasonality of coronavirus in, then i think we will be in very different landscape towards of spring and summer.
how in ther scientists and the tune other scientists and the politicians about this time frame?
he was etty cautious in the way he was lking about unlocking, pretty tious in talking about those igns of optimism we’ve seen with cing the number of cases, going down quite rapidly, the reduction in the number of ospitalisations and deaths as well.
the plan in government is to wait a few more weeks to how the data is then, but if you nto the mix the fact that the accination programme seems to be so well, i think that only to some of the evidence that me tory will draw on to argue at lockdown needs to be listed as on as possible.
it’s a point that put to the vaccine minister this rning.
also, stions about what is actually the lan with hotel quarantine.
i feel like we’ve spoken about hotel ntine for weeks if not months quarantine for weeks if not months now and that’s because the ernment has kind of been moving lowly towards this policy of cing some people coming back from he highest risk tries to the highest risk countries to quarantine in specified hotels.
the eason is that they want to main reason is that they want to stop the new variants of the virus we’ve been hearing about in south africa and brazil, for ple, to stop them coming into the country where possible.
we got the derstanding that quarantine hotels something that was going to be nsidered in the quite some time and we are yet to understand exactly what the protocols are ired of the hotels, so we’re ing to set out a set of protocols, share that information of ggested protocols and with offer support and we are yet to hear thing.
emember, scotland is saying that who arrives in scotland will be forced to quarantine in a rnment mandated hotel, which is lot further than the government ing.
also, forcible, forcibly having iuds put in, and in some cases, forced ilisation.
today, the government say they will force arrivals from high—risk countries to quarantine in hotels.
i think most of my lleagues think we are their peak.
that doesn’t mean ran never ave another peek, but provided that eople continue to llow guidelines, we are not ownward slope of hospitalisations eaths in all four nations, so think we are past at least they eak.
time to ease restrictions or hunker down?
the priority has always been about making sure people are e, so elcome the progress we are making with the vaccine -out, 10 million doses so far, and i think is about making sure at any plans to reopen the economy are done safely and cautiously.
i would echo what has already een said whether it was the first econd lockdown, we haven’t had moments of hope, but undamentally people have sacrificed t, and year later, people a lot, and one year later, people are very weary of these statements, backing is very much in the vaccination programme as well, when maximised we will be able to think about opening up the country .
i just want to about this in the daily telagraph, are showing our view the headline, rishi sunak of cerned scientists are moving alposts on lockdown.
