the roll—out of the oxford astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the government describes it as a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
the vaccine means everything to me.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
the already has over half a million doses of the jab, with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today, when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, it felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
coming up, we’ll be speaking to the trades union congress, who are calling for all employers to offer furlough to all parents affected by school closures.
the health secretary says the tier system is no longer strong enough to control the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in england.
in scotland, the first minister is expected to announce new covid—19 restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
the first doses of the oxford—astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine have been given to patients in the this morning, at the start of what’s being described as the "biggest vaccination programme in the history of the ".
the has over half a million doses of the vaccines ready to go, with care home residents and staff, people aged over 80, and frontline staff being first to receive it.
the health secretary says it is a "pivotal moment" in the ’s fight against the virus.
the prime minister has warned that restrictions in england are "probably about to get tougher" as concern grows about a new, fast—spreading variant of the virus.
labour said coronavirus was "clearly out of control" and it was "inevitable more schools are going to have to close" as part of a wider strategy that has "a national lockdown in place in the next 2a hours".
the first patient to be given the oxford—astrazeneca vaccine this morning at oxford university hospital was 82—year—old brian pinker.
the vaccine means everything to me.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
i was immunised, i’ve been working in the vaccine centre for a couple of weeks
so i have received my vaccine.
so there is nothing more that we want to do than to get this vaccine programme done at a scale.
england, says this is a significant moment in the way out of the pandemic.
four weeks ago i had the privilege to be in coventry for the firstjab of the pfizer vaccine.
that felt like a huge moment in this pandemic and, to be honest, today, when i saw the first jab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, it felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
and the health secretary, matt hancock, says 530,000 doses of the vaccine are ready for use this week, and that the distribution programme is being accelerated.
it is a matter of getting the vaccine, as soon as it is manufactured, and then goes through the crucial safety checks, which obviously are very important, and getting it into the and delivered into people’s arms.
in fact, we have been able to accelerate that process because we now know that you get your protection after the first dose and the second dose can wait until 12 weeks away.
and obviously that is very good news in terms of protecting people and saving people’s lives and of course getting us out of this pandemic and all the restrictions that we have to live with.
i really think it is a game changer because this vaccine doesn’t need to be transported at —70, it can be stored in a fridge, transported in a fridge, and that makes it vital not only for the but indeed globally.
because this is really the first global covid vaccine.
it is five times cheaper than the pfizer vaccine.
a huge number of people, a million so far have received the pfizer vaccine but 30 million more — 30 million — saying they could do 2 million immunisations a week butjust to give you a sense of that, even if they managed 2 million immunisations a week, that would not give everyone one dose by easter so it is a huge task.
so i don’t think we should judge this roll—out on the first few days because initially it is just going to be a few hospitals that are giving this vaccine just to check that there are no unexpected side—effects and also to do surveillance but by the end of the week, 1000 centres around the country will be giving the vaccine
chris smith works as a consultant virologist at addenbrooke’s hospital in cambridge and presents the the naked scientists podcast.
fergus touched on the differences between vaccines, the oxford strazeneca vaccine and the fighter cine terms of how they are vaccine in terms of how they are stored but can you tell us a bit bout the differences between them?
-- the pfizer vaccine.
the pfizer vaccine is a genetic vaccine and taken the genetic code from the irus which it uses when in fact one cells to make one specific part of its outer coat, the 5 protein or spite we hear about.
that cial because that part of the is crucial because that part of the virus is what it uses to grab hold infect our cells
so if you rovoke an immune response against that, you stop it in its tracks.
by wrapping up that in an oily bag is what pfizer have done and injecting it into the body, you cally get ourselves at the sight of the injection to pick up those icles, unwrap them, read the as though the coronavirus was those cells for real and make at part of the virus, thereby ucating the immune response and make white blood cells that can recognise that have virus in them and by was floating around the ream, you make antibodies blood stream, you make antibodies against it.
it is different in what they are doing is using a odified virus to get that same gene the body.
they use a chimpanzee old virus called chadox which has een oved by the removal of been removed by the removal of crucial genes it needs to run so it ’t grow in the
but it works a bit like a trojan horse and they nside that empty virus the gene or the outer coat of the ronavirus.
when injected into the body, cells at the of the injection are targeted this virus particle, they pick it and unwrap it that is in up and unwrap and all it that is in there is the coronavirus gene which hen read, they make it and they then read, they make it and educate the immune system in the way and you again get a white ood cells capable of recognising rally infected cells but also ibodies that can go round in the oodstream and soak up anything at should not be there and ially, in both cases, you get emory
so hat if you really ncounter that threat in the future, create hat immune response from the get go ery and quickly.
is very interesting because you re saying that although, as you lained, they are different but oth have this memory but how ctive are both vaccines against this new variant of coronavirus we understand or are told riginated in kent?
the changes that new ant rries, there are some 17 variant carries, there are some 17 genetic mutations or spelling errors genome of the virus, and they in the genome of the virus, and they are peppered across the genetic code virus but there was a concentration of them in the crucial that gene that codes that spike protein i was talking about.
it will change uter coat of the pie was a bit we think that probably it is a ural evolution of the virus to come more efficient at spreading ong humans —— outer coat of the us.
we also think the changes onferred those mutations are not ficient to make the spike different enough that the immune onse you make when you see the irus for real or when you receive vaccine will mean the protection immunity confers will not work more.
in other words, we don’t ink these changes are sufficient ace this new variant of the irus beyond the realms of the tection conferred by vaccination it needs be formally approved experiment which are quite easy
i know about how the mune mune system works and this virus ks, we don’t think there’s a big at the moment that the new riant will not be prevented by the ccine.
what about vaccine.
what about the new variant discovered in south a because you might be aware africa because you might be aware that a key member of the oxford ine team, sir bell, has vaccine team, sir john bell, has suggested the south african variant be more likely to evade the could be more likely to evade the vaccine so what are your thoughts on it’s very important we study hese things and it’s very early s.
so it is ortant that proper xperiments are done, vigorously and tifically come in order to test hese hypotheses to find out whether re rooted in fact or a ust a speculation.
it is certainly true viruses evolve and change that when vimses evolve and change they ran change shape and that can ble hem to sidestep the immune esponse but until we actually test formally and find out to what tent this may or may not be appening, i can’t say.
that’s despite teaching unions and some councils asking the government to keep them closed to limit the spread of the new variant of covid—19.
the are calling for all employers to offer furlough to all parents affected by school closures.
tell me more you think parents should be eligibla or the furlough scheme.
ents are eligible for the parents are eligibla for the furlough scheme and they have been april conductor retention since april conductor job retention scheme allows bosses to furlough who cannot work due to a parents who cannot work due to a lack of childcare and if your child ome because they cannot go to school, even if they are online ning, there is still a high ount of care and supervision eeded, ticularly for primary aged ildren and so we are calling all sses to proactively offer urlough to any working parents are ted by these school closures remote learning.
i think 10 million people are on the lough heme at the moment but do furlough scheme at the moment
but we know hat during the last lockdown there high number of particularly was a high number of particularty working mums who had to be loughed in order to balance work rare.
some mployers, as you don’t need me to you, are struggling to keep usinesses afloat and putting a ber of staff on furlough is not ithout costs for an employer.
we know the childcare ctor has been under huge strain this crisis but parents do have any right to any periods of eave to deal with emergencies ike a child being sick at school so as well as the changes around urlough and as well at a day one to flexible working so you can right to ﬂaxible working so you ran to better balance work and care, falling or big changes to he parental leave system.
its not just about the furlough scheme but that is a line that parents and employers an use right w.
the prime minister is under pressure to impose tougher coronavirus restrictions across the country, with coronavirus cases and hospital admissions soaring.
the labour leader, keir starmer, has called for a national lockdown starting today and this morning the health secretary, matt hancock, says the current restrictions are not working.
i do think more restrictions are coming in england and it is a question of what they look like.
we heard from health secretary matt hancock this morning, that the tier system that was brought in at the end of the lockdown in england, at the start of december, was not strong enough which is tier 4 was brought in but it seems pretty clear that more people are going to end up in that top tier of restrictions.
in some of the tier 3 areas, cases are rising sharply so clearly more action, as the prime minister said, is going to be needed.
if the vaccine roll—out is a national effort, so too is there now a national effort to keep people safe until that vaccine roll—out works.
some emphasis on individuals taking the rules 3 bit more seriously as well and the question many are asking is whether the government is prepared to go far enough and the labour party is saying at the moment that no, rather than hinting at new restrictions coming, they should just make the decision and get on with it
so we have heard keir starmer saying there should be a national lockdown starting today.
what we do think and indeed what the prime minister admitted yesterday on the marr programme was that sadly more closures are inevitable and that is because the government has not got a grip of the virus and that’s we are pressing for the national lockdown.
it seems that more restrictions are coming in some form in england and it looks like they are coming in scotland today as well.
the scottish cabinet is meeting this morning to discuss what that might look like but my understanding is we could well see the school year delayed in scotland and a much stricter stay at home message with legal enforcement more akin to what we saw back in march
hope because of all those traders in the city re watching the pictures of the l-out the oxford astrazeneca vaccine that getting under way relief that we have not seen any signs of disruption yet from visible signs of dismption yet from the new trading arrangements which in force at crossings are now in force at crossings between here and the rest of europe.
and the biggest question of of course is what is going to appen to our economy because we as we look down the barrel at erhaps further restrictions on ement and indeed school closures ell, that is the kind of ismption as well, that is the kind of disruption that weighs very heavily, this from looking at last we know this from looking at last year, on
impeachment, the russia scandal and catching covid in the middle of a pandemic.
the headlines the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the government describes it as a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
the vaccine means everything to me.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
the already has over half a million doses of the jab, with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today, when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, it felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
the health secretary says the tier system is no longer strong enough to control the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in england — in scotland the first minister is expected to announce new covid—19 restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
it’s all to stop the spread of coronavirus.
parents across the country with tough decisions to make as the number of covid cases continues to rise.
it’s scary seeing the cases rising all the time.
cases here in hertfordshire have been rising fast, and schools are shut.
and that felt really safe with the measures the school had in place.
what’s happened over the last few weeks indicates that that isn’t new the case with the new strain.
sam’s family really struggled with home schooling in the first lockdown.
meanwhile, secondary school pupils are still on an extended christmas holiday, as senior schools remain closed for an extra two weeks to allow them time to set up mass testing.
we discussed how ready they are for testing once the students go back.
the tests should arrive today so we’ve been working out where to run the testing stations and who is actually going to do it.
well, we had a bit of a chuckle about the nonporous ﬂooring that needs to be in place so we’ve got some plastic sheeting to put down in the hall, and you need at least seven members of staff to oversee the testing procedure.
elwyn boyle, your daughter is a pupil at the school, do you welcome the testing?
yes, i do, i agree testing is needed in order to make the school safe for my daughter to return so, yes, iagree.
but looking at the bigger picture, if there is no testing and students are allowed to go back to school, then come back and interact with their families, definitely i would not feel it is safe.
well, the thing is there is no such thing as social distancing in schools amongst the students.
there is social distancing between adults but not among the students.
no social distancing amongst older children seems to be a problem.
either so i have three children at home and my employer, barking and dagenham council, is very flexible in terms of childcare and letting me work from home although there are two days i was supposed to be in the office that i need cover for but as a magistrate, i have to be in court too
the headlines on news the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the government describes it as a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
the health secretary says the tier system is no longer strong enough to control the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in england.
in scotland, the first minister is expected to announce new covid—19 restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
lorries arriving after have the right customs declarations fety certificates otherwise will be turned away, plus also added complication, if they are ing to france, they need to have a gative coronavirus test.
50 r, negative coronavirus test.
first thing they need to do a they are covid ready, they go rough the border control panel, documentation, as far as we showing documentation, as far as we are concerned as long as they have a customs clearance document hey will be allowed into the port at actually happens then, all the information is transferred to ustoms agency in calais and unkirk, we can actually tell the vers they are on board drivers when they are on board whether they have got the green or an orange light and i am appy to say at the moment the vast ority of freight drivers have a een light to go.
today is described as the real test of the system but to fair, from what we’ve seen, fic is still light
so when are you expecting it to build up and then will be see the real test?
the indian manufacturer of the oxford astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine says the government is preventing it from supplying other countries.
it’s set to be the world’s biggest covid—19 vaccination programme, with 300 million people expected to be innoculated byjuly the japanese government says it’s considering declaring a state of emergency to and halt the spread of coronavirus in the tokyo region.
the roll—out of the oxford—astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the government describes it as a "pivotal moment" in the pandemic.
the vaccine means everything to me.
this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
the already has over 500,000 doses of the jab, with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today when i saw the first jab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
the health secretary says the tier system is no longer strong enough to control the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in england.
in scotland, the first minister is expected to announce new covid—19 restrictions following a sharp rise in cases.
it’s being described as the start of the ‘biggest vaccination programme in the history of the ’, as the first doses of the oxford—astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine have been given to patients this morning.
82—year—old dialysis patient, brian pinker, has become the first person to be vaccinated with the new vaccine.
the has over 500,000 doses of the vaccine ready to go, with care home residents and staff, people aged over 80, and front line staff being the first to receive it.
the health secretary says it is a "pivotal moment" in the ’s fight against the virus.
sirjohn bell, regius professor of medicine at oxford, said he was worried because the south african variant of the coronavirus is more likely to evade the vaccine than the new kent variant.
the prime minister has warned restrictions in england are "probably about to get tougher" as concern grows about a new, fast—spreading variant of the virus.
labour said coronavirus was "clearly out of control" and it was "inevitable more schools are going to have to close" as part of a wider strategy that has "a national lockdown in place in the next 2a hours".
brian pinker gave this reaction shortly after receiving the first patient to receive the oxford—astrazeneca vaccine.
the vaccine means everything to me.
this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
i was immunised, i’ve been working in the vaccine centre for a couple of weeks
so i have received my vaccine.
england says this is a significant moment in the way out of the pandemic.
four weeks ago i had the privilege to be in coventry for the firstjab of the pfizer vaccine, remember maggie keenan got that first jab.
that felt like a huge moment in this pandemic.
and to be honest, today when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
the health secretary, matt hancock says 530,000 doses of the vaccine are ready for use this week, and that the distribution programme is being accelerated.
it is a matter of getting the vaccine, as soon as it is manufactured, and then goes through the crucial safety checks, which obviously are very important, and getting it into the and delivered into people’s arms.
in fact, we have been able to accelerate that process because we now know that you get your protection after the first dose and the second dose can wait until 12 weeks away.
and obviously that is very good news in terms of protecting people and saving people’s lives and of course getting us out of this pandemic and all the restrictions that we have to live with.
this is just one of a small number of hospitals that tart using the jab from today, bout 1000 vaccination centres start using it by the end of he week.
and as you say, oxford is as a real game change in peeding up the vaccination gramme, and that’s because the ccine is much more adaptable than pfizerjab.
it doesn’t need the —cold storage meaning you can ultra-cold storage meaning you ran get it out to care homes and to ger ommunity vaccination centres sports stadium, conference ntres, village halls etc.
but pressure really, the sense of ency, is because of this fast preading variant.
and so this vaccine is seen a way of relieving some of that ssure.
if you can get it out to as many of the vulnerable as quickly as possible you can relieve of hat pressure and ease the problems caused by the pandemic.
are questions now also around hether the priority on who gets the ine first up should be changed, with some suggesting teachers should be in the first wave too.
well, the body that decides who gets ccine first, that’s the , hey advise government, they ave said that because the elderly vulnerable from this virus, they should get it first.
eachers, they are over 50, if have underlying health conditions, mongst some of the first to may be amongst some of the first to get the vaccine but at the moment ’s the priority.
the health secretary matt hancock says he is incredibly worried about the new variant of the virus identified in south africa.
sirjohn bell — regius professor of medicine at university of oxford — who sits on the government’s vaccine task force said there was a big question mark as to whether the current coronavirus vaccines would work on the new variant.
let’s talk about the variant here is spreading much faster than he previous variant.
is there any ion around whether the vaccine will work against that variant?
well rse, we don’t know yet, but of course, we don’t know yet, but everything tells us that the way the current vaccines work uld mean that they will be ective against this variant, and understand it, public health gland are looking at that in a bit detail, but looking at the equence of the variant we can get a good due to whether or not rrent very good clue as to whether or not current vaccines will work and every ation is that the current indication is that the current vaccines that pfizer, biontech and zeneca oxford vaccines will be effective against this variant in .
what about the south african variant ecause there does not seem so much certainty there?
at’s right, that’s a bit more urbing, because as people have ard all the time we are dealing this so—called spike gene which encodes protein that sticks out the surface of the virus in the is important both for the way virus infects us, but also the hat our body generates an immune response, and it is that gene that forms the basis of he vaccine.
the worry about the african variant which has ead very rapidly to become the minant strain of the virus in south is that it contains more changes, more mutations in the gene, some of which are likely affect the body’s immune response, refore there is a bit ore of a question mark over that ticular variant.
are rocketing, hospital dmissions are rising again, you said more restrictions are likely needed, what are you waiting for?
i think the crucial thing is to gnise that we have a new variant hat is requiring extra special lance and we will do everything ran to keep the virus under trol.
we can to keep the virus under control.
clearly, as say, got the virus you say, we’ve got the virus really surging.
on those further sures, this morning the health cretary said the older tier system longer strong enough, so what urther restrictions will be put in e?
i’m going to obviously ask to wait and we will be producing thing that we think is everything that we think is necessary to keep people from ading the virus.
what we have been waiting is to see impact of the tier for measures on the virus.
my message would he, look, we have a surging epidemic.
what got to ook at is the extent you’ve got to look at is the extent of the epidemic in the areas where really surging and weather, not because schools are unsafe, but you ran actually do more to ontain the epidemic by closing ools as well.
we will keep all measures under review.
that’s i would really ask to focus now as we roll out the people to focus now as we roll out the vaccine on what we can all do to ansmission and what we can all do to llow the guidance.
we will look erything else we can do to at everything else we ran do to control the virus but we will take ecessary decisions to protect b“: health.
the issue is to do with upply of the vaccine.
it is not much a manufacturing issue, that is part of it, it is also that each batch needs to be erly approved and quality ontrolled because, it is fantastic we have a vaccine, we have two accines, several vaccines coming he track, and actually i think has been amazing that it’s taken tle as a year to produce this.
be in no ubt, this is the biggest vaccine l-out the history of the roll—out in the history of the country.
what they call the rate limiting tor is not supply of vaccine, factor is now not supply of vaccine, though we want that to go faster, it ting them properly tested, getting to the .
the rate imiting factor is not the ability istribute the vaccine, it is not shortage of staff to get it into ple’s arms, it is getting it operly tested and out there.
boris johnson covering a lot of nd, ome of the key points that emerged from what he was saying, he ying that there is no question was saying that there is no question we will have to take tough measures he numbers of covid cases with the numbers of covid rases increasing as they are in this try.
but he said it does look secondary schools play more of ola in transmission of the virus primary chools, so we will have to look hard at what we do with ndary schools later in the onth.
ust a touch what was being said ough, we are a situation where we have the oxford vaccine going a roll out from today.
the ses are sing and the prime rases are rising and the prime minister is obviously talking about restrictive measures to curb spread of the virus.
i think we have got to gnise that even though we are aling with a variant, and possibly variants of the virus, they all transmit in the same way, they smit by people to people transmit by peopla to peopla contact, and therefore it’s really tant, as the prime minister was important, as the prime minister was stressing, that we restrict smission with hands, face and ace, and i think we are having to more strict and harsher estrictions, and that’s the only dampen down the infection, to protect the , and in so doing with the capacity in terms of vaccination.
and on he decision the government taken to to vaccinate as any as quickly as possible, that ision to extend the gap between he first and the second dose from weeks up to 12 weeks, some are oncerned that that could fectively leave a window for the rus to mutate further, because it not be conferring full immunity ose who have only had the first dose, what do you think of that?
i think it’s a very fficult balancing act, i have to y, but don’t think say, but i don’t think immunologically there are any ous issues in delaying the econd booster vaccine, as long as ple are getting that second ccine, and that’s what is really portant.
i think that’s right, whether hours or we don’t know at the moment, but it is clear that further rictions are coming to england the prime minister again, as he sterday, is putting england on notice that the restrictions across untry are likely to toughen up ery soon.
eadier today the health secretary matt hancock said that in that were currently tier 3 the virus was growing exponentially, as tier 4 areas.
there is huge pressure on hospitals, there are people in wards than there were at the height of the first wave april, so this is obviously a essing crisis right now for the vernment.
nounce a national lockdown now.
the ister making clear his determination to to keep schools saying that there is a open and saying that there is a difference between keeping primary condary schools open in terms of how much the virus spreads.
cause obviously at the moment chers are not in the first wave those being vaccinated.
if he re extradited and aken to an american prison come in tal isolation he would likely face, she said, "i’m satisfied that the procedures described by the will not prevent assange finding commit suicide.
the headlines the health secretary, matt hancock, has warned that the tiered system of covid restrictions in england is "no longer strong enough" to control the spread of the virusfurther been waiting to see the impact of the tier for measures editors ear at the moment stellar, but if you look at the numbers there is estion we are going to make no question we are going to make tougher measures.
the roll—out of the oxford astrazeneca jab begins in the this morning — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
this virus is terrible.
the already has over half a million doses of the jab, with millions more due in the coming weeks, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today when i saw the first jab in the building behind me, it felt like bigger moment.
snooker’s masters event — starting onjanuary the 10th — has been moved from the alexandra palace to milton keynes so that strict covid—19 regulations can be followed.
cricket now, and australia bowler nathan lyon says players just need to "suck it up and get on with it" ahead of potentially stricter quarantine measures for their fourth test against india in brisbane.
ahead of those times we had never heard of ord coronavirus most of us, the ’se100 a year go more than 1000 higher han right now.
if the present also, that is because we economists are warning us that he economy is likely to have become aller than at the start of 1096 smaller than at the start of last year, the a question about ther restrictions in the coming eks and school closures, day estions being asked about how soon recovery could get under way, it ooks like there will be more damage pair to the economy when that ecovery does come.
there could be more to be spent but we do not know those restrictions are going to asily, that is we have this ackdrop of unease still going on.
impeachment, the russia scandal and catching covid in the middle of a pandemic.
the headlines on news further restrictions are expected to control the spread of coronavirus in both england and scotland —— in england, the prime minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab has begun — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
it’s all to stop the spread of coronavirus.
parents across the country with tough decisions to make as the number of covid cases continues to rise.
it’s scary seeing the cases rising all the time.
cases here in hertfordshire have been rising fast, and schools are shut.
and that felt really safe with the measures the school had in place.
what’s happened over the last few weeks indicates that that isn’t new the case with the new strain.
sam’s family really struggled with home schooling in the first lockdown.
the headlines: further restrictions are expected to control the spread of coronavirus in both england and scotland.
what we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the tier 4 measures on the virus.
it is a bit unclear at the moment, but if you look at the numbers there is no question that we are going to have to take tougher measures and we will be announcing those in due course.
the roll—out of the oxford—astrazeneca jab has begun — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
the vaccine means everything to me.
this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
the already has over 500,000 doses of the jab, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today, when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
borisjohnson has said there is "no question" he will soon be forced to implement tighter coronavirus restrictions in england.
he’s under pressure to announce the restrictions — with the labour leader keir starmer calling for a national lockdown starting today.
this morning the health secretary matt hancock said the current restrictions are not working.
all we have go on as the prime minister’s this morning during a hospital it in north london where the doses of the oxford—astrazeneca vaccine were rting to be inistered, in starting to be administered, in which he clearly again was putting gland on that further england on notice that further restrictions are coming, and this is oris johnson to say.
what we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the tier 4 measures on the virus.
it is a bit unclear still at the moment, but if you look at the numbers there is no question that we are going to have to take tougher measures and we will be announcing those in due course.
the prime minister also said vernment was studying how effectively the tier for measures orking in terms of trying to ntain this particularly new ulent form of covid before vimlant form of covid before announcing what those new measures be.
is it considering bringing areas in tier 3 earful, effectively another national lockdown, we wait and see have raised the possibility but they have raised the possibility that this coming around the corner.
but during is remarks this morning the prime ister, i thought, sed big minister, ithought, raised a big question mark over that date because epts that certainly the he accepts that certainly the secondary schools seem to be a much iable to transmit the virus from children to other families than schools do so this is primary schools do so this is something that is clearly under nse review at the moment and at current january 18 deadline, it to me, ould certainly slip.
tehall is considering this ntensely today because the fact is ospitals are now as full as hey were back in mid april during height of the first wave and his virus is spreading ponentially.
the roll—out of the coronavirus vaccine developed by oxford university and astrazeneca has begun in the .
more than 500,000 doses are ready for use from today and the health secretary, matt hancock has called it a "pivotal moment" in the fight against the pandemic.
brian pinker, an 82—year—old dialysis patient, was the first person to receive the jab this morning at oxford’s churchill hospital.
the vaccine means everything to me.
this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
the nurse who administered the first jab, sam foster spoke to our medical editor fergus walsh shortly afterwards and explained what it was like.
i was immunised, i’ve been working in the vaccine centre for a couple of weeks
so i have received my vaccine.
england says this is a significant moment in the way out of the pandemic.
four weeks ago i had the privilege to be in coventry for the firstjab of the pfizer vaccine, remember maggie keenan got that first jab.
that felt like a huge moment in this pandemic.
and to be honest, today when i saw the firstjab in the building behind me of the astrazeneca vaccine, felt like an even bigger moment, another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
the health secretary, matt hancock says 530,000 doses of the vaccine are ready for use this week, and that the distribution programme is being accelerated.
it is a matter of getting the vaccine, as soon as it is manufactured, and then goes through the crucial safety checks, which obviously are very important, and getting it into the and delivered into people’s arms.
in fact, we have been able to accelerate that process because we now know that you get your protection after the first dose and the second dose can wait until 12 weeks away.
and obviously that is very good news in terms of protecting people and saving people’s lives and of course getting us out of this pandemic and all the restrictions that we have to live with.
so, we are told it is an even bigger moment than the roll out of the vaccine last month.
to how quickly you can get it out, the rchill hospital in xford is one of a small number of pitals starting to use it from day so that patients can be tored before.
about 1000 vaccination centres across the will start using it towards the end week.
the eason oxford vaccine is seen as such a game changer in ing to speed that up is because is much more adaptable than the zer vaccine, can be restored pfizer vaccine, it ran be restored in a regular fridge which makes it to get care homes and easier to get to rare homes and community vaccination centres like stadium, conference centres and village halls etc.
riority is protect the the priority is to protect the majority of people in care homes and rers by the carers by the end of this month.
there are logistical challenges because batch of vaccine, whether or pfizer, has to be tested for quality standards before it is certified and released for use.
but the of urgency is really being driven by this new variant of the that’s spreading across the country now, not in london and south—east, but wide.
that is tting real essure on hospitals and we have been hearing reports some are now busier than they ere at the first peak in the ring.
so to the pressure you need to accinate as many people as ran as quickly as possible and you can as quickly as possiblc and vaccines are seen as a way out of pandemic
full to the for keeping cancer credit to the for keeping cancer services open, but in the first wave was still a two thirds drop in encer appointments.
people didn’t forward to gps, or want to go hospitals with many potentially able cancer deaths.
all schools should closed, international travel pped, household mixing limited the tier system reviewed so that ighest tier really does bring infection levels, as with the lockdown.
he says the good is that unlike before these trictions will be time limited to weeks or so that it will take get the vaccine out to those most rable to covid, so there is light at the end of the tunnel.
my point is in the face of exponential h, even waiting an extra day because as many avoidable deaths, so plans must now be urgently celerated.
it may not actually be full of covid
and we are full, not just iving the ovid vaccines, but full giving the covid vaccines, but also keeping the taking a long should be for everybody else.
everybody has covid.
the hope of seeing these very elderly people, adn’t seen since march, many of them tucked up at home, not any outings, coming with their children, their grandchildren, us to give them their trusting us to give them their vaccination, that really gave me .
we heard from doris johnson earlier saying the issue rolling the vaccine as fast with rolling out the vaccine as fast as possibla is not because there ’t the ability to deliver it, but here are currently restrictions checking every batch and that lowing down the process of getting the batches to the front to then be administered.
is the infrastructure in lace to roll out ccine to the place to roll out the vaccine to the sort of scale the government is ing about, which is 2 million oses per week?
on the computer we have stratified ybody according to their covid ier, so at the push of a button we contact eople, and the further down you get tiers the easier becomes because the elderly ple not use smartphones, peopla might not use smartphones, don’t have e—mails but further down can use those communication that we ran use those communication systems.
please come and get our vaccine if you are called for t.
do you have any cerns ound extending the gap between the first and second dose?
the science hat you get your immunity says that you get your immunity levels after the first dose and it’s cond dose that extends that mmunity time period.
50 the science akes sense, inly, for the makes sense, certainly, for the astrazeneca—oxford vaccine, and also he izer one when you start for the pfizer one when you start looking at the actual data.
it makes sense to cinate as many people as possible a with the dose and then get eopla in for the second dose within 12 week window.
it is not the easiest vaccine because it has to be stored at ultralow temperatures and cannot red easily.
we have been primarily vaccinating —line health and care staff at front-line health and rare staff at the 14 mass vaccination centres set ealth boards around wales.
however, care home residents and 805 ave also had the pfizer jab over the last few weeks.
the government invested in the arch for this vaccine and has ought 100 million doses for the .
its approval will help us to up our vaccination programme more clinics closer to and more dinis closer to people’s and run more clinics closer to people’s homes.
we received the irst supply of 22,000 doses of the ord vaccine, and more will be ing.
over the next of weeks we will increase the number of mass vaccination centres more than 60 general to 22 and more than 60 general practice surgeries will offer the vaccine.
we are training a range of health care kers give vaccine and we workers to give the vaccine and we have plans to work with local macists, dentists and optometrists to provide vaccination c.
we will continue to use the zer vaccine at the mass vaccination centres across wales and working to the priority list greed by the joint ittee or agreed by the joint committee for vaccination and immunisation.
health boards oral authorities will be ting to and local authorities will be writing to everyone in wales with information about the vaccine in the coming days.
the second dose will given up to 12 weeks after the dose in line with the latest vice from not the , but from all our chief edical officers across the .
we all need to keep on aking steps to protect ourselves, amilies, each other our families, and each other for some time yet, especially while of coronavirus remain so high.
vaughan ing with the latest from wales, vaccine being rolled out, and of urse tough restrictions in place las as we wait to hear whether estrictions in england are going to anded.
primary schools in many parts of england have reopened despite teaching unions and ome councils asking the government them closed to limit the to keep them closed to limit the spread of the new variant of d—19.
the issue is not the fety of the schools, it is mportant to get this across, the is the extent to which the ngling of kids in schools by tting lots of households together ses the epidemic to spread even aster.
and keep all measures under we will keep all measures under review.
as it happens, it looks as secondary schools probably lay more of a role in the spread of epidemic than primary schools.
and that’s i would really ask to focus now, as we roll out the people to focus now, as we roll out the vaccine, on what we can all do top ansmission and what we can ran all do to ollow the guidance.
the trades union ongress is alling for all mployers to offer furlough to any all parents affected by school sures.
etention scheme allows thejob retention scheme allows bosses to furlough parents who work due to a lack of cannot work due to a lack of childcare and if your child is at because they can’t go to home because they can’t go to school, even if they are online ning, there is still a high ount of care and supervision eeded, ticularly for primary aged ildren, and so we are calling all sses to proactively offer urlough to any working parents cted by these school closures remote learning.
we know that ring the last lockdown there was a number of securely working mums had to be furloughed in order to alance work and care.
the headlines further restrictions are expected to control the spread of coronavirus in both england and scotland — in england, the prime minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
m: we have been waiting to see the impact of the tier for measures on ims.
it is unclear at the moment, but if you look at the numbers there is no question we are going to make tougher measures.
the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab has begun — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
the already has over half a million doses of the jab, and says today is even more significant than the first pfizer vaccination last month.
today when i saw the first jab in the building behind me, it felt like an even bigger moment.
another turning point in our way out of this pandemic.
that, he came to the conclusion at if he were extradited and taken an american prison, and their isolation he would likely ce, she said, i am certifies that procedures described will not julian assange from finding prevent julian assange from finding a way to commit suicide.
lorries arriving have to have the right customs arations and safety declarations and safety certificates, otherwise they will be away, plus also the added complication if they are going to ce, they need a negative coronavirus test.
when will see he real test?
impeachment, the russia scandal and catching covid in the middle of a pandemic.
it’s all to stop the spread of coronavirus.
parents across the country with tough decisions to make as the number of covid cases continues to rise.
it’s scary seeing the cases rising all the time.
cases here in hertfordshire have been rising fast, and schools are shut.
and that felt really safe with the measures the school had in place.
what’s happened over the last few weeks indicates that that isn’t new the case with the new strain.
sam’s family really struggled with home schooling in the first lockdown.
the headlines on news further restrictions are expected to control the spread of coronavirus in both england and scotland — in england, the prime minister has warned of tough weeks to come.
the rollout of the oxford astrazeneca jab has begun — the prime minister says tens of millions of doses will have been administered by the end of march.
as long as julian has to re suffering isolation as an endure suffering and isolation as an unconvicted prisoner in belmarsh n, and as long as our children ontinue to be bereft of their her’s love and affection, we not celebrate.
as the government comes under pressure to announce another national lockdown.
visiting a hospital where the first oxford—astrazeneca jabs were administered, borisjohnson says covid—19 is surging and hospitals are under huge pressure.
what we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the tier 4 measures on the virus and it’s a bit unclear still at the moment
but i think there’s, you know, if you look at the numbers, there’s no question we’re going to have to take tougher measures and we’ll be announcing those in due course.
also this lunchtime 82—year—old dialysis patient brian pinker becomes the first person to receive the new vaccine.
the vaccine means everything to me.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
parents and teachers face a "confusing picture" of primary school closures in england as unions call for a delay to children returning to classrooms.
wikileaks founderjulian assange wins his battle against extradition to the united states after a judge at the old bailey rules he’s a suicide risk.
the prime minister is warning of "tough, tough" weeks to come as the government faces pressure to announce another national lockdown amid concerns the new variant coronavirus is spreading out of control.
borisjohnson said there was "no question" about the need for tougher measures which would be announced "in due course".
it comes as infection levels are nearly four times higher now than they were at the start of december and that has put more pressure on hospitals.
in what’s being described as a "pivotal moment" in the ’s fight against coronavirus, the first doses of the oxford university and astrazeneca covid—19 vaccine have been administered.
at 7:303m this morning, all eyes were on an 82—year—old man, dialysis patient brian pinker became the first person to receive the oxford—astrazeneca vaccine.
the vaccine means everything to me.
you know, this virus is terrible, isn’t it?
sam foster administered the jab, which is seen as a crucial moment in the ’s fight against the coronavirus.
a thumbs up from one of the scientists who helped develop the vaccine.
it is a testament to the efforts of the teams both here and around the world who have been working on the vaccine.
but also, i think, especially important for all of those volunteers who came forward without really knowing whether this vaccine was going to work to actually see their involvement has brought us to this moment today.
the astrazeneca jab is cheaper and easier to store than the pfizer one so fewer resources are needed to reach the most vulnerable.
the phase one priority list is headed by those who live and work in care homes, followed by the over 805 and front line health workers, and then younger groups and the clinically vulnerable.
doctors say a fast roll—out is essential so patients will now wait 12 weeks for their second dose.
leading scientists say this delay will allow more people to be protected faster.
