you haven’t got covid?
no, i ain’t got covid.
—— the british prime minister borisjohnson has confirmed that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions in england in two weeks time, with a final decision next week.
that would mean workers returning to the office and an end to social distancing.
but it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
with the delta riant, is growing rapidly this graph shows current ospitalisations are lagging behind the second wave.
they are still on the up but at slower pace and a a much slower pace and a similar pattern can be seen in tatistics for deaths, far the statistis for deaths, far fewer than in the previous e.
all around us signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
covid has not gone but most restrictions in england are likely to disappear.
i want to stress from the outset that this pandemic is farfrom over and we must reconcile ourselves sadly to more deaths from covid.
there’s only one reason we can contemplate going ahead to step four in circumstances where we would normally be locking down further and that is because of the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
and in bristol, people are starting to contemplate life with fewer rules.
because cases are going up.
for some, the face mask has become a hated symbol of intrusive government.
the days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations to follow will soon be gone and instead the government is asking us to use a common sense and make personal decisions about how we stay safe.
it’s a big shift in approach but comes at a time when cases are rising.
the prime minister has been marking the ’s birthday, and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart of his covid strategy.
if we don’t go ahead now when the summer fire break is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages that should give us in fighting the virus, then the question what the modelling would imply is we will reach that peak before we get to the point where we have the kind of pressures that we saw in january for example this year.
to throw off all protections at the same time when the infection rate is still going up is reckless.
we need a balanced approach and need to keep key protections in place including masks, ventilation and crucially on something we’ve asked for during the pandemic, proper payment for those who need to self—isolate.
later in the week we will find out about government plans for foreign travel and when we come into a positive case what will happen.
we have lived under restrictions that we could not have imagined.
joining me now is eric feigl—ding, an epidemiologist and senior fellow at the federation of american scientists.
cases are going up and restrictions are down but the government coming down but the government specific views hospitalisations etty low.
the a variant is not your ormal variant.
the delta riant is the fastest most ntagious variant, more than ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is - times greater of hospitalisation than the old in
and also it is vaccines strain and also it is vaccines somewhat attenuating and sive so one dose is not nough
the fact is the delta variant is way more ere, way more virulent rauses evere risk and risk of spitalisation by four to five according to the studies, reviews and also according overnment data.
if you want to avoid lockdowns, ryone wants to avoid lockdown, nobody wanted kdown, if you want to avoid a lot down, the path to do that the one he chose, the is not the one he chose, the past -- departed that is more , ventilation, air cleaning, , those things we ussed by the puppies chosen the path towards mock down we don’t want that because spitalisations, workers, althcare workers, there is a it take and when toll it can take and when medical ethics dictate you always protect and revent people from suffering pitalisations and long covid, which one in 70 adults adults and one in 12 --17 adults and one in 12 children, that is not eptable 3 statistic so acceptable a statistic so saying, let’s flood the pitals right now, our ospital beds are not empty, is a complete dereliction any public health and hical measures, especially as vernment.
and as coronavirus cases rise rapidly, the prime minister unces plans to scrap most announces plans to scrap most remaining restrictions in two s“ ’ time.
gunmen in north—west nigeria have targeted a hospital, a school and a police station — in less than 2a hours.
it follows an attack on a nearby hospital, where at least eight people were abducted, including nurses and three children under the age of three.
we’ve just heard of a kidnapping that took place at a hospital on sunday in the town of zaria.
there is an economic crisis here brought on by the fall and the price of oil and lockdown during the covid—19 pandemic, unemployment has risen, the price of food is rising, and many criminals are turning to kidnapping as a way of making money, which we have seen in north—western nigeria, in particular, the mass kidnapping of students.
one is a supply chain compromise whereby hackers gain to one victim and then use that to then get a low—on access to many other ictims.
england’s covid lockdown will end in two weeks’ time despite scientists urging caution as the number of cases is still rising.
maybe the ingredients weren’t quite right when it came to other recent scoops like the mirror’s dominic cummings trip to barnard castle, or the daily mail’s investigations into covid and care homes.
and the whistle—blower was outraged at his behaviour — there’s parts of that i can’t tell you — but the hypocrisy he felt he was seeing, was that this is a man who’d been on national , stared down the barrel of the lens and said, "you must stay at home, protect lives, protect the " — and we’d had 18 months of social distancing rules that he himself was not following.
but the public interest to me was so overwhelming — not just the hypocrisy of the social distancing, but the massive question it threw up was, was he in a relationship with this woman when he hired her?
he’s only admitted to the social distancing breach.
would you have run the story involving the health secretary if there was no pandemic?
i’ve mentioned your work on covid and care homes, which was superb.
well, it provoked a very, very strong reaction, not all of it positive, but we moved forward.
i make it my conscious decision to work with people on stories a lot of the time, and, you know, it’s i have brilliant relationships with many celebrities and their agents, and i think we do a lot we’ve turned into a very positive force for good.
i mean, so many of the campaigns we’ve done during the pandemic have been massively in the public interest.
for example, we got 50,000 readers to volunteer to help staff the vaccination centres with ourjabs army campaign.
and i think the other point i wanted to make, going back to your one of your other questions, was really interesting that, six weeks before the pandemic started, i took over.
one of the things i noticed was the huge appetite from the public for information about this terrible coronavirus.
so this sort of feeds back into the questions you were asking at the beginning about the role of mass—market brands — and the pandemic has proved how vitally important we are.
i mean, i remember on the first day i arrived here, which was injuly, so ijoined, like victoria — did you join during the pandemic?
i mean, ijoined after the first big lockdown.
and i know a few bad—tempered words were expressed about our quite waspish leader we had done that day on borisjohnson and sadiq and the handling of the pandemic.
i think that’s it got the cut through, because lockdown has affected every single one of us in the way nobody has ever lived through anything like this.
obviously, during lockdown times, we haven’t been able to sell as many copies because shops have been closed.
we’ve kept on the streets the whole way through this pandemic, through successive lockdowns, and i think there was an incredibly important thing for us to do, and, as you mentioned earlier, clive, we are a thinner paper at the moment, but we can’t help a pandemic
because i was not editor when we went into lockdown.
we have taken a financial hit, but we are seeing our advertisers coming back — some of them are still being hit by the pandemic, travel, we have big advertisement from travel.
it’s great that the paper continued to get out there on the streets during the pandemic.
in england, where coronavirus cases are sharply on the rise, the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most remaining restrictions in two weeks.
the british prime minister borisjohnson has confirmed that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions in england in two weeks time, with a final decision taken next week.
that would mean workers going back to the office and an end to social distancing.
but it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
there’s been an average of more than 25,000 daily cases this week.
the government says this is manageable because hospitalisations are under control and deaths are comparitively low.
with the delta variant, it is growing rapidly but this graph shows another story, that current hospitalisations are lagging far behind the second wave.
they are still on the up but at a much slower pace and a similar pattern can be seen in the statistics for actual deaths, you can see far fewer than in the previous wave.
all around us signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
covid has not gone but most restrictions in england are likely to disappear.
i want to stress from the outset that this pandemic is far from over.
and we must reconcile ourselves sadly to more deaths from covid.
there’s only one reason we can contemplate going ahead to step four in circumstances where we would normally be locking down further and that is because of the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
and in bristol, people are starting to contemplate life with fewer rules.
because cases are going up.
for some, the face mask has become a hated symbol of intrusive government.
the days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations to follow will soon be gone and instead the government is asking us to use a common sense and make personal decisions about how we stay safe.
it’s a big shift in approach but comes at a time when cases are rising.
the prime minister has been marking the ’s birthday, and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart of his covid strategy.
if we don’t go ahead now when the summer fire break is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages that should give us in fighting the virus, the question is when would he go ahead.
what the modelling would imply is we will reach that peak before we get to the point where we have the kind of pressures that we saw in january for example this year.
to throw off all protections at the same time when the infection rate is still going up is reckless.
we need a balanced approach and need to keep key protections in place including masks, ventilation and crucially on something we’ve asked for during the pandemic, proper payment for those who need to self—isolate.
later in the week we will find out about government plans for foreign travel and when we come into a positive case what will happen.
for 16 months we’ve lived under restrictions that we could not have imagined.
i’ve been speaking to eric feigl—ding, an epidemiologist and senior fellow at the federation of american scientists.
the delta variant is not your normal variant.
the delta variant is the most contagious, fastest—transmitting variant, more than we’ve ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is 4—5 times greater risk of hospitalisation than the old strain, and also it is vaccine somewhat attenuating and evasive, so one dose is not enough and we know that with two doses, in israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905 to 64%, it is the wrong time.
the fact is the delta variant is way more severe, way more virulent, it causes severe disease and greater risk of hospitalisation by 4— to 5—fold according to the studies, peer reviews and also according to government data.
he’s framing it as, "0h, we don’t want to live under look, this is not a choice between lockdowns or reopening.
if you want to avoid lockdowns — everyone wants to avoid lockdown, nobody wanted lockdown — if you want to avoid a lockdown, the path to do that is not the one he chose, the path to do that is more masks, ventilation, air our hospital beds are not empty," that is just complete dereliction of any public health and ethical measures, especially as a government.
e” a pretty clear critique therefrom eric feigl—ding on johnson’s test boris johnson’s latest pronouncements.
in the , as coronavirus cases rise rapidly, the prime minister announces plans to scrap most remaining restrictions in two weeks’ time.
gunmen in north west nigeria have targeted a hospital, a school and a police station in less than 2a hours.
it follows an attack on a nearby hospital, where at least eight people were abducted.
we’ve just heard of a kidnapping that took place at a hospital on sunday in the town of zaria.
there is an economic crisis here brought on by the fall and the price of oil and lockdown during the covid—19 pandemic, unemployment has risen, the price of food is rising, and many criminals are turning to kidnapping as a way of making money, which we have seen in north—western nigeria, in particular, the mass kidnapping of students.
one is a supply chain compromise, whereby hackers gain access to one victim and then use that to then get a follow—on access to many, many other victims.
covid lockdown will and in two despite scientists urging aution as a number of cases still rising.
ministers are to scrap most covid rules in england, but they warn we’ll have to learn to live with the virus.
but first, most covid rules in england are to be scrapped onjuly 19th, a week next monday.
you’ll no longer be told to work from home or wear a facemask in shops and the social distancing rule will go.
despite the unlocking, sajid javid warned that covid cases were rising and would continue to rise significantly.
we can reasonably expect that by the 19th ofjuly, the number of daily cases will be far higher than today.
against this backdrop, i know that many people will be understandably cautious about easing restrictions.
of course, the pandemic is not over.
the virus is still with us.
and the risk of a dangerous new variant that evades vaccines remains real.
we know that with covid—19, the situation can change and it can change quickly.
in essence, our national response to covid—19 will change from one of rules and regulations, to one of guidance and good sense.
we will revoke all social distancing guidance, including the two metre rule.
labour wanted to know more about the strategy of learning to live with covid.
how many deaths does he consider is acceptable when we are living with covid?
how many cases of long covid—19 does he consider acceptable when we are living with covid—19 and given what we know that when the covid—19 rates are circulating that high rates of the virus can escape and evolve, what risk assessment has he done of the possibilities of a new variant emerging and will he publish it?
the secretary of state says that this carries risks and that is we need to learn to live with covid—19.
so, is he collapsing all mitigations completely when he knows that the covid—19 rates will continue to rise?
northern ireland is due to review its rules in the next few days, with the welsh government looking to announce its plans next week.
the —run scottish government hopes to end most restrictions on the 9th of august, and its record prompted some fierce exchanges at westminster.
the governments failure to lock down last september allowed the alpha variant to emerge in the southeast of england and spread across the and indeed the rest of the world.
so, if the health secretary is going tojust let it rip, variant with even greater vaccine resistance?
with over 150,000 people dead, has he returned to the false narrative that covid—19 is just like flu?
using phrases like let it rip, if anything, speaker, the only part of the where cases could be described as ripping would be in scotland where the case rate is higher than any other part of the .
in fact, i think they have seven of the ten highest hotspots in the number of cases throughout europe and the honourable lady should reflect on that.
and then she claimed that i suggested that somehow that covid—19 is like the flu.
i have never said that, they’ll be complete nonsense for anyone to suggest that covid—19 was like the flu.
if the freedom to pelt down the motorway at 100 is restricted because it poses risks to others, with millions still unvaccinated with some immune and some suppressed with the risks of long covid—19 rising, does the health secretary not apply the same logic to mask wear?
madam deputy speaker, to the honourable lady that i do understand where she’s coming from but the important thing is that we do have to learn to live with covid—19 and that does mean that these restrictions that have been necessary up until now, that we have to at some point confront them and start removing them.
and now is the best time to do that because of the defence that is being built by the vaccine.
conservative lockdown sceptics were noticeably less critical than before.
we will never again sacrifice free enterprise, freedom of association and indeed, freedom of worship in order to manage hospital admissions ever again, will we?
there were few details on what this all means for international travel, for self—isolation or for schools.
but with many pupils absent for covid—related reasons, sajid javid promised more information within days.
that update on coronavirus restrictions interrupted consideration of the mammoth police, crime, sentencing and courts bill.
the new measures in the bill target protesters for being too noisy and causing serious unease or serious annoyance.
the vague terminology creates a very low threshold for a police involved imposed conditions and essentially rules out entirely potentially peaceful protests.
a local labour councillor, teresa norton, satin the middle of the street, in the middle of scarborough, on the first weekend when many of our hard pressed tourist businesses were team to make up some of the money they’d lost during the pandemic.
and despite some of the claims opposite, this bill includes measures that will help protect women and girls but indeed go further than that and protect the whole of society from some of the most dangerous offenders.
sometimes there are emergency circumstances when permitted development orders are required, but as i said, in the majority of the cases, they are not required and planning permission is sought and given.
according to the , the main reasons for the decline is destruction of their shelters and habitats, increased levels of traffic and poorly planned roads and the use of pesticides.
i am extremely concerned to hear that the terms of this year’s review have been changed and that, contrary to what a reasonable person might expect given the well—documented decline in biodiversity across the board, this is likely to result in fewer species under protection, not more.
we shouldn’tjust halt the decline of hedgehogs and other nature.
in england, the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most remaining covid restrictions, despite a sharp rise in coronavirus cases.
the british prime minister, borisjohnson, has confirmed that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions in england in two weeks’ time, with a final decision next week.
that would mean workers returning to the office and an end to social distancing.
but it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
there’s been an average of over 25,000 daily cases over the past week.
but the government says this is manageable because the vaccine rollout has meant hospitalisations and deaths are comparatively low.
this graph shows the growth of cases in the second and the current third wave of the virus, which includes the new delta variant, with both growing rapidly.
but this graph shows that current hospitalisations are lagging far behind the second wave, although they are still rising.
and a similar pattern can been seen in the statistics for deaths.
mrjohnson has warned that covid infections across the were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day later this month.
all around us the signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
covid has not gone but most restrictions in england are likely to disappear.
i want to stress from the outset that this pandemic is far from over.
and we must reconcile ourselves sadly to more deaths from covid.
there’s only one reason we can contemplate going ahead to step four in circumstances where we would normally be locking down further and that is because of the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
and in bristol, people are starting to contemplate life with fewer rules.
because cases are going up.
for some, the face mask has become a hated symbol of intrusive government.
the days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations to follow will soon be gone and instead the government is asking us to use a common sense and make personal decisions about how we stay safe.
it’s a big shift in approach but it comes at a time when cases are rising.
the prime minister has been marking the ’s birthday, and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart of his covid strategy.
if we don’t go ahead now when the summer fire break is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages that should give us in fighting the virus, the question is when would he go ahead.
what the modelling would imply is we will reach that peak before we get to the point where we have the kind of pressures that we saw in january for example this year.
to throw off all protections at the same time when the infection rate is still going up is reckless.
we need a balanced approach, we need to keep key protections in place including masks, ventilation and crucially on something we’ve asked for during the pandemic, proper payment for those who need to self—isolate.
later in the week we will find out about government’s plans for foreign travel and when we come into a positive case what will happen.
we have lived under restrictions that we could not have imagined.
earlier i spoke to eric fiegl—ding, an epidemiologist and seniorfellow at the federation of american scientists.
the delta variant is not your normal variant.
the delta variant is the most contagious, fastest—tra nsmitting variant, much more than we’ve ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is 4—5 times greater risk of hospitalisation than the old strain, and also it is vaccine somewhat attenuating and evasive, so one dose is not enough and we know that with two doses, in israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905 to 64% — it is the wrong time.
the fact is the delta variant is way more severe, way more virulent, it causes severe disease and greater risk of hospitalisation by 4— to 5—fold according to the studies, peer reviews and also according to government data.
look, this is not a choice between lockdowns or reopening.
if you want to avoid lockdowns — everyone wants to avoid lockdown, nobody wanted lockdown — if you want to avoid a lockdown, the path to do that is not the one he chose, the path to do that is more masks, ventilation, air cleaning, ppes, things we discussed, but the path he’s chosen is the path towards lockdowns and we don’t want that because hospitalisations, you know, workers, healthcare workers, there is a toll that they can take, and when every medical ethics dictate you should always protect and prevent people suffering from hospitalisations and long covid, which 1 in 7 adults and 1 in 12 children suffer from long covid, that is not an acceptable statistic, so just saying, "let’s flood the hospitals right now, our hospital beds are not empty," that is just complete dereliction of any public health and ethical measures, especially as a government.
let’s spread the covid story further afield.
shocked by the death of their loved one from covid, these relatives took out their anger on this doctor.
a shocking case, but not by a long way india’s first during the pandemic.
in some cases, doctors have taken to the streets, complaining about the ongoing attacks that have occurred throughout the pandemic.
at the peak of the second wave of infections, angry relatives damaged property at the apollo hospital.
last month, doctors across india held demonstrations, calling for legal protection for health care staff, saying there has been a sharp increase in attacks during the pandemic.
in england — where coronavirus cases are rising rapidly — the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most of the remaining restrictions in two weeks.
one is a supply chain compromise, whereby hackers gain access to one victim and then use that to then get a follow—on access to many, many other victims.
england’s covid lockdown will end in two weeks’ time despite scientists urging caution as the number of cases is still rising.
ofjuly face masks will be voluntary and social distancing scrapped.
the end of social distancing in england’s pubs and restaurants means a return to drinking at the bar without the requirement for table service.
the hospitality industry has been hit hard by the pandemic and has welcomed the announcement, though some staff are worried about working in a crowded environment without face masks.
but in two weeks’ time, all those restrictions go.
lifting restrictions will potentially see demand soar in hospitality.
quite excited not to wear a mask in this weather!
the easing of the restrictions is great, it quadruples the numbers we can get in, in the bar and in the music venue as well and by that perspective,
so it was obviously catering for the whole of the city and yet, presenting butetown in the most positive light.
50 nicole, since lockdown, have you seen demand for this experience growing?
now, as lockdown loosens, this summer, businesses are expecting more bookings than ever.
well, as we came out of the last lockdown we have a new addition to the nature reserve, and we now have a family of beavers.
so it very nearly did die out, but it’s great that recently i think there has been a surge in interest in young people.
over lockdown they recorded and collaborated remotely, streaming their performances to thousands across social media.
would you say doing these virtual performances and recordings, has that kept you sane during lockdown?
in england the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most remaining covid restrictions — despite a sharp rise in coronavirus cases.
the british prime minister borisjohnson has confirmed that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions in england in two weeks time, with a final decision next week.
that would mean workers returning to the office and an end to social distancing.
but it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
there’s been an average of over 25,000 daily cases over the past week.
but the government says this is manageable because the vaccine rollout has meant hospitalisations and deaths are comparatively low.
this graph shows the growth of cases in the second and the current third wave of the virus — which includes the new delta varient — with both growing rapidly.
but this graph shows that current hospitalisations are lagging far behind the second wave — although they are still rising.
and a similar pattern can been seen in the statistics for deaths.
mrjohnson has warned that covid infections across the were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day later this month.
all around us the signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
covid has not gone but most restrictions in england are likely to disappear.
i want to stress from the outset that this pandemic is farfrom over.
and we must reconcile ourselves, sadly, to more deaths from covid.
there’s only one reason we can contemplate going ahead to step four in circumstances where we would normally be locking down further, and that is because of the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
and in bristol, people are starting to contemplate life with fewer rules.
because the cases are going up.
for some, the face mask has become a hated symbol of intrusive government.
the days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations to follow will soon be gone.
it’s a big shift in approach but it comes at a time when cases are rising.
the prime minister has been marking the ’s birthday, and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart of his covid strategy.
if we don’t go ahead now when the summer fire break is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages that that should give us in fighting the virus, then the question is when would we go ahead?
what the modelling would imply is that we will reach that peak before we get to the point where we have the kind of pressures that we saw injanuary, for example, of this year.
to throw off all protections at the same time, when the infection rate is still going up, is reckless.
we need a balanced approach, we need to keep key protections in place, including masks, including ventilation and, crucially, something we’ve been asking for throughout the pandemic, proper payment for those that need to self—isolate.
later in the week we will find out about government’s plans for foreign travel and what happens when we come into contact with a positive covid case.
for 16 months we have lived under restrictions we could never have imagined.
earlier i spoke to eric fiegl—ding, an epidemiologist and senior fellow at the federation of american scientists.
the only thing i can say is it’s a horrible, terrible, no—good, very bad decision, because the delta variant is not your normal variant.
the delta variant is the most contagious, fastest—tra nsmitting variant, much more than we’ve ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is about 4—5 times greater risk of hospitalisation than the old strain, and also it is vaccine somewhat attenuating and evasive, we know that one dose is not enough and we know that with two doses, in israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905 to just 64%, according to the latest data — this is the wrong time.
the fact is that the delta variant is way more severe, way more virulent, it causes severe disease and greater risk of hospitalisation by 4— to 5—fold, according to the studies peer—reviewed, and also according to government data.
look, this is not a choice between lockdowns or reopening.
if you want to avoid lockdowns — everyone wants to avoid lockdowns, nobody wanted more lockdowns — if you want to avoid lockdowns, the path to do that is actually not the one he chose, the path to do that is more masks, ventilation, aircleaning, ppes, and things we’ve discussed, but the path he’s chosen is the path towards lockdowns and we do not want that because hospitalisations — you know, workers, healthcare workers, there is a toll that they can take, and when every medical ethics dictate you should always protect and prevent people from suffering, hospitalisations and long covid — which 1 in 7 adults and 1 in 12 children sufferfrom long covid — that is not an acceptable statistic, and so just saying, "let’s flood the hospitals right now, our hospital beds are not empty," that is just complete dereliction of any public health and ethical measures, especially as a government leader.
shocked by the death of their loved one from covid, these relatives took out their anger on 5er kumar senapati, on just a second day of work, k, after graduating from medical school.
a shocking case, but not by a long way india’s first during the pandemic.
in some cases, doctors have taken to the streets, complaining about the ongoing attacks that have occurred throughout the pandemic.
at the peak of the second wave of infections, angry relatives damaged property at apollo hospital.
last month, doctors across india held demonstrations, calling for legal protection for health care staff, saying there has been a sharp increase in attacks during the pandemic.
in england — where coronavirus cases are rising rapidly — the prime minister confirms plans to scrap most of the remaining restrictions in two weeks.
one is a supply chain compromise, whereby hackers gain access to one victim and then use that to then get a follow—on access to many, many other victims.
england’s covid lockdown will end in two weeks’ time despite scientists urging caution as the number of cases is still rising.
from the 19th ofjuly, face masks will be voluntary and social distancing scrapped.
would it be fair to say, judging from your recent writing, that your creative mind is increasingly preoccupied with ageing and with thoughts of mortality?
it’s intriguing to me that you wrote this novel clearly during the early phases, perhaps, of the pandemic and the pandemic is sort of a theme that runs see thousands dying around them and they’ve already made a pact to kill themselves, even though they’re perfectly able—bodied themselves.
how has the pandemic affected you personally?
i mean, did you find writing during a pandemic a very different experience?
i mean, writers worth their salt would probably enjoy being in lockdown indefinitely.
um you mean self—isolation is your natural state, is that what you’re saying?
i mostly found the pandemic disturbing on a political level, because i think, you know, we’ve never responded to a disease by locking down all of society and telling healthy people they couldn’t leave their home and enforcing it with the police.
there was something very collective about the response to the pandemic.
the british government plans to end most of england’s covid restrictions, despite a sharp rise in cases.
russia a sharp rise in cases.
scientists around the world have been reacting to the england’s decision to lift most coronavirus restrictions in two weeks time.
prime minister borisjohnson said although cases were rising, it was now or never to make the change, and vaccines were having an impact.
if the plan is confirmed, masks will become optional and social distancing will end.
but one expert has told the , the plan doesn’t allow for the risk posted by the new delta variant.
his sire is to remove all covid estrictions across england, as infections are rising fast again.
what nvisages no more social distancing, no limits on how ran visit your home, or many ran visit your home, or how many ran pack restaurants, and and pubs, theatres, nightclubs, sports stadiums all and full.
but there is a concern 3 ave of covid is under third wave of covid is under way, with an average of more 25,000 cases each day in than 25,000 cases each day in the past week, and the number cted is doubling roughly ery nine days.
we are in the face of an easing epidemic at the moment, and therefore we need have accordingly in terms trying to limit transmission ead.
but the vaccination rogramme is blunting the ndemic.
the numbers in ospital and dying with covid relatively low.
is the reason mrjohnson believes he ahead, and he wants to ran go ahead, and he wants to remove the legal obligation to a mask as well, but the wear a mask as well, but the scientists are cautious, saying will continue to where there’s.
there was a really consensus that under all rcumstances, some degree of rther social distancing will aintained even after the restrictions are lifted in law, hat has been part of the roadmap all the way through and is widely supported by the ientific views.
here too the government is hoping to live rictions, to put an end to bubblas and isolation of whole s- ups, judging the cost is no nger worth the benefit.
from wednesday, people who’ve had both vaccine doses won’t have to quarantine.
people who aren’t fully vaccinated will still have to quarantine for at least five days.
later in the programme, about 25 minutes, we will be essing what the economic outlook is for the economy ere is a vigilant third if there is a vigilant third wave of coronavirus, what will ean restaurants and it mean if restaurants and hospitality fully opens up without social distancing?
they been in monteiro, so it’s ange they are asking for $70 lion to in bitcoin, when bitcoin is more traceable, and rticular there have been two big cases in the , one ainst the eline, one against the pipeline, one against the meatpacker, and in ipeline case that paid in the pipeline use that paid in bitcoin, , and the was able to it back in a sense, hack it back in a sense, recover a bunch of.
shocked by the death of their loved one from covid, these relatives took out their anger on 5er kumar senapati, on just his second day of work, after graduating from medical school.
a shocking case, but not by a long way india’s first during the pandemic.
in some cases, doctors have taken to the streets, complaining about the ongoing attacks that have occurred throughout the pandemic.
at the peak of the second wave of infections, angry relatives damaged property at delhi’s apollo hospital.
last month, doctors across india held demonstrations, calling for legal protection for health care staff, saying there has been a sharp increase in attacks during the pandemic.
south africa’s match against georgia on friday is in jeopardy after the springboks were forced to suspend training and place their squad into isolation because of an outbreak of coronavirus.
second row lood jager returned a positive test and on the grounds of his close contact with a number of players, the whole squad are having to quarantine.
it is the second time the springboks have been forced to take such measures during the build—up to the test series against the british and irish lions, which opens in cape town onjuly 24.
the pandemic definitely shaped movies being seen at cannes.
the year everlasting storm is an of the evertasting storm is an anthology of films from seven emed filmmakers that were under lock and with the igid stipulated rules.
things you to shoot from your home, onset cast and crew be imited to those who are with you and quarantine, think that the theme of rebirth is really embedded ughout the film.
and as restrictions are lifted and eased, what will mean for events and the that mean for events and the hospitality industry?
back to business, as boris johnson announces most restrictions will be eased in england on the 19th ofjuly we assess the impact on the economy.
as you’ve been hearing, the prime minister says that’s when most legal restrictions and guidance in england will be lifted despite the rising number of covid cases in the country.
his annoucement was met with positive reactions from industry groups representing the sectors that has been hardest hit by the pandemic.
a significant third wave could still be on the way but is it time now to think differently about covid?
it is very welcome news, for a rter of our hospitality usinesses, this is the first from which they will be able allowed to trade egally, they will have been losed 16 months with no venue, and the remainder of industry, a chance for them turn the corner, to make eir business is viable for he first time in 16 months, restrictions have meant they can’t make a profit, look forward to be able to the business on a ustainable and more secure ing, but you are right, footing, but you are right, this is just the start of the ess, it will be a long slow process, it will be a long slow road to recovery as these inesses emerge, face the new allenges of working with and iving with rus and living with the virus and customer expectations, and also out of this crisis with high levels of debt that they need to pay down, so it will need to pay down, so it will probably take our sector two years to recover.
we know we have the measures in until april of financial place until april of financial aid?
we know we have the measures in until april of tourism place until april of tourism for the sector going ward from march next year.
two—thirds of customers have come back to the itality sector since reopening in april, and ssuringly, over 80% of them tell us we believe we are tell us that we believe we are safe, and we can allow them to ialise fely.
ultimately it is right decision because the estion arises, when i’m going break out of our restrictions?
given that the between hospitalisations, severe disease and cases pears to have broken down, it doesn’t appear to be that strong link anymore, i think that the government is t, that we are going to have to get used to living with virus, and treating it as of normal life.
it is, but i think members, like other members the public, they have been autious about this pandemic, have wanted to do the right thing in terms of public measures, and when a month ago the government ided to postpone the end of strictions by a month, until 19th of uly, broadly speaking, they were supportive.
this is world news, the latest headlines: the british government confirms plans to end most of england’s covid restrictions, despite a sharp rise in cases.
as we adjust to life post pandemic many are re—assessing their work life balance.
i think it is very interesting, the —19 emic as had a profound pandemic has had a profound impact on the way we work, the that i am talking to you from my home office and reasingly people are valuing xible working more and the untries and companies where have trailed the four day rking have actually seen very positive results, improve uctivity, improved health well—being, among their taff.
now an australian craft brewery has partnered with climate scientists to turn it into oxygen.
algae or microalgae eats c02, creates algae and releases oxygen, they become dizzy and ntigang organisms that urally balance each other .
do travellers and tourists care about sustainable and responsible tourism 7 as restrictions for travel are beginning to ease in some countries the world travel market is hoping to convince consumers to think about their impact.
you haven’t got covid?
no, i ain’t got covid.
pupils in england may no longer have to isolate if a classmate tests positive for covid, under new plans to be announced later.
the prime minister says he wants to lift almost all of england’s restrictions in two weeks.
i will obviously wear a mask in crowded places where you are meeting that you don’t know.
i will do so, particularly at this point epidemic is clearly when the epidemic is dearty significant and rising.
school pupils in england could soon avoid having to self—isolate if a classmate tests positive for coronavirus.
last week, more than 275,000 children had to stay at home after coming into contact with a coronavirus case.
the changes are likely to come into effect on the 19thjuly — the same day most other restrictions in england are due to be eased.
it’s a risk the prime minister is contemplating taking, his desire to remove all covid restrictions across england just as infections are rising fast again.
we run the risk of either opening up at a very difficult time when the virus has an edge, has an advantage, and in the cold months, oragain, putting everything off to to next year.
what he envisages is no more social distancing.
no more empty offices, as the requirement to work from home would end too.
but there’s a concern 3 third wave of covid is under way, with an average of more than 25,000 cases a day in the past week, and the number infected is doubling roughly every nine days.
his own chief scientific adviser said now is the time to be controlling the virus.
we are in the face of an increasing epidemic at the moment, and therefore we need to behave accordingly in terms of trying to limit transmission spread.
but the vaccination programme is blunting the pandemic.
the numbers in hospital and dying with covid are relatively low.
and he wants to remove the legal obligation to wear a mask too, even if the scientists are cautious, saying they will continue to wear theirs.
there was a really clear consensus that under all circumstances, some degree of further social distancing will be maintained, needs to be maintained, even after the the restrictions are lifted in law.
the government is hoping to lift restrictions to put an end to bubbles and isolation of whole groups.
