the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
if you want to tell me your reaction to the budget — or any of our main stories today — you can tweet me at annita underscore mcveigh or use the hashtag your questions countries with more overweight people have had the highest death rates from covid 19, a report says, as the government looks at a reward scheme to encourage people to lose weight.
prince philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
he was being treated for an infection and moved to bartholomew’s hospital in london on monday.
duke of edinburgh yesterday underwent a successful procedure for existing art condition at a pre-existing heart condition at saint bartholomew is hospital.
his highness will remain in royal highness will remain in hospital for treatment, rest and peration for a number of days.
but the portant point that this procedure carried out yesterday, for this re-existing art condition, which imply hat perhaps it is something to do with the stent that serted ten years ago, and he will remain in hospital treatment, rest and recuperation is atement says, for a number of ays.
the duke, nicholas, he is 99, lieve this is the start of his ird week in hospital.
the statement says a number but obviously, the family hoping that he is over the worst of particular period in hospital.
16 nights so far in hospital, tially, of course, at the king ward hospital, he went in re on the 16th of february and he transferred to sin bartholomew monday of this week.
how long will he remain in hospital?
providing everything goes according to plan i expect we won’t hear anything until leaves hospital, the deal leaves hospital, potentially?
potentially, as we , the palace neither the palace or the hospital or into this what latest situation?
what level rain you think the family of strain do you think the family ties, the familial bonds are under now?
i’m by a dose source to the told by a close source to the sussexes that prince harry has been with his grandmother this week, therve been speaking about duke of edinburgh ‘s health so obviously still in contact certain members of his family absolutely, this is going to use a huge strain and huge ressure and very ill feelings, tainly, between buckingham palace the sussexes.
billed as a budget to rescue an economy ravaged by covid.
obviously, the pandemic has dealt us pretty bad damage to the public finances and the economy, and i think i and the government have a responsibility to put those back in a strong position over time but do that in a way that is supportive of economic recovery in the short—term but also do so in a way that is fair.
the furlough scheme is to be extended until the end of september, as will higher universal credit payments.
there is now a route out of lockdown.
the first chapter is the government continuing to spend billions of to support people and usinesses through what they hope is ast stage of the pandemic.
then chapter starts, the recovery of the ernment hopes which will be osted by a massive, massive tax with billions of pounds for sinesses to invest in staff.
you quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation 3 moment ago ointed out that actually, the overnment is planning to switch off ncrease in social security, actually, right at the time when we ipate the peak in unemployment, that’s not a sensible approach to .
so does the pandemic out in a way that’s better or orse than rishi sunak predicts?
the office of budget day dget responsibility says missing idea of how to handle the backlog in , operations and treatments that haven’t happened of covid, will that require lots more money to deal with?
i put it to pauljohnson of the institute for fiscal studies that the covid—19 pandemic means there’s still a lot of uncertainty about the economy you’re right, there’s a huge amount of uncertainty about the forecast in all of this.
but associated with that, and a separate point, is that the chancellor has pencilled in some really very tight spending plans into his spending review in the autumn and into this budget, which involve actually spending quite a lot less next year and in subsequent years than he was planning pre—pandemic.
the idea that we will need to be spending less on education and health and social care and local government and all those things after the pandemic than we thought we were going to beforehand just doesn’t look in the least bit likely, given that we know evenjust for the minimum things, like vaccination and test and trace and and so on, let alone catching up with the huge backlog of operations and the need to catch up children who have lost so much school, and the need to help local authorities and so on.
he didn’t really begin to address the challenge of the economic inequalities that have opened up as a result of this pandemic.
a year ago we went into lockdown, we’d been through a tmare globally, a health crisis, nomic crisis that has reverberated through the supply ns, the demand shop, the supply chop, we’ve all been affected, and ance to his credit has been the chance to his credit has been extraordinary in terms of per capita bsolute terms, £400 billion orth of support to save businesses obs and the economy.
things like are at this pandemic has xposed ealth and social care secretary far more attention secretary needs far more attention and will need more investment going rd.
prince philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
he was being treated for an infection and moved to bartholomew’s hospital in london on monday.
buckingham palace has said he had a dure on wednesday and will spend another few days in hospital and recuperation.
there some cases where again.
because the duke has hospital or 16 nights and been in hospital for 16 nights and was treated for an infection before to saint bartholomew and given he had a procedure at his age we expect him to be in hospital or quite a few days yet for nitoring, i would assume.
as you , he is 99, he has had a previous condition and he has spent a ortnight ago hospital already.
in some cases patients go home in the same day but could go home in the same day but because of his age and because he infection prior to this procedure it may be that they want end a number of more days checking him for more rest and peration and to see how he is responding.
hundreds of mourners this morning have attended a funeral for a 19—year—old protester whose face has gone viral on social media.
the says new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants, like the one from brazil, can be fast—tracked through the approval system.
the ’s regulator has issued guidance, along with authorities in australia, canada, singapore and switzerland, on what checks and measures would be necessary.
the medicines regulator has been talking about what the next could be to keep up the pressure on this virus and to fight have already got brilliant accines which are working really in the real world with lots of pla protected but it appears that ith some of these new variants the tection you get from the current accine, although it is good, it possibly be made a bit better tweaking the design of these bs.
it is uch like with the flu jab is very much like with the jab is we have every year.
you don’t need the long clinical trials in thousands tients cause you already know of patients because you already know the vaccine itself is really ctive.
so you’re just making minor changes to make it a better for the virus and that is what we have been doing with covid.
in that there seems to be an acceptance ith the vaccine programme olling out here in the and where, the are talking about ramping up the speed of delivery ines, the covax programme etting vaccines at all countries.
overnments don’t want to that governments don’t want to contemplate and none of us want to emplate going back to a position re we go back into a spiral of ockdown and reopening and there has way to keep on marching forward including tackling these whatever it takes.
getting eopla who do test positive to olate.
that is we have heard uch testing happening to and lampdown particularly on the south ican brazil variant and the african and brazil variant and the variant that has some other ges as well.
millions of doses of the coronavirus vaccine are being rolled out across africa.
first in line to receive the vaccine will be health workers and front line staff, including teachers.
that has been quite an edible feats, the covax facility includes unicef and and her major donors, is about curing large quantities come up 3 million doses of vaccine and tributing them in 92 countries ross the globe.
here in nigeria we ceived 4 million doses the day re yesterday on the 2nd of march hich is the first step and a ntastic first step in trying to nteract the pandemic here in geria and complement the already nsive measures that have taken lace to and prevent the virus around nigeria.
you mention opla like health care workers will among to get the vaccine first.
what are conditions like at ment in terms of the number of rases, transmission of the virus in ia.
how far do you think this nitial batch of vaccination will go to help tackla the virus though?
at the moment 155,000 people have racted covid in nigeria but that hides a much larger statistic of more people who have contracted many more peopla who have contracted it but haven’t been tested or shown ivity.
over 2000 peopla have died from it but again, perhaps one peopla who have died of covid aven’t been registered as covid ths.
the effects of covid in a untry like nigeria is not only the rect effect but it is the indirect fect, schools were closed, the nomy has deteriorated ubstantially.
this vaccine is the first real light that allows us to move rward.
2 million ont line workers being vaccinated, owing many other measures to ntinue for the workers to continue ine immunisation for children hich is the biggest killer in eria.
we are integrating the whole system the chain of vaccination is one by the same system, a primary care system, people register sing the istration we have used for polio.
in the meantime protective measures have to to ensure we all keep safe by keeping safer families are and our communities are safe.
supportive is the public erally about the idea of being accinated against coronavirus?
re will always be vaccine hesitancy, especially in a country igeria which has seen many different types of accidents, three.
the headlines on news the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
the chancellor, rishi sunak, has promised another £65 billion of economic support in his budget, which he says will help businesses and people through the pandemic.
during the first lockdown people are quite happy to get takeaways and things.
you ask all the time about covid and about when he is going to see his friends, when he can hug people.
while extra security measures are being put in place, the house of representatives has decided not to convene on thursday.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants, like the one from brazil, can be fast—tracked through the approval system — the ’s medical regulator says.
countries with more overweight people have had the highest death rates from covid 19, a report says as the government looks at a reward scheme to encourage people to lose weight.
prince philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
he was being treated for an infection and moved to bartholomew’s hospital in london on monday.
the palace is not saying re more about this pre—existing art ndition or the successful procedure but given that the existing heart condition that we know out her ten years ago when he a stent inserted to relieve a cked coronary artery, it is easonable to speculate that tever took place at the hospital erday was, in some way, was volving the stent.
when dealing with mebody is almost 100, they ould have been a narrowing of the ntor the artery which was causing eart condition for which he was transferred from one hospital to her, to son bartholomew is spital which is an expert hospital rdiac issues.
it has been successful and remain in hospital as the palace says for rest and recuperation for a number of days.
however, it does not eporters like us watching for omings and goings from the hospital use prince charles visited when he was in the previous hospital.
i think that’s what peopla want to know and, from this erview, i think people are looking for be a bit more specific information here on what it makes her feel that that is hat was done, and i think that’s t’s going to be the test of that erview.
yes, because, ously, that clip was chosen to peak peopla uzz interest and get hem to it at the weekend.
billed as a budget to rescue an economy ravaged by covid.
obviously, the pandemic has dealt us pretty bad damage to the public finances and the economy, and i think i and the government have a responsibility to put those back in a strong position over time but do that in a way that is supportive of economic recovery in the short—term but also do so in a way that is fair.
the furlough scheme is to be extended until the end of september, as will higher universal credit payments.
there is now a route out of lockdown.
our chief political correspondent, adam fleming, told annita mcveigh the budget was a story of three chapters the first chapter is the government continuing to spend billions of pounds to support people and businesses through what they hope is the last stage of the pandemic.
then chapter two starts, the recovery of the government hopes which will be boosted by a massive, massive tax break with billions of pounds for businesses to invest in staff.
the resolution foundation that the chancellor mentioned as a think tank that looks at people on low incomes and they are doing everything right now with their analysis which will be followed in an hour by the very famous institute for fiscal studies and it’s always the economists view of the budget the day after that tends to shape people’s reactions and in terms of reactions, the labour party is opposed to tax rises now, they think that would be bad for the recovery.
you quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation a moment ago who pointed out that actually, the government is planning to switch off its increase in social security, actually, right at the time when we anticipate the peak in unemployment, that’s not a sensible approach to take.
for me, he should made far more of recommendations of pandemic recovery is tackling four main areas of which is tackling four main areas of the infrastructure, massive stment into apprenticeship emes, inward investment and efficient setting.
free ports i think will generate a lot more ness and so very positive.
his restart grants for small businesses to be a very, very positive thing as is greenbank investment .
i think just ered the question because know, the simple fact is anything that damages nvestment, especially inward estment is going to be a negative for the .
i think there’s difficulties and ling in period is to get over brexit is the very thing that ows us to be very adventurous our economic measures and to be mpetitive within europe, more petitive than the europeans are pable of being so it gives us an lity to attract trade from their ores onto hours
if not omically, which is more of your rgument, but politically, needs to to be trying to claw back is incredible amount of public ending during the pandemic.
the headlines: the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants — like the one from brazil — can be fast—tracked through the approval system, the ’s medical regulator says.
countries with more overweight people have had the highest death rates from covid—19, a report says, as the government looks at a reward scheme to encourage people to lose weight.
england’s batsmen have struggled again on the first day of the fourth and final test against india.
the ’s medicines regulator has ruled that new covid vaccines to fight emerging variants can be fast—tracked through the approval system.
guidance from the says manufacturers would need to prove the jabs could provide protective antibodies.
on a visit to a vaccination facility in glasgow — the health secretary, matt hancock, welcomed the decision.
this is out making sure that if we all about making sure that if we need an updated vaccine to work these new variants, we can against these new variants, we ran get it approved and into people’s as soon as as safely possible.
today’s nouncement will mean that if we do an updated vaccine because of ese new variants, we will be able do it faster.
how concerned are you about he new variants as we go forward on rrent spread of coronavirus?
the current spread of coronavirus?
the number of cases is coming down number of hospitalisations and is coming down even faster cause of the vaccine.
at the same , do the scientific work in ces like the university of glasgow, working across the , to ure that we have the updated vaccine as soon as as safely ible.
scotland’s first minister insists she followed the rules, that her government was right to investigate alex salmond and that there was no plot to take him down.
this row is not over, though, there could be more claims to come, and a report on whether miss sturgeon broke the rules ministers have to follow is expected this month.
rishi sunak said the measure, worth £1,000 a year, would help those hardest hit by the pandemic.
as furlough ds, just as urlough ends, just as unemployment is expected to peak at 2 million people, that is the around 2 million peopla, that is the point at which this support of the tional £20 per week, which has been a lifeline for so many people ough this demic, is going to through this pandemic, is going to be taken away.
caroline, you have been ributing to a research project hich tracks how low income families during the pandemic.
what sort pact has he pandemic had on you?
parents are urlough, you know, i have had a amily that is on working tax dits, has had childcare stop, she on furlough, i have had another in income out of no fault of ybodrs.
it is difficult, it is a ntal mental strain on the household.
it is a mental strain on me.
it is a strain on my child because she sees pact on me on a she sees the impact on me on a day-to-day basis.
that was the right thing to hen because fame into the pandemic in bad ape, we came in on the back of a cade of deprivation, when people the west incomes were seeing eir incomes fall and that was ing driven largely by cuts to cial security, also low paid and really high housing costs.
the inimum ncome floor has been suspended oughout the pandemic, hat has brought welcome relief to many low income self—employed opla, it is oing to be reintroduced from the end of , it is not ntirely clear that port is being taken away at the of july, months sooner than her orms of upport ike other forms of support like furlough.
i have not rienced it minimum income floor experienced it minimum income ﬂoor on universal credit prior to the pandemic.
the unmanned space—x rocket blew—up after what appeared to have been a successful test flight in the united states.
it may need more testing.
now here’a story of two amazing friends who’ve managed to raise £200,000 for the hospital treating one of them for leukaemia.
10—year—olds hughie and freddie set out to raise £1,000, to buy a slushie machine for the children on hughie’s ward, and patients at the royal manchester children’s hospital have just had their first drinks delivered.
with extra unds, the boys have even aged to buy the hospital some fe-saving ipment.
while while freddie his ney to ecovery continues, it journey to recovery continues, it has been made a little easier by ndship.
some breaking news from germany regarding the use razeneca’s coronavirus of astrazeneca’s coronavirus vaccine.
germany’s vaccination hority now approved its use in peopla over he age of 65, cording to he health ministry.
they can now waiting for a vaccine.
had held off giving the germany had held off giving the astrazeneca vaccine the thumbs up ause a lack of data and they were not sure of its efficacy in over the age of 65, but they people over the age of 65, but they have now approved its use.
say they are reading more during lockdown, according to the national literacy trust, and some businesses have seen a growth in sales.
the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants — like the one from brazil — can be fast—tracked through the approval system — the ’s medical regulator says if we do need an update on these vaccines then we’ll be able to do it than when we initially faster than when we initially created the vaccines.
prince philip, who is 99, has spent 16 nights in hospital.
he was being treated for an infection and moved to bartholomew’s hospital in london on monday.
the palace is not saying any more about this pre—existing heart condition, the nature of it, or the successful procedure but given that the pre—existing heart condition that we know about ten years ago when he had a stent inserted to relieve a blocked coronary artery, it is reasonable to speculate that whatever took place at barts hospital yesterday was, in some way, was involving the stent.
when dealing with somebody who is almost 100, there could have been a narrowing of the existing stent or the artery which was causing the heart condition for which he was transferred from one hospital to another, to son bartholomew is to bartholomews hospital which is an expert hospital on cardiac issues.
it has been successful and he will remain in hospital as the palace says for rest and recuperation for a number of days.
however, it does not stop reporters like us watching for comings and goings from the hospital because prince charles visited when he was in the previous hospital.
i think that given we are told that the procedure, whatever it was, was successful and he now requires a period of rest and recuperation and given the protocols that are in place at bartholomew’s, visiting is not permitted other than in exceptional circumstances, it is an hospital, not a private hospital.
so, there are some cases where arteries begin to narrow again, so a patient may require another stent to be fitted.
billed as a budget to rescue an economy ravaged by covid.
obviously, the pandemic has dealt us pretty bad damage to the public finances and the economy, and i think i and the government have a responsibility to put those back in a strong position over time but do that in a way that is supportive of economic recovery in the short—term but also do so in a way that is fair.
the furlough scheme is to be extended until the end of september, as will higher universal credit payments.
there is now a route out of lockdown.
our chief political correspondent, adam fleming, told annita mcveigh the budget was a story of three chapters the first chapter is the government continuing to spend billions of pounds to support people and businesses through what they hope is the last stage of the pandemic.
then chapter two starts, the recovery of the government hopes which will be boosted by a massive, massive tax break with billions of pounds for businesses to invest in staff.
the resolution foundation that the chancellor mentioned as a think tank that looks at people on low incomes and they are doing a briefing right now with their analysis which will be followed in an hour by the very famous institute for fiscal studies and it’s always the economists view of the budget the day after that tends to shape people’s reactions and in terms of reactions, the labour party is opposed to tax rises now, they think that would be bad for the recovery.
you quoted a speaker from the resolution foundation a moment ago who pointed out that actually, the government is planning to switch off its increase in social security, actually, right at the time when we anticipate the peak in unemployment, that’s not a sensible approach to take.
the labour leader, keir starmer, has been visiting a hospital in derby and criticised the plans.
i’m re at the royal hospital.
they are still mggling derby hospital.
they are still struggling with coronavirus cases we not through the pandemic yet.
and of course, we are going to big of cases, people on waiting understandably who not been dealt with this last r.
but they’ve said erre therre putting money into the and building new hospital?
and a pay freeze for key workers, all the in this hospital i’ve just een talking to.
the headlines on news the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
england’s batsmen have struggled again on the first day of the fourth and final test against india.
liverpool managerjurgen klopp says he won’t automatically release players for international duty if they have to quarantine on their return to the .
liverpool’s brazilian players alisson becker, fabinho and roberto firmino and portugalforward diogojota could face 10 days in quarantine on their return to the united kingdom from —19 "red—list" countries.
the ’s medicines regulator has ruled that new covid vaccines to fight emerging variants can be fast—tracked through the approval system.
guidance from the says manufacturers would need to prove the jabs could provide protective antibodies.
this is all about making sure that if we need an updated vaccine to work against these new variants, we can get it approved and into people’s arms as soon as as safely possible.
today’s announcement will mean that if we do need an updated vaccine because of these new variants, we will be able to do it faster.
how concerned are you about the new variants as we go forward on the current spread of coronavirus?
thankfully, the number of cases is coming down and a number of hospitalisations and deaths is coming down even faster because of the vaccine.
we can see the vaccine saving lives right across the right now.
at the same time, do the scientific work in places like the university of glasgow, working across the , to make sure that we have the updated vaccine as soon as as safely possible.
the european union’s highest court has ruled that britain has systematically breached agreed air pollution limits for years, and ordered it to comply with the guidelines.
britain has left the , but it has agreed to respect court decisions in cases, such as today’s, that started before brexit.
the actually hasn’t challenged the fact it as been in breached over ssions rules in 16 different reas it argues that it has been rying to clean up as quickly as sibla
well, because these cases ted fore brexit, the court started before brexit, the court still retains jurisdiction over them will happen now is the court is saying that the , "0k, ave is saying that the , ", you have to comply now and especially you two compliant reasonably quick amount of time.
scotland’s first minister insists she followed the rules — that her government was right to investigate alex salmond, and that there was no plot to take him down.
and a report on whether sturgeon broke the rules ministers have to follow is expected this month.
the headlines: the duke of edinburgh has undergone a successful procedure for a pre—existing heart condition and will remain in hospital for a number of days.
new coronavirus vaccines to fight variants — like the one from brazil — can be fast—tracked through the approval system, the ’s medical regulator says.
she is beginning with coronavirus igures.
i will also give a quick date on the vaccination programme.
in addition, 0,058 people have also now receive second dose.
95% of 65—69 year-olds now had a first -year-olds have now had a first dose, as of 37% of 60—64 —year—olds.
the number of cases is falling, umbers in hospital are falling and ccination programme is the vaccination programme is progressing extremely well.
ext week, i will outline any further changes we can make at stage to level for restrictions.
the following week, i will provide more information about metable after the 26th of the timetabla after the 26th of april for easing restrictions.
case numbers to remain igh, and of rse the new variant remains highly infectious, so for ment, if we want to continue this progress, my advice to everyone ontinue to abide by the is to continue to abide by the stay—at—home rule.
which is eting, eading this country through and out of a pandemic.
in the meantime, i’m going to get on with of eading this country my job of leading this country through covid and out of lockdown.
and we allow me to get on with the job i believe the majority of the country to focus on now, which is to ontinue to steer this country ough a global pandemic so that we through covid, come out of ockdown get back to normality.
there is, it seems then, a nection between coronavirus and besity in of its severity and fatality.
the connections, there definitely a biological sociation, yet also we think there elationship in terms of government policies and how those rotect people against coronavirus and protect them around ty.
imilarty, ountries with low covid occurred in countries with obesity rates.
it also there is a correlation, which we think to some of the other diseases that obesity drives, cardiovascular se, cancer, diabetes, but also ome of the policy of public health ies.
the has the third—highest covid death rate in rld, the fourth obesity rate.
m: we are investing already in a health and social care sector, huge ntities, roughout the pandemic.
so about 52 billion went into the , just to cope with the pandemic.
in one of the things we have done, as we have gone the vaccination programme, celerated that, is concentrated on ial re workers and care homes.
the number of coronavirus infections in england continues to fall, say researchers, but the rate of decrease may have slowed.
and coming up on news liverpool managerjurgen klopp says he won’t automatically release players for international duty if they have to quarantine on their return to the .
the duke, who is 99, is expected to stay in hospital for a number of days.
it was on monday of this week that the duke was transferred from the king edward hospital, where he had spent 13 nights to bartholomew’s hospital, one of britain’s premier centres for cardiac care.
according to buckingham palace it’s thought the pre—existing heart condition may refer to the episode ten years ago, when he was admitted by helicopter to papworth hospital.
the queen and other members of the family visited him in hospital, a sign that this had been a moment of real anxiety.
