government advisers recommend the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy 40— to 49—year—olds, and 16— and17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
when you are called for your booster dose in the next phase you can come ward nfident that the benefits in preventing serious covid—19 utweigh any sks.
joanne anderson said the man who’s been named locally as david perry, had managed to divert what, she said, could have been an absolutely awful disaster at the liverpool women’s hospital.
the police say they are working at speed to establish the circumstances of this, the car explosion just outside the liverpool women’s hospital in central liverpool.
unfortunately, i can confirm that one person has died and another has been taken to hospital, where he is being treated for his injuries, which, thankfully, are not life—threatening.
so far we understand that the car involved was a taxi, which pulled up at the hospital shortly before the explosion occurred.
the hospital is one of three cations in liverpool where this vestigation is centred, the other, mes’s eport mentioned, to the as james’s report mentioned, to the north of the city where three men arrested and another about a south of here were a house is ing searched and a number of homes evacuated, some families had to into emergency accommodation vided by liverpool council.
the government’s vaccine advisors say all over 405 should be offered a booster of a covid vaccine.
thejoint committee on vaccination and immunisation says a third jab would top up protection and help limit the spread of the virus overwinter.
they’ve also advised that 16— and17—year—olds, who were initially offered only a single dose, should now get chair of thejcvi, professor wei shen lim, announced the two updates to the booster programme.
the first update relates to the booster programme.
just as a reminder, the current advice in the programme is that persons aged over 50 years, those adults in ical at risk group, front line and social care workers and dose contacts of persons who are munosuppressed should have a oster vaccine six months following pletion of their primary course, entially, have a third vaccine six months after the second se.
we are advising today that booster programme is extended to persons aged 40-49 years as well.
as previously, the booster dose is sed six months after the second se, and either the pfizer biontech ine or the moderna vaccine can used as the booster dose, gardless of the type of vaccine ived for the first two doses in primary course.
you may remember in earty august we advised a irst that in early august we advised a first dose of the pfizer biontech ine for 16 and 17—year—olds who not have underlying health ndition that puts them at higher from severe covid—19.
m: we said at the time and would review the data and that a second dose may be advise command that is indeed the case.
we have reviewed ecent information regarding the fety and benefits of a second se, and we are advising that 16 17—year—olds who have had a dose the pfizer biontech accine be offered a second dose of pfizer biontech vaccine.
as a minder, the first vaccine dose a high level of protection gainst serious disease, and that level of protection we know for at least 12—16 weeks.
the cond dose, netheless, reinforces protection from the first dose it is important in extending the tion of protection, not for duration of protection, not just for the winter months and christmas, but also looking into 2022 and we are also looking into 2022 and beyond.
the booster programme being extended now to over 405.
what more do we this orning about the impact of the booster programme?
while vaccine obviously provide xcellent protection, we have seen the data the level of that in the data the level of hospitalisations from covid this this stage of the year year at this stage of the year compared to last year is much lower.
power ran wane, that’s ese their power can wane, that’s these booster programme has been in, initially for those over 0.
young adults with health onditions and front line health workers and so far more than 12 llion peopla in hat group have ad had that booster vaccine.
so the hope is by extending this booster programme it to provide even more is going to provide even more protection this winter.
yes, decision for the first dose was over the summer.
the idea being they wanted to protect a 16 and 17-year-olds covid, and also educe isruption in schools, preventing smission amongst age - preventing transmission amongst age groups, teachers, and then hopefully nting transmission within preventing transmission within society in general, but also enting disruption in schools because that was having such a great on young people, including impact on young peopla, including mental health and their education.
so there has been a bit of sensitivity around that, wanting more data, because we have alked about a lot, joanna, there is balancing between when you that balancing act between when you are looking at the younger age of they are less likely to get covid, y, they are less get covid, sorry, they are lass likely to become seriously ill from , it is likely they will have very mild symptoms, or not have toms at all, so you are at all, so you are balancing that up.
the now say they have een closely monitoring heart lammation and they are confident hey have not any increased they have not noticed any increased risk, so the , the panel, the committee on vaccine and joint committee on vaccine and immunisation says they are now sing for that second dose to be given to that age group with a 12 gap.
let’s get more on this from linda bauld, professor of public health at the university of edinburgh.
as you go down the age ranges, ido between devolved nations, you can see hose of our 505, not all of those of us in our 505, not all of us have had our second dose, fewer in their 405 and 305, i’m particularly concerned about 18-29 ar—old age group we the 18-29 wear-old age group we kind of stalled at the 70, 70 5% ptake, so to make our uptake, so we need to make our efforts there and communicate to that for the second dose and robably boosters, this is an evergreen offer.
the pfizer trial ndomised people to boosters wing were over 90% showing they were over 90% effective, even when the mean gap een the second dose and
the between the second dose and the booster was a far longer duration what we are recommending and ere is also compelling evidence israel with tens of thousands individuals receiving a booster at the risks of hospitalisation mortality are significantly less eople have that and we are when peopla have that
jonathan van—them said if he ooster programme is successful ill take away concerns for covid round christmas and for the of winter.
what do you think is going on with what has been happening with terms of the immunisation, not taking up even the second dose, have is that?
you would have thought of summary takes up the dose they would automatically have the second and go on.
may be some understanding of the protection is provided by first dose, ich is definitely partial, and opla just not having a chance to it.
we need intain droppings for those - to maintain droppings for those groups, not having people relying on pointments, and we need to just on appointments, and we need to continue to emphasise, back to young e, for our students, when we peopla, for our students, when we come back, even in the next centre, to have those vaccination nis clinics and links to the on us to eally pick up everybody campus to really pick up everybody who has not had the second dose.
because if unity starts to wane after six nths, that happens to everybody, viously, and the decision was to give all over eighteens and 16 and 17—year—olds another dose ay.
looking ahead we have questions about when need to receive a covid—19 accine in longer term, and here are still many scientific stions about that.
people going to cinemas, theatres and concert halls in wales will be required to show a covid pass from today.
covid case rates in wales are falling, but remain relatively high.
government advisers have recommended the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy 40— to a9—year—olds and 16— and17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
austria has introduced a partial lockdown for the two million people there who haven’t had two doses of a coronavirus vaccine.
they’ve been told to stay at home except for work and essential shopping.
the country has one of the highest infection rates in europe, but new restrictions are being brought in, or considered, across much of the continent.
there was a last—minute rush at vaccination centres in upper austria, on the eve of new restrictions for those not yet protected.
it’ll be policed using spot checks with hefty fines for those caught breaking the rules.
austria has one of the lowest vaccination rates in western europe — around 64% of the population is fully vaccinated, which leaves two million people yet to get two doses.
and the country has one of the highest infection rates in europe — more than 800 cases per 100,000 people.
it’s already projected that within two weeks we will have reached the limit, and we know that the cases we see now will be those that fill up the icus in two weeks, so there’s need for some measure right now.
these measures are absolutely discriminatory.
a fourth wave of infections is gripping much of europe and the continent is once again the epicentre of the virus.
eastern european nations with lower vaccination rates like latvia and russia were among the first to bring back restrictions, but even the netherlands with a vaccination rate above 80% has reintroduced a partial lockdown for at least three weeks.
and germany is also weighing up new restrictions.
teachers in new zealand will now be banned from the classroom if they have not been vaccinated against covid—19.
the measure is part of the country’s zero covid policy, but critics warn it could see some schools forced to return to online lessons as there will not be enough staff on site.
the authorities in new zealand have ramped up efforts to get people vaccinated since the delta variant got into the largely covid—free country in august.
90% of new zealanders have had their first dose.
joanne anderson said the man named locally as david perry, had managed to divert what, she said, could have been an absolutely awful disaster at the liverpool women’s hospital.
government advisers have recommended the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
a lockdown in austria for anyone who hasn’t been vaccinated against covid comes into force.
more new on our top story — that one person has been killed and another injured following an explosion outside liverpool women’s hospital on sunday.
our correspondent fiona trott is at the hospital in liverpool for us now.
it is ere at liverpool women’s hospital.
all those streets are less than two from the women’s hospital where miles from the women’s hospital where the blast occurred.
you have the car at the hospital grounds letely out.
major improvements in the care for sickle cell patients in england is being called for, after "serious failings", including avoidable deaths, were identified in an inquiry.
he also lived with sickle cell disease and experienced a painful episode while in hospital in london known as a sickle cell crisis.
the report has made a number of recommendations, including more funding for sickle cell research, and better training for health care staff to help save lives and avoid painful tragic deaths.
if you could tell us first of all, ften you find yourself in how often you find yourself in hospital with sickle cell disease impact it has on your life?
i think for me recently over the couple of years i have found yself in hospital, i would say about 20 times, may more?
and when i went to a&e i was hospital for a week.
in hospital for about a week.
it has been two weeks since been in hospital and i am still recovering and going through isis a little bit.
and today we have the eport that says they need to be or improvements in their careful ickle cell patients in england ter rious failings, including voidable deaths were identified in quiry.
the reason being is cause ere has been many because there has been many experiences where i have gone into dmitted into hospital and have experienced ally horrible eatment.
you would think re both in and out of hospital frequently, you know what is going seems unbelievable that the reatment isn’t always efficient?
government advisers have recommended the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
turkey farmers across the have spent several months worrying about christmas supply, following staffing shortages caused by the pandemic and brexit.
to ease pressure on the supply chain, last month, the government introduced a temporary visa scheme for seasonal poultry workers.
amid all the supply chain problems, turkeys at least are now back on track, but the industry’s calling for a permanent solution to ensure it gets the seasonal workers its needs.
the prime minister has been visiting a surgery as government advisers recommend the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
when you are cold for your booster dose in the next phase, you can come ward nfident that the benefits in preventing serious covid—19 utweigh any sks.
a report by finds "serious failings" including avoidable deaths in the care for patients with sickle cell disease in england.
a lockdown in austria for anyone who hasn’t been vaccinated against covid comes into force.
the police say they are working at speed to establish the circumstances of this, the car explosion just outside the liverpool women’s hospital in central liverpool.
unfortunately, i can confirm that one person has died and another has been taken to hospital, where he is being treated for his injuries, which, thankfully, are not life—threatening.
so far we understand that the car involved was a taxi, which pulled up at the hospital shortly before the explosion occurred.
obviously, the taxi driver in his heroic efforts has managed to divert what could have been an absolutely awful disaster at the hospital.
like to say the emergency services and the authorities need to mending for responding so uickly and professionally to the losion at the hospital yesterday ning.
he went into the hospital and he was tance subsequently injured in he explosion that killed the senger in that taxi.
the government’s vaccine advisers a third jab would top up protection and help to limited third wave of the virus for r.
chair of thejcvi, professor wei shen lim, announced the two updates to the booster programme.
the first update relates to the booster programme.
just as a reminder, the current advice in the booster programme is that persons aged over 50 years, those adults in a clinical at risk group, front line health and social care workers and close contacts of persons who are immunosuppressed should have a booster vaccine six months following completion of their primary course, essentially, have a third vaccine dose six months after the second dose.
we are advising today that the booster programme is extended to persons aged 40—49 years as well.
as previously, the booster dose is advised six months after the second dose, and either the pfizer biontech vaccine or the moderna vaccine can be used as the booster dose, regardless of the type of vaccine received for the first two doses in the primary course.
you may remember that in early august we advised a first dose of the pfizer biontech vaccine for 16 and 17—year—olds who do not have an underlying health condition that puts them at higher risk from severe covid—19.
we said at the time and would review the data and that a second dose may well be advise command that is indeed the case.
we have reviewed the recent information regarding the safety and benefits of a second dose, and we are advising that 16 and 17—year—olds who have had a first dose of the pfizer biontech vaccine be offered a second dose of the pfizer biontech vaccine.
as a reminder, the first vaccine dose gives a high level of protection against serious disease, and that high level of protection we know lasts for at least 12—16 weeks.
the second dose, nonetheless, reinforces that protection from the first dose and it is important in extending the duration of protection, not just for the winter months and christmas, but we are also looking into 2022 and beyond.
i think it is very good news that the has today authorised the ter the has today authorised the booster to be rolled out to rybody a0 plus.
when you look at what is ppening in the pandemic at moment, just hearing in europe that sadly there are peopla in a you who are suffering badly from d-19, they are all the covid—19, and they are all the unvaccinated.
what is happening is you ran get your booster, then your immunity goes right back 5%.
so the messages, over 70, come forward and get your ter, anybody over 50 come forward and get your booster and the next week or so, anybody ver 40 from the next week or so, anybody over a0 come forward and get your ster.
are also doing a second dose for 16 and 17—year—olds.
last had to ntroduce last—minute year we had to introduce last—minute restrictions at christmas.
if we see this happening, could we see restrictions again?
but we ertainly have got to recognise that is a stall of infection out ere in parts of europe.
the best protection for our is everybody to go forward get their booster.
tually, we are going to leave you an alpha because the police have arrived for the conference.
tigations into the explosion at verpool women’s hospital led by nterterrorism policing is counterherrorism policing is continuing at pace.
the fair, a man, had asked to be taken to liverpool n’s hospital which was about ten inutes away.
as the taxi approach drop-off int at the hospital, an explosion curred from within far.
he has now eleased from hospital.
been released from hospital.
army dnance disposal officer had mined the scene at the hospital made the area safe.
he scene at the hospital remains in with specialist examinations place with specialist examinations ongoing.
the son he then took it to the men’s hospital is unknown, as is reason for its sudden explosion.
are of course aware that the embrance events just a short stance away from the hospital, and the ignition occurred shortly re ham.
it is unknown the passenger wanted to he women’s hospital all by he device decimated when it did.
just to recap on we were hearing, it very interesting at we have learned that the taxi ver picked up the passenger from ﬂand tland avenue, that is less than iles away from the hospital self, and has asked to be taken to the hospital.
now been released from hospital, we have been told.
so we know he passenger at was asked to be rought to the hospital died in this sion.
now been released from hospital.
there are two other parts of ity, less than two miles from the city, loss than two milas from liverpool women’s hospital where the sion took place, to residential areas where there is also focus of investigation, properties ave been searched there, some ses have also been evacuated.
government advisers have recommended the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
a report by has found "serious failings" including avoidable deaths — in the care for patients with sickle cell disease in england.
a lockdown in austria for anyone who hasn’t been vaccinated against covid has come into force.
when i speak to businesses they want to do thing by workers now and time to be difficult for inesses and everyone and a lot of the roles kept us going through the that kept us going through the pandemic —like cleaners and security and hop workers are on the wages so we see more businesses ing to sign up to payment rates and we hear about some labour tages in those sectors saw the centives are there and it is good families also for businesses.
what market is really esting third of companies have signed up since the pandemic.
i know you said it is because the age coming to you is they want do the right thing by their oyers but what you think it was particular about the pandemic made them understand the that made them understand the difficulties employers were facing?
more new on our top story — that one person has been killed and another injured following an explosion outside liverpool women’s hospital on sunday.
i know he is out of hospital to him?
i know he is out of hospital and i’m sure there are lots of want to speak to him.
i was aware we ovided to tell accommodation ast night -- tel accommodation most eople are able to get about eir business in the city and police are doing everything they keep one of the things we an sort of ake in a positive sense just to look at it could have been, the concerns around the fact you say this morning it have been a worse situation we ere looking at.
cher little contracted meningococcal septicaemia this time last year — a rare and often fatal bloodstream infection — shejoins us now, along with kevin cox who is the project manager at band of builders.
turkey farmers across the have spent several months worrying about christmas supply, following staffing shortages caused by the pandemic and brexit.
to ease pressure on the supply chain, last month, the government introduced a temporary visa scheme for seasonal poultry workers.
amid all the supply chain problems, turkeys at least are now back on track, but the industry’s calling for a permanent solution to ensure it gets the seasonal workers its needs.
the headlines an explosion outside liverpool women’s hospital on remembrance sunday is declared a terror incident by police.
the prime minister has been visiting a surgery as government advisers recommend the covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended to include healthy a0 to a9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
when you are called for your booster dose in the next phase, you can come forward confident that the benefits in preventing serious covid—19far outweigh any risks.
a report by finds "serious failings" including avoidable deaths in the care for patients with sickle cell disease in england.
an explosion in a taxi outside liverpool women’s hospital yesterday has been declared a terrorist incident.
here the car enters the liverpool women’s hospital car park.
fair, a , had asked to be the fair, a man, had asked to be taken to liverpool women’s hospital which was about ten minutes away.
as the taxi approach the drop—off point hospital, and explosion at the hospital, and explosion occurred from within the car.
he is being treated for his injuries and has been ased from hospital.
the army ordnance and explosion officers have examined at the hospital and made it safe.
i know he is out of hospital and i’m there are a lot of people who will to eak to him.
s, i’ve driven past the hospital morning and there was plenty of lice presence and visibility in address at egg as well, and etty sure to reassure the ommunity that the police are doing ything they can to make sure we everything they ran to make sure we are all safe.
one of the things obviously that we can take on itive nses that ust to look a positive senses that just to look at how it could have been.
the only trotters in liverpool at the hospital where the sion happened.
the question still remains this happened here at liverpool women’s hospital.
the anglican cathedral not far liverpool women’s hospital here officers investigating the ncident says they can’t draw any nection between that and the plosion itself
today: covid boosterjabs will be offered to all over—405.
we can massively reduce the worry about hospitalisation and death due to covid at christmas.
but labour calls for an investigation into the transport secretary and says the rules need to be tougher.
in the car blast side iverpool hospital outside 3 liverpool hospital yesterday has been declared a orist incident.
the question is one he aises which as he believes it will massively reduce about rising the worry about rising hospitalisation and death from covid he winter, do you agree, caroline?
i will be get my ooster because i was off to get my booster because i was not quite 15 yet.
it is allaying peoplas fears and the vaccination amme peoples fears and the vaccination programme has been successful
we now 12 million peopla have had their third jab, there booster, is great news, but there is till a long way to go.
we know some worrying thing pockets of young people not is about pockets of young peopla not being given the first vaccination.
in terms of other ean countries, in the netherlands, there are lockdown lite res being imposed and also enjoy many warnings of a pandemic of vaccinated and in austria, the unvaccinated and in austria, about 2 million people have not been accinated and have been fully vaccinated and have been placed in effective lockdown.
what make this expansion of the do you make of this expansion of the booster programme to the over 405?
it is booster programme to the over 4057 clearly it is welcome news
but it is just those are ble to get not just those who are able to get the jab but those who are going to forward and take it up, so the rime minister earlier said over 5, s, still in four have not come 705, still one in four have not come forward to get the booster so it is that more people can come great that more peopla ran come forward to get it
interesting in that dip from the prime minister at he spoke about their situation rope, he said we are aware that ere could be a blizzard of covid ming from ast, so clearly coming from the east, so dearty there is worry about that in downing t.
