more countries are to be removed from the government’s red list today which requires ravellers to stay in a quarantine upon their return.
some of the heat was drawn from the crisis yesterday when russia said it would increase gas supplies to europe, helping to limit the latest surge in wholesale gas prices.
it follows a combination of energy price rises, the furlough scheme finishing, and the ending of the £20 a week uplift to universal credit.
and all this coincides with the ending of the £20 a week uplift to universal credit that was introduced in the pandemic.
we have the added complications of the universal credit uplift finishing, furlough finishing, and the rising cost of household fuel bills, as well as petrol.
supreme court agreed to let the restrictions stand, resulting in protests right around the united states.
olutely, this is, especially fter the pandemic, what an occasion athletes come together, to see athletes come together, competitors, the people to people characterise the links that characterise the commonwealth, just get enshrined in mes.
nine months after it was rolled out, the astrazeneca covid vaccine has finally reached the antarctic.
which is the arrival this week of the astrazeneca covid vaccine is so important.
getting the coronavirus jabs there, however, has been a grand challenge.
but the astrazeneca vaccine is now in the arms of the scientists who reside on the antarctic peninsula during its cold, dark winter.
they know it helps protect in case covid got to the station, but also they are going to be leaving in the next few months, anyway, so that group is going to do their summer season at rothera
and then they are going back, and perhaps one of the scariest parts is when one of the team get back into society and covid, there are so many cases per day.
this is the furthest south the astrazeneca jab has reached.
there has been very little covid, so far, in antarctica.
just one isolated outbreak at a chilean research station.
international science agencies want to keep it that way and anyone going south in the coming months will still have to quarantine.
we made a positive hange in that country to those pla and that is what we have got and take way with us.
but veterans that are ruggling, we did make a positive nge to people’s lives and every ime we set foot out of camp based patrol, we nged peoples lives on patrol, we changed peoples lives and that is what we have to take with us.
an investigation into 26 clinical trials into the use of the horse medicine ivermectin to treat covid has found serious errors or signs of potential fraud in more than a third of them.
the review by a group of independent scientists challenges claims made on behalf of ivermectin by a network of promoters around the world and anti vaxxers who advocate its use.
ivermectin a treatment for covid?
whether it is an effective treatment for covid, i think is the question
ther hat was an inadvertent mistake, here people had very bad nagement practices, in some ases, or ther there was cases, or whether there was intentional and you know guided is something that you simply annot really sess from the position at we are in.
very basically, the idea ivermectin was very, very erful treatment against covid was sed on a fairly small number of als which had very enormously sitive results.
and so we of left waiting for the are kind of left waiting for the logical clinical trials to finish iting unfinished trial, so that recruiting unfinished trial, so that we ran understand if ivermectin is tially beneficial for covid or ot.
other than that, it has been used very much in the developing d, in places where there are few ffective treatments for covid and fective treatments are more the effective treatments are more expensive, they have understandably to what is decidedly a fairly turned to what is decidedly a fairty safe medication that is well—known ing safe, specially in for being safe, especially in countries in africa, it is used very nly, and even if it does not commonly, and even if it does not work, peopla have thought, what is harm in trying?
there is nothing tually in the rules that says they annot to a state.
more countries are to be removed from the government’s red list later today, which requires travellers to stay in a quarantine hotel when they get back to the .
some of the heat was drawn from the crisis yesterday when russia said it would increase gas supplies to europe, helping to limit the latest surge in wholesale gas prices.
supreme court agreed to let the restrictions stand, resulting in protests right around the united states.
the first hing i would do, because families eling the terrible strain as they see the rising energy prices he prospect of a further rise, is cancelled the cut in universal it, because that is going to ake £1000 of millions of families country plunge people in our country and plunge peopla into deeper and deeper fuel poverty, beggars belief to me in the context of rising energy prices, prices generally, tax rises come in with national insurance, that the government is hing ahead with this cut.
it is nteresting times we are living in is looking positive to see countries coming off that list.
another thing is very important, thinking of milies, they have said to us eatedly, one of the things that tops them taking holidays is the of test for themselves and eir children.
we saw a great vement on the ath of october where don’t have to redeparture you don’t have to do a predeparture test, and that is really helpful, still have to do a very expensive test on day two of rning to the .
he will be looking at reducing saying you only have to take the cheaper lateral ﬂow test.
so if you have not been able to take a holiday, and i think of families were priced out of aking a holiday, we saw the cost of tic breaks went through the oof, so particularly for half term, many milies, this might be heir last opportunity to get a good break this year, so let’s see some movement from the government saying, yes, you don’t need all your children to take a test get back.
i am not sure what time we will get the ouncement or whether we will get he news about the day two test, but as there is any news, we as soon as there is any news, we will bring it to you.
which ires ravellers to stay in a requires travellers to stay in a quarantine hotel when they get back .
amnesty international has urged the premier league is to change its and directors test to address uman rights issues.
the chief executive of the professional footballers association, maheta molango says all footballers have been given education and guidance on the importance of getting the coronavirus vaccine.
it follows reports that a low percentage of players have had the jab, but molango insists most of those involved understand the benefits of getting the vaccine.
the message is that we are ortive of the vaccination supportive of the vaccination roll—out.
we also elieve that taking the vaccine or is a personal choice.
more countries are to be removed from the government’s red list later today, which requires travellers to stay in a quarantine hotel when they get back to the .
this is the first time that seen the queen on the orecourt of buckingham palace with and is playing in the ackground because of the pandemic.
for of the athletes, it will mark he first time since the pandemic they will have been competing full stadiums.
some of the heat was drawn from the crisis yesterday when russia said it would increase gas supplies to europe, helping to limit the latest surge in wholesale gas prices.
this has really turned on its head and it means you re better off in a lot of cases on variable tariff.
the premier eague still have to approve this in the last hour, amnesty international has urged the premier to change its owners and league to change its owners and directors test to address human issue, that’s around the audi arabian back takeover of castle.
meanwhile, the chief executive of ofessional footballers’ ssociation all footballers ave been given education and dance on the importance of getting the corona virus vaccine.
it follows reports that a low centage of players have had the ab, but she insists most of those olved to understand the benefits getting the vaccine.
hink the message is very clear the message is that the rganisation is supportive and erstands the vaccination l—out.
obviously, the vaccine or not is a taking the vaccine or not is a personal choice and therefore what erstand is, we need to make sure that the players are able to an educated decision based on ience.
what he may well do is unce xtra investment in announce extra investment in renewable energy and nuclear power ress those concerns about our overreliance on energy from overseas ultimately could have an which ultimately could have an impact on what we have seen in the four weeks or so with the surge wholesale gas prices causing der oblems in our economy.
the headlines the government rules out rescuing nergy suppliers struggling to vive.
the headlines on news the government rules out rescuing energy suppliers struggling to survive amid soaring wholesale gas prices.
nine months after it was rolled out the astrazeneca vaccine finally hed the antarctic.
which is the arrival this week of the astrazeneca covid vaccine is so important.
getting the coronavirus jabs there, however, has been a grand challenge.
but the astrazeneca vaccine is now in the arms of the scientists who reside on the antarctic peninsula during its cold, dark winter.
they know it helps protect in case covid got to the station, but also they are going to be leaving in the next few months, anyway, so that group is going to do their summer season at rothera
and then they are going back, and perhaps one of the scariest parts is when one of the team get back into society and covid, there are so many cases per day.
this is the furthest south the astrazeneca jab has reached.
there has been very little covid, so far, in antarctica.
just one isolated outbreak at a chilean research station.
international science agencies want to keep it that way and anyone going south in the coming months will still have to quarantine.
as the global economy has been switched back on after the height of the pandemic, the scramble for gas has not been matched by supply, leading to an unprecedented seven fold rise in wholesale prices.
