back to school for millions more children in england, wales and northern ireland, but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
is their school sticking with any measures like mask wearing to to reduce covid transmission?
akin to revolutionary mmunism and must be countered by urity and ideological measures the long—term, or is that erstate it, verestimate it, and the interventions in afghanistan raq, to elevate its appeal her than diminish it —— appeal ther han diminish it is a undamental strategic question and eds a clear answer.
on the other hand, his analysis is jected, the if this analysis is rejected, the alternative is, in effect, to say, a second order problem, this is a second order problam, where we are directly threatened, we iate through counterterrorism retaliate through counterherrorism measures, drone strikes, veillance, special ces, but surveillance, special forces, but otherwise, we leave alone.
but in ent, i don’t think you can any event, i don’t think you ran deal with these groups when they are nched, simply by ounterterrorism measures.
millions of pupils are returning to classrooms in england and wales, amid fears of a spike in students with covid.
scientists have warned of a rapid rise in school cases without such measures and experts have not recommended jabs for healthy 12 to 15—year—olds.
in england, there are over 30 times more children with covid compared with last year.
in scotland, cases among the under—155 have trebled since school restarted in mid—august.
this graph shows cases in 2020 — in green — and this year — in red.
although cases were much lower at this point in 2020, they followed a similar pattern, rising before schools went back and then increasing more steeply later in september.
we will be talking moment about the challenges of rating under these covid onditions.
teacher owen harvey started 2021 in hospital with coronavirus.
testing started in some of england’s secondary schools last week.
should they offer the vaccine to all 12 to 15—year—olds?
so if we need to make adjustments to the measures we put in place to minimise the risk, that we have the choice to do that, and we can do it immediately, that we do not have to wait.
and of course, ols still have to be kept safe ecause covid is still very much in community.
we are here in a testing centre for the 700 students thshore academy, how difficult it been setting this up compared the other challenges you face?
followed the government guidance, worked over the summer to the test centre is up.
yes, ain challenge has been around eeping a high—quality education for dren who haven’t been in the academy, delivering remote learning ges through , supporting our packages through ’, supporting our workforce, evising our financial throughout the year to support students and office three intaining the estates while the ademies have been closed.
yes, we are testing five monitors in hshore at present.
in terms of the remote learning, that rked really well for a number students.
certainly, in the test entre the hygiene factor, we would to keep, particularly around unchtimes and breaks where we are ing that will help with attendance rates around the normal vimses, ruses, etc that we would bugs, viruses, etc that we would have.
vaccines are under a lot of discussion at the moment and whether is any merit in giving a covid cine to 12 to 15—year—olds and is very the group that you are teaching here at this academy.
but rom the trust perspective i think certainly something we would rage and like to have as the step beyond these test centres erate.
the argument is from a ealth point of view there is no need because they do not tract covid very badly.
there is isk of lung covid for some dren like anybody but should we be vaccinated children to protect people?
if children to participate in that vaccination programme and it has benefits and i would welcome hat.
other vaccines are given in ool ike the vaccine are school like the vaccine are sometimes delivered to this age so how well—equipped would you to dminister the vaccine on te?
you serve pockets of the munity that are under privileged, advantaged, you have quite a few ildren here on free school meals that was very much a nsideration to make sure they were roperty during the pandemic, in terms of recovery, we hear a about what education needs to ecover.
are there any measures in lace?
this one says my 11—year—old hter returned last wednesday and of covid positive already along mum and myself.
someone says ing the exact same thing time ter time expecting different sults as a theme of madness away nglish people expected to throw heir kids to the lines scotland trebled since schools reopened the stats show that in the under group cases have trebled in cotland.
but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
5 billion of funding has been agreed to plug shortfalls, including the backlog of treatment caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
5 billion for this financial year for the econd half of this year and that is elp health service get through winter to deal with covid and so to help deal with the backlog, pla who missed out on other treatment because the pandemic.
it requires quite a lot logistic and ractice that would volve local authorities across the country and roviders of the country and rare providers of the scope for a massive delay there as , and it is worth remembering his is already been delayed and ked into the long grass multiple imes over the last few decades, but his precise mechanism of a cap rap and a hange to the means test about is eligible for care anyway is actually ady on the statute books, it exists as a piece of slation, passed by david cameron’s government.
the iconic clock and bell were due to resume chiming this year, but work was delayed because of the pandemic.
the pandemic also brought work to a halt for several months, so the tower’s been covered up for longer than expected.
this crack appeared when big ben was struck during a test in 1858.
back to school for millions more children in england, wales and northern ireland — but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
5 billion of funding has been agreed to plug shortfalls, including the backlog of treatment caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
but in addition to ongoing covid pressures cklogs of the waiting list.
that may be more of a rt-term ressure, particularly in erms of aling with ongoing costs covid and trying to reduce the acklogs.
the headlines on news: back to school for millions more children in england, wales and northern ireland — but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
millions of pupils are returning to classrooms in england and wales, amid fears of a spike in students with covid.
scientists have warned of a rapid rise in school cases without such measures and experts have not recommended jabs for healthy 12 to 15—year—olds.
in england, there are over 30 times more children with covid compared with last year.
in scotland cases among the under—155 have trebled since school restarted in mid—august.
this graph shows cases in 2020 — in green — and this year — in red.
although cases were much lower at this point in 2020, they followed a similar pattern, rising before schools went back and then increasing more steeply later in september.
they re in and out of school, they had used to online learning and hen they got back to school, if bubbles were affected by an utbreak of covid, they had to late.
teacher owen harvey started 2021 in hospital with coronavirus.
testing started in some of england’s secondary schools last week.
should they offer the vaccine to all 12 to 15—year—olds?
so if we need to make adjustments to the measures we put in place to minimise the risk, that we have the choice to do that, and we can do it immediately, that we do not have to wait.
when it comes to covid safety protocols in schools for this new emic year, the new commissioner 5575 says we must place our trust in head ers.
i have been speaking to cial educational needs coordinator emma and she was joined year 11 students, harley by three year 11 students, harley clark, logan jefferson and lorna and aid, uring the lockdown they emma said, during the lockdown they had to be very clear about what each ’s individual learning needs ere.
that is a really good point and during the second lockdown, things had settled down quite a bit, haven’t they?
because we keep hearing from the government about this need for a recovery plan.
but i have been extremely proud of how our students responded through the lockdown because we had such a tailored programme that we were able to keep apace with the curriculum, but now returning back into school, ourjob is to find gaps in the learning, we have significant revision classes, we have got workshops going on, we have got weekend work.
" sarah found lumps under her arms in 2019 and in an extract from her memoir published in the times, she admitted putting off getting medical help, which was further complicated by the outbreak of the pandemic.
there is always a worry when we find something wrong matter what it is, it is but no matter what it is, it is always better to get it checked out if it is cases, and in most rases it on’t be, but if it is, treatment is former likely to successful.
we will talk more the statistics but in terms of impact of pandemic and the the impact of the pandemic and the backlog for people who will be, ingle day finding lumps, omething they are worried about and get checked out, how quickly an somebody be seen now?
we know that because pandemic we have seen about 10,000 fewer cases of cancer gnosed tween april 2020 and april 2021, so that is a huge number pla who haven’t been able to of people who haven’t been able to be diagnosed.
but have adapted know a lot of are now more able to talk to people over the , so even if you can’t get a ace—to—face appointment, you might to peak to a or nurse be able to speak to a or nurse over the phone and if they are erned about any symptoms, they will organise further tests.
with fewer cases, many could be eople not many could be due to peopla not attending breast screening because he last year, breast screening has paused during part of the down, so those cases might have lockdown, so those rases might have been missed.
but the important thing breast screening is for hose without symptoms, so if you do any or you have issed your breast screening ointment, if you notice anything, contact your doctor and we are eing the same number or more ple begin to contact their doctor, is really reassuring.
it is important those people are to access to a doctor and he test they need.
players under way oval the final day of the at the oval on the final day of the fourth test.
series evel at 1—1 and the inal test tarts on friday.
covid quarantine confusion and chaos reigned in sao paulo last night.
martinez all posed a serious health risk, another villa player, emiliano buendia, who wasn’t in the squad, has also been accused of breaching covid protocols after travelling from the , a red list country.
the footballer marcus rashford is backing a new campaign to end what he calls the "child hunger pandemic".
he wants people to write to their about backing recommendations to end what he calls the child hunger pandemic.
it comes as new data from the food foundation shows that more households with children under 18 are experiencing food insecurity than during the first wave of the pandemic.
pandemic has had a stating effect on young people’s tal health and there is a growing of evidence to show the impact ikely to be significant and ong-term.
it has been very difficult, particularly uﬂng very very difficult, particularty during the pandemic.
i was agnosed when i was 12 years old thankfully i have made a big rovement so have not really eded to receive too much support during the pandemic, but i definitely felt more isolated whilst at home and not at school.
or another gramme is strong evidence is the uth awareness of mental health ogramme, where students learn out a positive mental health and l-being rough a mixture of well—being through a mixture of lectures from teachers and also -play, that seems to be very effective reducing the anxiety and depression.
we are also conscious chools face intense pressure at the moment to prioritise academic and safety measures around vid as we go back to school, and now in this first week of september when kids are going —to—school, it is not clear what those safety asures will be until the pandemic until later.
the iconic clock and bell were due to resume chiming this year, but work was delayed because of the pandemic.
the pandemic also brought work to a halt for several months, so the tower’s been covered up for longer than expected.
this crack appeared when big ben was struck during a test in 1858.
back to school for millions more children in england, wales and northern ireland 7 but will it spark a rise in covid cases?
lam spending the day at a school in stockton—on—tees, looking at the of covid one education as the new term gets under way.
5 billion of funding has been agreed to plug shortfalls, including the backlog of treatment caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
the domestic olitical nda is packed, so, after 18 months of focus on the pandemic in the main, does it ook, alistair and anita, as if itic is politic is returning to normal?
i think is normal —— don’t think it is we re still in the covid normal we are still in the covid crisis and sajid javid hasn’t done a ing in two onths he has been briefing in two months he has been here, and a speaker in parliament re worried about whether you wear chinos than if the prime ster tells the truth
and i don’t hink is normal that ave this code word for get brexit done the supply chain issues, and my is we are normalising the abnormal, if that makes sense.
sarah, different, do hink the pandemic, which is ngoing to some extent, has changed tic for good?
and i both fame came in in 2017 and there has been rmal during at whole time, no normal during that whole time, because we had a whole brexit ation and now we have had covid alastair because my point is portant, covid hasn’t gone away, reds are being hospitalised every day still in our country and to deal with that.
i think hat covid has done, apart from thing else, is expose a lot of he inequalities in the system that here before that we need to ackle, so social care, the , come, jobs, is a raft of income, jobs, there is a raft of issues that have been there and for ten years that covid has hone a light on and we need to to tackle them.
having dealt with brexit, re straight into the oval we were straight into the oval crisis that was the global pandemic aling with that and sarah is ht, there are hundreds of people being hospitalised by this irus every day so we can’t take our off the ball
