This is BBC News for viewers in the UK and around the globe.
I’m Victoria Fritz.
Our top stories —
a wildfire menace.
The Greek prime minister urges people to unite,
as emergency services tackle over 150 blazes threatening towns
and villages across Greece.
Protests across Italy, as Covid vaccine—passes become
mandatory for restaurants, sporting events, and live performances.
TRANSLATION: I come to the venue in person, present my pass. I present
person, present my pass. I present my ID card, and I’m allowed to
my ID card, and I’m allowed to enter.
A fifth of all the UK’s Covid hospital patients
are aged between 18 and 34.
Doctors warn of the dangers facing the young and unvaccinated —
we have a special report.
One of the world’s greatest footballers, Lionel Messi,
is leaving Barcelona after more than 20 years.
The International Olympic Committee says it’s ordered two Belarusian
coaches to leave the Athletes’ Village
to protect the rest of their team.
Greece has been plunged into an unprecedented
environmental crisis, according to the country’s
prime minister.
Days of heatwaves have turned the country into a powder keg —
and he predicts the worst is yet to come with strong westerly winds
expected to fan the flames.
As Mark Lobel reports, villagers are coming under pressure
to abandon their homes,
As villages like these burn, the Greek prime minister is urging
extreme caution.
Houses can be rebuilt, he says, trees can regrow,
however human life cannot be replaced.
But abandoning your home is never easy in your 705.
TRANSLATION: Leave and go where, and let my house burn?
If we had left, this place would have burned.
We told the women and elderly and kids to go,
and whoever was able stay to help, however they could.
Crops are at risk, too.
So far, 6,000 hectares of [and have burned in three days of
wildfires.
Over half of last year’s total.
decimated.
Nothing is left.
Olive trees, sheep, goats, stables, everything.
Westward winds have blown a new life into these fires
north of Athens.
With temperatures well over A0 Celsius, the past week
has been Greece’s worst heatwave since the late ‘805.
With fires continuing to spread, local politicians
have denounced a lack of resources.
The army is doubling its efforts,
but is our changing environment to blame?
Climate change is producing hotter temperatures,
and making droughts more frequent, conditions that can fuel wildfires.
TRANSLATION: We have a debt to shield the country against the
reality of climate change.
I’m not looking for excuses.
We have made important strides in organising the country,
but these are not enough when you’re faced with a phenomenon
of such magnitude.
For those that believe such talk is merely a smokescreen, the PM
invites them to visit the fires for themselves.
Fires now spreading across southern Europe, where many
including Spaniards, Turks, Italians, Albanians, and
North Macedonians are also asking, just what is behind the summer
heatwave that is causing familiar seasonal fires to act
in such extreme ways?
Mark Lobel, BBC News.
Luke Strutt is a Brit.
He has been visiting the country for 30 years.
He has a holiay home just to the east of Athens.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining me. You have
Thank you for joining me. You have only recently
Thank you forjoining me. You have only recently been able to make it
only recently been able to make it back to your home. Describe the last
back to your home. Describe the last 24-hour is. I
back to your home. Describe the last 24—hour is. I went out on Tuesday
24-hour is. I went out on Tuesday afternoon, having
24—hour is. I went out on Tuesday afternoon, having seen smoke rising
afternoon, having seen smoke rising from the hills just behind
afternoon, having seen smoke rising from the hillsjust behind me here,
from the hills just behind me here, went out
from the hillsjust behind me here, went out on
from the hills just behind me here, went out on my
from the hillsjust behind me here, went out on my boat to see what
went out on my boat to see what the extent of the smoke was, and further
extent of the smoke was, and further down the coast, huge flames
down the coast, huge ﬂames were empting from
down the coast, huge flames were erupting from the hillside,
erupting from the hillside, spreading I suppose like wildfire.
spreading I suppose like wildfire. Very quickly engulfing hotels,
Very quickly engulfing hotels, houses, and from the boat, it was
houses, and from the boat, it was just apocalyptic scenes. And I know
just apocalyptic scenes. And I know that you have filmed some pictures
that you have filmed some pictures yourself, and we are able to
yourself, and we are able to broadcast them now to our viewers.
broadcast them now to our viewers. What
broadcast them now to our viewers. what was
broadcast them now to our viewers. What was it like seeing those scenes
what was it like seeing those scenes for yourself?
What was it like seeing those scenes foryourself? It
What was it like seeing those scenes for yourself? It was a very scary
for yourself? It was a very scary experience, not knowing where the
experience, not knowing where the fire was going to, or when it could
fire was going to, or when it could be stopped, or if it could be
be stopped, or if it could be stopped at the time. It was just
stopped at the time. It was just completely out of control. People
completely out of control. People were throwing gas canisters into the
were throwing gas canisters into the sea to stop them exploding in the
sea to stop them exploding in the fires. This of course is a
fires. This of course is a real danger, isn’t it? You yourself have
danger, isn’t it? You yourself have been spending some of this crisis on
been spending some of this crisis on the boat because you felt safer
the boat because you felt safer there, but of course being at sea
there, but of course being at sea comes with its own risks.
comes with its own risks. Absolutely, yeah. Smoke was
Absolutely, yeah. Smoke was spreading across the water, so
spreading across the water, so actually it was raining hot ash onto
actually it was raining hot ash onto the boats, so you were really
the boats, so you were really questioning where was the safest
questioning where was the safest space to be. It was just awful
space to be. It was just awful scenes. And what have you found on
scenes. And what have you found on your return to your home? In the
your return to your home? In the actual town itself, last night,
actual town itself, last night, the guy behind me was glowing red as the
guy behind me was glowing red as the fires continued to burn —— the sky
fires continued to burn -- the sky behind me.
fires continued to burn —— the sky behind me. There was a general sense
behind me. There was a general sense in the town that these fires have
in the town that these fires have been burning for nearly four days,
been burning for hearty four days, and, you know,
been burning for nearly four days, and, you know, why haven’t they been
and, you know, why haven’t they been brought under control? I think that
brought under control? I think that despite the heroic efforts of the
despite the heroic efforts of the locals, their general sense is that
locals, their general sense is that they did not get enough support from
they did not get enough support from the fire services in the rest of the
the fire services in the rest of the country, and the air support is what
country, and the air support is what peopla
country, and the air support is what people were really worried about,
people were really worried about, that planes were being taken to
that planes were being taken to Athens but not coming to hear to
Athens but not coming to hear to help douse the flames here. So is it
help douse the ﬂames here. So is it a sense
help douse the flames here. So is it a sense that these city is being
a sense that these city is being prioritised here? I do feel that
prioritised here? I do feel that that is the general sense, speaking
that is the general sense, speaking to the locals last night, they were
to the locals last night, they were thinking that the cities were
thinking that the cities were getting the priority, put us the
getting the priority, put us the forests were effectively left to
forests were effectively left to burn. Thank you very much for your
burn. Thank you very much for your time, Luke Strutt in the port of
time, Luke Strutt in the port of Evia, thank you very much. Thank
Evia, thank you very much. Thank you.
Barcelona have announced their all—time top—scorer,
Lionel Messi, will be leaving this summer,
after failing to agree the terms of a new contract.
Messi has been at the club since he was 13.
During that time, he helped the team win more than 30 trophies and forged
a reputation as one of the greatest players of all time.
Tanya Dendrinos reports.
In the eyes of many, he’s the greatest footballer
of all time, a god amongst men, for those who view the beautiful
game as somewhat of a religion.
In Barcelona, this is their temple.
It didn’t take long for despondent fans to gather
outside Camp Nou as news of Lionel Messi’s departure hit home.
TRANSLATION: It’s a soap opera from last summer
to this summer, and it has finished in a harsh way
for the fans and the Barca club members.
It should’ve finished in a year without a pandemic, with people
filling in the stadium, and the whole of Spain
applauding his presence.
The 34—year—old has been a free agent
since the 1st ofJuly, when his contract expired.
Two weeks later, he agreed a new deal with reduced wages,
but it was still dependent on Barca selling players
to afford his salary.
The shocking blow came on Thursday, when Barcelona announced
Messi’s 21—year association with the club would be ending,
putting the blame on financial and structural obstacles
imposed by La Liga.
TRANSLATION: It’s a big loss, and football will generate
less money and we have less important players.
We will notice that.
So where might Messi be heading?
Who does have the money?
The best candidates I think our Paris St Germain,
who are the most likely club to sign him.
The other club who might have the finances to sign him,
Manchester City, do not appear to want to.
That is, of course, if this is the end of the road.
Not everyone’s so sure.
I think Barcelona can make a pretty convincing case
that it is in the interests not only of Barcelona but of Spanish football
as a whole to bend the rules 3 little bit and retain the services
of the man who could well be the greatest player,
some would argue the greatest player in the history of the world.
Nothing is certain until this Messiah signs on the dotted line.
For now, Barca fans are left hoping their dreams will be resurrected.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The Dixie Fire has torn through the historic mining town
of Greenville in California, engulfing everything in its path.
The massive fire started last month, but exploded this week.
It’s been fueled by high temperatures, low humidity,
and strong winds.
It now covers more than 300,000 acres.
President Biden has announced that Hong Kong residents
who are currently in America will be granted temporary safe haven.
They will be allowed to stay for 18 months in the US,
and could also work there.
Mr Biden said the move was a response to China’s continuing
assault on Hong Kong’s autonomy and the repression of political
and press freedoms.
Apple has revealed new safety tools will be introduced
in the United States, which can scan photos and messages
on people’s phones to check for material showing
child sex abuse.
The company insists the measures will protect users’ privacy,
but some security experts are concerned.
Venues across Italy are introducing an obligatory Covid "green pass"
from today, meaning access will only be allowed with either
a vaccination certificate, a negative test,
or proof of recovery from the virus.
The measure will be extended to universities
and transport next month.
Our correspondent, Mark Lowen reports from Verona.
A night at the opera — tickets, temperature check,
and, from today, the mandatory green pass — a Covid
vaccination certificate, negative test, or proof of recovery,
as Italy tightens its mles from theatres
to restaurants, gyms to cafes.
This is how it will work in practice.
I come up to the venue in question.
I present my green pass, which, in my case, is
a vaccination certificate.
It’s verified.
This device doesn’t save the data.
I present my ID card, and I am allowed to enter.
It is a big change and a big challenge for those involved.
Nobody told us how to face Covid, you know,
so at the beginning we were afraid, we were nervous,
we were anxious.
Then, month by month, we solved new problems giving
new solutions, and after 18 months we built a little bit
of self—confidence, so let’s say now that the situation is —
it is not a problem.
This is another problem regarding Covid.
Tonight’s treat — Aida.
Ajewel of Verdi.
This ancient amphitheatre in a new pandemic era.
Verona’s Arena has already adapted to Covid.
Fewer performers, masks, and half capacity.
But, with the green pass, the drama has moved offstage, too.
Parliament had to be suspended after protests
from far—right MPs.
And while polls show most Italians in favour,
vocal demonstrations have broken out across the country.
Much of the opposition is from restaurateurs,
their patience already worn by lockdowns.
TRANSLATION: We shouldn’t have to police this,
it’s not ourjob, and we shouldn’t deal
with sensitive data.
The government will make us argue with customers
who want to sit inside without the pass.
We will have to comply, but we have already had cancellations.
Are you no—vax?
Absolutely not, I am neither for nor against,
I am a restauranteur.
It has gotten nasty for medics supporting the green pass.
This woman received a death threat through WhatsApp,
evoking the Nazi Trials at Nuremberg.
Other messages were on Facebook and they came
from her colleagues.
TRANSLATION: I really felt in danger.
What upset me most was that the threats
were from health workers.
They, like us, were heroes of the pandemic and now some
of them are no—vax.
I felt broken and thought about giving up everything,
but then I realised I must go on and show them
that they are the ones at fault.
At the arena, too, the show will go on, though with new checks
for the opera lovers.
Italy is beginning another act in its Covid story,
but the unity felt last year is fading.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Verona.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come —
The International Olympic Committee has ordered two Belarusian coaches
has ordered two Belarusian coaches to leave the Athletes’ Village.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines —
the Greek prime minister urges people to unite
against a wildfire menace, as emergency services tackle over
150 blazes threatening towns and villages across Greece.
There have been Protests across Italy,
as Covid vaccine—passes become mandatory for restaurants, sporting
events, and live performances.
Olympic officials say two coaches from Belarus have been stripped
of their accreditation and asked to leave the Olympic Village
in Tokyo, over their alleged attempt to force an athlete,
Krystsina Simannovskaya, out of competition.
The BBC’s Sarah Mulkerrins in Tokyo has more.
It in Tokyo has more. started with the athlete from
Belarus
It started with the athlete from Belarus who alleges that she was
Belams who alleges that she was forced
Belarus who alleges that she was forced to board a plane back home.
forced to board a plane back home. She had previously competed in the
She had previously competed in the 100 metres, it was due to compete in
100 metres, it was due to compete in the 200 metres on Monday. She asked
the 200 metres on Monday. She asked her to compete in the four by 400
her to compete in the four by 400 metres relay, she criticised that
metres relay, she criticised that any public post on Instagram, and
any public post on Instagram, and then said subsequently to this she
then said subsequently to this she had two Belarusian officials tell
had two Belarusian officials tell her to pack her bags, go to the
her to pack her bags, go to the airport, and board a flight home.
airport, and board a ﬂight home. when
airport, and board a flight home. When she was at the airport, she
when she was at the airport, she requested
When she was at the airport, she requested help. We soon found out
requested help. We soon found out she did that through translation
she did that through translation services when she was at the
services when she was at the airport, asking the police for
airport, asking the police for protection, saying she did not want
protection, saying she did not want to board the plane back home to
to board the plane back home to Belams,
to board the plane back home to Belarus, she was in fear for her
Belams, she was in fear for her safety.
Belarus, she was in fear for her safety. Subsequently, she had police
safety. Subsequently, she had police protection, and we now know that she
protection, and we now know that she has arrived in Warsaw on a
has arrived in Warsaw on a humanitarian visa. The IRC have been
humanitarian visa. The IRC have been investigating this, the latest
investigating this, the latest update we got this morning was the
update we got this morning was the removal of accreditation from two
removal of accreditation from two Belarusian delegates and also
Belarusian delegates and also removal of them from the Olympic
removal of them from the Olympic Village. -- the
removal of them from the Olympic Village. —— the IOC. There are
Village. -- the IOC. There are still Belarusian
Village. —— the IOC. There are still Belarusian athletes staying there,
Belarusian athletes staying there, and of course the Games finish on
and of course the Games finish on Sunday. The IOC so there will be a
Sunday. The lot: so there will be a chance for
Sunday. The IOC so there will be a chance for the delegates to have
chance for the delegates to have their say, but they wanted to remove
their say, but they wanted to remove them from the pit village in order
them from the pit village in order to protect the welfare of the
to protect the welfare of the Belarusian athletes still at the
Belarusian athletes still at the Games. Sarah, unless you have been
Games. Sarah, unless you have been living under a rock rather than
living under a rock rather than climbing up it, you will know that
climbing up it, you will know that climbing is the new branch. Everyone
climbing is the new branch. Everyone is doing it, and people have
is doing it, and people have been absolutely hooked on these new
absolutely hooked on these new sports, the climbing, surfing,
sports, the climbing, surfing, skateboarding, karate, it goes on,
skateboarding, karate, it goes on, it has been fantastic to watch these
it has been fantastic to watch these new spots, and they found real fans
new spots, and they found real fans right across the world,
right across the world, haven’t they? It has been brilliant,
they? It has been brilliant, capturing so many new fans. It has
capturing so many new fans. It has been hugely entertaining to watch.
been hugely entertaining to watch. And the atmosphere at all of them
And the atmosphere at all of them with the competitors cheering
with the competitors cheering each other on and supporting each other.
other on and supporting each other. The IOC brought in a lot of
The IOC brought in a lot of sports like this in order to bring the
like this in order to bring the younger generations with them for
younger generations with them for the future of the Olympic Games, and
the future of the Olympic Games, and it is certainly looking like it has
it is certainly looking like it has been a very successful and
been a very successful and shrewd move on from them. Let’s speak to
move on from them. Let’s speak to somebody who has been covering them
somebody who has been covering them for BBC Sport here in Tokyo, Tim,
for BBC Sport here in Tokyo, Tim, you must be living the Olympics
you must be living the Olympic so far, because
you must be living the Olympics so far, because I have seen you at the
far, because I have seen you at the surfing, the skateboarding, the BMX,
surfing, the skateboarding, the BMX, it’s been good. It looks like I am
it’s been good. It looks like I am on holiday, essentially. I have to
on holiday, essentially. I have to be at all of what I consider the
be at all of what I consider the best spots, have to be careful how I
best spots, have to be careful how I 55V
best spots, have to be careful how I say that, it is brilliant and to
say that, it is brilliant and to have these spots on the world stage,
have these spots on the world stage, I have been a fan since I was ten
I have been a fan since I was ten years old when I got my
years old when I got my first skateboard, so to be here, not as a
skateboard, so to be here, not as a competitor, nowhere near that,
skateboard, so to be here, not as a competitor, nowhere nearthat, but
competitor, nowhere near that, but to here is a
competitor, nowhere nearthat, but to here is a fan to see these
to here is a fan to see these sports, is brilliant. I do think
sports, is brilliant. I do think they have resonated so much of
they have resonated so much of people? I think it’s the drama. You
people? I think it’s the drama. You get everything on screen, you get
get everything on screen, you get the action comedy tricks, the
the action comedy tricks, the magnitude, the speed, it all comes
magnitude, the speed, it all comes across, but also the colourful
across, but also the colourful characters that these sports bring
characters that these sports bring to the Games. The Brazilian
to the Games. The Brazilian skateboarder who sounds like he is
skateboarder who sounds like he is telling into Godzilla after his run.
telling into Godzilla after his mn. -- turning into.
telling into Godzilla after his run. —— turning into. 50 many stories
-- turning into. So many stories and anglas to it, and I
—— turning into. 50 many stories and angles to it, and I think it comes
anglas to it, and I think it comes alive on
angles to it, and I think it comes alive on screen for the viewer.
alive on screen for the viewer. And the culture around the sport is a
the culture around the sport is a bit different from the real
bit different from the real competitive nature we’re used to
competitive nature we’re used to seeing in elite sport, and it has
seeing in elite sport, and it has transferred into the Olympics. Very
transferred into the Olympic. Very much so, and
transferred into the Olympics. Very much so, and this is not a case of
much so, and this is not a use of Square sports
much so, and this is not a case of Square sports fitting into a
Square sports fitting into a round Olympic hole, this is a case of we
Olympic hola, this is a use of we are at
Olympic hole, this is a rase of we are at the
Olympic hole, this is a case of we are at the Olympics, but here’s
are at the Olympics, but here’s skateboarding in its absolute daily
skateboarding in its absolute daily guys, this is what skateboarding is,
guys, this is what skateboarding is, and here it is at the Olympics, it
and here it is at the Olympic, it is no
and here it is at the Olympics, it is no different, and we spoke
is no different, and we spoke eartier
is no different, and we spoke earlier about it that in between the
eartier about it that in between the runs,
eartier about it that in between the mns, but
earlier about it that in between the runs, but between the gold—medal
mns, but between the gold-medal temps, you
runs, but between the gold—medal temps, you have an extra practice,
temps, you have an extra practice, and the guy who has just put down
and the guy who has just put down the best run, he is not moaning
the best run, he is not moaning or complaining because this
skateboarding is. Conversely, we have seen guys knocked off the top
have seen guys knocked off the top spot, and they are the first person
spot, and they are the first person to congratulate the person that has
to congratulate the person that has knocked them off. So it is
knocked them off. So it is completely different, a weird
completely different, a weird culture, but I am part of it. It is
culture, but I am part of it. It is completely different. Thank you,
completely different. Thank you, Tim, I appreciate your time and
Tim, I appreciate your time and enthusiasm for those new sports that
enthusiasm for those new sports that have been so successful. I know when
have been so successful. I know when we’re talking about these new
we’re talking about these new sports, Victoria, in the streaming
sports, Victoria, in the streaming and downloading and watching of
and downloading and watching of these new sports, they were out of
these new sports, they were out of the top ten watched and most
the top ten watched and most viewed for the International Olympic
for the International Olympic Committee of these games so far, so
Committee of these games so far, so they have certainly gone down a
they have certainly gone down a treat with viewers the world.
Doctors in Leeds in West Yorkshire in the north
of England say they are treating greater numbers of coronvirus
patients in hospital who are younger and unvaccinated.
It comes as the head of NHS England has said
that one in five patients on wards in the country is aged between 18
and 34.
Leeds Teaching Hospital has taken the unusual step of allowing
us to film on one of their Covid—19 wards to highlight the risks younger
people face by not having the jab.
Our health correspondent Jamie Coulson has this
exclusive report.
COUGHING.
Can you imagine yourself being stabbed in the back?
That’s what it feels like.
You breathe, and you’re getting stabbed at the same time.
Every time you take a breath, someone stabs you.
Three days ago, this man was admitted to
StJames’ Hospital in Leeds in excruciating pain.
The 25—year—old international student is like many patients
hospitals are now seeing in greater numbers.
He is younger and unvaccinated.
I am really worried, because all the pain
is going on inside my lungs, and it’s moving around.
I heard some people after they recover from Covid,
their lungs don’t work 100%.
Were you vaccinated?
I haven’t.
I was booking for a vaccination, but I got the Covid twice.
VIOLENT COUGHING.
Hello.
Sorry to interrupt your dinner.
This is one of the respiratory consultants on the Covid wards.
He says it is concerning they are seeing a greater proportion
of younger patients.
What he has got is a complication of Covid, it’s a blood clot
on his lungs.
Secondary to the Covid inflammation.
Now, we now know that Covid increases the chance of getting
blood clots significantly, and there has been a big surge
in the number of patients we are seeing
with blood clots following Covid.
Hopefully he will get better in the next day or so.
These people are young and fit, most of them,
and they are still getting serious Covid, and we have to provide them
with a lot of support.
They are staying in hospital, some of them, for quite long periods,
and there is also a cost in terms of their recovery,
and because they are in their working life,
it has got complications long term.
This is one of three dedicated Covid wards at the trust,
and here, like elsewhere, they have seen an increase
in the number of patients needing help in recent weeks.
And a significant proportion of them are either unvaccinated
or only singlejabbed.
After weeks of rising cases, the number of Covid patients
at the trust has remained at about 100 for the last seven days.
Without the vaccine, doctors say the situation
could be much worse.
If you think about the total number of patients testing positive
in the country, compared to the number
of hospital admissions, there is no comparison compared
to the first and second wave.
So the overall numbers of admissions have significantly gone down,
and the only thing that is different is the vaccine.
And when they end up in hospital, what I am seeing, the patients
who have had a vaccine tend to do better.
COUGHING.
Take the vaccine.
I don’t think any other people want to experience what I am
experiencing right now, like feeling in pain every day,
not to mention even the painkillers couldn’t help you.
Jamie Coulson, BBC News.
Business news coming up in about five minutes’ time.
Hello, lots of talk about heavy showers on this forecast, but
showers on this forecast, but important to point out it will not
important to point out it will not rain all the time. Some drier,
rain all the time. Some drier, sunnier moments, too. Some areas on
sunnier moments, too. Some areas on Friday will be dealing with heavy
Friday will be dealing with heavy but intense thundery downpours,
but intense thundery downpours, particularty
but intense thundery downpours, particularly across northern parts
particularty across northern parts of the UK,
particularly across northern parts of the UK, whereas further south,
of the UK, whereas further south, there will still be some heavy
there will still be some heavy showers to contend with. It will
showers to contend with. It will tend to move through more quickly,
tend to move through more quickly, more an of sunshine, dry to the
more an of sunshine, dry to the north, because to the southern
north, because to the southern ﬂank of this
north, because to the southern flank of this area of low pressure which
of this area of low pressure which is coming, the winds are
is coming, the winds are stronger, so the showers move through more
so the showers move through more quickly, but if you’re close to the
quickly, but if you’re dose to the centre of
quickly, but if you’re close to the centre of this area, across
centre of this area, across Scotland, Northern Ireland, northern
Scotland, Northern Ireland, northern England, north Wales, too, the
England, north Walas, too, the showers just
England, north Wales, too, the showers just hang around for longer,
showers just hang around for longer, the rain totals mount command is
the rain totals mount command is intense downpours could well
intense downpours could well ﬂooding
intense downpours could well flooding and some disruption in some
ﬂooding and some dismption in some spots. Eastern
flooding and some disruption in some spots. Eastern Scotland is with
spots. Eastern Scotland is with more persistent rain, again rain totals
persistent rain, again rain totals mount and with the risk of flooding.
mount and with the risk of ﬂooding. Still
mount and with the risk of flooding. Still some sunny spells in between
Still some sunny spells in between the heavy showers, but with the
the heavy showers, but with the stronger winds across South Wales
stronger winds across South Walas and
stronger winds across South Wales and southern England, whose average
and southern England, whose average speeds of 40, A0 five miles per
speeds of 40, 40 five miles per hour, the
speeds of 40, A0 five miles per hour, the showers will tend to move
hour, the showers will tend to move through more quickly. And I might be
through more quickly. And I might be some places avoiding them
some places avoiding them altogether. More on the web content
altogether. More on the web content into the day here as well. Up to
into the day here as well. Up to around 22 in East Anglia, most bliss
around 22 in East Anglia, most bliss is not getting that high.
is not getting that high. Circulation of showers around this
Circulation of showers around this area of low pressure continuing on
area of low pressure continuing on through Friday night, and of
through Friday night, and of Saturday morning, temperatures
Saturday morning, temperatures holding up into the mid to low
holding up into the mid to low teens. Nothing really changes
teens. Nothing really changes on Saturday for the bulk of the UK,
Saturday for the bulk of the UK, there will be some sunshine around
there will be some sunshine around at times, there will be heavy
at times, there will be heavy thundery showers. It looks like a
thundery showers. It looks like a greater chance of picking up some
greater chance of picking up some heavy thundery showers across
heavy thundery showers across southern areas compared with Friday.
southern areas compared with Friday. And as the temperatures, some spots
And as the temperatures, some spots creeping into the low 205, although
creeping into the low 205, although many will not. And then on Sunday,
many will not. And then on Sunday, the area of the pressure still here,
the area of the pressure still here, looks to be centred close to
looks to be centred close to Scotland. Could be the most
Scotland. Could be the most prolonged thundery downpours. But
prolonged thundery downpours. But they are flaring up elsewhere across
they are ﬂaring up elsewhere across the UK, but
they are flaring up elsewhere across the UK, but it might well be towards
the UK, but it might well be towards South Wales and southern England,
South Walas and southern England, back to
South Wales and southern England, back to a picture of fewer
back to a picture of fewer showers and more in the way of sunny spells.
and more in the way of sunny spells. This area of the pressure looks to
This area of the pressure looks to finally get out of the way by
finally get out of the way by Tuesday, to allow us a couple of
Tuesday, to allow us a couple of fine days before another area of low
fine days before another area of low pressure comes in later next week.
This is BBC News broadcasting to the UK
and around the globe. Our top stories.
On a charge — President Biden says half of all cars sold in the US must
be electric by 2030.
We have a play book and it’s going to work.
Today, I’m announcing steps we’re taking to set a new pace
for electric vehicles.
No pass, no entry — Italy and France to start enforcing
Covid vaccine certificates for restaurants, cinemas
and public transport — but will it hit tourism?
Blasting the bro—culture — does the video game
business need a reset?
Plus, leaving a sour taste — how a $10 billion corporation sued
a family—run farm, and lost.
Welcome.
We start in the US, where President Biden has taken
a step towards his goal of slashing US greenhouse emissions.
How?
He’s signed an executive order requiring half of all vehicles sold
in the United States to be electric by 2030 — a move backed
by the top auto companies.
He signed off and fired up an electricjeep.
The Biden administration is also proposing new,
tougher emissions rules over the next few years.
These would reverse former President Trump’s lowering
of fuel economy standards.
m:
We have a playbook and it is going to work. Today I’m announcing steps
to work. Today I’m announcing steps to set a new pace for electric
to set a new pace for electric vehicles. I am following through on
vehidas. I am following through on the campaign
vehicles. I am following through on the campaign commitment to reverse
the campaign commitment to reverse the previous administration’s short
the previous administration’s short sighted of vehicle emissions and
sighted of vehicle emissions and efficiency standards. I’m doing so
efficiency standards. I’m doing so with the support of the auto
with the support of the auto industry. The automobile industry.
industry. The automobile industry. Today the Environmental Protection
Today the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of
Agency and the Department of transportation are unveiling
transportation are unveiling proposals to do just that. These
proposals to do just that. These agencies are beginning to work on
agencies are beginning to work on the next round of standards for a
the next round of standards for a broad class of vehicles, for cars,
broad class of vehicles, for cars, SUVs, pick-up
broad class of vehicles, for cars, SUVs, pick—up trucks, medium and
SUVs, pick-up tmcks, medium and heavy duty
SUVs, pick—up trucks, medium and heavy duty vehicles. Importantly, we
heavy duty vehidas. Importanﬂy, we have
heavy duty vehicles. Importantly, we have announcements today from
have announcements today from auto—makers representing nearly the
auto-makers representing nearty the entire
auto—makers representing nearly the entire order market, who are
entire order market, who are positioned around the ambition of A0
positioned around the ambition of 40 to SON:
positioned around the ambition of A0 to 50% of all vehicles are sold by
to 5096 of all vehidas are sold by 2030
to 50% of all vehicles are sold by 2030 America, being electric.
Note the word there — ‘ambition’.
The executive order is not legally binding.
So will it work?
Swetha Ramachandran is Investment Manager at GAM Investments,
I asked her if there’s public support for the move.
That’s a really interesting question. And I think the one part
question. And I think the one part of not address is the consumer
of not address is the consumer uptake side, where the industry has
uptake side, where the industry has been lobbying the government for
been lobbying the government for some time to put in place tax credit
some time to put in place tax credit that would encourage consumers to
that would encourage consumers to increase their adoption of electric
increase their adoption of electric vehicles, even though this year we
vehicles, even though this year we are seeing an increase from 2% last
are seeing an increase from 296 last year to roughly
are seeing an increase from 2% last year to roughly about 3% in terms of
year to roughly about 396 in terms of total
year to roughly about 3% in terms of total electric vehicle adoption,
total electric vehida adoption, that pales
total electric vehicle adoption, that pales in comparison to led say
that pales in comparison to lad say Norway, which
that pales in comparison to led say Norway, which has 75% of its auto
Norway, which has 7596 of its auto sales
Norway, which has 75% of its auto sales electric. The UK and the EU
sales elactric. The UK and the EU are at ten
sales electric. The UK and the EU are at ten to 11% each. The US has a
are at ten to 1196 each. The US has a long way to go in
are at ten to 11% each. The US has a long way to go in terms of
long way to go in terms of convincing consumers to actually
convincing consumers to actually increase their adoption of electric
increase their adoption of electric vehicles. That is the demand side.
vehicles. That is the demand side. What about the supply side? Biden
what about the supply side? Biden said, were
What about the supply side? Biden said, were used to leading this
said, were used to leading this technology and we can lead again.
technology and we ran lead again. But given the
technology and we can lead again. But given the enormous Headstart
But given the enormous Headstart China has in this market, is he’s a
China has in this market, is he’s a realistic ambition to even have? It
realistic ambition to even have? It is tme
realistic ambition to even have? It is true that China has stolen the
is tme that China has stolan the mantra
is true that China has stolen the mantra of the US, but we can’t
mantra of the US, but we can’t forget that Tesla is a US company,
forget that Tesla is a US company, although notably left out of the
although notably left out of the summit. And increasingly, the other
summit. And increasingly, the other US companies are making important
US companies are making important strides in electrification, with
strides in electrification, with ambitious goals of their own. GM has
ambitious goals of their own. GM has said it would stop selling
said it would stop selling non—electric vehicles by 2030. Other
non-electric vehidas by 2030. other companies are
non—electric vehicles by 2030. Other companies are proposing similar
companies are proposing similar measures on a voluntary basis so
measures on a voluntary basis so far. So the
measures on a voluntary basis so far. 50 the critical
measures on a voluntary basis so far. So the critical technology does
far. So the critical technology does exist on
far. 50 the critical technology does exist on the supply side. It needs
exist on the supply side. It needs to be given this further impetus to
to be given this further impetus to the government is trying to do in
the government is trying to do in terms of providing backing
terms of providing backing infrastructure. Charging points in
infrastmclure. Charging points in the US
infrastructure. Charging points in the US are still a pinch point.
the US are still a pinch point. There are estimated to be about
There are estimated to be about 50,000 charging points. The plan
50,000 charging points. The plan would require the establishment of
would require the establishment of 500,000. That is an area the
500,000. That is an area the government needs to get more heavily
government needs to get more heavily involved in. But that particular
involved in. But that particular aspect of it will see a major
aspect of it will see a major upgrade, wanted, in this
upgrade, wanted, in this infrastructure bill? Yes,
infrastructure bill? Yes, absolutely. The proposal looks for
absolutely. The proposal looks for $7.5 billion to be earmarked towards
$7.5 billion to be earmarked towards the establishment of infrastructure
the establishment of infrastmcture for the
the establishment of infrastructure for the electric vehicle industry,
for the electric vehicle industry, which would be very welcome by the
which would be very welcome by the auto—makers. JFK didn’t set a goal
auto-makers. jFK didn’t set a goal to get halfway
auto—makers. JFK didn’t set a goal to get halfway to the moon, and
to get halfway to the moon, and Franklin Roosevelt didn’t set out to
Franklin Roosevelt didn’t set out to half win World War II. Can Biden go
half win World War II. (“an Biden go down as a great
half win World War II. Can Biden go down as a great climate change
down as a great climate change president by setting what is a
president by setting what is a modest goal
president by setting what is a modest goalfor
president by setting what is a modest goal for electric vehicles,
modest goal for electric vehicles, half by 2030? At this point in time
half by 2030? At this point in time it seems like a work in progress.
it seems like a work in progress. The direction of travel is probably
The direction of travel is probably more relevant than the ultimate
more relevant than the ultimate goal, which I suspect will be
goal, which I suspect will be tweaked and made more ambitious as
tweaked and made more ambitious as the industry makes further strikes
the industry makes further strikes in this area. For now it seems very
in this area. For now it seems very much a shot and beyond to reverse
much a shot and beyond to reverse some of the rollbacks the Trump
some of the rollbacks the Trump administration had made in its
administration had made in its concessions to the auto industry.
concessions to the auto industry. And in that I think we need to look
And in that I think we need to look at it as a step in the right
at it as a step in the right direction rather than an end point.
Let’s turn to the travel industry now, because as you’ve been hearing,
European countries are beginning to demand proof of Covid immunity
for access to a wide range of venues and services.
As of Monday, in France, to visit a cafe or board a train
you’ll need to show a health pass, proving two vaccine doses or recent
negative Covid test.
It’s part of an EU—wide scheme.
But what about tourists from outside the bloc?
Could it deal another huge blow to the tourism business,
just when travel restrictions are beginning to lift?
Elodie Bertah is a Paris tour guide.
I asked her what the impact on Paris would be.
U nfortu nately,
Unfortunately, I think it will be limited because already we have very
limited because already we have very few tourists from outside the EU. 50
few tourists from outside the EU. So it will not
few tourists from outside the EU. 50 it will not be as devastating as you
it will not be as devastating as you expected be, sadly. If you don’t
expected be, sadly. If you don’t have a double vaccine in France, you
have a double vaccine in France, you have to have a PCR test. How much of
have to have a PCR test. How much of that is a restriction on trade and
that is a restriction on trade and on economic activity in the country?
on economic activity in the country? That will be harder, I think. It has
That will be harder, I think. It has to be either the vaccine, the PCR or
to be either the vaccine, the PCR or another test.
to be either the vaccine, the PCR or anothertest. But
to be either the vaccine, the PCR or another test. But a number of people
another test. But a number of peopla still do not
another test. But a number of people still do not have the full vaccine
still do not have the full vaccine scheme. And it means that even if
scheme. And it means that even if you want to go for a beer on a
you want to go for a beer on a terrace in a bar
you want to go for a beer on a terrace in a barfrom one day, you
terrace in a bar from one day, you will need to
terrace in a barfrom one day, you will need to have a test
will need to have a test certificate. I was hearing yesterday
certificate. I was hearing yesterday in a number of bar owners saying
in a number of bar owners saying they will return to the previous
they will return to the previous takeaway for their beers and coffees
takeaway for their beers and coffees and so on. They will ask for the QR
and so on. They will ask for the QR code so as not to lose too many
code so as not to lose too many clients. This is the problem. These
clients. This is the problem. These tests only last a couple of days.
tests only last a couple of days. Therefore, if you don’t have a
Therefore, if you don’t have a double vaccine, you’re going to have
double vaccine, you’re going to have to keep doing these tests to go out
to keep doing these tests to go out for a beer with your friends.
to keep doing these tests to go out for a beer with yourfriends. Do
to keep doing these tests to go out for a beer with your friends. Do you
for a beer with your friends. Do you feel this health pass is going to
feel this health pass is going to have an impact on the vaccination
have an impact on the vaccination status of French nationals? Are more
status of French nationals? Are more peopla going to
status of French nationals? Are more people going to take up the jab? It
peopla going to take up the jab? It has
people going to take up the jab? It has started, actually. When the
has started, actually. When the President announced the upcoming
President announced the upcoming measures, the ones that arrive on
measures, the ones that arrive on Monday, there was a huge boost on
Monday, there was a huge boost on the vaccination activity around the
the vaccination activity around the country. Even people on holiday were
country. Even people on holiday were rushing to get the vaccination
rushing to get the vaccination because it also includes some people
because it also includes some peopla for
because it also includes some people for the job,
because it also includes some people forthejob, people
because it also includes some people for thejob, people are
because it also includes some people for the job, people are work in
for the job, peopla are work in hospitals etc.
for the job, people are work in hospitals etc. So these people, if
hospitals etc. So these people, if they want to go back to work after
they want to go back to work after their holidays, they need to have
their holidays, they need to have the full vaccination. So they were
the full vaccination. So they were rushing to get their first dose, to
rushing to get their first dose, to have the time to get the second dose
have the time to get the second dose before September. It already has a
before September. It already has a big impact on vaccination activity
big impact on vaccination activity in the country. But still, a few
in the country. But still, a few peopla
in the country. But still, a few people remain very hostile to this
people remain very hostile to this vaccination. Paris, of course,
vaccination. Paris, of course, normally such an international
normally such an international destination. Perhaps a little bit of
destination. Perhaps a little bit of relief this week that France has
relief this week that France has come off the amber plus watch list
come off the amber plus watch list for the UK. Do you foresee a boost
for the UK. Do you foresee a boost in trade over the next few weeks, or
in trade over the next few weeks, or do you think this will be a barrier
do you think this will be a barrier to trade? Again, I’m afraid we still
to trade? Again, I’m afraid we still don’t have very many visitors, so it
don’t have very many visitors, so it won’t have a big effect on the
won’t have a big effect on the numbers. At least not in Paris,
numbers. At least not in Paris, because Paris is not a very big
because Paris is not a very big destination in the summer. Generally
destination in the summer. Generally people like to go elsewhere in
people like to go elsewhere in France in the summer. Again, the
France in the summer. Again, the numbers are not very high right now.
numbers are not very high right now. It was very satisfactory that the
It was very satisfactory that the ban was lifted for France, of
ban was lifted for France, of course. But it will not translate
course. But it will not translate into a huge amount of people coming
into a huge amount of peopla coming in and out
into a huge amount of people coming in and out of Paris right now.
Now, to a classic David and Goliath battle, over oat milk.
On the one side a multinational business valued at $10 billion
on the Nasdaq stock market.
On the other, a small family run—farm in the UK.
On Thursday, farmers Philip and Rebecca Rayner
won their High Court battle against Swedish oat milk giant
Oatly, which accused them of trademark infringement.
Michelle Fleury has more.
The Swedish company Oatly is a
The Swedish company Oaﬂy is a pioneer in
pioneer in dairy alternatives found in plants. It produces milk
in plants. It produces milk substitutes made from oats. It is
substitutes made from oats. It is growing quickly. In fact, it has a
growing quickly. In fact, it has a deal with a beverage company to
deal with a beverage company to bring its products to Asia. It has
bring its products to Asia. It has already helped to popularise the new
already helped to popularise the new old milk in the UK, where it began
old milk in the UK, where it began selling shares to the public later
selling shares to the public later this year. But with success comes
this year. But with success comes imitators. At least that is the
imitators. At least that is the argument Oatly sought to make in a
argument Oatly sought to make in a British court. The brand, endorsed
British court. The brand, endorsed by celebrities including Oprah
by celebrities including Oprah Winfrey, took Britain’s ro Glebe
Winfrey, took Britain’s ro Glabe Farm to
Winfrey, took Britain’s ro Glebe Farm to court in a bid to stop it
Farm to court in a bid to stop it selling the pure Oti drink, accusing
selling the pure Oti drink, accusing it of trademark infringement.
it of trademark infringement. However, a High Court
it of trademark infringement. However, a High Courtjudge has
However, a High Courtjudge has mled in
However, a High Courtjudge has ruled in favour of the UK firm,
mled in favour of the UK firm, saying that
ruled in favour of the UK firm, saying that while there were
saying that while there were similarities between the initial
similarities between the initial pure out milk and packaging, it
pure out milk and packaging, it would be hard to see how this would
would be hard to see how this would [dad to
would be hard to see how this would lead to confusion among consumers.
lead to confusion among consumers. The Swedish firm is caught up in
The Swedish firm is caught up in another legal dispute in America,
another legal dispute in America, with an activist investor accusing
with an activist investor accusing the company of overstating revenue.
This week, one of the world’s top video games companies,
Activision Blizzard, unveiled a management shake—up,
following employee protests over sexism and harassment,
and a discrimination lawsuit by the state of California.
It describes a toxic workplace environment,
with male staffjoking about rape and allegedly groping
female colleagues.
The company has promised to review its workplace conditions,
and the depiction of women in some of its games.
There have been similar allegations at other games developers.
So does the industry have a broader problem?
Anisa Sanusi is game designer and the founder of Limit Break,
a mentorship program for under—represented people working
in the UK games industry.
I asked her earlier if any progress had been made.
U nfortu nately,
Unfortunately, it is not an isolated use. It is
Unfortunately, it is not an isolated rase. It is quite
Unfortunately, it is not an isolated case. It is quite rampant, no matter
rase. It is quite rampant, no matter where you are in
case. It is quite rampant, no matter where you are in the world. Most of
where you are in the world. Most of the games are quite similar,
the games are quite similar, unfortunately. Is it fair to assume
unfortunately. Is it fair to assume this culture is the direct result of
this culture is the direct result of a lack of diversity in the industry,
a lack of diversity in the industry, or is it more than that? Yes, I
or is it more than that? Yes, I would say that is one of the
would say that is one of the reasons. In the UK at least the most
reasons. In the UK at least the most recent census that we had, 70% of
recent census that we had, 7096 of the industry is
recent census that we had, 70% of the industry is male and only 28% is
the industry is male and only 2896 is female.
the industry is male and only 28% is female. But how does increasing the
female. But how does increasing the proportion of female representation
proportion of female representation within the industry change anything?
within the industry change anything? Representation definitely matters.
Representation definitely matters. We do want more women and people of
We do want more women and peopla of colour to be
We do want more women and people of colour to be in leadership roles, in
colour to be in leadership roles, in senior roles as well, because that’s
senior roles as well, because that’s where change happens, when those
where change happens, when those people up top who care about these
peopla up top who rare about these things. I would
people up top who care about these things. I would say more people in
things. I would say more peopla in higher
things. I would say more people in higher positions need to listen to
higher positions need to listen to people.
Stay with us on BBC News. Still to come...
Back on stage, and on the streets and online —
the Edinburgh Festival returns after its Covid—enforced absence.
An increase in gas and electricity bills for 11 million homes
in England, Wales and Scotland will be announced today.
The energy regulator, Ofgem, will reveal its maximum price
cap in about an hour.
Experts predict a rise of £150 per customer,
meaning the average annual bill could be almost £1,300.
There’s been a call for people with needle phobia to be
exempt from any Covid vaccine passport scheme.
An Oxford University study suggests the phobia —
which causes an extreme fear of injections and often anxiety
around just seeing a needle — accounts for around 10% of vaccine
hesitancy in the UK.
Music festivals and other live events are to be protected
by government—backed insurance if they have to cancel
because of Covid.
The £750 million scheme, which begins next month,
comes after organisers appealed for more support.
More than half of all festivals have been cancelled this summer.
Nightclubs in Wales can re—open tomorrow, in the biggest
easing of restrictions since the pandemic began.
Social distancing rules and limits on indoor meetings
will no longer apply, but face masks will still
be required in shops and on public transport.
The Welsh government has warned the lifting
of restrictions shouldn’t be seen as a "free—for—all".
This is BBC News.
This is BBC News. The latest headlines.
The Greek Prime Minister urges people to unite
against a wildfire menace, as emergency services tackle over
150 blazes threatening towns and villages across Greece.
There have been protests across Italy, as Covid vaccine
passes become mandatory for restaurants, sporting events
and live performances.
Career changes can be daunting — but they’ve become
increasingly popular.
The pandemic has led millions to be furloughed,
or accept a change in their pay and conditions — and that’s
prompted lots of us to reassess our working lives.
The business site Linkedln says that in the US the number of people
changing jobs is up 36% since before the pandemic.
Here’s the story of one man who swapped fashion’s
big business for a bar.
I’m
I’mJohn. I
I’m John. I used
I’mJohn. I used to be a senior
I’m john. I used to be a senior figure in the
I’mJohn. I used to be a senior figure in the fashion world and now
figure in the fashion world and now I mn my own
figure in the fashion world and now I run my own wine bar.
1. II
If there was no pandemic I absolutely would still be working
absolutely would still be working for the same company that I was
for the same company that I was working for. I had a wonderful
working for. I had a wonderful rareer.
working for. I had a wonderful career. I travelled all over the
career. I travelled all over the world. I was probably travelling a
world. I was probably travelling a little bit too much. Last year, with
little bit too much. Last year, with the pandemic, I had to make some
the pandemic, I had to make some decisions about whether I wanted to
decisions about whether I wanted to continue my career. I am at the age
continue my career. I am at the age now where I am looking at the next
now where I am looking at the next squad of ten to 15 years. And I
squad of ten to 15 years. And I wanted to create something that is
wanted to create something that is my own and something that I would
my own and something that I would enjoy day today. I think it is a mix
enjoy day today. I think it is a mix of financial and also
enjoy day today. I think it is a mix of financial and alsojob
of financial and also job satisfaction. Being
of financial and alsojob satisfaction. Being on my own
satisfaction. Being on my own personal environment. I was
personal environment. I was wholesale director and franchise
wholesale director and franchise director. There are a lot of
director. There are a lot of transferable skills that I had
transferable skills that I had developed in my past career that are
developed in my past career that are benefiting me now. I think it is a
benefiting me now. I think it is a chance for me to sort of really
chance for me to sort of really gather everything that I have
gather everything that I have learned
gather everything that I have [earned over the years. And to apply
learned over the years. And to apply it to my own
[earned over the years. And to apply it to my own business. I’m very
it to my own business. I’m very excited at the prospect of seeing
excited at the prospect of seeing the results from that. Going into
the results from that. Going into this I visualised exactly what I
this I visualised exactly what I wanted it to look like. And we’ve
wanted it to look like. And we’ve managed to accomplish it. So every
managed to accomplish it. So every morning when I open the doors, I get
morning when I open the doors, I get that sense of achievement where I
that sense of achievement where I think, wow, we achieved this.
And viewers on BBC World News can get more on Talking Business
with Aaron Heslehurst this weekend.
The times are on your screen now.
Finally, the world’s biggest arts festival returns
to Edinburgh this weekend, after a Pandemic—induced
year off in 2020.
The 2019 summer season was the biggest in the Edinburgh
Festival’s history, with more than 4.4 million people attending.
This year’s scaled down event combines everything from opera
to literary criticism, to impromptu street performances,
in a hybrid mix of live audience and digital distribution.
Organisers say online—only events in 2020 proved they could engage
wider audiences around the world.
Marshall Dallas is CEO of the Edinburgh International
Conference Centre, which will host 1A shows part of
the Edinburgh Fringe, as well as the International
TV Festival.
I asked him earlier what it’s like to be back.
It’s no understatement to say the past 16 months have been extremely
past 16 months have been extremely tough for all of us. Particularly
tough for all of us. Particularty those
tough for all of us. Particularly those that are working and living in
those that are working and living in Edinburgh. But now, as we are
Edinburgh. But now, as we are heading into August, we are
heading into August, we are definitely turning a corner. And of
definitely turning a corner. And of course Edinburgh has hosted the
course Edinburgh has hosted the fringe Festival since 1910. And it
fringe Festival since 1947. And it was
fringe Festival since 1910. And it was designed then to boost the
was designed then to boost the economy, to bring new
was designed then to boost the economy, to bring newjobs to people
economy, to bring new jobs to peopla just after the
economy, to bring newjobs to people just after the war. And probably
just after the war. And probably most importantly, bring some joy
most importantly, bring some joy into people’s lives. 50 for me this
into people’s lives. So for me this festival is
into people’s lives. 50 for me this festival is hugely symbolic to
festival is hugely symbolic to Edinburgh. As we come out of this
Edinburgh. As we come out of this global pandemic. And this is also a
global pandemic. And this is also a big week for the residents of
big week for the residents of Edinburgh, for small businesses. And
Edinburgh, for small businesses. And perhaps they will be a bit emotional
perhaps they will be a bit emotional this week as the fringe gets under
this week as the fringe gets under way. Edinburgh has taken its first
way. Edinburgh has taken its first tentative steps back to delivering
tentative steps back to delivering great hospitality and events, which
great hospitality and events, which is so important to the city. Heaven
is so important to the city. Heaven knows we are all in need of a good
knows we are all in need of a good laugh after the last year. If sort
laugh after the last year. If sort of touchstone on it there. I wonder
of touchstone on it there. I wonder if you could sort of explain to
if you could sort of explain to viewers how important these
viewers how important these festivals are to the city? Well,
festivals are to the city? Well, dearty this
festivals are to the city? Well, clearly this year because of Covid
clearly this year because of Covid restrictions, and an obviously
restrictions, and an obviously greatly reduced international travel
greatly reduced international travel comedy festivals will be on a bit of
comedy festivals will be on a bit of a smaller scale. 50 this year we
a smaller scale. So this year we won’t be
a smaller scale. 50 this year we won’t be hosting the biggest
won’t be hosting the biggest festival in the world. Like we
festival in the world. Like we normally do. But I know it will be
normally do. But I know it will be the greatest.
Marshall Dallas.
Let’s check in with the markets. The Asian markets failing to catch a
Asian markets failing to catch a break from a
Asian markets failing to catch a breakfrom a bumper
Asian markets failing to catch a break from a bumper session on Wall
break from a bumper session on Wall Street. The spread of the Delta
Street. The spread of the Delta variant heightening concerns about
variant heightening concerns about the economic recovery in the region.
the economic recovery in the region. This is where I say goodbye to the
This is where I say goodbye to the international viewers. Thank you
international viewers. Thank you very much for your company. Have a
very much for your company. Have a lovely weekend.
Here in the UK, there’s a call for people with needle phobia to be
exempt from any possible coronavirus vaccine passport scheme.
Having a phobia of needles can cause an extreme fear of injections,
and in many cases raises anxiety levels when just catching
a glimpse of a needle.
A recent study suggests the phobia accounts for around a tenth
of vaccine hesitancy in Britain, as Luxmy Gopal reports.
Adam is getting his first Covid jab, or desperately trying to. The
or desperately trying to. The 23-year-old
or desperately trying to. The 23—year—old suffers from needle
23-year-old suffers from needla phobia and
23—year—old suffers from needle phobia and anxiety. It’s not widely
phobia and anxiety. It’s not widely recognised, 0K? A lot of people just
recognised, 0K? A lot of peopla just say shut your
recognised, 0K? A lot of people just say shut your eyes, forget about it,
say shut your eyes, forget about it, focus on something else. It doesn’t
focus on something else. It doesn’t work that way. It is far more severe
work that way. It is far more severe than just a fair and an aversion to
than just a fair and an aversion to needles. If you love the world is
needles. If you love the world is ending type of thing at that moment.
ending type of thing at that moment. You can’t focus on anything. It’s
You can’t focus on anything. It’s not so much the pain of the
not so much the pain of the injection, it’s the thought of it
injection, it’s the thought of it piercing the skin. Three days ago,
piercing the skin. Three days ago, he came in for his first attempt. We
he came in for his first attempt. We spent five hours. We went from being
spent five hours. We went from being in a state of severe panic to being
in a state of severe panic to being able to sit with a needle 3
in a state of severe panic to being able to sit with a needle a few
able to sit with a needle a few inches away. I didn’t get the jab. I
inches away. I didn’t get the jab. I rebooked for today. Then we had
rebooked for today. Then we had three hours. Vaccine clinics have
three hours. Vaccine clinic have resources
three hours. Vaccine clinics have resources on hand for those who need
resources on hand for those who need more time or one—to—one support. The
more time or one-to-one support. The majority and
more time or one—to—one support. The majority and especially the younger
majority and especially the younger generation, we have a lot of people
generation, we have a lot of people worried and scared about needles. My
worried and stared about needles. My advice to
worried and scared about needles. My advice to me —— them as they can
advice to me -- them as they ran bring friends,
advice to me —— them as they can bring friends, family members, they
bring friends, family members, they ran ask
bring friends, family members, they can ask for a side room, they can
ran ask for a side room, they ran all the
can ask for a side room, they can call the vaccine cites beforehand to
call the vaccine cites beforehand to get an idea of what precautions,
get an idea of what precautions, what steps are being put in place to
what steps are being put in place to help them. Tackling this phobia
help them. Tackling this phobia could make a real dent in vaccine
could make a real dent in vaccine hesitancy rates. A study by
hesitancy rates. A study by researchers from Oxford University
researchers from Oxford University indicates that of those who are
indicates that of those who are vaccine hesitant in the UK, for
vaccine hesitant in the UK, for around one in ten the significant
around one in ten the significant factor is a fear of needles. The
factor is a fear of needles. The charity, anxiety UK, hopes any plans
charity, anxiety UK, hopes any plans for Covid passports would have
for Covid passports would have exemptions for people with the
exemptions for people with the condition. We shouldn’t be
condition. We shouldn’t be discriminating against those with
discriminating against those with needle phobia or needle anxiety. It
needla phobia or needla anxiety. It must be
needle phobia or needle anxiety. It must be recognised that there is a
must be recognised that there is a genuine and real
must be recognised that there is a genuine and realfear in
must be recognised that there is a genuine and real fear in some
genuine and real fear in some peopla.
genuine and real fear in some people. They need help and support.
people. They need help and support. It would be unfair to not allow them
It would be unfair to not allow them to be considered to be included in
to be considered to be included in some form of exemption scheme if
some form of exemption scheme if that was allowed, if that was taken
that was allowed, if that was taken forward. The Department of Health
forward. The Department of Health 5575
forward. The Department of Health says it encourages people to have
says it encourages people to have the vaccine as it can save lives. It
the vaccine as it ran save lives. It 5575
the vaccine as it ran save lives. It says it is working
the vaccine as it can save lives. It says it is working to ensure those
says it is working to ensure those who can’t have it for medical
who can’t have it for medical reasons and disadvantage. But this
reasons and disadvantage. But this EWUP “
reasons and disadvantage. But this group -- for this
reasons and disadvantage. But this group —— for this group of
group —— for this group of unvaccinated, it is not about being
unvaccinated, it is not about being anti—vaxxer. After hours of trying
anti-vaxxer. After hours of trying again, Adam
anti—vaxxer. After hours of trying again, Adam doesn’t quite manage the
again, Adam doesn’t quite manage the jab but has rebooked and is
jab but has rebooked and is determined to give it another shot.
determined to give it another shot. Looks me go pal, BBC News.
As we’ve been hearing, nightclubs in Wales can re—open tomorrow,
in the biggest easing of restrictions since
the pandemic began.
Social distancing rules and limits on indoor meetings
will no longer apply, but face masks will still
be required in shops and on public transport.
The Welsh government has warned that the lifting
of restrictions shouldn’t be seen as a "free—for—all".
What we hope is that people will continue to treat others with
continue to treat others with respect and to think about those
respect and to think about those simple things we can all do that
simple things we can all do that continue to keep ourselves and other
continue to keep ourselves and other people say. So that does include
peopla say. So that does include being a
people say. So that does include being a respectful distance when you
being a respectful distance when you ran.
being a respectful distance when you can. Hand washing. Wearing masks
ran. Hand washing. Wearing masks when you are in
can. Hand washing. Wearing masks when you are in crowded public
when you are in crowded public places. Those simple things that
places. Those simple things that we’ve all learned to do and which
we’ve all learned to do and which cumulatively continue to make a real
cumulatively continue to make a real difference.
We all know that keeping a routine during lockdown can be tricky,
particularly if you’re used to the limelight.
Despite the absence of admiring crowds, the march of the penguins
has continued at this zoo in Thailand.
Their keepers say it is important for them to get out and about,
to help prevent them getting sick.
So, despite the pandemic, they’ve been enjoying a little
sunshine and the chance for a swim, before before returning
to an air—conditioned enclosure.
Not a bad life, while they wait for their adoring public to return.
And away from the Olympics, there’s another aquatic sports
events that’s really got peopla in a ﬂap.
The annual Rubber Duck Derby got underway when the competitors
plunged from the Columbus Bridge in Chicago.
And no less than 65,000 the bath toys are taking part.
And there’s no need to worry about pollution.
They’re reused in different cities around the country.
Some of these stories we do, honestly, I don’t know what our
honestly, I don’t know what our viewers must think. Matt Taylor
viewers must think. Matt Taylor loves a good rubber duck. He has got
loves a good mbber duck. He has got the
loves a good rubber duck. He has got the weather.
loves a good rubber duck. He has got the weather.
Good morning. We are about to get through the weather equivalent of
through the weather equivalent of the rinse and spin cycle. Plenty of
the rinse and spin cycle. Plenty of showers in the next few days, some
showers in the next few days, some heavy and thundery. They are all
heavy and thundery. They are all revolving around an area of low
revolving around an area of low pressure which is stubborn to shift.
pressure which is stubborn to shift. Here it is today, here it is through
Here it is today, here it is through the weekend, and only slowly moving
the weekend, and only slowly moving its way eastwards. Plenty of showers
its way eastwards. Plenty of showers around it. Not until Tuesday will be
around it. Not until Tuesday will he get a break from those sherry
get a break from those sherry conditions. Low pressure is centred
conditions. Low pressure is centred across parts of southern Scotland
across parts of southern Scotland and northern England today. This is
and northern England today. This is where the downpours, if they come
where the downpours, if they come your way, will be longer lasting.
your way, will be longer lasting. Torrential places. Could cause some
Torrential places. Could cause some ﬂooding. More
Torrential places. Could cause some flooding. More persistent rain in
ﬂooding. More persistent rain in parts of
flooding. More persistent rain in parts of northern Scotland, quite a
parts of northern Scotland, quite a breeze. The showers in the South
breeze. The showers in the South will through quicker. A bit more
will through quicker. A bit more sunshine in between. Blustery
sunshine in between. Blustery conditions, winds gusting to A0 to
conditions, winds gusting to 40 to 50 mph. It
conditions, winds gusting to A0 to 50 mph. It does make for a cool day.
50 mph. It does make for a cool day. Nice enough if you get in the
Nice enough if you get in the sunshine between those downpours.
sunshine between those downpours. But when the downpours come your way
But when the downpours come your way it will feel disappointing for the
it will feel disappointing for the stage in August. Even as you go into
stage in August. Even as you go into the night quite often you expect
the night quite often you expect showers to fade. The showers
showers to fade. The showers continue to fading throughout the
continue to fading throughout the night. Most persistent in some parts
night. Most persistent in some parts of northern Ireland, North Wales and
of northern Ireland, North Walas and into
of northern Ireland, North Wales and into Northern Ireland. Temperatures
into Northern Ireland. Temperatures still holding up, even though the
still holding up, even though the days are cool and the night is not
days are cool and the night is not particularty
days are cool and the night is not particularly cold. As you go into
particularty cold. As you go into Saturday,
particularly cold. As you go into Saturday, low pressure centred
Saturday, low pressure centred across parts of Scotland. A slightly
across parts of Scotland. A slightly drier day for northern Scotland.
drier day for northern Scotland. More downpours. The showers pushing
More downpours. The showers pushing through across parts of England and
through across parts of England and Walas. A dry
through across parts of England and Wales. A dry spell through East
Walas. A dry spell through East Anglia and
Wales. A dry spell through East Anglia and the South East during the
Anglia and the South East during the middle part of the day. Temperatures
middle part of the day. Temperatures down on today. There you go,
down on today. There you go, confirmation as we go through
confirmation as we go through Saturday night into Sunday, the area
Saturday night into Sunday, the area of low pressure is with us. The
of low pressure is with us. The strongest winds wrapped around the
strongest winds wrapped around the outside flank. Another blustery day
outside ﬂank. Another blustery day in the
outside flank. Another blustery day in the south. Fewer showers here
in the south. Fewer showers here compared to elsewhere. The showers
compared to elsewhere. The showers longest lasting across parts of
longest lasting across parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland. I
Scotland and Northern Ireland. I ran, they
Scotland and Northern Ireland. I can, they could be heavy, thundery,
ran, they could be heavy, thundery, even
can, they could be heavy, thundery, even torrential. Temperatures
even torrential. Temperatures sitting in the teens for most. As we
sitting in the teens for most. As we look into next week, there will be
look into next week, there will be respite, particularly on Tuesday.
respite, particularly on Tuesday. Southern areas only seeing a few
Southern areas only seeing a few showers. More rain will arrive in
showers. More rain will arrive in the north and west at times.
This is BBC World News.
Our top stories —
a wildfire menace.
The Greek prime minister urges people to unite,
as emergency services tackle over 150 blazes threatening towns
and villages across Greece.
Protests across Italy as Covid vaccine—passes become
mandatory for restaurants, sporting events, and live performances.
I come up to the venue in question.
I present my green pass, which, in my case, is
a vaccination certificate.
It’s verified.
This device doesn’t save the data.
I present my ID card, and I am allowed to enter.
One of the world’s greatest footballers, Lionel Messi,
is leaving Barcelona after more than 20 years.
A fifth of all the UK’s Covid hospital patients
are aged between 18 and 34.
Doctors warn of the dangers facing the young and unvaccinated.
We have a special report.
Hello, and welcome to BBC World News.
Greece has been plunged into an unprecedented
environmental crisis, according to the country’s
prime minister.
Days of heatwaves have turned the country into a powder keg,
and he predicts the worst is yet to come with strong westerly winds
expected to fan the flames.
As Mark Lobel reports,
villagers are coming under pressure to abandon their homes,
As villages like these in the Peloponnese burn,
the Greek prime minister is urging extreme caution.
Houses can be rebuilt, he says, trees can regrow,
however human life cannot be replaced.
But abandoning your home is never easy in your 705.
TRANSLATION: Leave and go where, and let my house burn?
If we had left, this place would have burned.
We told the women and elderly and kids to go,
and whoever was able stay to help, however they could.
Crops are at risk, too.
So far, 6,000 hectares of [and have burned in three days
of wildfires, over half of last yea r’s total.
TRANSLATION: The agricultural wealth of the village has been decimated.
Nothing is left.
Olive trees, sheep, goats, stables, everything.
Westward winds have blown a new life into these fires
With temperatures well over A0 Celsius, the past week
has been Greece’s worst heatwave since the late ‘805.
With fires continuing to spread, local politicians
have denounced a lack of resources.
The army is doubling its efforts,
but is our changing environment to blame?
Climate change is producing hotter temperatures,
and making droughts more frequent, conditions that can fuel wildfires.
TRANSLATION: We have a debt to shield the country against the
reality of climate change.
I’m not looking for excuses.
We have made important strides in organising the country,
but these are not enough when you’re faced with a phenomenon
of such magnitude.
For those that believe such talk is merely a smokescreen,
the PM invites them to visit the fires for themselves.
Fires now spreading across southern Europe, where many
including Spaniards, Turks, Italians, Albanians, and
North Macedonians are also asking, just what is behind this summer
heatwave that’s causing familiar seasonal fires to act
in such extreme ways?
Mark Lobel, BBC News.
Nikolia Apostolou is a freelance journalist,
and she travels between Athens and Kalamata, Greece, which is where
she joins us from now.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us. Please
Thank you for joining us. Please bring us up to
Thank you forjoining us. Please bring us up to date on the latest
bring us up to date on the latest picture. This is the fourth
picture. This is the fourth day Greece is battling the wildfires,
Greece is battling the wildfires, saw thousands of Greeks have fled
saw thousands of Greeks have ﬂed their
saw thousands of Greeks have fled their homes, and Fios even
their homes, and Fios even reached an archaeological site. Right now,
an archaeological site. Right now, the biggest fire is in Athens, on
the biggest fire is in Athens, on the outskirts, and in Evia. The
the outskirts, and in Evia. The Government is saying that the fire
Government is saying that the fire in Athens could have been contained
in Athens could have been contained quickly on Tuesday, something that
quickly on Tuesday, something that did not happen, and has resulted in
did not happen, and has resulted in so many houses being destroyed.
so many houses being destroyed. Finally, not enough is being done
Finally, not enough is being done for climate change, for example fire
for climate change, for example fire protection zones, so the economic
protection zones, so the economic crisis in 2008, the austerity policy
crisis in 2008, the austerity policy has left the Fire Department
has left the Fire Department understaffed and without enough
understaffed and without enough equipment. Yeah, the Greek prime
equipment. Yeah, the Greek prime minister has set the time for
minister has set the time for criticism will come but it is not
criticism will come but it is not stopping those criticising the
stopping those criticising the Government, and there’s a fear that
Government, and there’s a fear that there just is not the staff within
there just is not the staff within the Fire Service to deal with
the Fire Service to deal with catastrophic fires. Exactly. There
catastrophic fires. Exactly. There is a European help on the way, 100
is a European help on the way, 100 French and Cypriot firefighters are
French and Cypriot firefighters are coming, but the winds we are
coming, but the winds we are expecting this afternoon, that might
expecting this afternoon, that might not be enough. And what are people
not be enough. And what are peopla saying about
not be enough. And what are people saying about the urgency with which
saying about the urgency with which they are being told to leave their
they are being told to leave their homes? Because as we saw in
homes? Because as we saw in that report, many are determined to stay,
report, many are determined to stay, aren’t they? Yes, they are staying
aren’t they? Yes, they are staying especially in cases where they do
especially in rases where they do not see any
especially in cases where they do not see any help, any firefighters
not see any help, any firefighters there, any helicopters and planes. I
there, any helicopters and planes. I think that is when people are
think that is when peopla are staying to
think that is when people are staying to save their homes. And the
staying to save their homes. And the fear is that the fires will
fear is that the fires will get worse? Exactly. Thank you very much
worse? Exactly. Thank you very much for the update.
Barcelona have announced their all—time top—scorer,
Lionel Messi, will be leaving this summer, after failing to agree
the terms of a new contract.
Messi has been at the club since he was 13.
During that time, he helped the team win more than 30 trophies and forged
a reputation as one of the greatest players of all time.
Tanya Dendrinos reports.
In the eyes of many, he’s the greatest footballer
of all time, a god amongst men,
for those who view the beautiful game as somewhat of a religion.
In Barcelona, this is their temple.
It didn’t take long for despondent fans to gather
outside Camp Nou as news of Lionel Messi’s departure hit home.
TRANSLATION: It’s a soap opera from last summer
to this summer, and it has finished in a harsh way
for the fans and the Barca club members.
It should’ve finished in a year without a pandemic,
with people filling in the stadium, and the whole of Spain
applauding his presence.
The 34—year—old has been a free agent
since the 1st ofJuly, when his contract expired.
Two weeks later, he agreed a new deal with reduced wages,
but it was still dependent on Barca selling players
to afford his salary.
The shocking blow came on Thursday, when Barcelona announced
Messi’s 21—year association with the club would be ending,
putting the blame on financial and structural obstacles
imposed by La Liga.
TRANSLATION: It’s a big loss, and football will generate
less money and we have less important players.
We will notice that.
So where might Messi be heading?
Who does have the money?
The best candidates I think are Paris St Germain,
who are the most likely club to sign him.
The other club who might have the finances to sign him,
Manchester City, do not appear to want to.
That is, of course, if this is the end of the road,
but not everyone’s so sure.
I think Barcelona can make a pretty convincing case
that it is in the interests not only of Barcelona but of Spanish football
as a whole to bend the rules 3 little bit and retain the services
of the man who could well be the greatest player,
some would argue the greatest player in the history of the world.
Nothing is certain until this Messiah signs on the dotted line.
For now, Barca fans are left hoping their dreams will be resurrected.
Manchester City has smashed the British transfer—fee record —
after signing midfielder Jack Grealish from Aston Villa
for £100 million.
The move makes him the ninth most expensive footballer in history —
and it comes one year
after the 25—year—old signed a five—year contract with Villa.
Music festivals and other live events are to be protected
by Government—backed insurance if they have to cancel
because of Covid in the UK.
The £750 million scheme — which begins next month —
comes after organisers appealed for more support.
More than half of all festivals have been cancelled this summer.
Venues across Italy are introducing an obligatory Covid
"green pass" from today, meaning access will only
be allowed with either a vaccination certificate,
a negative test, or proof of recovery from the virus.
The measure will be extended to universities
and transport next month.
Mark Lowen reports.
A night at the opera — tickets, temperature check,
and, from today, the mandatory green pass — a Covid
vaccination certificate, negative test, or proof of recovery,
as Italy tightens its mles from theatres
to restaurants, gyms to cafes.
This is how it will work in practice.
I come up to the venue in question.
I present my green pass, which, in my case, is
a vaccination certificate.
It’s verified.
This device doesn’t save the data.
I present my ID card, and I am allowed to enter.
It is a big change and a big challenge for those involved.
Nobody told us how to face Covid, you know,
so at the beginning we were afraid, we were nervous,
we were anxious.
Then, month by month, we solved new problems giving
new solutions, and after 18 months we built a little bit
of self—confidence, so let’s say now that the situation is —
it is not a problem.
This is another problem regarding Covid.
Tonight’s treat — Aida.
Ajewel of Verdi.
This ancient amphitheatre in a new pandemic era.
Verona’s Arena has already adapted to Covid.
Fewer performers, masks, and half capacity.
But, with the green pass, the drama has moved offstage, too.
Parliament had to be suspended after protests
from far—right MPs.
And while polls show 70% of Italians in favour,
vocal demonstrations have broken out across the country.
Much of the opposition is from restaurateurs,
their patience already worn by lockdowns.
TRANSLATION: We shouldn’t have to police this,
it’s not ourjob,
and we shouldn’t deal with sensitive data.
The government will make us argue with customers
who want to sit inside without the pass.
We will have to comply, but we have already had cancellations.
Are you no—vax?
Absolutely not, I am neither for nor against,
I am a restaurateur.
It has gotten nasty for medics supporting the green pass.
This woman received a death threat through WhatsApp,
evoking the Nazi Trials at Nuremberg.
Other messages were on Facebook,
and they came from her colleagues.
TRANSLATION: I really felt in danger.
What upset me most was that the threats
were from health workers.
They, like us, were heroes of the pandemic
and now some of them are no—vax.
I felt broken and thought about giving up everything,
but then I realised I must go on and show that
they are the ones at fault.
At the arena, too, the show will go on, though with new checks
for the opera lovers.
Italy is beginning another act in its Covid story,
but the unity felt last year is fading.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Verona.
A beautiful morning here in Verona, and a big day as well as businesses
and a big day as well as businesses begin to introduce this change,
begin to introduce this change, among them Cathy is with indoor
among them Cathy is with indoor seating
among them (‘athy is with indoor seating areas.
among them Cathy is with indoor seating areas. And as you can see
seating areas. And as you ran see here, they have
seating areas. And as you can see here, they have already put up the
here, they have already put up the Green pass signs for
Green pass signs for customers telling them they will have to show
telling them they will have to show their QR code before they go in to
their QR code before they go in to take a table. Let’s go in and see
take a tabla. Let’s go in and see how this is
take a table. Let’s go in and see how this is all shaping up. Still
how this is all shaping up. Still the mask obligation to come inside
the mask obligation to come inside places like this. You can see how
places like this. You ran see how difficult
places like this. You can see how difficult life is in Italy these
difficult life is in Italy these days, with these fantastic cakes and
days, with these fantastic rakes and the
days, with these fantastic cakes and the Italian espresso there as well.
the Italian espresso there as well. And Marco, my first question, how do
And Marco, my first question, how do you ensure you do not eat
you ensure you do not eat everything before you serve it? It is so
before you serve it? It is so beautiful. Thank you. I try. Are you
beautiful. Thank you. Itry. Are you ready for the
beautiful. Thank you. I try. Are you ready for the green pass change?
ready for the green pass change? Yes, I
ready for the green pass change? Yes, Itry
ready for the green pass change? Yes, I try to be. How difficult is
Yes, I try to be. How difficult is it, do you have the app already
it, do you have the app already on your phone? Yes. Press here,
your phone? Yes. Press here, and then the person shows the green
then the person shows the green P555-
then the person shows the green pass, and I see if it is right or
pass, and I see if it is right or not. Have you already have to use it
not. Have you already have to use it for customers this morning? Yes,
for customers this morning? Yes, only once this morning. And she had
only once this morning. And she had the Green pass. 50 we do not
the Green pass. So we do not have any problems.
the Green pass. 50 we do not have any problems. What was her
any problams. what was her attitude? What
any problams. what was her attitude? what do you
any problems. What was her attitude? What do you feel about the
What do you feel about the behaviour, the response of the
behaviour, the response of the customers you will have. Are you
customers you will have. Are you worried you will have argumentative
worried you will have argumentative customers or people will reject it?
customers or peopla will reject it? I think
customers or people will reject it? I think some customers will be
I think some customers will be trouble, will complain. But
I think some customers will be trouble, will complain. Butl
I think some customers will be trouble, will complain. But I hope
trouble, will complain. Butl hope we find
trouble, will complain. But I hope we find people with the Green pass.
we find people with the Green pass. Are you supportive of this, do you
Are you supportive of this, do you believe it is the right idea? Yes,
believe it is the right idea? Yes, I support. Thank you very much, Marco.
support. Thank you very much, Marco. So I think this is an attempt really
So I think this is an attempt really by the Government to ensure that
by the Government to ensure that Italians vaccinate. About 60% of
Italians vaccinate. About 60% of Italians are now fully vaccinated.
Italians are now fully vaccinated. The Green pass measure is now going
The Green pass measure is now going to be extended to transport,
to be extended to transport, schools, and universities also by
schools, and universities also by next month, is the first country in
next month, is the first country in the west to have been crushed by the
the west to have been cmshed by the pandemic
the west to have been crushed by the pandemic takes no chances. Mark,
pandemic takes no chances. Mark, thank you very much. Those pastries
thank you very much. Those pastries do look delicious, do enjoy one now
do look delicious, do enjoy one now if you ran.
Stay with us on BBC World News, still to come —
a stark warning for the UK’s18—34—year—olds
about the dangers of being young and unvaccinated against Covid.
Fuel poverty campaigners are warning of a "harsh winter"
for low income families as gas and electricity bills
are expected to rise by around £150 per year.
The energy regulator, Ofgem, is to reveal its maximum price cap
which will affect around 11 million homes in England,
Scotland and Wales.
The new limit could mean the average annual bill
may be almost £1,300.
Justina Miltonite is from the comparison website Uswitch.
The price gap primarily affects customers who are on a default
customers who are on a default tariffs, so these are customers that
tariffs, so these are customers that have not switched their energy
have not switched their energy suppUer
have not switched their energy supplier for a
have not switched their energy supplierfor a really
have not switched their energy supplier for a really long time,
have not switched their energy supplierfor a really long time, or
supplier for a really long time, or have
supplierfor a really long time, or have moved homes and have not yet
have moved homes and have not yet fixed their deals. The other group
fixed their deals. The other group of people will be prepayment
of people will be prepayment customers, who are usually in a more
customers, who are usually in a more precarious financial situation
precarious financial situation already, so it will really affect
already, so it will really affect people who could do with a bit of
peopla who could do with a bit of relief.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines —
the Greek prime minister urges people to unite
against a wildfire menace, as emergency services tackle
over 150 blazes threatening towns and villages across Greece.
There have been protests across Italy
as Covid vaccine—passes become mandatory for restaurants,
sporting events, and live performances.
Nightclubs in Wales can re—open tomorrow in the biggest
easing of restrictions since the pandemic began.
Social distancing rules and limits on indoor meetings will no longer
apply, but face masks will still be required in shops
and on public transport.
The Welsh government has warned that the lifting
of restrictions shouldn’t be seen as a "free—for—all."
Doctors in Leeds in West Yorkshire in the north
of England say they are treating greater numbers of coronavirus
patients in hospital who are younger and unvaccinated.
It comes as the head of NHS England has said that one in five patients
on wards in the country is aged between 18 and 34.
Leeds Teaching Hospital has taken the unusual step of
allowing us to film on one of their Covid—19 wards
to highlight the risks younger people face by not having the jab.
Our health correspondentJamie Coulson has this exclusive report.
COUGHING.
Can you imagine yourself being stabbed in the back?
That’s what it feels like.
You breathe, and you’re getting stabbed at the same time.
Every time you take a breath, someone stabs you.
Three days ago, this man was admitted to
StJames’ Hospital in Leeds in excruciating pain.
The 25—year—old international student is like many patients
hospitals are now seeing in greater numbers.
He is younger and unvaccinated.
I am really worried, because all the pain
is going on inside my lungs, and it’s moving around.
I heard some people after they recover from Covid,
their lungs don’t work 100%.
Were you vaccinated?
I haven’t.
I was booking for a vaccination, but I got the Covid first.
VIOLENT COUGHING.
Hello.
Sorry to interrupt your dinner.
This is one of the respiratory consultants on the Covid wards.
He says it is concerning they are seeing a greater proportion
of younger patients.
What he has got is a complication of Covid, it’s a blood clot
on his lungs.
Secondary to the Covid inflammation.
Now, we now know that Covid increases the chance of getting
blood clots significantly, and there has been a big surge
in the number of patients we are seeing
with blood clots following Covid.
Hopefully the pain will get better in the next day or so.
These people are young and fit, most of them,
and they are still getting serious Covid, and we have to provide them
with a lot of support.
They are staying in hospital, some of them, for quite long periods,
and there is also a cost in terms of their recovery,
and because they are in their working life,
it has got complications long term.
This is one of three dedicated Covid wards at the trust,
and here, like elsewhere, they have seen an increase
in the number of patients needing help in recent weeks.
And a significant proportion of them are either unvaccinated
or only singlejabbed.
After weeks of rising cases, the number of Covid patients
at the trust has remained at about 100 for the last seven days.
Without the vaccine, doctors say the situation
could be much worse.
If you think about the total number of patients testing positive
in the country, compared to the number
of hospital admissions, there is no comparison compared
to the first and second wave.
So the overall numbers of admissions have significantly gone down,
and the only thing that is different is the vaccine.
And when they end up in hospital, what I am seeing, the patients
who have had a vaccine tend to do better.
COUGHING.
Take the vaccine.
I don’t think any other people want to experience what I am
experiencing right now, like feeling in pain every day,
not to mention even the painkillers couldn’t help you.
Jamie Coulson, BBC News.
Here in the UK, there’s a call for people
with needle phobia to be exempt from any possible coronavirus
vaccine passport scheme.
Having a phobia of needles can cause an extreme fear of injections
and in many cases raises anxiety levels when just catching
a glimpse of a needle.
A recent study suggests the phobia accounts for around a tenth
of vaccine hesitancy in Britain, as Luxmy Gopal reports.
Adam is trying to get his first Covid jab. He suffers with needle
Covid jab. He suffers with needla phobia and
Covid jab. He suffers with needle phobia and anxiety. It is not widely
phobia and anxiety. It is not widely recognised. A lot of people say shut
recognised. A lot of peopla say shut your
recognised. A lot of people say shut your eyes, forget about it, focus on
your eyes, forget about it, focus on something else. It doesn’t work that
something else. It doesn’t work that way. It is far more severe than just
way. It is far more severe than just aversion to needles, it is a full on
aversion to needles, it is a full on the world is ending type thing in
the world is ending type thing in that moment. You cannot focus
that moment. You rannot focus on anything. It is not
that moment. You cannot focus on anything. It is not so much the pain
anything. It is not so much the pain of the injection, it is the thought
of the injection, it is the thought of it piercing my skin. Three days
of it piercing my skin. Three days ago, he came in for his first
ago, he came in for his first attempt. We spent five hours. When
attempt. We spent five hours. when funding being
attempt. We spent five hours. When funding being in a state of
funding being in a state of severe panic to being able to sit with a
panic to being able to sit with a needla just a
panic to being able to sit with a needlejust a few
panic to being able to sit with a needle just a few inches away, but I
needla just a few inches away, but I didn’t
needle just a few inches away, but I didn’t get the job, I wasn’t ready.
didn’t get the job, I wasn’t ready. But I rebooked the other day for
But I rebooked the other day for today. -- I
But I rebooked the other day for today. —— I didn’t get the jab. And
today. -- I didn’t get the jab. And we have had
today. —— I didn’t get the jab. And we have had three hours. Which and
we have had three hours. which and you want, this
we have had three hours. Which and you want, this one? Vaccine clinics
you want, this one? Vaccine dinis have more
you want, this one? Vaccine clinics have more time available for people
have more time available for peopla who are
have more time available for people who are worried about needles. My
who are worried about needles. My advice is that they can bring
advice is that they ran bring friends
advice is that they can bring friends and with them, family
friends and with them, family members, they can ask for a side
members, they ran ask for a side room. They ran
members, they can ask for a side room. They can call up the vaccine
room. They ran all up the vaccine sites
room. They can call up the vaccine sites beforehand just to get an idea
sites beforehand just to get an idea about what precautions can be put in
about what precautions ran be put in place to help
about what precautions can be put in place to help them just so that the
place to help them just so that the vaccine programme is accessible
vaccine programme is accessible to all. Back on this phobia could make
all. Back on this phobia could make a real dent in vaccine hesitancy
a real dent in vaccine hesitancy rates. A study by researchers from
rates. A study by researchers from Oxford University indicates that of
Oxford University indicates that of those who are vaccine hesitant in
those who are vaccine hesitant in the UK, for around one in ten, the
the UK, for around one in ten, the significant factor is a fear of
significant factor is a fear of needles. The charity Anxiety UK
needles. The charity Anxiety UK hopes any plans for Covid vaccine
hopes any plans for Covid vaccine passports would have exemptions for
passports would have exemptions for peopla with
passports would have exemptions for people with the condition. We
people with the condition. We shouldn’t be discriminating against
shouldn’t be discriminating against those with a needle phobia or
those with a needla phobia or anxiety,
those with a needle phobia or anxiety, we must recognise that
anxiety, we must recognise that there is a genuine and real
anxiety, we must recognise that there is a genuine and realfear and
there is a genuine and real fear and some people.
there is a genuine and realfear and some people. They need help and
some people. They need help and support, and it would be unfair to
support, and it would be unfair to not allow them to be considered to
not allow them to be considered to be included in some form of
be included in some form of exemption scheme if that was
exemption scheme if that was allowed, that was taken forward. The
allowed, that was taken forward. The Department of Health says it
Department of Health says it encourages people to have the
encourages people to have the vaccine, as it can save lives. It’s
vaccine, as it ran save lives. It’s as it is working to
vaccine, as it can save lives. It’s as it is working to ensure those who
as it is working to ensure those who cannot have it for medical reasons
cannot have it for medical reasons are not disadvantaged. For this
are not disadvantaged. For this EWUP
are not disadvantaged. For this group of unvaccinated, it is not
group of unvaccinated, it is not about being anti—vaccine. After
about being anti-vaccine. After hours of
about being anti—vaccine. After hours of trying again, Adam doesn’t
hours of trying again, Adam doesn’t quite manage the jab, but has
quite manage the jab, but has rebooked and is determined to give
rebooked and is determined to give it another shot.
Extra flights have been scheduled from Mexico to help
hundreds of Britons return to the UK ahead of new quarantine
rules which come into force on Sunday morning.
Anyone arriving after ham will need to pay for the hotel
where they self—isolate.
The country is being added to the red list as part of changes
to the UK’s traffic light system.
Meanwhile, some of the UK’s biggest nightclubs arejoining
the drive to encourage young people to get vaccinated.
Ministry Of Sound and Heaven are among
the clubs promoting the benefits of getting shots,
while Heaven is also hosting a pop—up vaccination site.
From next month, anyone entering a club in England will need to have
had two doses of the vaccine.
In Scotland, the Fringe Festival gets under way from today,
featuring hundreds of shows taking place online and in venues
throughout Edinburgh.
The biggest arts festival in the world is returning
after the pandemic forced it online last year.
For the first time in the Fringe’s history, the event will be a mix
of live audience and digital shows.
The Fringe usually attracts more than four million people
to the city every summer.
Plenty more on all the stories were covering online on the BBC website,
covering online on the BBC website, I will be back shortly with more of
I will be back shortly with more of the days top
I will be back shortly with more of the day’s top stories. In the
the days top stories. In the meantime,
the day’s top stories. In the meantime, you can reach me on
meantime, you ran reach me on Twitter.
Plenty of showers of the next few days, some of them heavy and
days, some of them heavy and thundery at times, all revolving
thundery at times, all revolving around an area of low pressure which
around an area of low pressure which is stubborn to shift. Here it is
is stubborn to shift. Here it is today and through the weekend, only
today and through the weekend, only slowly moving its way eastwards. 20
slowly moving its way eastwards. 20 of showers around it, not until we
of showers around it, not until we get to Tuesday will we get a break
get to Tuesday will we get a break from those shower conditions. Out
from those shower conditions. Out there today, low pressure centred
there today, low pressure centred across parts of southern Scotland
across parts of southern Scotland and northern Edward Thomas of
and northern Edward Thomas of waiters centred, the winds are light
waiters centred, the winds are light us. If the downpours come your way,
us. If the downpours come your way, there will be longer lasting,
there will be longer lasting, torrential in places, could cause
torrential in places, could cause some flooding. More persistent rain
some ﬂooding. More persistent rain across parts of
some flooding. More persistent rain across parts of northern Scotland
across parts of northern Scotland with quite a breeze, the showers in
with quite a breeze, the showers in the south pushing through much
the south pushing through much quicker, so a small portion of the
quicker, so a small portion of the day here wet with something in
day here wet with something in between. Winds up to 50 mph at
between. winds up to 50 mph at times. Making
between. Winds up to 50 mph at times. Making very fairly cold day,
times. Making very fairty cold day, nice enough of
times. Making very fairly cold day, nice enough of you get in the
nice enough of you get in the sunshine between those downpours,
sunshine between those downpours, but when the rain comes your way, it
but when the rain comes your way, it will feel a bit disappointing for
will feel a bit disappointing for the time of year. Into the night,
the time of year. Into the night, you often expect showers to fade,
you often expect showers to fade, but because of the area of low
but because of the area of low pressure right over us, the showers
pressure right over us, the showers continue to fade into the net. Most
continue to fade into the net. Most persistent parts of northern
persistent parts of northern England, north Wales and then to
England, north Wales and then to Northern Ireland. But temperatures
Northern Ireland. But temperatures still holding up, even though the
still holding up, even though the days are a cool know it’s not
days are a cool know it’s not particularty
days are a cool know it’s not particularly cold, temperatures in
particularty cold, temperatures in the
particularly cold, temperatures in the teens for most. Saturday, low
the teens for most. Saturday, low pressure across parts of Scotland, a
pressure across parts of Scotland, a slightly drier day for northern
slightly drier day for northern Scotland, warning new way of
Scotland, warning new way of downpours, longer lasting ones,
downpours, longer lasting ones, southern Scotland and Northern
southern Scotland and Northern Ireland and northern England.
Ireland and northern England. Showers pushing through across parts
Showers pushing through across parts of England and Wales, 3 dry spell
of England and Walas, a dry spell through East
of England and Wales, 3 dry spell through East Anglia, and the
through East Anglia, and the south—east, during the middle part
south-east, during the middle part of the day.
south—east, during the middle part of the day. Temperatures of anything
of the day. Temperatures of anything a little bit down on today at’s
a little bit down on today at’s values. Into Saturday night into
values. Into Saturday night into Sunday, the area of low pressure
Sunday, the area of low pressure with us, the strongest winds wrapped
with us, the strongest winds wrapped around the outside like, so another
around the outside like, so another blustery day across the south. Fewer
blustery day across the south. Fewer showers here compared to what we
showers here compared to what we will see elsewhere. Showers longest
will see elsewhere. Showers longest lasting across parts of Scotland and
lasting across parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland, and again, could
Northern Ireland, and again, could be heavy, thundery, even torrential
be heavy, thundery, even torrential in places. Temperatures for most
in places. Temperatures for most sitting in the teens. As we take
sitting in the teens. As we take into next week, there will be
into next week, there will be respite as I said, particularly on
respite as I said, particularty on Tuesday,
respite as I said, particularly on Tuesday, southern areas are missing
Tuesday, southern areas are missing two showers around, some of them
two showers around, some of them will stay dry for much of the
will stay dry for much of the week, but more rain arriving at times in
but more rain arriving at times in the north and west.
This is BBC News. The headlines.
Wildfires are threatening large parts of Greece,
as strengthening winds fuel more than 150 blazes.
Dozens of towns and villages have been evacuated.
The Greek Prime Minister has said many people are facing
what he called a menacing stage.
There have been protests across Italy after the introduction
of obligatory Covid green passes to gain access to
restaurants, sporting events and live performances.
The measure will be extended to universities
and transport from next month.
In the UK, music festivals and other live events are to be
protected by government—backed insurance worth £750 million
if they have to cancel because of Covid—19.
One of the world’s greatest footballers, Lionel Messi,
is leaving Barcelona, where he’s spent his entire career.
The Spanish club said financial and structural obstacles had
prevented a new contract deal with the Argentine striker.
Nightclubs in Wales can re—open tomorrow, in the biggest
easing of restrictions since the pandemic began.
Social distancing rules and limits on indoor meetings will no longer
apply, but face masks will still be required in shops
and on public transport.
The Welsh government has warned that the lifting
of restrictions shouldn’t be seen as a "free—for—all".
Let’s speak to Stephanie Egeler,
who owns the Horse and Jockey Inn in in Knighton in Wales,
near the border with England.
Thank you for being with us. How are you feeling about these easing of
you feeling about these easing of restrictions after all this time? We
restrictions after all this time? We are excited. I think it’s really
are excited. I think it’s really good, especially for staff, that
good, especially for staff, that they don’t have to adhere to the
they don’t have to adhere to the mles any
they don’t have to adhere to the rules any more. Making sure that
mles any more. Making sure that everybody
rules any more. Making sure that everybody keeps their restrictions.
everybody keeps their restrictions. So,
everybody keeps their restrictions. 50, excitement, but also a little
So, excitement, but also a little bit cautious. Not sure how to ——
bit cautious. Not sure how to -- what to expect,
bit cautious. Not sure how to —— what to expect, how people behave.
what to expect, how people behave. It will be good for us, I think. We
It will be good for us, I think. We have earty
It will be good for us, I think. We have early warning that this is not
have earty warning that this is not a free for
have early warning that this is not a free for all. There is a warning
a free for all. There is a warning that peopla...
a free for all. There is a warning that people... Had plans have you
that peopla... Had plans have you got in place? For
that people... Had plans have you got in place? For tomorrow, because
got in place? For tomorrow, because it is a Saturday, and also because
it is a Saturday, and also because it is a very busy day for us, we
it is a very busy day for us, we will list all of the restrictions.
will list all of the restrictions. But, for example, for the bar
But, for example, for the bar especially, because our drinking
especially, because our drinking trade has been affected most. We
trade has been affected most. We have a bouncer on in case it gets
have a bouncer on in use it gets too busy or
have a bouncer on in case it gets too busy or staff can’t cope. But
too busy or staff ran’t cope. But apart from
too busy or staff can’t cope. But apart from that I’m just hoping that
apart from that I’m just hoping that everybody will still keep their
everybody will still keep their distance a little bit. And just be
distance a little bit. And just be sensible about things. How has the
sensible about things. How has the pandemic impacted on you and your
pandemic impacted on you and your restaurant and bar? We have a
restaurant and bar? We have a separate bar, restaurant and we have
separate bar, restaurant and we have got eight rooms as well. We have
got eight rooms as well. We have been lucky that we have been busy.
been lucky that we have been busy. So when we reopened we were busy
So when we reopened we were busy from the get go. We have been very
from the get go. We have been very lucky in that respect. But it has
lucky in that respect. But it has been really hard mentally and
been really hard mentally and physically, especially on staff, by
physically, especially on staff, by just not knowing what to expect, not
just not knowing what to expect, not knowing what to do, conflicting
knowing what to do, conﬂicting roles,
knowing what to do, conflicting roles, especially because we are so
roles, especially because we are so close to the border it has been hard
dose to the border it has been hard to have
close to the border it has been hard to have certain rules in England,
to have certain mles in England, and having to
to have certain rules in England, and having to explain the rules in
and having to explain the mles in England --
and having to explain the rules in England —— where Wales are
England —— where Wales are different. How have people reacted
different. How have peopla reacted to that?
different. How have people reacted to that? Not very well. We have had
to that? Not very well. We have had to argue with people saying, look,
to argue with people saying, look, these are the roads in Wales. Yes,
these are the roads in Wales. Yes, but anything then it’s different.
but anything then it’s different. Yes, but we are in Wales, we are not
Yes, but we are in Wales, we are not in England. We were made responsible
in England. We were made responsible to make sure that when England was
to make sure that when England was unlocked and that we kept on these
unlocked and that we kept on these people out of the pub, which
people out of the pub, which shouldn’t be our
people out of the pub, which shouldn’t be ourjob really. We’re
shouldn’t be ourjob really. We’re most looking forward to welcoming
most looking forward to welcoming back? You have got people coming
back? You have got peopla coming from over
back? You have got people coming from over the border with England
from over the border with England but lots of tourists? Yes, we get a
but lots of tourists? Yes, we get a lot of tourists. At the moment it is
lot of tourists. At the moment it is many peopla
lot of tourists. At the moment it is many people from the UK. I think it
many peopla from the UK. I think it will just be
many people from the UK. I think it willjust be good to get the feeling
will just be good to get the feeling of the pub
willjust be good to get the feeling of the pub back to normal and not as
of the pub back to normal and not as a bare minimum, making sure that we
a bare minimum, making sure that we ran put ﬂowers on
a bare minimum, making sure that we can put flowers on tables, just a
ran put ﬂowers on tables, just a simple things
can put flowers on tables, just a simple things that we haven’t been
simple things that we haven’t been able to do. And provide a level of
able to do. And provide a level of service that we think is better than
service that we think is better than what we are offering now. 0K, enjoy
what we are offering now. 0K, enjoy your full
what we are offering now. 0K, enjoy yourfull reopening. We hope it is
your full reopening. We hope it is not too crazy
yourfull reopening. We hope it is not too crazy weekend for you. Thank
not too crazy weekend for you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
The FA says it’s committed to getting more British Asian
women into football.
Its figures show on average only one in ten of those playing
at grassroots level is Asian, and under—representation is even
more of a problem when it comes to the professional game.
It comes as government research suggests Asian women are the least
physically active group.
Now clubs — like the newly set—up Southall Athletic FC —
are trying to change that.
Anisa Kadri caught up with them at training 7
She shoots, she scores. Southall Athletic FC women’s side welcomes
Athletic FC women’s side welcomes women from all backgrounds. Because
women from all backgrounds. Because of its location within a very Asian
of its [oration within a very Asian area, it
of its location within a very Asian area, it provides opportunities for
area, it provides opportunities for lots British Asian women to play.
lots British Asian women to play. You just need a release with a group
You just need a release with a group of giris
You just need a release with a group of girts that
You just need a release with a group of girls that understand you. You
of girts that understand you. You just want to
of girls that understand you. You just want to have fun but play at a
just want to have fun but play at a competitive level. There is a big
competitive level. There is a big taboo. Indian girls shouldn’t play
taboo. Indian giris shouldn’t play football,
taboo. Indian girls shouldn’t play football, they should get married,
football, they should get married, they shouldn’t be doing certain
they shouldn’t be doing certain things. For us, as a team we are
things. For us, as a team we are trying to beg --
things. For us, as a team we are trying to beg —— break the taboo.
trying to beg -- break the taboo. The team
trying to beg —— break the taboo. The team has already won a
The team has already won a tournament, but they have faced
tournament, but they have faced racism along the way. They would say
racism along the way. They would say a few words like curry, the P word.
a few words like curry, the P word. She said something underneath her
She said something underneath her breath, I
She said something underneath her breath, Igot
She said something underneath her breath, I got agitated, I went into
breath, Igot agitated, Iwent into her face
breath, I got agitated, I went into herface and the
breath, I got agitated, I went into her face and the referee goes to me,
her face and the referee goes to me, are you trying to get sent off? He
are you trying to get sent off? He didn’t hear what he said. The club
didn’t hear what he said. The club wants peopla
didn’t hear what he said. The club wants people to let them know if
wants peopla to let them know if they are
wants people to let them know if they are racially abused so it can
they are racially abused so it ran be dealt
they are racially abused so it can be dealt with. Everybody should be
be dealt with. Everybody should be concerned with racism in the game.
concerned with racism in the game. It is something that has, myself,
It is something that has, myself, when I was playing as a younger kid,
when I was playing as a younger kid, until I was about 20, I encountered
until I was about 20, I encountered racism the whole way. The goal of
racism the whola way. The goal of Southall
racism the whole way. The goal of Southall Athletic FC try to make the
Southall Athlatic FC try to make the sport more
Southall Athletic FC try to make the sport more accessible, more diverse
sport more accessibla, more diverse and more
sport more accessible, more diverse and more exciting. It comes at a
and more exciting. It comes at a time of the FA is trying to
time of the FA is trying to encourage more Asian girls and women
encourage more Asian gins and women in play football.
encourage more Asian girls and women in play football. This video of
in play football. This video of rising star Laila has been released
rising star [site has been released by the FA to
rising star Laila has been released by the FA to encourage more Asian
by the FA to encourage more Asian giris and
by the FA to encourage more Asian girls and women to get involved in
girls and women to get involved in football. We are doing research with
football. We are doing research with young giris
football. We are doing research with young girls around what they want.
young giris around what they want. We are
young girls around what they want. We are also working with various
We are also working with various peopla from
We are also working with various people from the Muslim faith on the
peopla from the Muslim faith on the sport hijah and
people from the Muslim faith on the sport hijab and how important that
sport hijab and how important that is to help them on the pitch. We are
is to help them on the pitch. We are doing some work in masks as well. We
doing some work in masks as well. We are trying to do as much as we can
are trying to do as much as we ran to listen to
are trying to do as much as we can to listen to what our Asian women’s
to listen to what our Asian women’s football group says to us. So, is
football group says to us. So, is women’s football frowned upon and
women’s football frowned upon and Asian communities? My family is
Asian communities? My family is quite open, but not every family is
quite open, but not every family is like that. I still get a few people
like that. I still get a few peopla in public
like that. I still get a few people in public saying, you are a girl,
in public saying, you are a girt, you should be
in public saying, you are a girl, you should be at home, you shouldn’t
you should be at home, you shouldn’t be playing in a football short ——
be playing in a football short -- for certain
be playing in a football short —— for certain choice because you are
for certain choice because you are Asian. It is hoped clubs like this
Asian. It is hoped dubs like this will help to
Asian. It is hoped clubs like this will help to tackle Asian
will help to tackle Asian underrepresentation in parts of the
underrepresentation in parts of the game.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The Dixie Fire has torn through the historic mining town
of Greenville in California, engulfing everything in its path.
The massive fire started last month but exploded this week.
It’s been fueled by high temperatures, low
humidity and strong winds.
It now covers more than 300,000 acres.
Apple has revealed new safety tools will be introduced
in the United States, which can scan photos and messages
on people’s phones to check for material showing
child sex abuse.
The company insists the measures will protect users’ privacy,
but some security experts are concerned.
President Biden has announced that Hong Kong residents
who are currently in America will be granted temporary safe haven.
They will be allowed to stay for eighteen months in the US
and could also work there.
Mr Biden said the move was a response to China’s continuing
assault on Hong Kong’s autonomy and the repression of political
and press freedoms.
State media in North Korea save thousands of people have been
thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes after
evacuated from their homes after days of heavy rain led to widespread
days of heavy rain lad to widespread ﬂooding.
days of heavy rain led to widespread flooding. Large areas of farmland
ﬂooding. Large areas offarmland are
flooding. Large areas of farmland are underwater. There is concern
are underwater. There is concern over the damage to crops and the
over the damage to crops and the effect on food supplies.
A new kind of content creator is emerging on YouTube.
So—called Virtual YouTubers are people who use SD character
models to engage with their audience anonymously on the
video—sharing site.
These V—Tubers — as they’re called — are becoming more and more popular
with some reportedly earning millions.
Our reporter Miles Emmanuel spoke to two of them
using their online personas.
Hello. You are watching the BBC.
Meet Veepaii and Apricot — two British women, aged 22 and 23,
who work as online content creators and use animated avatars
to replace their identity.
Some virtual YouTubers, ‘VTubers’, use body tracking technology,
like this, to animate the characters, while others
have a much simpler set up.
But the industry only started in 2016 and some need convincing
it is a viable career choice.
She didn’t understand what I was doing at first
and she was definitely not happy about me leaving university
to pursue my career online.
I took a year off of university and that is when my career blew up.
With a host of colourful characters, accessibility and anonymity can play
key parts in streamers deciding to take the digital plunge.
For Vee, it was after she contracted a viral infection which ruptured her
spleen and left her bedridden for six months that she
decided to stream online.
Any disability you may have, it definitely works around it. You
definitely works around it. You don’t need to deal with harassment
don’t need to deal with harassment from people. You would probably deal
from peopla. You would probably deal with it if you
from people. You would probably deal with it if you had your camera up.
with it if you had your camera up. They assume that everybody who
They assume that everybody who chooses this career, having their
chooses this career, having their face
chooses this rareer, having their face as a
chooses this career, having their face as a cartoon character, they
face as a cartoon character, they just instantly assume that everyone
just instantly assume that everyone is overweight or
just instantly assume that everyone is overweight orjust some guy, and
is overweight or just some guy, and it’s really not
is overweight orjust some guy, and it’s really not the case.
VTubers are now amongst the highest—earning content
creators, with some receiving up to around £2 million
in the last 1.5 years.
Now, major companies are looking into using SD mascots
for customer—facing roles.
If you are asking if this is the future of things,
I see us moving towards it as these art styles are being seen
as engaging and more attractive to them, right?
You do not have to hire make up artists or crazy video to have
someone talking about your wares.
You canjust run a game engine and have it fully rendered.
And although VTubers, like many content creators,
can be subject to abusive and sexist comments, Veepaii and Apricot
say their careers have allowed them to learn important life skills.
I grew out of my social anxiety through being a VTuber.
I used to be really shy.
I would be afraid to speak in English classes.
Ifa kid has a dream of their own or a goal in mind,
I think everyone should try to pursue that.
Miles Emmanuel, BBC News.
Stay with us on BBC News, coming up next World Business Report.
On a charge — President Biden says half of all cars sold in the US must
be electric by 2030.
No pass, no entry — Italy and France to start enforcing
Covid vaccine certificates for restaurants, cinemas
and public transport. But will it hit tourism?
Welcome to World Business Report. I’m Victoria Fritz.
We start in the US, where President Biden has taken
a step towards his goal of slashing US greenhouse emissions.
How?
He’s signed an executive order, requiring half of all vehicles sold
in the United States to be electric by 2030 — a move backed
by the top auto companies.
He signed off and fired up an electricjeep.
The Biden administration is also proposing new,
tougher emissions rules over the next few years.
These would reverse former President Trump’s lowering
of fuel economy standards.
We have a play book and it is going to work.
Today I’m announcing steps to set a new pace for electric vehicles.
First, I am following through on the campaign commitment
to reverse the previous administration’s short—sighted
roll—back of vehicle emissions and efficiency standards.
I’m doing so with the support of the auto industry,
the automobile industry.
Today, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department
of Transportation are unveiling proposals to do just that.
These agencies are beginning to work on the next round of standards
for a broad class of vehicles, for cars, SUVs, pick—up trucks,
medium and heavy duty vehicles.
Importantly, we have announcements today from auto—makers representing
nearly the entire auto market, who are positioned around
the ambition of A0 to 50% of all vehicles are sold by 2030
America, being electric. of all vehicles are sold by 2030
Note the word there — ‘ambition’. of all vehicles are sold by 2030
The executive order is not legally binding.
Swetha Ramachandran is Investment Manager at GAM Investments.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining me. If it is
Thank you for joining me. If it is not lagally
Thank you forjoining me. If it is not legally binding, is it going to
not lagally binding, is it going to work?
not legally binding, is it going to work? That is certainly the million
work? That is certainly the million dollar question, given that it is
dollar question, given that it is voluntary at this moment. The
voluntary at this moment. The individual auto—makers in the US
individual auto-makers in the US have
individual auto—makers in the US have been making their own pledges.
have been making their own pledges. General Motors, for instance, wants
General Motors, for instance, wants to phase out non—electric vehicles
to phase out non-electric vehicles entirely by
to phase out non—electric vehicles entirely by 2035. Ford are saying
entirely by 2035. Ford are saying they want to sell non—electric
they want to sell non—electric vehicles
they want to sell non-electric vehidas up
they want to sell non—electric vehicles up to more than 40% of the
vehidas up to more than 4096 of the total portfolio
vehicles up to more than 40% of the total portfolio by the same period.
total portfolio by the same period. That said, it requires a lot of work
That said, it requires a lot of work behind the scenes to go right for
behind the scenes to go right for this voluntary target to even be
this voluntary target to even be met, which is mainly in the form of
met, which is mainly in the form of infrastructure and charging points,
infrastmclure and charging points, which is
infrastructure and charging points, which is the domain of the
which is the domain of the Government. Tesla has arguably done
Government. Tesla has arguably done more than any other company to
more than any other company to progress the agenda of electric
progress the agenda of electric vehicles. They do make up about 70%
vehidas. They do make up about 7096 of all
vehicles. They do make up about 7096 of all the
vehicles. They do make up about 70% of all the electric vehicles in the
of all the electric vehicles in the United States. But crucially, they
United States. But crucially, they were sort of frozen out at this
were sort of frozen out at this summit where
were sort of frozen out at this summit whereJoe Biden up was
summit where joe Biden up was swarming
summit wherejoe Biden up was swanning around in that cheap. What
swarming around in that cheap. what is
swanning around in that cheap. what is going on
swanning around in that cheap. What is going on there? It is surprising
is going on there? It is surprising that such a home—grown success as
that such a home-grown success as Tesla
that such a home—grown success as Tesla would have been left out. The
Tesla would have been left out. The information from the press secretary
information from the press secretary was that the auto—makers invited to
was that the auto-makers invited to the
was that the auto—makers invited to the summit world basically
the summit world basically unionised, which Tesla isn’t. There
unionised, which Tesla isn’t. There is a particular sensitivity in that
is a particular sensitivity in that the auto industry, which contributes
the auto industry, which contributes to about 3% of GDP, is also among
to about 396 of GDP, is also among the US,
to about 3% of GDP, is also among the US, directly and indirectly
the US, directly and indirectly through the supply chain the auto
through the supply chain the auto industry is said to employ about 8
industry is said to employ about 8 million people. The components are
million people. The components are fewer and the production process is
fewer and the production process is simpler, which may lead to a loss of
simpler, which may lead to a loss of jobs, and that is the balance the
jobs, and that is the balance the administration is trying to tread.
administration is trying to tread. Do you think President Biden will go
Do you think President Biden will go down as the great climate president?
down as the great climate president? It seems to be what he is gunning
It seems to be what he is gunning for. This time I think a lot of the
for. This time I think a lot of the measures are really dialling back of
measures are really dialling back of the measures that were reversed
the measures that were reversed duﬂng
the measures that were reversed during the prior administration. 50
during the prior administration. 50 President Obama is really the
during the prior administration. So President Obama is really the one
President Obama is really the one who set out very stringent targets
who set out very stringent targets for emissions reduction, which were
for emissions reduction, which were then rolled back by the Trump
then rolled back by the Trump administration, which offered more
administration, which offered more concessions to the auto industry.
concessions to the auto industry. Now we are seeing these measures
Now we are seeing these measures being dialled back again in favour
being dialled back again in favour of what President Obama had
of what President Obama had previously announced. This is a step
previously announced. This is a step in the right direction. I don’t
in the right direction. I don’t think it is necessarily as a basis
think it is necessarily as a basis as they planned for the UK or the
as they planned for the UK or the EU, to ban all non—electric vehicles
EU, to ban all non-electric vehidas by the 20 305,
EU, to ban all non—electric vehicles by the 20 305, but it is a step in
by the 20 305, but it is a step in the right direction. Thank you for
the right direction. Thank you for your time and
the right direction. Thank you for yourtime and your
the right direction. Thank you for your time and your insights.
Let’s turn to the travel industry now.
European countries are beginning to demand proof of Covid immunity
for access to a wide range of venues and services.
As of Monday, in France, to visit a cafe or board a train
you’ll need to show a health pass, proving two vaccine doses or recent
negative Covid test.
It’s part of an EU—wide scheme.
Elodie Bertah is a Paris tour guide.
I asked her what the impact on Paris would be.
Unfortunately, I think it will be limited because already we have very
few tourists from outside the EU.
So it will not be as devastating as you expect it to be, sadly.
If you don’t have a double vaccine in France, you have
to have a PCR test.
How much of that is a restriction on trade and on economic
activity in the country?
That will be harder, I think.
It has to be either the vaccine, the PCR or another test.
That is slightly less bothering than
That is slightly lass bothering than the PC
That is slightly less bothering than the PC or under the results are
the PC or under the results are faster to get.
But a number of people still do not have the full vaccine scheme.
And it means that even if you want to go for a beer on a terrace
in a bar, as of Monday, you will need to have
a test certificate.
I was hearing yesterday in a number of bar owners saying
they will return to the previous takeaway for their beers
and coffees and so on.
They will ask for the QR code so as not to lose too many clients.
This is the problem.
These tests only last a couple of days.
Therefore, if you don’t have a double vaccine,
you’re going to have to keep doing these tests to go out
for a beer with your friends.
Do you feel this health pass is going to have an impact
on the vaccination status of French nationals?
Are more people going to take up the jab?
It has started, actually.
When the president announced the upcoming measures,
the ones that arrive on Monday, there was a huge boost
on the vaccination activity around the country.
Even people on holiday were rushing to get the vaccination because it
also includes some people forthejob, people
are work in hospitals etc.
So these people, if they want to go back to work after their holidays,
they need to have the full vaccination.
So they were rushing to get their first dose,
to have the time to get the second dose before September.
It already has a big impact on vaccination
activity in the country.
But still, a few people remain very hostile to this vaccination.
Paris, of course, normally such an international destination.
Perhaps a little bit of relief this week that France has come off
the amber—plus watch list for the UK.
Do you foresee a boost in trade over the next few weeks,
or do you think this will be a barrier to trade?
Again, I’m afraid we still don’t have very many visitors,
so it won’t have a big effect on the numbers.
At least not in Paris, because Paris is not a very big
destination in the summer.
Generally people like to go elsewhere in France in the summer.
Again, the numbers are not very high right now.
It was very satisfactory that the ban was lifted
for France, of course.
But it will not translate into a huge amount of people coming
in and out of Paris right now.
Now to a classic David and Goliath battle — over oat milk.
On the one side a multinational business valued at $10 billion
on the Nasdaq stock market.
On the other, a small family run—farm in the UK.
On Thursday, farmers Philip and Rebecca Rayner
won their High Court battle against Swedish oat milk giant
Oatly, which accused them of trademark infringement.
Michelle Fleury has more.
The Swedish company Oatly is a pioneer in dairy
alternatives made from plants.
It produces milk substitutes made from oats.
It is growing quickly.
In fact, it has a deal with a Singaporean beverage company
to bring its products to Asia.
It has already helped to popularise the new oat milk in the UK,
where it began selling shares to the public later this year.
But with success comes imitators.
At least that is the argument Oatly sought to make in a British court.
The brand, endorsed by celebrities including Oprah Winfrey,
took Britain’s Glebe Farm to court in a bid to stop it selling the pure
oaty drink, accusing it of trademark infringement.
However, a High Courtjudge has ruled in favour of the UK firm,
saying that while there were similarities between
the initial pure oat milk and packaging, it would be hard
to see how this would lead to confusion among consumers.
The Swedish firm is caught up in another legal dispute in America,
with an activist investor accusing the company of overstating revenue.
That is all your business news.
Don’t forget you can get in touch with me and some
of the team on Twitter.
I’m @VFritzNews.
Thank you for your time.
Good morning.
We are about to get put through the weather equivalent
of the rinse and spin cycle.
Plenty of showers in the next few days, some heavy and thundery.
They are all revolving around an area of low pressure
which is stubborn to shift.
Here it is today, here it is through the weekend, and only
slowly moving its way eastwards.
Plenty of showers around it.
Not until Tuesday will he get a break from those
showery conditions.
Low pressure is centred across parts of southern Scotland
and northern England today.
This is where the downpours, if they come your way,
will be longer lasting.
Torrential in places. Could cause some flooding.
More persistent rain in parts of northern
Scotland, quite a breeze.
The showers in the South will push through quicker.
A bit more sunshine in between.
Blustery conditions, winds gusting to A0 to 50 mph.
It does make for a cool day.
Nice enough if you get in the sunshine between those downpours.
But when the downpours come your way it will feel disappointing
for this stage in August.
Even as you go into the night quite often you expect showers to fade.
The showers continue to feed in throughout the night.
Most persistent in some parts of northern Ireland,
North Wales and into Northern Ireland.
Temperatures still holding up, even though the days
are cool and the nights not particularly cold.
As you go into Saturday, low pressure centred
across parts of Scotland.
A slightly drier day for northern Scotland.
More downpours.
The showers pushing through across parts
of England and Wales.
A dry spell through East Anglia and the South East during
the middle part of the day.
Temperatures down on today.
There you go, confirmation as we go through Saturday night into Sunday,
the area of low pressure is with us.
The strongest winds wrapped around the outside flank.
Another blustery day in the south.
Fewer showers here compared to elsewhere.
The showers longest lasting across parts of Scotland
and Northern Ireland.
They could be heavy, thundery, even torrential.
Temperatures sitting in the teens for most.
As we look into next week, there will be respite,
particularly on Tuesday.
Southern areas only seeing a few showers.
More rain will arrive in the north and west at times.
This is BBC News broadcasting to viewers in the UK
and around the globe.
I’m Samantha Simmonds.
Our top stories —
wildfires spread rapidly in Greece,
with emergency services tackling hundreds of fires
across the country.
The Prime Minister warns the worst is yet to come.
Protests across Italy as Covid vaccine passes become mandatory
for restaurants, sporting events, and live performances.
A fifth of all the UK’s Covid hospital patients
are aged between 18 and 34.
Doctors warn of the dangers facing the young and unvaccinated —
we have a special report.
And after making its Olympic debut,
skateboarding made quite an impression in Tokyo.
We’ll be speaking to the US team before they head back home.
Hello, and welcome to BBC News.
Greece has been plunged into an unprecedented
environmental crisis, according to the country’s prime minister.
Days of heatwaves have turned the country into a powder keg,
and he predicts the worst is yet to come with strong westerly winds
expected to fan the flames.
As Mark Lobel reports,
villagers are coming under pressure to abandon their homes,
As villages like these in the Peloponnese burn,
the Greek prime minister is urging extreme caution.
Houses can be rebuilt, he says, trees can regrow,
however human life cannot be replaced.
But abandoning your home is never easy in your 705.
TRANSLATION: Leave and go where, and let my house burn?
If we had left, this place would have burned.
We told the women and elderly and kids to go,
and whoever was able stay to help, however they could.
Crops are at risk, too.
So far, 6,000 hectares of [and have burned in three days
of wildfires, over half of last yea r’s total.
TRANSLATION: The agricultural wealth of the village has been decimated.
Nothing is left.
Olive trees, sheep, goats, stables, everything.
Westward winds have blown new life into these fires
north of Athens.
With temperatures well over A0 Celsius, the past week
has been Greece’s worst heatwave since the late ‘805.
With fires continuing to spread, local politicians
have denounced a lack of resources.
The army is doubling its efforts,
but is our changing environment to blame?
Climate change is producing hotter temperatures,
and making droughts more frequent, conditions that can fuel wildfires.
TRANSLATION: We have a debt to shield the country against the
reality of climate change.
I’m not looking for excuses.
We have made important strides in organising the country,
but these are not enough when you’re faced with a phenomenon
of such magnitude.
For those that believe such talk is merely a smokescreen,
the PM invites them to visit the fires for themselves.
Fires now spreading across southern Europe, where many
including Spaniards, Turks, Italians, Albanians, and
North Macedonians are also asking, just what is behind this summer
heatwave that’s causing familiar seasonal fires to act
in such extreme ways?
Mark Lobel, BBC News.
Nikolia Apostolou is a freelance journalist.
She travels between Athens and Kalamata in Greece,
and she gave us an update on developments.
This is the fourth day Greece is battling the wildfires,
so thousands of Greeks have fled their homes,
and fires even reached an ancient archaeological site.
Right now, the biggest fire is in Athens,
on the outskirts, and in Evia.
Critics are saying that the fire in Athens could have
been contained quickly on Tuesday, something that did not happen,
and has resulted in so many houses being destroyed.
Finally, not enough is being done for climate change, for example
fire protection zones, so the economic crisis in 2008,
the austerity policy has left the Fire Department understaffed
and without enough equipment.
Yeah, the Greek prime minister has said the time for criticism
for criticism will come, but it is not stopping those
criticising the Government,
and there’s a fear that there just is not the staff
within the Fire Service to deal with catastrophic fires.
Exactly.
There is European help on the way, 100 French and Cypriot firefighters
are coming, but the winds we are expecting this
afternoon, that might not be enough.
And what are people saying about the urgency
with which they are being told to leave their homes?
Because as we saw in that report, many are determined to stay,
aren’t they?
Yes, they are staying especially in cases where they do not see any
help, any firefighters there, any helicopters and planes.
I think that is when people are staying to save their homes.
And the fear is that the winds will continue fires will get worse?
Exactly.
The Prime Minister said that yesterday, basically. What are
yesterday, basically. what are peopla
yesterday, basically. What are people being told today? How many
peopla being told today? How many peopla are
people being told today? How many people are affected by these fires
people are affected by these fires now? Thousands. It is hard to count
now? Thousands. It is hard to count right now because there are many
right now because there are many different fires around the country.
Venues across Italy are introducing an obligatory Covid
"green pass" from today, meaning access will only
be allowed with either a vaccination certificate,
a negative test, or proof of recovery from the virus.
The measure will be extended to universities
and transport next month.
Mark Lowen reports.
A night at the opera — tickets, temperature check,
and, from today, the mandatory green pass — a Covid
vaccination certificate, negative test, or proof of recovery,
as Italy tightens its mles from theatres
to restaurants, gyms to cafes.
This is how it will work in practice.
I come up to the venue in question.
I present my green pass, which, in my case, is
a vaccination certificate.
It’s verified.
This device doesn’t save the data.
I present my ID card, and I am allowed to enter.
It is a big change and a big challenge for those involved.
Nobody told us how to face Covid, you know,
so at the beginning, we were afraid, we were nervous,
we were anxious.
Then, month by month, we solved new problems giving
new solutions, and after 18 months we built a little bit
of self—confidence, so let’s say now that the situation is —
it is not a problem.
This is another problem regarding Covid.
Tonight’s treat — Aida.
Ajewel of Verdi.
This ancient amphitheatre in a new pandemic era.
Verona’s Arena has already adapted to Covid.
Fewer performers, masks, and half capacity.
But, with the green pass, the drama has moved offstage, too.
Parliament had to be suspended after protests
from far—right MPs.
And while polls show 70% of Italians in favour,
vocal demonstrations have broken out across the country.
Much of the opposition is from restaurateurs,
their patience already worn by lockdowns.
TRANSLATION: We shouldn’t have to police this,
it’s not ourjob,
and we shouldn’t deal with sensitive data.
The government will make us argue with customers
who want to sit inside without the pass.
We will have to comply, but we have already had cancellations.
Are you no—vax?
Absolutely not, I am neither for nor against,
I am a restaurateur.
It has gotten nasty for medics supporting the green pass.
This woman received a death threat through WhatsApp,
evoking the Nazi Trials at Nuremberg.
Other messages were on Facebook,
and they came from her colleagues.
TRANSLATION: I really felt in danger.
What upset me most was that the threats
were from health workers.
They, like us, were heroes of the pandemic
and now some of them are no—vax.
I felt broken and thought about giving up everything,
but then I realised I must go on and show that
they are the ones at fault.
At the arena, too, the show will go on, though with new checks
for the opera lovers.
Italy is beginning another act in its Covid story,
but the unity felt last year is fading.
Mark Lowen, BBC News, Verona.
A beautiful morning here in Verona, and a big day as well as businesses
begin to introduce this change, among them cafes with indoor
seating areas.
And as you can see here, they have already put up the
green pass signs for customers telling them they will have to show
their QR code before they go in to take a table.
Let’s go in and see how this is all shaping up.
Still the mask obligation to come inside places like this.
You can see how difficult life is in Italy these days,
with these fantastic cakes and the Italian espresso
there as well.
And Marco, my first question, how do you ensure you do not eat everything
before you serve it? It is so beautiful.
Thank you.
I try.
Are you ready for the green pass change?
Yes, I try to be.
How difficult is it?
Do you have the app already on your phone?
Yes.
Press here, and then the person shows the green pass,
and we see if it is right or not.
Have you already have to use it for customers this morning?
Yes, only once this morning.
And she had the green pass.
So we did not have any problems.
What was her attitude?
What do you feel about the behaviour,
the response of the customers you will have?
Are you worried you will have argumentative customers
or people who will reject it?
I think some customers will be trouble, will complain.
But I hope we find people with the green pass.
Are you supportive of this, do you believe it is the right idea?
Yes, I support.
Thank you very much, Marco.
So I think this is an attempt really by the Government to ensure that
Italians vaccinate.
About 60% of Italians are now fully vaccinated.
The green pass measure is now going to be extended to transport,
schools, and universities also by next month,
as the first country in the west to have been crushed
by the pandemic takes no chances.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Two coaches from Belarus have been stripped
of their accreditation and asked to leave the Olympic Village
in Tokyo, over their alleged attempt to force an athlete to return home.
The President of the International Olympic Committee, Thomas Bach,
has said the treatment of the sprinter Krystina
Timanovskaya was deplorable.
He said the IOC was happy that she was now safe in Poland,
where she has been granted a humanitarian visa.
Apple has revealed new safety tools will be introduced
in the United States, which can scan photos and messages
on people’s phones to check for material showing
child sex abuse.
The company insists the measures will protect users’ privacy,
but some security experts are concerned.
Extra flights have been scheduled from Mexico to help
hundreds of Brits return to the UK ahead of new quarantine
rules which come into force on Sunday morning.
Anyone arriving after ham will need to pay for the hotel
where they self—isolate.
The country is being added to the red list as part of changes
to the UK’s traffic light system.
And here in the UK, music festivals and other live events are to be
protected by Government—backed insurance if they have
to cancel because of Covid.
The £750 million scheme, which begins next month,
comes after organisers appealed for more support.
More than half of all festivals have been cancelled this summer.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come — it’s not
just parts of Europe suffering from rapidly spreading wildfires,
as thousands of residents are urged to evacuate in California.
And we will speak to the US Olympic skateboarding team before they
skateboarding team before they head back home.
Fuel prices for around 15 million homes in England,
Scotland and Wales will rise by £139 in the Autumn.
The regulator, Ofgem, has increased prices
for a second time this year,
as wholesale gas prices reach a record high.
Campaigners are warning of a "harsh winter" for families on low incomes.
The new limit could mean the average annual bill may be
almost £1,300 pounds.
Justina Miltonite is from the comparison website Uswitch.
The price gap primarily affects customers who are on a default
tariff, so these are customers that have not switched their energy
supplier for a really long time, or have moved homes and have not yet
fixed their deals.
The other group of people will be prepayment customers,
who are usually in a more precarious financial situation
already, so it will really affect people who could do with
a bit of relief.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines —
wildfires spread rapidly in Greece, with emergency services tackling
hundreds of fires across the country.
The Prime Minister warns the worst is yet to come.
There have been protests across Italy,
as Covid vaccine passes become mandatory for restaurants,
sporting events, and live performances.
Doctors in Leeds in West Yorkshire in the north
of England say they are treating greater numbers of coronavirus
patients in hospital who are younger and unvaccinated.
It comes as the head of NHS England has said that one
in five patients on wards in the country is aged between
18 and 34.
Leeds Teaching Hospital has taken the unusual step of allowing
us to film on one of their Covid—19 wards to highlight the risks
younger people face by not having the jab.
Our health correspondent Jamie Coulson has this
exclusive report.
COUGHING.
Can you imagine yourself being stabbed in the back?
That’s what it feels like.
You breathe, and you’re getting stabbed at the same time.
Every time you take a breath, someone stabs you.
Three days ago, this man was admitted to
StJames’ Hospital in Leeds in excruciating pain.
The 25—year—old international student is like many patients
hospitals are now seeing in greater numbers.
He is younger and unvaccinated.
I am really worried, because all the pain
is going on inside my lungs, and it’s moving around.
I heard some people after they recover from Covid,
their lungs don’t work 100%.
Were you vaccinated?
I haven’t.
I was booking for a vaccination, but I got the Covid first.
VIOLENT COUGHING.
Hello.
Sorry to interrupt your dinner.
This is one of the respiratory consultants on the Covid wards.
He says it is concerning they are seeing a greater proportion
of younger patients.
What he has got is a complication of Covid, it’s a blood
clot on his lungs, secondary to the Covid inflammation.
Now, we now know that Covid increases the chance of getting
blood clots significantly, and there has been a big surge
in the number of patients we are seeing
with blood clots following Covid.
Hopefully the pain will get better in the next day or so.
These people are young and fit, most of them,
and they are still getting serious Covid, and we have to provide them
with a lot of support.
They are staying in hospital, some of them, for quite long periods,
and there is also a cost in terms of their recovery,
and because they are in their working life,
it has got implications in the long term.
This is one of three dedicated Covid wards at the trust,
and here, like elsewhere, they have seen an increase
in the number of patients needing help in recent weeks.
And a significant proportion of them are either unvaccinated
or only singlejabbed.
After weeks of rising cases, the number of Covid patients
at the trust has remained at about 100 for the last seven days.
Without the vaccine, doctors say the situation
could be much worse.
If you think about the total number of patients testing positive
in the country, compared to the number
of hospital admissions, there is no comparison compared
to the first and second wave.
So the overall numbers of admissions have significantly gone down,
and the only thing that is different is the vaccine.
And when they end up in hospital, what I am seeing, the patients
who have had a vaccine tend to do better.
COUGHING.
Take the vaccine.
I don’t think any other people want to experience what I am
experiencing right now, like feeling in pain every day,
not to mention even the painkillers couldn’t help you.
Jamie Coulson, BBC News.
To the Olympics now, and there’s been a number
of events so far on day 1A, with 23 medals up for grabs.
The summer heat has been taking its toll, with some events
being resheduled to avoid the highest temperatures.
The BBC’s Sarah Mulkerrins has all the latest from Tokyo.
The heat has been a big factor today in Tokyo. The first medal awarded
in Tokyo. The first medal awarded was on the men’s 50 kilometre race
was on the men’s 50 kilometre race walk, that set off in northern Japan
walk, that set off in northern japan in order to try
walk, that set off in northern Japan in order to try and have a cooler
in order to try and have a cooler climate for those athletes. That set
climate for those athlates. That set off at
climate for those athletes. That set off at 5.303m local time in order
off at 5.30am [oral time in order for the
off at 5.303m local time in order for the athletes to try to get
for the athletes to try to get through that gruelling endurance
through that gruelling endurance event, and the winner was able to
event, and the winner was able to stretch clear in the second half of
stretch clear in the second half of the race to claim the gold medal
the race to claim the gold medal there. Really good talking point as
there. Really good talking point as well from that race was a Spanish
well from that race was a Spanish athlete and his eighth Olympics, he
athlete and his eighth Olympic, he has
athlete and his eighth Olympics, he has competed in every one since
has competed in every one since Barcelona 1992, he is 51 years old,
Barcelona 1992, he is 51 years old, and that is a record in athletics.
and that is a record in athletic. Elsewhere,
and that is a record in athletics. Elsewhere, bracing themselves for
Elsewhere, bracing themselves for the heatwave was the woman’s
the heatwave was the woman’s football final, the gold medal match
football final, the gold medal match between Canada and Sweden. They
between Canada and Sweden. They asked organisers to move it from the
asked organisers to move it from the morning to the evening, that has
morning to the evening, that has happened, so they will now play
happened, so they will now play later in the day here in Tokyo in
later in the day here in Tokyo in that gold medal match. A couple of
that gold medal match. A couple of other medals awarded, the bronze
other medals awarded, the bronze medal match in women’s hockey, that
medal match in women’s hockey, that went the way of Great Britain, a
went the way of Great Britain, a thrilling game between Great Britain
thrilling game between Great Britain and India, a goal in the final
and India, a goal in the final quarter had Great Britain winning
quarter had Great Britain winning that one for — three. And a gold
that one for - three. And a gold medal for
that one for — three. And a gold medalfor the USA and
that one for — three. And a gold medal for the USA and the women’s
medal for the USA and the women’s beach volleyball —— winning 4—3.
beach vollayball -- winning 4-3. They beat
beach volleyball —— winning 4—3. They beat Australia by two sets to
They beat Australia by two sets to love.
One of the new events debuting at the Tokyo Games winning fans
around the globe has been the skateboarding.
Many of the competators are young and the comaraderie
between the athletes has added to their popularity.
Bryce Wettstein competed in the skateboarding final.
She’s about to head home with the rest of Team USA
at Tokyo’s Narita Airport, and joins me now.
Welcome. Hello. Bryce, you’re 16, you started skateboarding when you
you started skateboarding when you were seven. Tell us what it is like
were seven. Tell us what it is like competing in an Olympic Games
competing in an Olympic Games representing your country. It is
representing your country. It is kind of the biggest dream in the
kind of the biggest dream in the whole world. I thought I was going
whola world. I thought I was going to go to the
whole world. I thought I was going to go to the Olympics last year when
to go to the Olympic last year when I was 16, and
to go to the Olympics last year when Iwas 16, and it
to go to the Olympics last year when I was 16, and it is probably one of
I was 16, and it is probably one of the biggest honours of our lives to
the biggest honours of our lives to be able to represent the place we
be able to represent the place we were born in and that we love at
were born in and that we love at the Olympic. And
were born in and that we love at the Olympics. And how has it been for
Olympic. And how has it been for you? It has
Olympics. And how has it been for you? It has been good. Such a great
you? It has been good. Such a great experience being there, we skated
experience being there, we skated together when we were nine years
together when we were nine years old, so just
together when we were nine years old, sojust being here and
old, so just being here and experience
old, sojust being here and experience in that, we will remember
experience in that, we will remember this forever, it was really special.
this forever, it was really special. How much pressure did you feel
How much pressure did you feel competing in the first ever
competing in the first ever skateboarding at the Olympics?
skateboarding at the Olympics? Definitely a lot of pressure going
Definitely a lot of pressure going into this, just to be able to
into this, just to be able to represent our country on such a high
represent our country on such a high level. The first ever skateboarders
level. The first ever skateboarders in the Olympics. But when it comes
in the Olympic. But when it comes down to it, or
in the Olympics. But when it comes down to it, or we really had to
down to it, or we really had to think about why we are here to get
think about why we are here to get all that pressure off, and that is
all that pressure off, and that is because we love skateboarding. So we
because we love skateboarding. So we went out, did the best we could, and
went out, did the best we could, and we made history, so it is a
we made history, so it is a really awesome viewing. I am interested to
awesome viewing. I am interested to read that in one interview, you said
read that in one interview, you said you were not in it for the gold.
you were not in it for the gold. What does that mean? Because
what does that mean? Because for most Olympic
What does that mean? Because for most Olympic athletes, it is all
most Olympic athletes, it is all about the medals. What I am in it
about the medals. what I am in it for is
about the medals. What I am in it for is because there is so much
for is because there is so much love, more and more conversions and
love, more and more conversions and more of this beauty that comes out
more of this beauty that comes out of doing it with the people
of doing it with the peopla you love,
of doing it with the people you love, something you love,
love, something you love, rather than
love, something you love, rather thanjust
love, something you love, rather than just going towards something
than just going towards something for a goal. You have to remember to
for a goal. You have to remember to be momentous and grasp everything
be momentous and grasp everything as it comes to you, rather than
it comes to you, rather than always trying to strive towards the medals,
trying to strive towards the medals, because if you do that you miss out
because if you do that you miss out often the presence in the sheer Love
often the presence in the sheer Love you were brought up with. My
you were brought up with. My team—mates are part of my family,
team-mates are part of my family, answers
team—mates are part of my family, answers skateboarding, so that is
answers skateboarding, so that is why we are here, too, because those
why we are here, too, because those are the things we will cherish the
are the things we will cherish the most. You said you have been
most. You said you have been skateboarding from overly young age.
skateboarding from overty young age. Eadier
skateboarding from overly young age. Earlier this year we saw British
Earlier this year we saw British skateboarder Skye Brown, who
Earlier this year we saw British skateboarder Skye Brown, whojust
skateboarder Skye Brown, who just 13, and we
skateboarder Skye Brown, whojust 13, and we were covering the story
13, and we were covering the story of her passengers, it is a dangerous
of her passengers, it is a dangerous sport, isn’t it? When you go
sport, isn’t it? when you go into this, is there a
sport, isn’t it? When you go into this, is there a level of fear, do
this, is there a level of fear, do you just have to put that to the
you just have to put that to the back of your mind? —— Sky Brown.
back of your mind? -- Sky Brown. Skateboarding
back of your mind? —— Sky Brown. Skateboarding has a lot of
Skateboarding has a lot of musda memory to it,
Skateboarding has a lot of muscle memory to it, it is really
Skateboarding has a lot of muscle memory to it, it is reallyjust fun,
memory to it, it is really just fun, but there’s
memory to it, it is reallyjust fun, but there’s also a lot of
but there’s also a lot of discipline as well, and I think
as well, and I think that skateboarders cannot do with think
skateboarders rannot do with think about that,
skateboarders cannot do with think about that, because if you do, you
about that, because if you do, you are not going to skate well, so it
are not going to skate well, so it is just more fun than focusing on
is just more fun than focusing on hurting yourself, I guess. Tell us
hurting yourself, I guess. Tell us about what it has been like
about what it has been like competing in this Olympics, and what
competing in this Olympic, and what it means
competing in this Olympics, and what it means for the future of
it means for the future of skateboarding now, do you think you
skateboarding now, do you think you have got a whole new generation of
have got a whole new generation of fans? Absolutely. I
have got a whole new generation of fans? Absolutely. Ithink
have got a whole new generation of fans? Absolutely. I think that
fans? Absolutely. Ithink that having
fans? Absolutely. I think that having skateboarding being in the
having skateboarding being in the Olympics has really opened the eyes
Olympic has really opened the eyes to a lot
Olympics has really opened the eyes to a lot of people who don’t really
to a lot of people who don’t really understand our sport, and kind of
understand our sport, and kind of look down on skateboarding. So
understand our sport, and kind of look down on skateboarding. Sol
look down on skateboarding. So I feel like
look down on skateboarding. Sol feel like now after seeing us and
feel like now after seeing us and seeing that we are actually real
seeing that we are actually real athletes who are competing in a real
athletes who are competing in a real sport, I
athletes who are competing in a real sport, Ifeel like more parents to
sport, Ifeel like more parents to want their kids to skate, more
want their kids to skate, more peopla are
want their kids to skate, more people are going to want to
peopla are going to want to skate, so it is
think, the one thing you will hold with you for the rest of your life
with you for the rest of your life from these Olympics? That’s really
from these Olympic? That’s really hard.
from these Olympics? That’s really hard. Obviously all the memories I
hard. Obviously all the memories I have with these two and the rest of
have with these two and the rest of the team, but there was a moment
the team, but there was a moment where we all lifted up one of our
where we all lifted up one of our team—mates, appears so dedicated to
team-mates, appears so dedicated to what she
team—mates, appears so dedicated to what she does, and we lifted her up
what she does, and we lifted her up to just show her that what she holds
to just show her that what she holds us so much more than just a
us so much more than just a podium or a gold medal, she can
or a gold medal, she ran represent so much
or a gold medal, she can represent so much more than that. She is
so much more than that. She is probably one of the biggest
probably one of the biggest attributes that I will remember,
attributes that I will remember, being able to lift her out. Thanks
being able to lift her out. Thanks so much all of you for talking to
so much all of you for talking to us, safe
so much all of you for talking to us, safejourney home, and enjoy all
us, safejourney home, and enjoy all the times you have had and the
the times you have had and the memories you will hold dear. Thank
memories you will hold dear. Thank you so much. Thank you for watching,
you so much. Thank you for watching, bye for now.
Plenty of showers over the next few days, some of them heavy
and thundery at times, all revolving around an area of low
pressure which is stubborn to shift.
Here it is today and through the weekend, only slowly
moving its way eastwards.
Plenty of showers around it, not until we get to Tuesday
will we get a break from those showery conditions.
Out there today, low pressure centred across parts of southern
Scotland and northern England, so where it’s centred,
the winds are light us.
If the downpours come your way, there will be longer lasting,
torrential in places, could cause some flooding.
More persistent rain across parts of northern Scotland
with quite a breeze, the showers in the south pushing
through much quicker, so a small portion of the day
here wet with something in between.
Winds up to 50 mph at times.
Making very fairly cold day, nice enough of you get
in the sunshine between those downpours, but when the rain
comes your way, it will feel a bit disappointing for the time of year.
Into the night, you often expect showers to fade,
but because of the area of low pressure right over us,
the showers continue to fade into the net.
Most persistent parts of northern England,
north Walas and then to Northern Ireland.
But temperatures still holding up, even though the days are a cool know
it’s not particularly cold, temperatures in the teens for most.
Saturday, low pressure across parts of Scotland,
a slightly drier day for northern Scotland, warning new way
of downpours, longer lasting ones, southern Scotland
and Northern Ireland and northern England.
Showers pushing through across parts of England and Wales,
a dry spell through East Anglia, and the south—east,
during the middle part of the day.
Temperatures if anything a little bit down on today at’s values.
Saturday night into Sunday, the area of low pressure with us,
the strongest winds wrapped around the outside like, so another
blustery day across the south.
Fewer showers here compared to what we will see elsewhere.
Showers longest lasting across parts of Scotland
and Northern Ireland, and again, could be heavy, thundery,
even torrential in places.
Temperatures for most sitting in the teens.
As we take a look into next week, there will be respite as I said,
particularly on Tuesday, southern areas seeing
a few showers around, some of them will stay dry
for much of the week,
but more rain arriving at times in the north and west.
This is BBC News. The headlines.
Wildfires are threatening large parts of Greece,
as strengthening winds fuel more than 150 fires.
Dozens of towns and villages have been evacuated.
The Greek Prime Minister has said many people are facing
what he called a menacing stage.
There have been protests across Italy,
after the introduction of obligatory Covid green passes to gain access
to restaurants, sporting events and live performances.
The measure will be extended to universities
and transport from next month.
In the UK, music festivals and other live events are to be
protected by government—backed insurance worth £750 million if they
have to cancel because of Covid—19.
One of the world’s greatest footballers, Lionel Messi,
is leaving Barcelona, where he’s spent his entire career.
The Spanish club said financial and structural obstacles had
prevented a new contract deal with the Argentine striker.
1m
Now for all the sport, here is Mike Bushell. Thank you very much indeed.
Team GB’s women’s hockey team have kept up their tradition
of winning Olympic medals, by claiming bronze in
a thrilling roller—coaster of a match, against India.
The Olympic champions from Rio may have missed out on the final,
which will feature the Netherlands and Argentina later,
but they’ve still managed to get on the podium in Tokyo,
as Michael Redford reports.
Under the burning sun in Tokyo, one final chance to shine. For Great
final chance to shine. For Great Britain and India, it was now or
Britain and India, it was now or never. Who could handle the heat?
never. who could handle the heat? The two
never. Who could handle the heat? The two teams had already met in the
The two teams had already met in the EWUP
The two teams had already met in the group stage, with Great Britain
group stage, with Great Britain winning 4-1.
group stage, with Great Britain winning 4—1. The early stages here
winning 4-1. The earty stages here suggested a
winning 4—1. The early stages here suggested a similar scoreline seemed
suggested a similar scoreline seemed likely. Britain’s dominance
likely. Britain’s dominance eventually told. Came off an Indian
eventually told. Came off an Indian player. And Great Britain are ahead.
player. And Great Britain are ahead. It was a gold that woke India up.
It was a gold that woke India up. What I save from Maddie Hinch! That
what I save from Maddie Hinch! That save was
What I save from Maddie Hinch! That save was all the more important that
save was all the more important that shortly after Sarah Robertson picked
shortly after Sarah Robertson picked the perfect time to score her first
the perfect time to score her first goal of the tournament. Great
goal of the tournament. Great Britain in control. Maybe not. Gorge
Britain in control. Maybe not. Gorge it core with a decisive finish. When
it core with a decisive finish. when India had
it core with a decisive finish. When India had a second penalty corner
India had a second penalty corner moments later, Great Britain didn’t
moments later, Great Britain didn’t learn their lesson. NDR level! The
learn their lesson. NDR level! The momentum are changed. India now in
momentum are changed. India now in control and in front at half—time.
control and in front at half-time. What
control and in front at half-time. what had
control and in front at half—time. What had begun as a dream quarter
what had begun as a dream quarter turned
What had begun as a dream quarter turned into a bit of a nightmare.
turned into a bit of a nightmare. They needed somebody to awaken them
They needed somebody to awaken them from their slumber. Step forward
from their slumber. Step forward Captain Hollie Pearne—Webb. All
Captain Hollie Fume-Webb. All square, the
Captain Hollie Pearne—Webb. All square, the match now delicately
square, the match now delicately poised. It swung in favour of GB.
poised. It swung in favour of GB. Grace Balsdon with the effort. The
Grace Balsdon with the effort. The relief clear for all to see. This
relief dear for all to see. This time
relief clear for all to see. This time there would be no comeback. It
time there would be no comeback. It has been a tough five years. Really,
has been a tough five years. Really, really tough. And I can be proud of
really tough. And I ran be proud of them all.
really tough. And I can be proud of them all. We are all here because we
them all. We are all here because we still had that little bit of believe
still had that little bit of believe deep down. They have been lots of
deep down. They have been lots of times over the years when we doubted
times over the years when we doubted if we could achieve this. And I’m
if we could achieve this. And I’m just so pleased and proud of
just so pleased and proud of everyone that we have. Bronze in
everyone that we have. Bronze in 2012, gold in 2016, bronze in 2021.
2012, gold in 2016, bronze in 2021. For a third successive Olympic
For a third successive Olympic Games, great Britain’s hockey team
Games, great Britain’s hockey team are celebrating once again. Michael
are celebrating once again. Michael Radford,
are celebrating once again. Michael Redford, BBC News.
Great news for Team GB boxer Lauren Price, who will fight
for a gold medal on the final day of Tokyo 2020, after winning her
middleweight semi—final on Friday.
It was nip and tuck all the way, and got even tougher for Price
against her Dutch opponent, Nouchka Fontjin, when she was docked
a point for excessive holding in the second round.
But against an opponent she has faced in several major finals,
Price fought back in the last round to edge victory,
to book her place in the gold—medal contest on Sunday.
The Olympic gold medallist diver, Tom Daley,
is going for a second medal at these games, this time in the 10 metre,
individual platform.
It’s qualifying today, with the semi—finals tomorrow.
But Daley and fellow Brit Noah Williams
have work to do if they’re to make the cut, after
disappointing first dives,
Daley has improved and is currently in the last
of the 18 qualifying places.
The USA are on top of the beach volleyball world again,
and they really are the A team.
The American duo of April Ross, and Alix Klineman only dropped one
set in the entire tournament on their way to gold.
And after the final win over Australia, they had a new fan.
Mr T, from The A Team tweeted his approval.
Now, away from the Olympics, records have been broken in football.
It’s a dream come true, joining Manchester City,
says Jack Grealish, after his transfer from Aston Villa
for a British record fee of £100 million.
The lure of trophies and Champions League football
was enough for Grealish to leave the club he’s supported
since he was a boy.
He’s signed a six—year contract at City, and will wear
the number 10 shirt, recently vacated by Sergio Aguero.
Meanwhile, it’s got rather messy for Leone Messi at Barcelona.
Financial issues and complying with the transfer and wages rules
in La Liga forced the club to say the 34—year—old star won’t be
getting a new contract now and his time there was over.
He has been a free agent for a month now, but had been set to stay.
Although pundits in Spain, believe it’s not the end of the matter.
A lot of talking to be done, apparently. The opening Test match
apparently. The opening Test match between India and England is likely
between India and England is likely to face more disruption today
to face more disruption today because of rain. England back in the
because of rain. England back in the match after
because of rain. England back in the match afterJames Anderson starred
match afterjames Anderson starred with
match after james Anderson starred with the
match afterJames Anderson starred with the ball. That is all the
with the hall. That is all the sport. See
with the ball. That is all the sport. See you later.
There’s a call for people with needle phobia to be
exempt from any Covid vaccine passport scheme.
The condition causes an extreme fear of injections and in many cases
anxiety around just seeing a needle.
A recent study suggests the phobia accounts for around a tenth
of vaccine hesitancy in the UK.
Luxmy Gopal reports.
Adam is getting his first Covid jab, or desperately trying to.
The 23—year—old suffers from needle phobia and anxiety.
It’s not widely recognised, 0K?
A lot of people just say shut your eyes, forget about it,
focus on something else.
It doesn’t work that way.
It is far more severe than just a fear and an aversion to needles.
It’s as if the world is ending type of thing at that moment.
You can’t focus on anything.
It’s not so much the pain of the injection, it’s the thought
of it piercing the skin.
Three days ago, he came in for his first attempt.
We spent five hours.
We went from being in a state of severe panic to being able to sit
with a needle a few inches away.
I didn’t get the jab.
I rebooked for today.
Then we had three hours.
Vaccine clinics have resources on hand for those who need more time
or one—to—one support.
The majority, especially the younger generation,
we have a lot of people worried and scared about needles.
My advice to them is they can bring friends,
family members, they can ask for a side room, they can call
the vaccine cites beforehand to get an idea of what precautions,
what steps are being put in place to help them.
Tackling this phobia could make a real dent
in vaccine hesitancy rates.
A study by researchers from Oxford University indicates
that of those who are vaccine hesitant in the UK, for around one
in ten the significant factor is a fear of needles.
The charity, Anxiety UK, hopes any plans for Covid passports
would have exemptions for people with the condition.
We shouldn’t be discriminating against those with needle
phobia or needle anxiety.
It must be recognised that there is a genuine and real
fear in some people.
They need help and support.
It would be unfair to not allow them to be considered to be included
in some form of exemption scheme if that was allowed,
if that was taken forward.
The Department of Health says it encourages people
to have the vaccine as it can save lives.
It says it is working to ensure those who can’t have it for medical
reasons and disadvantage.
But for this group of unvaccinated, it is not about being anti—vex.
After hours of trying again, Adam doesn’t quite manage the jab
but has rebooked and is determined to give it another shot.
Luxmy Gopal, BBC News.
Ofgem announce their latest price cap today, for those
on dualfuel bills — and it’s expected that rising
wholesale costs for gas and electricity could see consumers
face record price rises.
With me isJonathan Brearley, CEO of Ofgem.
Welcome to you. Thank you for being with us. Bring us up on what exactly
with us. Bring us up on what exactly this rap is going
with us. Bring us up on what exactly this cap is going to be and why it
this rap is going to be and why it is so high? The
this cap is going to be and why it is so high? The price cap does limit
is so high? The price rap does limit peopla who
is so high? The price cap does limit people who don’t shop around for the
peopla who don’t shop around for the best
people who don’t shop around for the best tarot. What we have done today
best tarot. what we have done today is, berause
best tarot. What we have done today is, because we have seen a record
is, because we have seen a record increase impossible fuel prices
increase impossible fuel prices across the board, also petrol and
across the board, also petrol and diesel, we had to think that through
diesel, we had to think that through to the calculation that due to the
to the ralmlation that due to the price rap.
to the calculation that due to the price cap. What the price cap does
price rap. what the price rap does is it make
price cap. What the price cap does is it make sure we don’t go back to
is it make sure we don’t go back to the bad old days when companies
the bad old days when companies charged on fair profits on top of
charged on fair profits on top of the amount you pay. Clearly when
the amount you pay. Cleariy when input costs
the amount you pay. Clearly when input costs change, that limit does
input costs change, that limit does need to change. Our advice is really
need to change. Our advice is really clear. We know this is going to put
clear. We know this is going to put peopla in very
clear. We know this is going to put people in very difficult
people in very difficult circumstances and we work closely
circumstances and we work closely with charities and indeed with
with charities and indeed with customers themselves, so we would
customers themselves, so we would encourage every customer who is
encourage every customer who is concerned to get in touch with their
concerned to get in touch with their suppUer
concerned to get in touch with their supplier and make sure they get
supplier and make sure they get access to the help and support
access to the help and support available. And if you can, shop
available. And if you ran, shop around
available. And if you can, shop around and get the best possible
around and get the best possible tariff. This will affect about half
tariff. This will affect about half of UK households? About 15 million
of UK households? About 15 million households. For each and every one
households. For each and every one of them, get in touch with your
of them, get in touch with your supplier, ask them to put you in a
supplier, ask them to put you in a better tariff and equally get access
better tariff and equally get access to the health and support available.
to the health and support available. What kind of health and support is
what kind of health and support is there?
What kind of health and support is there? There are a range of things
there? There are a range of things suppliers ran
there? There are a range of things suppliers can do. We have the warm
suppliers ran do. We have the warm Home
suppliers can do. We have the warm Home discount scheme. Customers can
Home discount scheme. Customers ran get about £140
Home discount scheme. Customers can get about £140 off the energy bill.
get about £140 off the energy bill. Equally, off Gem have put very
Equally, off Gem have put very strict rules in place to make sure
strict mles in place to make sure companies
strict rules in place to make sure companies treat you fairly if you’re
companies treat you fairty if you’re stmggling to
companies treat you fairly if you’re struggling to pay your bills. We
stmggling to pay your bills. We have
struggling to pay your bills. We have about 1
struggling to pay your bills. We have about1 million
struggling to pay your bills. We have aboutl million people on
have aboutl million people on affordable repayment plans as a
affordable repayment plans as a result. There are a range of things
result. There are a range of things they ran do.
result. There are a range of things they can do. They can put you in
they ran do. They ran put you in touch with
they can do. They can put you in touch with debt advisers if it turns
touch with debt advisers if it turns out that customers are struggling to
out that customers are stmggling to pay their
out that customers are struggling to pay their energy bills face other
pay their energy bills face other financial issues within their
financial issues within their family. There are a lot of things
family. There are a lot of things you ran do to
family. There are a lot of things you can do to manage this. We accept
you ran do to manage this. We accept this is a big
you can do to manage this. We accept this is a big change. My message to
this is a big change. My message to the industry, and my message to all
the industry, and my message to all the charities and others, including
the charities and others, including government, is we need to redouble
government, is we need to redouble our efforts and make sure that we
our efforts and make sure that we support people through this big
support peopla through this big change. We
support people through this big change. We have worked well during
change. We have worked well during the Covid crisis and we need to
the Covid crisis and we need to continue to do so. When the energy
continue to do so. when the energy GP
continue to do so. when the energy rap was
continue to do so. When the energy cap was introduced it was to protect
cap was introduced it was to protect customers from unscrupulous energy
customers from unscrupulous energy companies. Is it working when we see
companies. Is it working when we see a rise like this? If you go back
a rise like this? If you go back into a time before the cap, energy
into a time before the rap, energy profits were
into a time before the cap, energy profits were very high. The price
profits were very high. The price GP
profits were very high. The price rap takes £1
profits were very high. The price cap takes £1 billion in profit away
rap takes £1 billion in profit away from the
cap takes £1 billion in profit away from the company and put that back
from the company and put that back into the pockets of customers.
into the pockets of customers. Unfortunately, we have to adjust it
Unfortunately, we have to adjust it when the going price of gas itself
when the going price of gas itself changes, because we can’t ask
changes, because we can’t ask companies to sell you energy at a
companies to sell you energy at a price that is less than they have to
price that is lass than they have to pay to buy it.
price that is less than they have to pay to buy it. Please do get in
pay to buy it. Please do get in touch with your supplier and get
touch with your supplier and get access to all the help and support
access to all the help and support that is out there. There’s a lot
that is out there. There’s a lot that ran
that is out there. There’s a lot that can be done to support you
that ran be done to support you through this
that can be done to support you through this difficult change. Thank
through this difficult change. Thank you for being with us.
UK music festivals and other live events are to be protected
by a government—backed insurance scheme if they have
to cancel because of Covid.
It will begin next month with a £750 million budget to cover
cancellation costs if events are legally unable to happen due
to government Covid restrictions.
Let’s speak now to Jamie Njoku—Goodwin, chief
executive of UK Music.
Welcome to you. Thank you for being with us. This is something the UK
with us. This is something the UK music industry has long been calling
music industry has long been falling for. You
music industry has long been calling for. You must be pretty please? We
for. You must be pretty please? We are thrilled with this. We have had
are thrilled with this. We have had issues for the past year where
issues for the past year where insurers have not wanted to ensure
insurers have not wanted to ensure major events because of the risk of
major events because of the risk of calculation. Many events have not
ralmlation. Many events have not been
calculation. Many events have not been able to go ahead without that
been able to go ahead without that insurance. You had a market failure.
insurance. You had a market failure. You have seen lots of events this
You have seen lots of events this summer been cancelled already.
summer been cancelled already. Glastonbury, boom town, British
Glastonbury, boom town, British summertime. We were very concerned
summertime. We were very concerned that we would still be seeing
that we would still be seeing cancellations into next year because
cancellations into next year berause they would
cancellations into next year because they would be that lack of
they would be that lack of insurance. There would still be a
insurance. There would still be a huge risk of potentially things been
huge risk of potentially things been cancelled and the industry would not
ancellad and the industry would not have the
cancelled and the industry would not have the confidence to plan events.
have the confidence to plan events. We have been calling for action from
We have been falling for action from government on
We have been calling for action from government on insurance and the
government on insurance and the government has delivered that today.
government has delivered that today. We are thrilled. Labour say it is
We are thrillad. labour say it is the bare
We are thrilled. Labour say it is the bare minimum and relieve
the bare minimum and relieve promoters at risk. Do you share
promoters at risk. Do you share those concerns? It is a key point.
those concerns? It is a key point. This scheme covers cancellations in
This scheme covers cancellations in the event of a full lockdown. It
the event of a full lockdown. It doesn’t cover cancellations because
doesn’t cover cancellations berause of social
doesn’t cover cancellations because of social distancing or enforced
of social distancing or enforced capacity reduction. We would like to
capacity reduction. We would like to see this conversation moved away
see this conversation moved away from thinking that if case rates
from thinking that if use rates should up
from thinking that if case rates should up we are going to go back to
should up we are going to go back to reduce capacity. That is not viable
reduce capacity. That is not viabla for the
reduce capacity. That is not viable for the industry and it is not
for the industry and it is not covered by the scheme. None of us
covered by the scheme. None of us want to see more restrictions. We
want to see more restrictions. We hope we are out of this. If we do
hope we are out of this. If we do start to see a situation emerging
start to see a situation emerging choir the Government is looking at
choir the Government is looking at new restrictions, those
new restrictions, those conversations should be around
conversations should be around things like certification and
things like certification and testing at full capacity, rather
testing at full capacity, rather than reduced capacity. That would be
than reduced capacity. That would be catastrophic for the industry. With
catastrophic for the industry. with this
catastrophic for the industry. With this insurance now, do you see
this insurance now, do you see concerts returning to the levels
concerts returning to the levels they were at, festivals as well? It
they were at, festivals as well? It is going to be a really long road
is going to be a really long road out of this pandemic. But this
out of this pandemic. But this insurance issue, across the sector
insurance issue, across the sector people have said this is one of the
peopla have said this is one of the key
people have said this is one of the key things that I stopped us coming
key things that I stopped us coming back to where we were before. As we
back to where we were before. As we are looking to come out of this
are looking to come out of this pandemic, economic recovery, music
pandemic, economic recovery, music festivals, large events are going to
festivals, large events are going to be some of the things that help
be some of the things that help that. Glastonbury generates hundreds
that. Glastonbury generates hundreds of millions of pounds for the local
of millions of pounds for the [oral area.
of millions of pounds for the local area. Concerts across the country
area. Concerts across the country have to create jobs, growth, growth
have to create jobs, growth, growth throughout the supply chains, as we
throughout the supply chains, as we are looking to recover from this
are looking to recover from this pandemic large risk events can be
pandemic large risk events ran be the
pandemic large risk events can be the driver of this post pandemic
the driver of this post pandemic economic and cultural recovery. This
economic and cultural recovery. This insurance scheme is a good example
insurance scheme is a good example of that. Thank you.
The FA says it’s committed to getting more British Asian
women into football.
Its figures show on average only one in ten of those playing
at grassroots level is Asian, and under—representation is even
more of a problem when it comes to the professional game.
It comes as government research suggests Asian women are the least
Now clubs — like the newly set—up Southall Athletic FC —
are trying to change that.
Anisa Kadri caught up with them at training.
She shoots, she scores.
Southall Athletic FC women’s side welcomes women from all backgrounds.
But because of its location within a very Asian area,
it provides opportunities for lots British Asian women to play.
You just need a release with a group of girls that understand you.
You just want to have fun, but play at a competitive level.
There is a big taboo.
Indian girls shouldn’t play football, they should get
married, they shouldn’t be doing certain things.
For us, as a team we are trying to break the taboo.
The team has already won a tournament, but they have faced
racism along the way.
They would say a few words like curry, the P word.
She said something underneath her breath, I got agitated,
I went into her face and the referee goes to me, are you
trying to get sent off?
He didn’t hear what she said.
The club wants people to let them know if they are racially abused
so it can be dealt with.
Referees, coaches, players, they should all be concerned with racism
should all be concerned with racism in the game.
It is something that I had myself, when I was playing as a younger kid,
until I was about 20, I encountered racism the whole way.
The goal of Southall Athletic FC try to make the sport more accessible,
more diverse and more exciting.
It comes at a time of the FA is trying to encourage more Asian
girls and women in play football.
This video of rising star Layla has been released by the FA to encourage
more Asian girls and women to get involved in football.
We are doing research with young girls around what they want.
We are also working with various people from the Muslim faith
on the sport hijab and how important that is to help them on the pitch.
We are doing some work in mosques as well.
We are trying to do as much as we can to listen to what our
Asian women’s football group says to us.
So, is women’s football frowned upon and Asian communities?
It’s become a bit more open, but not every family is like that.
I still get a few people in public saying, you are a girl,
you should be at home, you shouldn’t be playing
in a football shirt and shorts because you are Asian.
ii
It is hoped new women’s teams like Southall at a cab to tackle Asian
Southall at a cab to tackle Asian underrepresentation at various parts
underrepresentation at various parts of the game.
The Tokyo Olympics opened with a ceremony which featured two
mixed race Japanese athletes in very high—profile roles.
Many see it as a watershed moment in the way Japan views its growing
multi—ethnic population.
Rupert Wingfield—Hayes reports.
It was the crowning moment of the opening ceremony
and a big surprise — two of Japan’s most famous
mixed—race athletes given the honour of leading the team
and lighting the cauldron.
But in the two weeks since, Naomi Osaka in particular has been
targeted with online abuse, with some questioning
whether she is really Japanese.
It’s something Ariana Miyamoto knows as well.
Back in 2016, she also caused shock here, becoming the first mixed—race
women to be crowned Miss Universe japan.
Watching the Olympic opening ceremony, Ariana says
she was pretty sceptical.
TRANSLATION: I don’t know why they were chosen.
It seems like it was to get good publicity.
Japan has a lot of mixed—race celebrities and sports stars.
Biracial people are often held up as being more beautiful,
even more intelligent.
But Ariana says within that, there is still a hierarchy.
TRANSLATION: Half—white people are greatly celebrated inJapan,
but when it comes to half—black people, it’s different.
When I was working as a model, I was told that a lot of Japanese
wouldn’t want the clothes that I wear since my skin
colour is very different.
So they wouldn’t allow me to model their outfits.
I kind of look atJapan as a...
Mr McNeil is a writer who has lived inJapan for 17 years.
He says Naomi Osaka lighting the Olympic cauldron will not change
the fact that most Japanese still think this is
a mono—ethnic society.
So, first thing Japan would need to do is disperse with that rumour,
with that fallacy that they’re a homogeneous country.
It’s a misconception, and the fact that they haven’t been
correcting it is feeding this negativity, the response
to Naomi Osaka and Rui Hachimura and all these people,
because most Japanese people don’t understand this basic
fact, that their country is not homogeneous.
Biracial people are not the only ones who face exclusion
and discrimination in Japan.
In the southern Okinawan Islands, there are nearly 1.5 million people
who are not even recognised as an official minority
despite having their own culture and language.
In the far north, there are more people, and then inJapan’s
big cities like here, there is the group that perhaps
faces the greatest hostility, and those are ethnic Koreans.
They never mentioned the ethnic Koreans in the opening
ceremony, SO where we are...
Where are we, I mean?
His Korean grandparents were brought here over 80 years ago.
He has never known another home.
But that fact means little to Japan’s many
right—wing nationalists.
Mostly, they say, OK, you are utilising Japan,
so you guys are taking all the resources from Japanese
people, so you should go home.
It doesn’t matter, like, which passport you are, for them,
the origin is very important.
Those who yearn for a more inclusive Japan look at the opening ceremony
and wonder whether it really was a sign this country
is changing or a pretence, an attempt to make Japan look more
open than it really is.
Rupert Wingfield—Hayes, BBC News, in Tokyo.
A new kind of content creator is emerging on YouTube.
So—called Virtual YouTubers are people who use SD character
models to engage with their audience anonymously on the
video—sharing site.
These V—Tubers — as they’re called — are becoming more and more popular
with some reportedly earning millions.
Our reporter Miles Emmanuel spoke to two of them
using their online personas.
Hello. You are watching the BBC.
Meet Veepaii and Apricot — two British women, aged 22 and 23,
who work as online content creators and use animated avatars
to replace their identity.
Some virtual YouTubers, ‘VTubers’, use body tracking technology,
like this, to animate the characters, while others
have a much simpler set up.
But the industry only started in 2016 and some need convincing
it is a viable career choice.
She didn’t understand what I was doing at first
and she was definitely not happy about me leaving university
to pursue my career online.
I took a year off of university and that is when my career blew up.
With a host of colourful characters, accessibility and anonymity can play
key parts in streamers deciding to take the digital plunge.
For Vee, it was after she contracted a viral infection which ruptured her
spleen and left her bedridden for six months that she
decided to stream online.
Any disability you may have, it definitely works around it.
You don’t need to deal with harassment from people.
You would probably deal with it if you had your camera up.
They assume that everybody who chooses this career,
having their face as a cartoon character, theyjust instantly
assume that everyone is overweight orjust some guy,
and it’s really not the case.
VTubers are now amongst the highest—earning content
creators, with some receiving up to around £2 million
in the last 1.5 years.
Now, major companies are looking into using SD mascots
for customer—facing roles.
If you are asking if this is the future of things,
I see us moving towards it as these art styles are being seen
as engaging and more attractive to them, right?
You do not have to hire make up artists or crazy video to have
someone talking about your wares.
You canjust run a game engine and have it fully rendered.
And although VTubers, like many content creators,
can be subject to abusive and sexist comments, Veepaii and Apricot
say their careers have allowed them to learn important life skills.
I grew out of my social anxiety through being a VTuber.
I used to be really shy.
I would be afraid to speak in English classes.
Ifa kid has a dream of their own or a goal in mind,
I think everyone should try to pursue that.
Miles Emmanuel, BBC News.
Let’s just show you the live picture coming into us from grace. This is a
coming into us from grace. This is a scene north of Athens. Those
scene north of Athens. Those devastating wildfires. Really
devastating wildfires. Really showing the scale of the smoke
showing the scale of the smoke hanging over the city of Athens. The
hanging over the city of Athens. The Greek Prime Minister has said that
Greek Prime Minister has said that many people face what he called a
many people face what he called a menacing night. He said firefighters
menacing night. He said firefighters were struggling to contain
were struggling to contain wildfires, not
were struggling to contain wildfires, notjust in Athens but
wildfires, not just in Athens but across
wildfires, notjust in Athens but across the country. The Prime
across the country. The Prime Minister said the worst was sadly
Minister said the worst was sadly yet to come, with strong westerly
yet to come, with strong westerty winds
yet to come, with strong westerly winds are expected to fan the flames
winds are expected to fan the ﬂames today. We will
winds are expected to fan the flames today. We will continue to keep an
today. We will continue to keep an eye on the situation in Greece. And
eye on the situation in Greece. And update you as it changes. That’s it
update you as it changes. That’s it from me. You can reach me on
from me. You ran reach me on Twitter.
from me. You can reach me on Twitter. Now the weather with Matt
Twitter. Now the weather with Matt Taylor.
Hello. Whilst a few of you will get
Hello. whilst a few of you will get away with
Hello. Whilst a few of you will get away with decent dry weather in the
away with decent dry weather in the next few days, the emphasis will be
next few days, the emphasis will be on the few. Plenty of downpours to
on the few. Plenty of downpours to come, some pretty torrential and
come, some pretty torrential and thundery. The weather equivalent of
thundery. The weather equivalent of the rinse and spin cycle. Low
the rinse and spin cycle. Low pressure necrosis. Those showers
pressure necrosis. Those showers revolving around that area of low
revolving around that area of low pressure as it moves eastwards,
pressure as it moves eastwards, bringing respite eventually,
bringing respite eventually, hopefully, for most of us by
hopefully, for most of us by Tuesday. The area of low pressure
Tuesday. The area of low pressure are centred across parts of southern
are centred across parts of southern Scotland. Strongest winds around the
Scotland. Strongest winds around the edges of that. Winds gusting at 44
edges of that. winds gusting at M -- 40 to
edges of that. Winds gusting at 44 -- 40 to 50
edges of that. Winds gusting at 44 —— A0 to 50 mph. Any showers you see
-- 40 to 50 mph. Any showers you see will be ﬂaeting.
—— A0 to 50 mph. Any showers you see will be fleeting. More persistent
will be ﬂaeting. More persistent rain on
will be fleeting. More persistent rain on the far north of Scotland.
rain on the far north of Scotland. For southern Scotland, Northern
For southern Scotland, Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland, where the
Ireland, Northern Ireland, where the winds latest, torrential
winds latest, torrential thunderstorms could bring quite a
thunderstorms could bring quite a lot of rain. The risk of flooding.
lot of rain. The risk ofﬂooding. That said, if
lot of rain. The risk of flooding. That said, if you managed to avoid
That said, if you managed to avoid the showers, it should feel pleasant
the showers, it should feel pleasant in the sunshine. Overall fairly cool
in the sunshine. Overall fairty cool for this stage
in the sunshine. Overall fairly cool for this stage of August. Low
for this stage of August. Low pressure still with us overnight.
pressure still with us overnight. You ran
pressure still with us overnight. You can see those showers revolving
You ran see those showers revolving around it.
You can see those showers revolving around it. Most frequent up across
around it. Most frequent up across parts of Scotland, Northern Ireland,
parts of Scotland, Northern Ireland, parts of north—west England, north
parts of north-west England, north and west
parts of north—west England, north and west Wales. Some pushing towards
and west Walas. Some pushing towards the
and west Wales. Some pushing towards the south—east corner. The night is
the south-east corner. The night is not particularty
the south—east corner. The night is not particularly chilly. In
not particularly chilly. In temperatures holding in double
temperatures holding in double figures. On Saturday it is as you
figures. On Saturday it is as you are. Showers brewing again. Probably
are. Showers brewing again. Probably a few more towards Wales and
a few more towards Wales and south—west Lincoln. A few to begin
south-west Lincoln. A few to begin within
south—west Lincoln. A few to begin within East Anglia and the
within East Anglia and the south—east. Turning dry for a time.
south-east. Turning dry for a time. Showers
south—east. Turning dry for a time. Showers and thunderstorms across
Showers and thunderstorms across Scotland, Northern Ireland and
Scotland, Northern Ireland and northern England would be slow
northern England would be slow moving in the afternoon. Brighter
moving in the afternoon. Brighter for Scotland. For
moving in the afternoon. Brighter for Scotland. Forall of
moving in the afternoon. Brighter for Scotland. For all of us
for Scotland. For all of us temperatures down. The area of low
temperatures down. The area of low pressure still around the UK. As
pressure still around the UK. As centred through Scotland, the
centred through Scotland, the heaviest of the downpours will be.
heaviest of the downpours will be. Brewing through the afternoon as
Brewing through the afternoon as temperatures rise. Fewer showers
temperatures rise. Fewer showers towards the south coast of England
towards the south coast of England and South Wales. Some of you will
and South Walas. Some of you will get
and South Walas. Some of you will set by
and South Walas. Some of you will get by largely
and South Wales. Some of you will get by largely dry. Temperatures
get by largely dry. Temperatures still in the high teens for the vast
still in the high teens for the vast majority. As we go into next week we
majority. As we go into next week we are not settling down into a long
are not settling down into a long spell of summery weather by any
spell of summery weather by any means. Tuesday probably the widest
means. Tuesday probably the widest ride across the country. Still some
ride across the country. Still some sunshine at times.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines:
Energy bills for millions of households across the UK
are to go up this winter.
The energy watchdog says the increase is needed
because of rising wholesale prices.
Because we have
Because We have seen a
Because we have seen a record increase in fossil fuel prices, not
increase in fossil fuel prices, not just gas and electricity but also
just gas and electricity but also petrol and diesel we have fed that
petrol and diesel we have fed that through to the calculation.
The bronze medal at Tokyo 2020.
A third successive medal at the olympics
for Britain’s women hockey team — thanks to a A—S win over India.
Team GB are also guaranteed at least another silver in the boxing.
Most remaining coronavirus restrictions in Wales will be
scrapped from tomorrow — Limits on the number of people that
can meet indoors will end, social distancing rules will ease —
and nightclubs can reopen.
A fifth of all the UK’s Covid, hospital patients are aged
between 18 and 3A — Doctors warn of the dangers facing
the young and unvaccinated — we’ve a special report.
Firefighters in Greece continue to battle wildfires
across the country — it’s predicted that
worse is still to come.
And the end of an era — Barcelona say Lionel Messi
will leave the club after 21 years — due to "financial obstacles".
Gas and electric prices will go up for millions of people
across the UK in October.
The energy watchdog, Ofgem, has confirmed its biggest increase
so far to the price cap for domestic deals to cover suppliers’ extra
costs.
On average, households in England,
Wales and Scotland on standard tariffs will pay an extra 139 pounds
a yearfrom October.
Prepayment customers will see an increase of £153 according
to the regulator.
The cap, which is reviewed every six
months, rose by nearly a hundred pounds in April.
Charities, such as National Energy Action,
say this latest increase couldn’t have come at a worse time,
but Ofgem insists the changes are necessary because of the rising
wholesale costs of energy.
Ofgem’s chief executive, Jonathan Brearley, has this
message for customers
m:
We have a price cap in Britain and
We have a price rap in Britain and that... People
We have a price cap in Britain and that... People who do not switch
that... People who do not switch supplier, and what we have done
supplier, and what we have done today is because we have seen a
today is because we have seen a record increase in fossil
today is because we have seen a record increase in fossilfuel
record increase in fossil fuel prices
record increase in fossilfuel prices across the board, not
record increase in fossilfuel prices across the board, notjust
prices across the board, not just gas and
prices across the board, notjust gas and electricity but also petrol
gas and electricity but also petrol and diesel, we have had to feed that
and diesel, we have had to feed that through the calculation and into the
through the ralmlation and into the price rap.
through the calculation and into the price cap. What that does is make
price rap. what that does is make sure we
price cap. What that does is make sure we don’t go back to the bad old
sure we don’t go back to the bad old days where companies charge on fair
days where companies charge on fair profits on top of the amount you but
profits on top of the amount you but when input changes, that limit has
when input changes, that limit has to change. Our advice is really
to change. Our advice is really clear. We know it is going to put
clear. We know it is going to put peopla in
clear. We know it is going to put people in difficult circumstances
peopla in difficult circumstances and we
people in difficult circumstances and we work closely with charities
and we work closely with charities and the customers themselves, we
and the customers themselves, we encourage every customer to get in
encourage every customer to get in touch with their supplier and make
touch with their supplier and make sure they get access to the help and
sure they get access to the help and support which is available to them.
Justina Miltonite is from the comparison website Uswitch.
The price cap impacts customers on
The price rap impacts customers on default
The price cap impacts customers on default tariffs who have not switch
default tariffs who have not switch their energy supplier for a really
their energy supplier for a really long time or have moved homes and
long time or have moved homes and haven’t fixed their deals. The other
haven’t fixed their deals. The other EWUP
haven’t fixed their deals. The other group of people would be prepayment
group of people would be prepayment customers who are usually in a more
customers who are usually in a more precarious financial situation
precarious financial situation already, so it will really affect
already, so it will really affect people who could do with a bit of
peopla who could do with a bit of relief.
With me now is Peter Smith, director of policy
and advocacy at fuel poverty charity National Energy Action.
I’m also joined by Anthony Lyman who’s a single dad of two

Citation: BBC News, 06:00 06/08/2021, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/187B7105X?bcast=135018189 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)