There is a risk of a few isolated showers
and favoured spots for that
perhaps on Thursday into the north—east of Scotland.
But there will be some lengthy spells of sunshine coming through
and those temperatures will be a little warmer, 23 degrees,
that’s 73 Fahrenheit.
Moving out of Thursday into Friday is almost a repeat performance.
We’re still under that inﬂuence of high pressure,
although this weather front may well spoil things for the start
of the weekend, but don’t worry about that at the moment.
Let’s take a look at Friday’s weather.
As you can see, mostly dry, still the risk of an isolated shower,
but they should be few and far between
and again 23 degrees the high.
But if you are planning on spending time with friends and family
outside at the weekend, well,
you do have to be prepared for the potential of the return
to some sharper, possibly thundery, downpours
moving in from the south—west.
Now obviously the position of these showers certainly subject
to change this far out,
but, on Saturday, across England and Walas,
we could see some sharp showers.
Scotland and Northern Ireland
may well stay dry and relatively settled.
"what on earth is happening?‘ you may ask.
Well, thejet stream has been pretty powerful, fast moving,
and it’s the jet stream that drives in areas of low pressure
and we have been on the north side of the jet, the cooler side,
so that drives in those low-pressure systems,
that brings that wetter weather
and also the disappointing feel to the story.
So we have been used to scenes like this so far inJuly.
However, as we move into next week, there are indications
that the jet stream is going to weaken offjust a touch.
It’s also going to move to the north of the UK,
so once we’re on the south side of the jet, the warm side,
that potentially allows areas
of high pressure to build in from the south
and that means that there is potential for seeing some sunshine,
but not only that,
some warmth returning.
We could see temperatures into the mid 205.
A lot of water to go under the bridge, quite literally,
before then, but keep watching the forecast for further details.
Fire Service! Is anyone in?
Join the Yorkshire Firefighters...
Where are you stuck?
..from the station...
CHILD: I love you.
..to the front line...
Potentially we’re sending them to their death.
..to see what life is like...
Are we all right coming in?
You haven’t got Covid? No, I ain’t got Covid.
..behind the visor.
It’s about the camaraderie. It’s about the togetherness.
Can I suggest we do a montage?
Are you ready for the twist?
It’s a good one.
in defeating terrorism and defeating terrorism has failed.
The military compartment that was intended to fight
extremism and terrorism, that, rather than doing
the job correctly and where it was needed, began to hurt
and harass and bomb and imprison Afghans.
That’s where it failed.
That’s where our failure today is.
Others blame endemic corruption, inefficiency
and massive waste.
The conflict has costed an estimated $1 trillion
and over 100,000 lives, and it could be
about to get worse.
Taliban insurgents are on the offensive.
They reportedly control a quarter of Afghanistan’s
districts after overrunning several government outposts.
They are insisting no Western forces be left behind.
All foreign forces should withdraw from the country
whether they are contractor, adviser or trainers
because they were part of the occupation.
That’s a violation, we will react.
But that reaction would be based on the decision
of our leadership.
In Kandahar province — the former Taliban stronghold —
residents have been voicing their fears of what they think
the return to power might mean.
TRANSLATION: The Taliban don’t want peace,
the Taliban want the whole government.
The Taliban are only killing.
And there’s another concern.
Osama bin Laden may be dead,
but his organisation, Al-Qaeda, lives on.
Many fear a return of the Taliban means
a return of Al-Qaeda.
A nightmare scenario not just for Afghanistan,
but for much of the world.
Frank Gardner, BBC News.
Lyse Doucet is in the Afghan capital, Kabul.
—— The British Prime Minister BorisJohnson has confirmed
that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions
in England in two weeks time, with a final decision next
week.
That would mean workers returning to the office
and an end to social distancing.
But it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
The UK government says this is manageable because
manageable because hospitalisations are under
hospitalisations are under control. With the Delta
control. with the Delta variant,
control. With the Delta variant, it is growing rapidly
variant, it is growing rapidly but this graph shows current
but this graph shows current hospitalisations are lagging
hospitalisations are lagging “Y
hospitalisations are lagging way behind the second wave.
hospitalisations are lagging way behind the second wave.
way behind the second wave. They are still on the up but at
They are still on the up but at a much slower pace and a
a much slower pace and a similar pattern can be seen in
similar pattern ran be seen in the
similar pattern can be seen in the statistics for deaths, far
the statistis for deaths, far fewer
the statistics for deaths, far fewer than in the previous
fewer than in the previous wave. Mr
fewer than in the previous wave. MrJohnson has warned
wave. Mr johnson has warned that
wave. MrJohnson has warned that Covid and actions across
that Covid and actions across the UK were predicted to rise
the UK were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day later in the
to 50,000 a day later in the month. Vicki Young has this
month. Vicki Young has this report.
All around us signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
Instructions about where we can go, who we can see even
in our own home and how far apart we must stand,
but in two weeks things could change.
Covid has not gone but most restrictions in England
are likely to disappear.
Restaurants and pubs can open normally and theatres
and cinemas can fill every seat.
The Prime Minister put the emphasis on personal
responsibility instead of government orders.
I want to stress from the outset that this pandemic
is farfrom over and we must reconcile ourselves sadly
to more deaths from Covid.
There’s only one reason why we can contemplate going ahead
to step four in circumstances where we would normally be
locking down further and that is because of
the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
And in Bristol, people are starting to contemplate
life with fewer rules.
Personally I think it’s better to be safe than sorry,
but just like every normal person
I welcome the change.
It’s the wrong thing, wrong decision.
Why?
Because cases are going up.
At least give it a go and then if anything gets worse you can
always go back.
I think we just have to live with it.
You can’t keep living your life being told what to do.
People are now afraid even to go out, some people.
For some, the face mask has become a hated symbol
of intrusive government.
It will still be recommended in hospitals and enclosed
public spaces but the legal requirement to wear a face
covering will go.
Unions say that will put workers at risk.
The days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations
to follow will soon be gone and instead the government
is asking us to use a common sense and make personal
decisions about how we stay safe.
It’s a big shift in approach but comes at a time
when cases are rising.
The Prime Minister has been marking the NHS’s birthday,
and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart
of his Covid strategy.
Can you tell us how bad you expect it to get?
Obviously we have to be cautious and we will continue
to look at all the data as we progress.
If we don’t go ahead now when the summer fire break
is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages
that should give us in fighting the virus, then the question
What the modelling would imply is we will reach that peak
before we get to the point where we have the kind
of pressures that we saw in January for example this year.
Labour says some will need more support.
To throw off all protections at the same time when
the infection rate is still going up is reckless.
We need a balanced approach and need to keep key
protections in place including masks, ventilation
and crucially on something we’ve asked for during
the pandemic, proper payment for those who need
to self—isolate.
Later in the week we will find out about government plans
for foreign travel and when we come into a positive case
what will happen.
In schools entire class bubbles will not be sent home.
We have lived under restrictions that we could not
have imagined.
Today, Boris Johnson signalled
it is time to get back to normal.
Vicki Young, BBC News, Westminster.
Joining me now is Eric Feigl—Ding, an Epidemiologist
and Senior Fellow at the Federation Of American
Scientists.
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much forjoining
Thank you very much for joining us. It
Thank you very much forjoining us. It does feel a bit
us. It does feel a bit counterintuitive. Cases are
counterintuitive. Cases are going up and restrictions are
going up and restrictions are coming down but the government
coming down but the government specific views hospitalisations
specific views hospitalisations are pretty low. 50 is this the
are pretty low. So is this the right time to
are pretty low. 50 is this the right time to strike? Thank you
right time to strike? Thank you for having me. This is
for having me. This is absolutely the wrong time and
absolutely the wrong time and the wrong decision, period. All
the wrong decision, period. All I ran say is it’s
the wrong decision, period. All I can say is it’s a horrible,
I ran say is it’s a horribla, terribla, no
I can say is it’s a horrible, terrible, no good decision. The
terribla, no good decision. The Delta
terrible, no good decision. The Delta variant is not your
Delta variant is not your normal variant. The Delta
normal variant. The Delta variant is the fastest most
variant is the fastest most contagious variant, more than
contagious variant, more than we’ve ever seen before, it is
we’ve ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is
we’ve ever seen before, it is much more severe, it is for—
much more severe, it is for- times greater
much more severe, it is for— times greater risk of
times greater risk of hospitalisation than the old
hospitalisation than the old strain and also it is vaccines
strain and also it is vaccines somewhat attenuating and
somewhat attenuating and evasive so one dose is not
evasive so one dose is not enough and we know that with
enough and we know that with two doses, in Israel we’ve seen
two doses, in Israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905
the efficacy drop from the 905 to 5495, it
the efficacy drop from the 905 to 64%, it is the wrong time.
to 6496, it is the wrong time. Eric, you are
to 64%, it is the wrong time. Eric, you are absolutely clear
Eric, you are absolutely clear on that. Isn’t the point,
on that. Isn’t the point, though, that vaccinations in
though, that vaccinations in the UK are at a pretty high
the UK are at a pretty high lavel. I
the UK are at a pretty high level. I know you mentioned
lavel. I know you mentioned Israel
level. I know you mentioned Israel death. And that while it
Israel death. And that whila it is easily
Israel death. And that while it is easily transmissible, it is
is easily transmissible, it is not as virulent as previous
not as vimlant as previous strains
not as virulent as previous strains of proved to be. That
strains of proved to be. That is a complete misinformation
is a complete misinformation and completely false. That
and completely false. That data, you are comparing apples
data, you are comparing applas and oranges.
data, you are comparing apples and oranges. The fact is the
and oranges. The fact is the Delta variant is way more
Delta variant is way more severe, way more virulent
severe, way more vimlent rauses
severe, way more virulent causes severe risk and risk of
causes severe risk and risk of hospitalisation by four to five
hospitalisation by four to five fold according to the studies,
fold according to the studies, peer reviews and also according
peer reviews and also according to government data. It is wrong
to government data. It is wrong to say it is less severe. What
to say it is less severe. what would you
to say it is less severe. What would you say than to the Prime
would you say than to the Prime Minister and he says, "Look,
would you say than to the Prime Ministerand he says, "Look, if
Minister and he says, "Look, if we don’t go
Ministerand he says, "Look, if we don’t go ahead now, when do
we don’t go ahead now, when do we go ahead?" What is your
we go ahead?" what is your message
we go ahead?" What is your message there? Is framing it as
message there? Is framing it as oh, we don’t want to live under
oh, we don’t want to live under a shroud of lot down or we want
a shroud of lot down or we want to reopen. This is not a choice
to reopen. This is not a choice to lock down or reopen. If you
to lock down or reopen. If you want to avoid lockdowns,
want to avoid lockdowns, everyone wants to avoid
everyone wants to avoid lockdown, nobody wanted
lockdown, nobody wanted lockdown, if you want to avoid
lockdown, if you want to avoid a lot down, the path to do that
a lot down, the path to do that is not the one he chose, the
is not the one he chose, the past --
is not the one he chose, the past —— departed that is more
past -- departed that is more mask,
past —— departed that is more mask, ventilation, air
mask, ventilation, air cleaning, PPE, those things we
cleaning, PPE, those things we discussed by the puppies chosen
discussed by the puppies chosen is the path towards mock down
is the path towards mock down and we don’t want that because
and we don’t want that because hospitalisations, NHS workers,
hospitalisations, NHS workers, healthcare workers, there is a
healthrare workers, there is a toll it
healthcare workers, there is a toll it can take and when
toll it can take and when medical ethics dictate you
medical ethics dictate you should always protect and
should always protect and prevent people from suffering
prevent people from suffering hospitalisations and long
hospitalisations and long Covid, which one in 70 adults
Covid, which one in 70 adults --17
Covid, which one in 70 adults ——17 adults and one in 12
--17 adults and one in 12 children,
——17 adults and one in 12 children, that is not
children, that is not acceptable 3
children, that is not acceptable a statistic so
acceptable a statistic so saying, let’s flood the
saying, let’s flood the hospitals right now, our
hospitals right now, our hospital beds are not empty,
hospital beds are not empty, that is a complete dereliction
that is a complete dereliction of any public health and
of any public health and ethical measures, especially as
ethiral measures, especially as a
ethical measures, especially as a government. That is a very
a government. That is a very dear
a government. That is a very clear message. Eric, thank you
clear message. Eric, thank you very much for sharing that with
very much for sharing that with us.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come:
Still to come:
A Russian gang behind a huge cyber attack demands $70
cyber attack demands $70 million in ransom.
Central London has been rocked by a series of terrorist
by a series of terrorist attacks. Police say they have
attacks. Police say they have been many casualties and there
been many casualties and there is growing speculation that
is growing speculation that al-Qaeda was responsible.
al-anda was responsible. Germany
al-Qaeda was responsible. Germany will be the hosts of
Germany will be the hosts of the 2006 foot four World Cup.
the 2006 foot four World Cup. Pip the favourite South Africa
Pip the favourite South Africa by a singla
Pip the favourite South Africa by a single vote. They’re in
by a singla vote. Therre in South
by a single vote. They’re in South Africa the possibility of
South Africa the possibility of losing hadn’t even been
losing hadn’t even been complimented. Celebration
complimented. Celebration parties were cancelled. A man
parties were cancelled. A man entered the palace to a
entered the palace to a downstairs window and made his
downstairs window and made his “Y
downstairs window and made his way to the Queens private
way to the Queens private bedroom and asked her for a
bedroom and asked her for a cigarette and not a pretext for
cigarette and not a pretext for arranging some to be
arranging some to be bought, some footmen on duty took the
some footmen on duty took the man away. One child, one
man away. One child, one teacher, one book and one pen
teacher, one book and one pen ran change the
teacher, one book and one pen can change the world. Education
ran change the world. Education is the only
can change the world. Education is the only solution.
This is BBC News.
This is BBC News.
ﬂ
lam
I am David
lam David Eades.
The latest headlines:
Strips head for the exit in Afghanistan as the Taliban
Afghanistan as the Taliban continues to seize more
continues to seize more districts and more than 1000
districts and more than 1000 Afghan soldiers have been said
Afghan soldiers have been said to have fled the country.
And as coronavirus cases rise rapidly,
And as coronavirus rases rise rapidly, the
And as coronavirus cases rise rapidly, the Prime Minister
rapidly, the Prime Minister announces plans to scrap most
announces plans to scrap most remaining restrictions in two
remaining restrictions in two weeks“
remaining restrictions in two weeks’ time.
Gunmen in north—west Nigeria have targeted a hospital,
a school and a police station — in less than 2A hours.
140 students were taken from the a Baptist school
in the early hours of Monday morning.
It follows an attack on a nearby hospital,
where at least eight people were abducted,
including nurses and three children under the age
of three.
Our Nigeria correspondent, Mayenijones, has more.
Nigeria’s kidnapping crisis is spiralling fast.
We’ve just heard of a kidnapping that took place
at a hospital on Sunday in the town of Zaria.
Now it seems another kidnapping has happened at a school
in the northern state of Kaduna.
We spoke to a parent who told us that in the early hours
of Monday morning, around 2am, a number of armed gunmen
stormed a Baptist school in Kaduna, they came
into the back, they knocked down a fence.
A mother we spoke to said there was as many as 60 gunmen,
and they abducted the students with them.
This is happening at a time when kidnapping is at
an increasing right across Nigeria.
There is an economic crisis here brought on by the fall
and the price of oil and lockdown during the Covid—19
pandemic, unemployment has risen, the price of food
is rising, and many criminals are turning to kidnapping
as a way of making money, which we have seen in
north—western Nigeria, in particular, the mass
kidnapping of students.
Since December, there have been more than 1,000 students
abducted.
Nine of them were unfortunately killed.
200 students are still missing.
UNICEF say some of them are as young as three years old.
This latest kidnapping will be a headache for the governor
of Kaduna State who’s vowed not to negotiate with criminals
because he says it incentivises them.
Unfortunately, this meant that a number of kidnappers have
come to Kaduna State and are carrying out attacks
with increasing frequency.
With the economy doing as bad as it is and with security
forces unable to stop more attacks from happening,
it’s difficult to see how this crisis is going to end.
Mayeni
Mayenijones on the
Mayeni Jones on the latest kidnapping
Mayeni Jones on the latest kidnapping in north—western
kidnapping in north-western Nigeria.
A Russian—based hacking group known as REvil has compromised
the computer systems of up to something like 1,000
businesses
worldwide by targeting an American IT provider
that writes and updates their software.
One of those
affected is Sweden’s Co—op supermarket, which has had
to close some 500 outlets — that’s more than half
its stores — because tills and self—service checkouts
had stopped working.
REvil has tailored its ransom demands to the size of each
respective company, but then on Sunday said it would settle
the lot for $70 million if someone
were prepared to pay it.
in the Cyber Policy Initiative of the Technology and
International Affairs Programme at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, and is a former intelligence
analyst for the US government.
John, thank you very much for
john, thank you very much for joining us. This
John, thank you very much for joining us. This sounds like
joining us. This sounds like some sort of auctioneering
some sort of auctioneering process as part of the daily
process as part of the daily business, and we are getting so
business, and we are getting so used to hearing about these
used to hearing about these incidents. But not quite on
incidents. But not quite on this scale? That’s right. What
this sub? That’s right. what we’re seeing
this scale? That’s right. What we’re seeing here with this
we’re seeing here with this hack is
we’re seeing here with this heck is really the combination
hack is really the combination of two
heck is really the combination of two beings that
hack is really the combination of two beings that happened
of two beings that happened before, but rarely together ——
before, but rarely together -- things. One is a
before, but rarely together —— things. One is a supply chain
things. One is a supply chain compromise whereby hackers gain
compromise whereby hackers gain access to one victim and then
access to one victim and then use that to then get a
use that to then get a follow—on access to many other
follow-on access to many other victims.
follow—on access to many other victims. The other is
victims. The other is ransomware, where a company’s
ransomware, where a companrs data is
ransomware, where a company’s data is held hostage in the
data is held hostage in the sleep pay cryptocurrency. Both
sleep pay cryptocurrency. Both of these things are
of these things are increasingly common, but this
increasingly common, but this is one of the most expensive
is one of the most expansive hacks
is one of the most expensive hacks that combines Boast
hacks that combines Boast techniques together, and that
techniques together, and that is why people are calling this
is why peopla are calling this the
is why people are calling this the biggest ransomware attack
the biggest ransomware attack of all time, although it is
of all time, although it is still a bit early to quantify
still a bit earty to quantify the
still a bit early to quantify the impact —— both techniques.
the impact -- both techniques. I wonder
the impact —— both techniques. I wonder what you make of this
I wonder what you make of this job lot approach, given it is
job lot approach, given it is $70 million and will clear
$70 million and will clear everybody? These are all
everybody? These are all separate businesses? It’s
separate businesses? It’s fascinating. We haven’t seen
fascinating. We haven’t seen that before. Some people
that before. Some people theorise it is actually too
theorise it is actually too many victims for the ransomware
many victims for the ransomware to process. Keep in mind these
to process. Keep in mind these ransomware gangs operate much
ransomware gangs operate much like businesses. They have a
like businesses. They have a customer service line and
customer service line and peopla
customer service line and people are paid primarily to
peopla are paid primarily to negotiate
people are paid primarily to negotiate and interact with
negotiate and interact with victims. Another possibility is
victims. Another possibility is the ransomware gang involved
the ransomware gang involved here it realised they had done
here it realised they had done a bit more damage than they had
a bit more damage than they had intended and the level of law
intended and the level of law enforcement and intelligence
enforcement and intelligence could be beyond what they
could be beyond what they anticipated. Rate. These are
anticipated. Rate. These are just two theories. You call it
just two theories. You all it a
just two theories. You call it a ransomware gang. Any idea on
a ransomware gang. Any idea on how many are involved in this
how many are involved in this sort of thing? It may not be
sort of thing? It may not be the work of a state but how
the work of a state but how many people does it take to
many peopla does it take to form a gang
many people does it take to form a gang like an REvil? It
form a gang like an REvil? It is hard to say, because most of
is hard to say, because most of them operate now on an
them operate now on an affiliate or franchise model
affiliate or franchise model whereby one set of people
whereby one set of people develop the malware and another
develop the malware and another set of people go out and gain
set of peopla go out and gain access
set of people go out and gain access to victims and installs
access to victims and installs that malware. There may be a
that malware. There may be a third set of people that
third set of peopla that actually
third set of people that actually does the negotiations
actually does the negotiations and payment processing. But it
and payment processing. But it is likely that this was the
is likely that this was the responsibility of Russian cyber
responsibility of Russian cyber criminals and not something
criminals and not something specifically ordered by the
specifically ordered by the Russian state. It is also
Russian state. It is also important to realise that is
important to realise that is somewhat beside the point
somewhat beside the point because Moscow has a
because Moscow has a long—standing government policy
long-standing government policy of
long—standing government policy of tolerating and legally
of tolerating and legally protecting these sorts of
protecting these sorts of gangs. Ultimately, Vladimir
gangs. Ultimately, Vladimir Putin is culpable for such a
Putin is culpable for such a tax. jon
Putin is culpable for such a tax. Jon Bateman, thank you
tax. jon Bateman, thank you very much.
tax. Jon Bateman, thank you very much. Thank you. They call
very much. Thank you. They all it manic
very much. Thank you. They call it manic Monday at Wimbledon.
it manic Monday at Wimbladon. All of
it manic Monday at Wimbledon. All of the men’s and women’s
All of the men’s and women’s last extend matches have been
last extend matches have been taking place.
Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic is through —
as is Roger Federer.
Former women’s champion, German Angelique Kerber,
beat
USA teenager Coco Gauff, but there was disappointment
for the home
fans as the last remaining Brit in the singles,
Emma Raducanu had to retire.
zm
Ben Rothenberg as a writer for The New York Times and hosts
The New York Times and hosts the No Challenges Remaining
the No Challenges Remaining podrast.
the No Challenges Remaining podcast. The hardest working
podrast. The hardest working journalist in
podcast. The hardest working journalist in Wimbledon. I do
journalist in Wimbladon. I do have to
journalist in Wimbledon. I do have to start with Emma
have to start with Emma Raducanu, partly because we’re
Raduranu, partly because we’re British very
Raducanu, partly because we’re British very excited. But a
British very excited. But a slightly mysterious and very
slightly mysterious and very disappointing into her
disappointing into her fourth—round match? Yeah, very
fourth-round match? Yeah, very abmpt,
fourth—round match? Yeah, very abrupt, mysterious,
abrupt, mysterious, disappointing, for sure. She
disappointing, for sure. She was playing well and second set
was playing well and second set seem to have breathing
seem to have breathing difficulties and left court for
difficulties and left court for treatment and did not come
treatment and did not come back. It’s very unusual for a
back. It’s very unusual for a player to sort of retire from a
player to sort of retire from a match or abandon a match
match or abandon a match without coming back on the
without coming back on the court to shake the opponent’s
court to shake the opponent’s and in that sort of thing. It
and in that sort of thing. It was concerning for her that she
was concerning for her that she was able to make it back. She
was able to make it back. She was doing well. There hasn’t
was doing well. There hasn’t been much information from the
been much information from the tournament or
been much information from the tournament orfrom her
been much information from the tournament or from her about
tournament or from her about how she is doing more the
how she is doing more the official reason for her
official reason for her withdrawal being her breathing
withdrawal being her breathing difficulties that make you
difficulties that make you speculation there. One very
speculation there. One very excited teenager does go out.
excited teenager does go out. As does the other, Coco Gauff,
As does the other, Coco Gauff, who are ——we are familiar with
who are "we are familiar with now. And
who are ——we are familiar with now. And Angeli Cobra, I saw
now. And Angeli Cobra, Isaw that Madge
now. And Angeli Cobra, I saw that Madge doesn’t actually
that Madge doesn’t actually look pretty good. —— Angelique
look pretty good. -- Angelique Kerber.
look pretty good. —— Angelique Kerber. She hadn’t made a Grand
Kerber. She hadn’t made a Grand Slam quarterfinal since
Slam quarterfinal since Wimbledon in 2018, her last of
Wimbladon in 2018, her last of her
Wimbledon in 2018, her last of her three major titles, but she
her three major titles, but she is really growing in
is really growing in confidence. Think she is a
confidence. Think she is a player who builds confidence
player who builds confidence really well and she is someone
really well and she is someone known remaining in the draw
known remaining in the draw will want to be across the net.
will want to be across the net. She is also the only former
She is also the only former Champion left in the side. We
Champion left in the side. We are still in that desire area
are still in that desire area in women stand where no—one is
in women stand where no-one is establishing
in women stand where no—one is establishing themselves, even
establishing themselves, even Serena Williams, let’s be
Serena Williams, let’s be honest, is struggling to
honest, is struggling to maintain her prowess, if you
maintain her prowess, if you like, on the court. I think you
like, on the court. I think you were pointing out something
were pointing out something like there have been 22
like there have been 22 different women’s names in the
different women’s names in the quarterfinals for the slams
quarterfinals for the slams this year out of 2A possible
this year out of 24 possibla places?
this year out of 2A possible places? Yeah! It’s been really
places? Yeah! It’s been really remarkable and a completely new
remarkable and a completely new slate of players conveyed to
slate of players conveyed to the final eight in Paris.
the final eight in Paris. Already complete 100% turnover.
Already complete 10096 turnover. And
Already complete 100% turnover. And Ash Barty, the number one
And Ash Barty, the number one ranked player, I
And Ash Barty, the number one ranked player, Ithink
And Ash Barty, the number one ranked player, I think she has
ranked player, I think she has a chance of solidifying herself
a chance of solidifying herself as being a force if she goes on
as being a force if she goes on a good mn
as being a force if she goes on a good run here. Maybe she will
a good mn here. Maybe she will add stability
a good run here. Maybe she will add stability for the title.
add stability for the titla. And
add stability for the title. And Naomi Osaka when she comes
And Naomi Osaka when she comes back, someone who is still very
back, someone who is still very competitive there. It might
competitive there. It might look random but certainly
look random but certainly nowhere near the stability of
nowhere near the stability of the men’s side with Novak
the men’s side with Novak Djokovic. We have an Australian
Djokovic. We have an Australian producer working on this story,
producer working on this story, Ben, it is in Australia
Ben, it is in Australia quarterfinal. Ash Barty against
quarterfinal. Ash Barty against either Tom Langdon Beach, who
either Tom Langdon Beach, who basically had that win. It
basically had that win. It shows how late
basically had that win. It shows how [ate it is there! Do
shows how late it is there! Do you think
shows how [ate it is there! Do you think Ash Barty could
you think Ash Barty could emerge as the winner in the
emerge as the winner in the women’s side? Yeah absolutely!
women’s side? Yeah absolutely! She is comfortable on grass,
She is comfortable on grass, no-one
She is comfortable on grass, no—one doubts after she
no—one doubts after she recovered from that head
recovered from that head injury. And she is basically
injury. And she is basically doing 0K, and her
injury. And she is basically doing 0K, and herwins
injury. And she is basically doing 0K, and her wins were
doing 0K, and her wins were convincing so far. She should
convincing so far. She should probably be favourite. Quick
probably be favourite. Quick word about the man. No
word about the man. No surprises, Djokovic is through.
surprises, Djokovic is through. Fetter is through but it wasn’t
Fetter is through but it wasn’t easy, but straight sets in the
easy, but straight sets in the end? -- Roger
easy, but straight sets in the end? —— Roger Federer. But
end? -- Roger Federer. But there is
end? —— Roger Federer. But there is no—one but Novak
there is no-one but Novak Djokovic to
there is no—one but Novak Djokovic to win the men’s
Djokovic to win the men’s singlas, is
Djokovic to win the men’s singles, is there? I think if
singlas, is there? I think if Novak
singles, is there? I think if Novak Djokovic loses, it will
Novak Djokovic loses, it will likely be to himself. There are
likely be to himself. There are some capable players in the
some capable players in the final that are still there. The
final that are still there. The winner of Queens club is
winner of Queens club is emerging as a solid player on
emerging as a solid player on grass. But
emerging as a solid player on grass. Butl
emerging as a solid player on grass. But I think Novak
grass. But I think Novak Djokovic is still ahead of the
Djokovic is still ahead of the field and pulling his way over
field and pulling his way over Christian Goring today was very
Christian Goring today was very convincing. Not many signs of
convincing. Not many signs of slowing down at this point in
slowing down at this point in the tournament. Dare I say,
the tournament. Dare I say, some of the matches in the
some of the matches in the first week were just
first week were just spectacularly good West and
spectacularly good West and Mark have we already had the
Mark have we already had the best half of Wimbledon? I hope
best half of Wimbledon? I hope not! I do think there are not
not! I do think there are not too many upsets, not too many
too many upsets, not too many sort of empty pockets with the
sort of empty pockets with the draw collapsing but I think we
draw collapsing but I think we are in a good spot. Especially,
are in a good spot. Especially, it’s really good for the
it’s really good for the quarterfinals with Fetter,
quarterfinals with Fetter, Medvedev, good stuff. Plenty
Medvedev, good stuff. Plenty more to go. I hope
more to go. I hope they keep the lights on for you. —— Roger
the lights on for you. -- Roger Federer
the lights on for you. —— Roger Federer and Medvedev. This is
Federer and Medvedev. This is BBC News.
Hello there.
Monday was drierfor a while across England
and Wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill
from the south.
This rain here is marching its way northwards across the UK up
into northern England and Scotland, where already
in the past few days in Edinburgh, we have had
a month’s worth of rain.
Now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low
pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times —
northwards up towards Scotland and northern England
with blustery showers following to the south.
For a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather
along the coast of England all the way from Dorset
across to Suffolk, gusts of 50 mph in the morning.
It won’t be as windy in the afternoon, but there
will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got
this more persistent rain, never really clearing away
from northern England, pushing into eastern Scotland.
Elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
The showers are never too far away, and they may well be
heavy as well.
Generally, temperatures a bit lower on Tuesday,
18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it
stays wet in northern England and eastern Scotland.
And as we have seen, there are some showers around,
they could well affect Wimbledon once again.
It’s going to be another day where we may well
have the covers on and off.
Those showers will probably tend to ease off though
during the evening and into the night.
More places become dry, still got some wetter weather
towards the north—east of Scotland.
The breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find
temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
Now, it’s low pressure that’s brought all the rain over
recent days, in the centre of the low pressure,
by the time we get to Wednesday, it’s close
to the north—east of Scotland.
So there’s more cloud rolling in here and some patchy
rain around too.
Elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine,
but we are going to find showers breaking out,
and those could turn heavy and thundery come
the afternoon, particularly across Wales, the Midlands,
across to Lincolnshire as well.
Temperatures may be a notch higher on Friday, still no
better than 20—21 Celsius.
Let’s end with a glimmer of hope, because the low
pressure is trying to move away.
This is where high—pressure is, dry weather, and this is trying
to nudge up from the south—west across the UK.
50 during Thursday and Friday, the winds won’t be as strong,
and for more places, it will be dry.
Some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for Scotland
and Northern Ireland.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher.
EIii,
are back to
This is BBC News, the headlines:
Russia, Iran and Turkey have suspended work
at their consulates in the Afghan city of
Mazar—e—Sharif — as the Taliban make advances
across the region, a week after US troops
completed their exit.
Over a thousand Afghan soldiers have been forced to flee
across the border into Tajikistan.
I-I’h
At least 140 students have been kidnapped in north—west
Nigeria, following the latest attack on a school.
The military says 26 children were rescued.
More than 1,000 students have been seized
for ransom since December.
Nine have been killed and more than 200
are still missing.
England’s Covid lockdown will end in two weeks’ time
despite scientists urging caution as the number of cases
is still rising.
The British Prime Minister says it’s possible because 86
per cent of adults have been vaccinated.
Now on BBC News, The Media Show.
Hello.
Have we got a scoop for you!
BBC bags top newspaper execs to discuss all things
tabloid and mass—market.
The headline — "Have our red tops got their mojo back?"
The Sun’s front page last week that ended
Matt Hancock’s Cabinet career, at least for now, was a classic
splash — not seen too often since the phone hacking scandal.
It had it all — an illicit relationship, hypocrisy,
and alleged cronyism.
A dynamite combination that ultimately cost Mr Hancock his job.
Maybe the ingredients weren’t quite right when it came
to other recent scoops like The Mirror’s Dominic Cummings
trip to Barnard Castle, or the Daily Mail’s investigations
into Covid and care homes.
No heads rolled after those exclusives.
But is there now a sense, despite issues over circulation
and revenues, that Fleet Street is back to its pugnacious best?
Well, I told you we had a scoop.
Three of the biggest beasts in Fleet Street nowjoin us
for their Media Show debuts.
Take a bow, Victoria Newton, editor in chief of The Sun
and Sun on Sunday.
Hi, Victoria.
Hello.
Hiya.
A classic tabloid pun on your front page the day after England’s
footballers beat Germany.
"55 years of hurt never stopped us Raheem—ing."
How long did it take to come up with that one?
Well, you know, we have the best headline writers in the world
on our back bench.
It took him about two seconds!
Brilliant stuff!
Tobyn Andree, Deputy editor of the Daily Mail.
Tobyn, great to have you here.
Good afternoon.
Yeah.
Your paper is printed in a tabloid format.
So you’re a tabloid writer — are you still a bit sniffy over
there at North Cliff House?
Not in the least.
No, we’ve always been great supporters of the popular market
and, indeed, newspapers right across the board.
Nice one, Tobyn.
And Emily Sheffield, editor of the Evening Standard.
Hi there, Emily.
Hi, how are you?
I’m very well, thank you.
You’re celebrating your one—year anniversary this year —
congratulations — as editor.
Your predecessor, George Osborne, dropped the word "London"
from the London Evening Standard.
Now, my mum in Derbyshire — what would she find interesting
in the Londoners’ Diary or "My London" section
at the back of the magazine?
You can’t be trying to make it out to be a national publication,
are you?
No, quite the opposite.
Since I took over, I’ve doubled down on all things London.
Excellent.
All right, 0K — although Londoners might not be too happy about that.
The Sun’s Hancock scoop.
We’ve to get into that, haven’t we?
That’s the only place to start.
Already a contender for story of the year, the paper showed
Matt Hancock in a steamy clinch, liaison, whatever you want to call
it, with his aide, Gina Coladangelo.
And the images appear to have been taken from CCTV footage filmed
in Mr Hancock’s Government office.
Victoria Newton, simple question — how did The Sun get the story?
We were contacted by a whistle—blower who said he had
information about Mr Hancock having an illicit affair with an aide.
And the whistle—blower was outraged at his behaviour —
there’s parts of that I can’t tell you why — but the hypocrisy
he felt he was seeing, was that this is a man who’d been
on national TV, stared down the barrel of the TV lens and said,
"You must stay at home, protect lives, protect the NHS" —
and we’d had 18 months of social distancing rules
that he himself was not following.
So that was how the whistle—blower got in touch with us.
Did you have any qualms about the story, and,
in particular, using the video?
Yes, of course.
I mean, we believe in responsible journalism, and my first thought
when this information came in was, "My goodness, can this be real?
Can he really be doing that at 3pm in the afternoon?"
I literally couldn’t believe it.
So, we have loads of checks and balances that we have
to follow procedurally.
We got our legal team involved immediately,
to get advice from them before we went any further, and then,
obviously once we’d seen the footage for ourselves,
we were careful to match up images of Matt and Gina together
on their day—to—day working lives and to really make sure
that it was definitely her.
I mean, it was 100% Matt Hancock — as soon as I saw it, I knew that —
as soon as you watch the video, his mannerisms and everything,
there was no doubt.
But then obviously, of course, we went through all the legal
procedures to make sure we were in a good position to be
able to run the story.
Has your collar been felt by the police or Secret Service
about how you got the footage?
No.
LAUGHTER.
Yet?
Not yet!
But if it is, I’m perfectly happy with how we conducted
the story, how we ran it, and, you know, we consulted top
lawyers before we went ahead with publication.
Yeah, I mean, you mentioned the whistle—blower —
what steps have you taken to protect that source?
I mean, did you warn them about possible repercussions
and all that?
Yes, of course, we would always do that.
We would never reveal a source.
I’ve done everything I can to protect that person,
and I’d rather go to jail than hand the name over.
Right, 0K.
I’m sure the source is pleased to hear that.
Phone hacking scandal — nothing to do with you,
nothing to do with The Sun, it was the News of the World,
and that is defunct — but did the phone hacking scandal
give you pause for thought over using that footage leaked
from a private office?
Privacy is always going to be an issue, but the overwhelming
public interest was just so blindingly obvious from the start.
I almost didn’t need a lawyer to tell me that.
I could just see it there for myself.
But, of course, that whole period, things have moved on since then,
and we are a hugely compliant company, and there are lots
of checks and balances in place, and we all have training.
So I don’t think we’re in the same place that we were then.
But the public interest to me was so overwhelming —
not just the hypocrisy of the social distancing, but the massive
question it threw up was, was he in a relationship with this
woman when he hired her?
And he still hasn’t really answered that question publicly.
He’s only admitted to the social distancing breach.
And I think we’re still all waiting to hearfrom him on that one.
Yeah, I mean, the public interest point you make there,
very compelling.
But two marriages are now in trouble, children are involved.
Would you have run the story involving the Health Secretary
if there was no pandemic?
That’s an interesting question.
I think we probably would, because I would be looking
at the issue around when he hired her —
we’d have to be clear on that, I guess.
And, as for the issue of the families, we went
to great lengths.
None of the children were named in the story.
After day one of the story, I took our photographers
and reporters off that home address.
You’ll find other papers still carried on running pictures —
I chose not to — of the wife.
As I say, the public interest in the story was so overwhelming
that I think we’ve handled it really well.
Emily, if I can turn to you.
After the story broke, you ran a front—page in The Standard
featuring a very large picture of Mr Hancock’s wife, Martha.
Why did you decide to focus on that side of the story?
Because she was going to take the direct hit from the revelations.
Our headline was very much about what he would be under fire for,
and, following very much what Victoria said, this was clearly
public interest.
We also remain...
We think big questions remain — was he in a relationship already
when he hired her?
And we debated, actually, for an incredibly long time,
and I was...
It’s always the stories, I would say, break when you are in
the middle of something else — I was actually in the middle
of doing some filming, I wasn’t on edition.
I was having to move, I was on WhatsApp.
Our information was, and I went back and forth about this,
and I can’t give too much detail, is that maybe she was not entirely
adverse to being photographed.
Right.
0K.
Er...can you elucidate a little?
No.
0K, she wanted to get her side of the story out there.
That she’s, you know...
I really, I don’t want to elucidate.
All right.
But we do go into a lot of, particularly...
My early decision was not to put her on the front.
Interesting.
We’ re pretty careful.
I think all of us, as editors, very much feel, you know,
the right people should be taking the public hit.
Right, 0K.
Of course, Martha isn’t here to give her side of the story,
but we hear what you’re saying.
Tobyn, you also ran stories on Mr Hancock’s wife, Martha, as well.
Why did you go down that road?
Well, I think in the case of the story, she is absolutely
at the heart of it, as well, because aside from the political
scandal and the implications that come from that,
it is a very, very human betrayal, as well, and I think, actually,
that there’s no reader who wouldn’t have anything but the utmost
sympathy for a woman in her position.
So, we did cover that.
We thought very carefully about how we go about that.
And we have every sympathy and support for her.
But, as you say, there’s a question about going forwards —
would we carry on doing that?
No.
And I hope that she has the space now to rebuild her life
and her children’s lives as she chooses.
Absolutely.
I mean, Victoria, you’ve talked about not focusing too much
on Martha in the days after the brilliant scoop,
but you did set 3 here running there, and Emily decides what she’ll
do and Tobyn and his folks decide what they’re going to do,
but you set the here running.
Do you feel comfortable about that when it comes
to the kids and Martha?
Well, there’s always the decision you have to make when you weigh up
do the public have a right to know how their Health Secretary has been
behaving versus the right to privacy of his family.
I felt strongly — and I think everybody’s agreed with me —
the Lord ChiefJustice, the Justice Secretary,
the Lord Chancellor have all agreeed that the story
was in the public interest.
So, that’s what you weigh up on a daily basis on stories.
Yeah, of course.
Let’s broaden the discussion a little bit.
Tobyn, The Mail turns a century—and—a—quarter old this year.
Sum up its role in public life, if you could —
particularly in the digital age.
Well, I think fundamentally its role is to give a voice to the voiceless,
to campaign vigorously for the causes and beliefs
that lie at its heart, and, fundamentally, to entertain,
engage, inform its readers, and, of course, above all,
try and sell as many newspapers as we can —
or attract as many eyeballs as we can online —
whilst sticking to ourjournalistic integrity, our beliefs,
and the passion would try and bring to every story,
whether it’s light or shade.
I mean, the great newspapers, the great interviewers —
Humphreys, Paxman, Dimbleby — they sniff out lies, hypocrisy,
unfairness, corruption.
Does that sum up, do you think, part of the role of the Mail in society?
Absolutely.
Well, following on from the Matt Hancock story,
we had a bold front page with, "How can he cling on?"
Which I think is people’s instinctive reaction,
otherthan, bizarrely, the Prime Minister and the
former Health Secretary.
So I think it’s headlines like that, projected with vigour,
that do bring about change — in this case, political change —
but there’s other stories that we have covered,
whether it’s dementia care, whether it’s PPE, that we
project with confidence, we get to the heart of the story,
and we can make real impact and bring about change
for the better, which we are very, very proud of doing.
I’ve mentioned your work on Covid and care homes, which was superb.
Paul Dacre, the previous editor, of course, before Geordie Greg,
2016, of course, he had the headline,
"Enemies of the people", and pictures of three High Courtjudges.
Would you have that on the front page today?
I suspect not.
Every editor makes their own judgements.
Of course, it’s always great to be wise with hindsight.
Would Paul Dacre use the same headline again?
I can’t speak for him.
He was a tremendously gifted editor from whom I learned an awful lot.
But it’s a fast—paced newsroom — sometimes mistakes do get made.
I can’t promise they won’t ever get made again.
That’s part of the risk that we take every day with our front pages,
the stories that we cover.
And we shouldn’t be afraid of being challenging when we do that.
Mm, I mean, given the mission statement that you laid out a few
seconds ago, that headline and that front page didn’t seem to fall into
those categories, did it, really?
Well, it provoked a very, very strong reaction,
not all of it positive, but we moved forward.
There’s a new editor at the helm, has a different way
of editing the paper.
But that doesn’t take away from the astonishing legacy that
Paul Dacre left behind.
Well, the Mail seems to be comfortable kicking down
as well as punching up.
I mean, you’ll go after those who are not necessarily powerful or part
of the establishment.
Are benefit cheats, for instance, as fair game as Matt Hancock?
They’re in a different category, but I think anyone
who cheats the system — or, indeed, who breaks the law —
risks being held to account by the standards that apply both
in public life and in personal responsibility.
free
They’re obviously of a different magnitude of offence,
and hopefully we will balance that out in the way the stories
are presented in the paper.
Victoria, The Sun’s not averse to a bit of kicking down, is it?
I’m not sure that’s entirely fair.
I think I edit the paper in a different way to perhaps
some of my predecessors.
I make it my conscious decision to work with people
on stories a lot of the time, and, you know, it’s...
I have brilliant relationships with many celebrities
and their agents, and I think we do a lot...
We’ve turned into a very positive force for good.
I mean, so many of the campaigns we’ve done during the pandemic
have been massively in the public interest.
For example, we got 50,000 readers to volunteer to help staff
the vaccination centres with ourJabs Army campaign.
You know, we are a tremendous force for good.
And I think the other point I wanted to make,
going back to your one of your other questions,
was really interesting that, six weeks before the pandemic
started, I took over.
It was quite a different experience, being an editor.
One of the things I noticed was the huge appetite
from the public for information about this terrible coronavirus.
So, you saw a huge uplift in newspaper sales,
and digitally traffic was through the roof.
People were desperate for information — and they turned to us,
as newspaper brands, as trusted sources.
And hand—in—glove with that, you have the government
coming to us saying, "We really need your
help to get this public service message out there."
So this sort of feeds back into the questions you were asking
at the beginning about the role of mass—market brands —
and the pandemic has proved how vitally important we are.
Absolutely right.
As mass—market brands, you can get that message out
to as many people as possible in one go.
I mean, Emily, the Evening Standard’s had
a long—established relationship
with the Conservatives and the Conservative Party.
George Osborne, of course, was editor in chief of the Standard.
Is it a political paper?
Very political.
We are incredibly influential in Westminster.
In fact, only a year ago, we were voted the most—read by MPs.
I think that’s got a lot to do with our physical
presence in Westminster.
I mean, you literally can’t escape us.
Copies are taken by the Westminster doorkeeper to the tea room and other
strategic locations when you walk out as an MP or a Spad or aide —
you know, they’re there in the tube station,
if you take a taxi at the member door’s, and member’s entrances,
there’s a big pile.
We’re even sitting in the underground car park.
50, within Westminster we are widely read,
very influential, we’re breaking...
Often the time they get us is between 1:30 and 2pm,
and they’ve got big statements to make that afternoon,
often big debates.
I mean, I remember on the first day I arrived here, which was inJuly,
so Ijoined, like Victoria — did you join during the pandemic?
Just before.
Just a few weeks before.
I mean, Ijoined after the first big lockdown.
And on my very first day, I had to do the paper,
put that the bed, and then go straight to Westminster to interview
BorisJohnson with our brilliant, sort of, lobby legend political
editorJoe Murphy.
And as his head aide came out the door to meet us,
she had a copy of the Standard tucked under her arm.
I was standing 3 little bit behind Joe, so I don’t think she saw me.
And I know a few slightly bad—tempered words were
expressed
about our quite WASPish leader we had done that day
on BorisJohnson and Sadiq and the handling of the pandemic.
And the paper must have literally just landed.
But are you a political paper for the Conservative Party?
No.
I think we would change...
I think we could change depending on who we wanted,
who we thought was best to lead the country.
We didn’t come out for Corbyn.
I don’t remember many newspapers coming out for Corbyn.
Even the Guardian didn’t come out for Corbyn.
Even the Guardian didn’t come out for Corbyn.
Yeah, I think that might be the point.
We did, by the way, I mean, way before my time,
come out for Tony Blair.
So no, I would absolutely take each election depending on who we thought
was the right person, that our readers thought as well
to take the country forward in the best possible way.
And that’s the same for the mayor, as well.
Sure.
I mean, Tobyn, the hope is any scoop, especially a political one,
will have real impact and force change.
They’re notjust there to win awards.
But is that more difficult in an era where politicians tend to
try to tough things out?
Resignations — shame, one would say — doesn’t come as easily
to public figures these days.
Well, in a way, that comes back to the point I was talking
about earlier, which is that, in regards to the Hancock story,
was that clearly the view had been taken in Downing Street,
which was symptomatic of a wider feeling, I think, in Downing Street,
that they’re going to try and out ride the media.
They’re going to carry on doing what they want, not to be held
to account by the press or by broadcast media.
And I think they were proved humiliatingly wrong
in this instance.
The leaders across Fleet Street were universally condemnatory.
Ourfront page, I repeat, "How can he cling on?"
Lo and behold, within 2A hours, he hadn’t.
It had been the hope, I think, in Downing Street, no great secret,
that it would be a three—day wonder and we could all move on,
but they were very, very wrong.
And they paid a heavy political price for that.
Victoria, do you think it’s trickier for scoops
to really [and these days, because of what some
people suggest is an age where there is no shame any more?
SHE CHUCKLES
I don’t know.
I think some of the other stores you’re referring to,
things like the scandal around whether Priti Patel bullied her
staff, you have theJenrick scandal.
TheJenrick one was really complicated, I think,
for the public to understand.
A lot of detail.
And in terms of the Priti Patel one, it wasn’t something that
affected the whole country.
It was a row about how she was treating civil servants,
so it didn’t affect everybody up and down the country
in the way this story did.
I think that’s why it got the cut through,
because lockdown has affected every single one of us in the way
nobody has ever lived through anything like this.
I think that’s the difference.
0K.
I’m interested now in how scoops might help the bottom line.
Victoria, in the olden days, a scoop like yours would’ve had
people rushing to the newsstands to get their copy of the newspaper,
to see those pictures.
It did.
I suspect there was a lot of traffic to the website, as well.
But surely not as much as perhaps you would have got if people
bought a physical copy, right?
Well, the physical copies of our paper went up considerably
that morning on Friday, and also on the morning of Sunday morning,
which was the day after the resignation.
So people rushed to the new stand to buy more copies.
Obviously, during lockdown times, we haven’t been able to sell as many
copies because shops have been closed.
Thankfully, things are opening up now.
But, digitally, it’s a fascinating story.
So, that video, when we put the video out there,
it’s actually been the biggest, most—viewed video
in The Sun’s history.
And I think the reason for that is that people really wanted
to see for themselves — is it true, is it real?
Sometimes you can look at a grab at the picture and really wonder
what is the circumstances, is it really that bad,
could it have been faked?
And when you watch the video, you know this is real.
The traffic to our website and our apps over the whole of
that weekend was hugely up.
And when I start my day editing the newspaper,
the top of my conference list is Google search — what’s everybody
searching for on Google this morning, what are they looking
at on Facebook and Twitter?
So, that informs where we are.
On the morning of the Hancock story, on the Friday morning,
all the top items on Google, Facebook, Twitter was all Hancock.
That’s when you know it has national cut through.
I mean, did you pay the whistle—blower?
Did you pay for this story?
I’m not going to get into that.
I need to protect the whistle—blower.
Why did I bother asking that question?
Nice try.
I know, I know, pathetic really.
I suppose I want to ask you, Tobyn — the Mail has been
targeted by campaigners, including Stop Funding Hate.
Why do you think that is?
Because it has very strong, very powerful views that not
everybody agrees with, much to my amazement.
But I think often they pick wholly the wrong target.
The Daily Mail, amongst other things, won the inaugural
public service in journalism award from the British
Journalism Awards this year.
We are a, I believe, tremendous force for good,
notjust in holding the powerful to account, but particularly in some
of the campaigns that we’ve done over the past decades,
and particularly in this year with our Mail Force campaign,
which raised over £25 million in the space of 12 months,
for PPE and computers for disadvantaged children —
which I think is an astonishing achievement testimony, really,
to our readers’ generosity,
and their sense of engagement with a brand that they really trust
and feel is a part of the family, notjust another thing they buy.
It’s part of their identity, it shares their beliefs,
it supports them where things are going wrong.
And we supplied 42 million pieces of PPE to the front line of the NHS,
which I think is a, kind of, first for newspapers.
Yeah, it’s a powerful campaign.
How much money do you think you would have forked over
for the Hancock story?
That wouldn’t be for me to say.
LAUGHTER
Not on this show, anyway.
Not on this show, no.
But, Victoria, if you could send the cheque to my usual address,
that would be great.
Indeed, indeed.
Emily, how reliant are you on commuters returning to the offices,
and do you worry about advertiser boycotts?
Because that’s obviously your main source of income.
We are — we do want commuters to come back.
We want our advertisers to feel confident, our print advertisers
to feel confident that they are being picked up
by their usual audience, but we have been doing home delivery
to 200,000 homes.
And we pivoted on the first day of lockdown, which I
think is astounding.
We’ve kept on the streets the whole way through this pandemic,
through successive lockdowns, and I think there was an incredibly
important thing for us to do, and, as you mentioned earlier,
Clive, we are a thinner paper at the moment,
but we can’t help a pandemic and I think it was incredibly
important for all of us here at the Standard that we never
disappeared from the streets.
Because I was not editor when we went into lockdown.
You know, London emptied, we were in the most scary situation,
looking at what was happening in Italy.
And I see...
I’ve grown up with the Standard and I think, rather like the red
bus, it is like a symbol, like a legacy symbol of London.
I think if we have disappeared, that would’ve been terrible.
We have taken a financial hit, but we are seeing our advertisers
coming back — some of them are still being hit by the pandemic,
travel, we have big advertisement from travel.
But we are really confident they all want to return
and the paper will return to its normal thickness.
But, at the same time, I want us to pivot more digitally.
We are seeing much of our younger audience reading digital—only.
Our revenues there have grown dramatically.
50 has our audience.
Since I was able to put all my restructures in,
from the end of October, we have gained an extra
eight million unique viewers month—on—month.
Alright.
It is going well.
It’s great that the paper continued to get out
there on the streets
during the pandemic.
Very quick question, Victoria.
Erm, has Rupert been in touch?
He must be chuffed.
Well, he’s actually in the UK at the moment,
so I’ve seen a fair bit of him.
He’s taking you out for dinner, then, Isuspect.
Oh, yeah — and it’s all on him.
What a fantastic show.
Great to see you guys.
Thank you forjoining us.
Victoria Newton, editor—in—chief of The Sun and The Sun on Sunday.
Tobyn Andreae, deputy editor of the Daily Mail.
And Emily Sheffield, editor of The Evening Standard.
That’s it.
The Media Show will be back same time next week.
Thank you for watching.
Hello there.
More green around at the moment.
More green around at the moment. Low pressure pushing
moment. Low pressure pushing that around, at times zero
that around, at times zero ﬂuids up
that around, at times zero fluids up into Scotland with
fluids up into Scotland with bands of blustery showers to
bands of blustery showers to the south. Some unseasonably
the south. Some unseasonably windy weather around the coast
windy weather around the coast and south—east of England all
and south-east of England all the way
and south—east of England all the way from Dorset to Suffolk,
the way from Dorset to Suffolk, 50 miles an hour gust in the
50 mils an hour gust in the morning.
50 miles an hour gust in the morning. Busy for England and
morning. Busy for England and Walas
morning. Busy for England and Wales and we have it ran
Walas and we have it ran further
Wales and we have it ran further north that really never
further north that really never clears away from northern
clears away from northern England, pushes into eastern is
England, pushes into eastern is Linde. Elsewhere, brighter,
Linde. Elsewhere, brighter, maybe some sunshine, we will
maybe some sunshine, we will continue to see some showers
continue to see some showers which could be heavy as well.
which could be heavy as well. Coolar
which could be heavy as well. Cooler generally on Tuesday but
Cooler generally on Tuesday but especially chilly in eastern
especially chilly in eastern Scotland and the north—east of
Scotland and the north-east of England.
Scotland and the north—east of England. And we have this
England. And we have this patchy rain. Elsewhere,
patchy rain. Elsewhere, brighter with some sunshine but
brighter with some sunshine but showers are likely to develop,
showers are likely to develop, those are likely to be heavy
those are likely to be heavy and hungry across Wales and
and hungry across Wales and Midlands towards Lincolnshire
Midlands towards Lincolnshire with afternoon temperatures up
with afternoon temperatures up as high as 20 or 21 Celsius.
request
This is BBC News.
I’m David Eades.
As US troops head for the exit in Afghanistan, the Taliban
seizes more districts, and over 1,000
Afghan soldiers are said to have fled the country.
In England, where coronavirus cases are sharply on the rise,
the Prime Minister confirms plans to scrap most remaining
restrictions in two weeks.
More abductions in Nigeria as gunmen kidnap at least 140
schoolchildren in the north—west of the country.
And the British teenager Emma Raducanu’s Wimbledon
journey ends abruptly as she pulls out injured
in the fourth round.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
In Afghanistan, a development many people feared,
and many predicted.
Violence is on the rise since the US military withdrew
from Bagram airfield last week, and the Taliban have
seized more districts.
This map — from a US defence research think thank —
shows the areas now in Taliban control —
they are the dark grey areas you see on the map.
The contested areas are in red
and areas controlled by the Afghan government
in light grey, almost whitish colour there.
The claims about territory, are for the moment,
impossible to verify.
But the Taliban says it has captured 150 out of 369
districts in the past two months of fighting.
Afg hanistan’s Interior Ministry neither confirm or deny
the claim — saying, that though the Taliban claim
the districts, it "does not mean all of them
have completely fallen".
More than 1,000 Afghan government soldiers
have fled across the border to Tajikistan after clashes
with the insurgents.
The BBC’s security correspondent Frank Gardner
reports.
On their own now, but still fighting the Taliban.
Afghan security forces are in action this week
without the US military support they’ve relied
on for the past 20 years.
The strategic air base just north of Kabul is an Afghan
The strategic Bagram air base just north of Kabul
is an Afghan government hands now.
The Americans pulled outlast week, leaving behind
a deeply unstable country.
The former president blames the West.
The entire mission with regard to the stated objective
of the United States and its Nato allies
in defeating terrorism and defeating terrorism has failed.
The military compartment that was intended to fight
extremism and terrorism, that, rather than doing thejob
correctly and where it was needed, began to hurt
and harass and bomb and imprison Afghans.
That’s where it failed.
That’s where our failure today is.
Others blame endemic corruption, inefficiency
and massive waste.
The conflict has costed an estimated $1 trillion
and over 100,000 lives, and it could be about to get worse.
Taliban insurgents are on the offensive.
They reportedly control a quarter of Afghanistan’s
districts after overrunning several government outposts.
They are insisting no Western forces be left behind.
All foreign forces should withdraw from the country
whether they are contractor, adviser or trainers
because they were part of the occupation.
That’s a violation, we will react.
But that reaction would be based on the decision
of our leadership.
In Kandahar province — the former Taliban stronghold —
residents have been voicing their fears of what they think
the return to power might mean.
TRANSLATION: The Taliban don’t want peace, the Taliban want
the whole government.
The Taliban are only killing.
And there’s another concern.
Osama bin Laden may be dead, but his organisation,
Al-Qaeda, lives on.
Many fear a return of the Taliban means
a return of Al-Qaeda.
A nightmare scenario not just for Afghanistan,
but for much of the world.
Frank Gardner, BBC News.
The British Prime Minister BorisJohnson has confirmed
that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions
in England in two weeks time,
with a final decision taken next week.
That would mean workers going back to the office
and an end to social distancing.
But it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
There’s been an average of more than 25,000 daily
cases this week.
The UK government says this is manageable because
hospitalisations are under control
and deaths are comparitively low.
With the Delta variant, it is growing rapidly but this
graph shows another story, that current hospitalisations
are lagging far behind the second wave.
They are still on the up but at a much slower pace
and a similar pattern can be seen in the statistics
for actual deaths, you can see far fewer
than in the previous wave.
MrJohnson has warned that Covid and actions across the UK
across the UK
were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day
by later in the month.
Our political correspondent Vicki Young has this report.
All around us signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
Instructions about where we can go, who we can see even
in our own home and how far apart we must stand,
but in two weeks things could change.
Covid has not gone but most restrictions in England
are likely to disappear.
Restaurants and pubs can open normally and theatres
and cinemas can fill every seat.
The Prime Minister put the emphasis on personal
responsibility instead of government orders.
I want to stress from the outset that this pandemic
is far from over.
And we must reconcile ourselves sadly
to more deaths from Covid.
There’s only one reason why we can contemplate going ahead
to step four in circumstances where we would normally be
locking down further and that is because of
the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
And in Bristol, people are starting to contemplate
life with fewer rules.
Personally I think it’s better to be safe than sorry,
but just like every normal person
I welcome the change.
It’s the wrong thing, wrong decision.
REPORTER: Why?
Because cases are going up.
At least give it a go and then if anything gets worse you can
always go back.
I think we just have to live with it.
You can’t keep living your life being told what to do.
People are now afraid even to go out, some people.
For some, the face mask has become a hated symbol
of intrusive government.
It will still be recommended in hospitals and enclosed
public spaces but the legal requirement to wear a face
covering will go.
Unions say that will put workers at risk.
The days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations
to follow will soon be gone and instead the government
is asking us to use a common sense and make personal
decisions about how we stay safe.
It’s a big shift in approach but comes at a time
when cases are rising.
The Prime Minister has been marking the NHS’s birthday,
and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart
of his Covid strategy.
Can you tell us how bad you expect it to get?
Obviously we have to be cautious and we will continue
to look at all the data as we progress.
If we don’t go ahead now when the summer fire break
is coming up, the school holidays, all the advantages
that should give us in fighting the virus, the question
is when would he go ahead.
What the modelling would imply is we will reach that peak
before we get to the point where we have the kind
of pressures that we saw in January for example this year.
Labour says some will need more support.
To throw off all protections at the same time when
the infection rate is still going up is reckless.
We need a balanced approach and need to keep key
protections in place including masks, ventilation
and crucially on something we’ve asked for during
the pandemic, proper payment for those who need
to self—isolate.
Later in the week we will find out about government plans
for foreign travel and when we come into a positive case
what will happen.
In schools, whole classes or bubbles won’t be sent home.
For 16 months we’ve lived under restrictions that we could not
have imagined.
Today, Boris Johnson signalled
it is time to get back to normal.
Vicki Young, BBC News, Westminster.
That signal has had some mixed responses.
I’ve been speaking to Eric Feigl—Ding,
an Epidemiologist
and Senior Fellow at the Federation Of American
Scientists.
I asked if the government had made the right decision.
This is absolutely the wrong time and the wrong decision,
period.
All I can say is it’s a horrible, terrible,
All I can say is it’s a horrible, terrible,
no—good decision.
The Delta variant is not your normal variant.
The Delta variant is the most contagious,
fastest—transmitting variant, more than we’ve ever
seen before, it is much more
severe, it is 4—5 times greater risk of hospitalisation
than the old strain, and also it is vaccine somewhat
attenuating and evasive, so one dose is not enough
and we know that with two doses,
in Israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905
to 64%, it is the wrong time.
Eric, you are absolutely clear on that.
Isn’t the point, though, that vaccinations in the UK
are at a pretty high level?
I know you mentioned Israel there.
And that whilst it is easily transmissible, it is not
as virulent as previous strains have proved to be.
So that is a complete misinformation
and completely false.
That data was...you are comparing apples and oranges.
The fact is the Delta variant is way more severe,
way more virulent, it causes severe disease and greater risk
of hospitalisation by 4— to 5—fold according
to the studies, peer reviews and also according
to government data.
It is completely fals to say it is less severe.
What would you say then to the Prime Minister
when he says,
"Look, if we don’t go ahead now, when do we go ahead?"
What is your message there?
He’s framing it as, "0h, we don’t want to live under
Look, this is not a choice between lockdowns or reopening.
If you want to avoid lockdowns — everyone wants to avoid
lockdown, nobody wanted lockdown — if you want to avoid
a lockdown, the path to do that is not the one he chose,
the path to do that is more masks, ventilation, air
our hospital beds are not empty," that is just complete
dereliction of any public health and ethical measures,
especially as a government.
E”
a pretty clear critique therefrom Eric Feigl—Ding on
therefrom Eric Feigl-Ding on Boris
therefrom Eric Feigl—Ding on BorisJohnson’s
therefrom Eric Feigl—Ding on Boris Johnson’s latest
Boris Johnson’s latest pronouncements.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come:
A Russian gang behind a huge cyber attack demands $70
a ransom from a swathe of different companies.
Central London has been rocked by a series of terrorist
attacks.
Police say there have been many casualties and there is growing
speculation that al-Qaeda was responsible.
Germany will be the hosts
of the 2006 football World Cup.
They pipped the favourite South Africa by a single vote.
In South Africa the possibility of losing
hadn’t even been complimented.
Celebration parties were cancelled.
A man entered the palace to a downstairs window
and made his way to the Queen’s private bedroom,
he asked her
for a cigarette and under a pretext of arranging for some
to be bought, some footmen on duty took the man away.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE.
One child, one teacher,
one book and one pen can
change the world.
Education is the only solution.
This is BBC News.
lam David Eades.
The latest headlines:
US troops are heading for the exit in Afghanistan
as the Taliban
continues to seize more districts and more than 1,000
Afghan soldiers have been said to have fled the country.
In the UK, as coronavirus cases rise rapidly,
the Prime Minister
announces plans to scrap most remaining restrictions
in two weeks’ time.
Gunmen in North West Nigeria have targeted a hospital,
a school and a police station in less than 2A hours.
140 students were taken from the a Baptist school
in the early hours of Monday morning.
It follows an attack on a nearby hospital,
where at least eight people were abducted.
This is a scene outside
This is a scene outside a school where families are
school where families are waiting for news.
Our Nigeria correspondent, Mayenijones, has more.
Nigeria’s kidnapping crisis is spiralling fast.
We’ve just heard of a kidnapping that took place
at a hospital on Sunday in the town of Zaria.
Now it seems another kidnapping has happened at a school
in the northern state of Kaduna.
We spoke to a parent who told us that in the early hours
of Monday morning, around 2am, a number of armed gunmen
stormed a Baptist school in Kaduna, they came
into the back, they knocked down a fence.
A mother we spoke to said there was as many as 60 gunmen,
and they abducted the students with them.
This is happening at a time when kidnapping is at
an increasing right across Nigeria.
There is an economic crisis here brought on by the fall
and the price of oil and lockdown during the Covid—19
pandemic, unemployment has risen, the price of food
is rising, and many criminals are turning to kidnapping
as a way of making money, which we have seen in
north—western Nigeria, in particular, the mass
kidnapping of students.
Since December, there have been more than 1,000 students
abducted.
Nine of them were unfortunately killed.
200 students are still missing.
UNICEF say some of them are as young as three years old.
This latest kidnapping will be a headache for the governor
of Kaduna State who’s vowed not to negotiate with criminals
because he says it incentivises them.
Unfortunately, this meant that a number of kidnappers have
come to Kaduna State and are carrying out attacks
with increasing frequency.
With the economy doing as bad as it is and with security
forces unable to stop more attacks from happening,
it’s difficult to see how this crisis is going to end.
Mayenijones there.
A Russian—based hacking group known as REvil has compromised
the computer systems of up to something like 1,000
businesses worldwide by targeting an American IT
provider that writes and updates their software.
One of those affected is Sweden’s Co—op supermarket,
which has had to close some 500 outlets —
that’s more than half its stores — because tills
and self—service checkouts had stopped working.
REvil has tailored its ransom demands to the size of each
respective company, but then on Sunday said it would settle
the lot for $70 million if someone were prepared
to pay it.
Earlier, I spoke to Jon Bateman, a fellow
in the Cyber Policy Initiative of the Technology and
International Affairs Programme at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, and is a former intelligence
analyst for the US government.
What we’re seeing here with this heck is really
the combination of two things that happened before,
but rarely together.
One is a supply chain compromise, whereby hackers
gain access to one victim and then use that to then get
a follow—on access to many, many other victims.
The other is ransomware, where a company’s data is held
hostage unless they pay cryptocurrency.
But again, both of these things are increasingly common,
but this is one of the most expensive hacks that combines
both techniques together, and that is why people
are calling this the biggest ransomware attack of all time,
although it is still a bit early to quantify the impact.
Yeah, Ijust wonder what you make of this ‘job lot’
approach, saying, give us $70 million and we’ll clear
everybody?
I mean, these are all completely separate businesses?
It’s fascinating and we haven’t seen that before.
Some people theorise it’s actually just too
many victims
for the ransomware
gang to process.
Keep in mind these ransomware gangs operate
much like businesses.
They have a customer service line and there are people
who are paid primarily to negotiate and interact
with victims.
But another possibility is that the ransomware gang
involved here realised that they had done a bit more
damage than they had intended and the level of law
enforcement and intelligence scrutiny could be beyond
what they anticipated.
Right.
These are just two theories.
Yeah.
You all it a "ransomware gang".
I mean, any idea on how many are involved in this
sort of thing?
I think we recognise it may not be the work of a state,
but how many people does it take to form a gang
like an REvil?
It’s hard to say, because most of them operate now
on an affiliate or franchise model, whereby one set
of people develops the malware and another set of people go
out and gain access to victims and installs that malware.
And then there may be a third set of people that actually
does the negotiations and payment processing.
But it’s likely that this was the responsibility
of Russian cyber criminals and not something specifically
ordered by the Russian state.
But it’s also important to realise that is somewhat
beside the point, because Moscow has a long—standing
governmental policy of tolerating and legally
protecting these sorts of gangs.
So, ultimately, Vladimir Putin is culpable for such attacks.
Jon Bateman.
There have been homophobic attacks by nationalists.
There have been homophobic attacks by nationalists. That
attacks by nationalists. That you fall it
attacks by nationalists. That you call it manic Monday in
you call it manic Monday in Wimbledon. —— they do call it.
Wimbladon. -- they do all it. Novak
Wimbledon. —— they do call it. Novak Djokovic is through, so
Novak Djokovic is through, so as Roger Federer. The former
as Roger Federer. The former Women’s Champions League,
Women’s Champions League, Angelique Kerber defeated Coco
Angelique Kerber defeated Coco Gauff. The most manic moment
Gauff. The most manic moment was reserved unfortunately for
was reserved unfortunately for the last remaining British pair
the last remaining British pair in the singles, Amber Rudd Khan
in the singlas, Amber Rudd Khan who had
in the singles, Amber Rudd Khan who had to retire for good
who had to retire for good reasons. As I am going to show
reasons. As I am going to show you here, she has become a
you here, she has become a feature of the headline writers
feature of the headline writers at all the papers, and this is
at all the papers, and this is the front page of the Times.
the front page of the Times. She bowed out in the fourth
She bowed out in the fourth round. And this is the front
round. And this is the front P39e
round. And this is the front page of the Daily Telegraph.
Ben Rothenberg as a writer for The New York Times
and hosts the No Challenges Remaining podcast.
Yeah, very abrupt, mysterious, disappointing, for sure.
She was playing well and second set seem to have breathing
difficulties and left court for treatment
and did not come back.
It’s very unusual for a player to sort of retire from a match
or abandon a match without coming back on the court
to shake the opponent’s and in that sort of thing.
It was concerning for her that she was able to make it back.
She was doing well.
There hasn’t been much information from the tournament
orfrom her about how she is doing more the official
reason for her withdrawal being her breathing
difficulties.
Speculation there.
One very excited teenager does go out.
She hadn’t made a Grand Slam quarterfinal even since winning
Wimbledon in 2018, her last of her three major titles,
but she’s really growing in confidence.
I think she is a player who builds on that confidence
really
well and she is someone known remaining in the draw
will want to be across the net.
She is also the only former champion left in the side
in this final eight.
And we are still in that bizarre era in women’s tennis,
aren’t we, where no—one is establishing themselves,
even Serena
Williams, let’s be honest, is struggling to maintain her
prowess, if you like, on the court.
And I think you were pointing out something like there have
been 22 different women’s names in the quarterfinals
for the slams this year, out of 2A possible places?
Yeah.
No, it’s been really remarkable and a completely new slate
of players compared to the final eight in Paris.
So, already complete 100% turnover.
And Ash Barty, the number one ranked player, I think she has
a chance of solidifying herself as being a force if she goes
on a good run here.
Maybe she will add a little bit of stability for the title.
And Naomi Osaka when she comes back, someone who is still
very competitive there.
It might look random at a casual glance,
but certainly nowhere near the stability of the men’s
side with Novak Djokovic.
We have an Australian producer working on this story,
Ben, it is an all—Australia quarterfinal.
Ash Barty against either Tom, who basically had that win...
It shows how [ate it is there!
Do you think Ash Barty could emerge as the winner
in the women’s side?
Yeah absolutely!
She is comfortable on grass, no—one doubts after she
recovered from that hip injury.
And she is basically doing 0K, and herwins
were convincing so far.
She should probably be favourite.
Quick word about the men.
No surprises, Djokovic is through.
Federer is through but it wasn’t easy, but straight sets
in the end?
But there is no—one but Novak Djokovic for the men’s —
to win
the men’s singles, is there?
I think if Novak Djokovic loses, it will likely
be
due to himself.
There are some capable players in the final that
are still there.
The winner of Queens club is emerging as a solid
player on grass.
But I think Novak Djokovic is still ahead of the field
and pulling his way over Christian Goring today
was very convincing.
Not many signs of slowing down at this point
in the tournament.
Shares in a Russian wine maker have soared in response
to a new law that’s making French champagne makers
describe their product as sparkling wine.
The law — approved by President Putin —
dictates that Russian producers can call their bubbly
Shampanskoye, the Russian word for champagne.
I can’t imagine that the vineyards in this Champagne
region are going to be too impressed by this.
President Putin’s main critic in exile, Mikhail Khodorkovsky,
said the law was another an example of the Kremlin’s
incomprehensible whims.
Hello there.
Monday was drierfor a while across England
and Wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill
from the south.
This rain here is marching its way northwards across the UK up
into northern England and Scotland, where already
in the past few days in Edinburgh, we have had
a month’s worth of rain.
Now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low
pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times —
northwards up towards Scotland and northern England
with blustery showers following to the south.
For a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather
along the coast of England all the way from Dorset
across to Suffolk, gusts of 50 mph in the morning.
It won’t be as windy in the afternoon, but there
will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got
this more persistent rain, never really clearing away
from northern England, pushing into eastern Scotland.
Elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
The showers are never too far away, and they may well be
heavy as well.
Generally, temperatures a bit lower on Tuesday,
18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it
stays wet in northern England and eastern Scotland.
And as we have seen, there are some showers around,
they could well affect Wimbledon once again.
It’s going to be another day where we may well
have the covers on and off.
Those showers will probably tend to ease off though
during the evening and into the night.
More places become dry, still got some wetter weather
towards the north—east of Scotland.
The breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find
temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
Now, it’s low pressure that’s brought all the rain over
recent days, in the centre of the low pressure,
by the time we get to Wednesday, it’s close
to the north—east of Scotland.
So there’s more cloud rolling in here and some patchy
rain around too.
Elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine,
but we are going to find showers breaking out,
and those could turn heavy and thundery come
the afternoon, particularly across Wales, the Midlands,
across to Lincolnshire as well.
Temperatures may be a notch higher on Friday, still no
better than 20—21 Celsius.
Let’s end with a glimmer of hope, because the low
pressure is trying to move away.
This is where high—pressure is, dry weather, and this is trying
to nudge up from the south—west across the UK.
50 during Thursday and Friday, the winds won’t be as strong,
and for more places, it will be dry.
Some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for Scotland
and Northern Ireland.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher.
This is BBC News.
I’m David Eades.
Our top stories:
Russia, Iran and taking suspend officers after a thousand
officers after a thousand Afghan soldiers roughly across
Afghan soldiers roughly across the border of Afghanistan.
More abductions in Nigeria as gunmen kidnap at least
140 schoolchildren in the north—west of the country.
H1
26 children were rescued. More than a thousand students have
than a thousand students have been seized for ransom. Nine
been seized for ransom. Nine have been killed and more than
have been killed and more than 200 is still missing. England?
200 is still missing. England? Covid lockdown will and in two
Covid lockdown will and in two weeks despite scientists urging
weeks despite scientists urging caution as a number of cases
caution as a number of cases are still rising. The premise
are still rising. The premise that it is possible because 86%
that it is possibla because 8696 of
that it is possible because 86% of adults have been vaccinated.
Now it’s time for a look back at the day in parliament.
Hello again and welcome to Monday in Parliament.
Ministers are to scrap most Covid rules in England,
but they warn we’ll have to learn to live
with the virus.
The situation can change and it can change quickly.
But we cannot put our lives on hold forever.
MP5 from all parties line up to condemn a new law
to limit demonstrations.
The struggles and protests being demonised by this bill
today are actually seen as the milestones of progress
in our society.
Like the suffragette movement, which faced considerable state
repression and police brutality.
Also in this programme: Can MPs save the hedgehog?
There can be little doubt that some modern farming practices
have made survival more difficult for this country’s
favourite prickly mammal.
But first, most Covid rules in England are to be scrapped
onJuly 19th, a week next Monday.
You’ll no longer be told to work from home or wear
a facemask in shops and the social distancing
rule will go.
The rule of six in private homes will also be removed.
The Prime Minister made the announcement at 3 Downing
Street news conference.
Simultaneously, the Health Secretary updated MPs.
Despite the unlocking, Sajid Javid warned that Covid
cases were rising and would continue to rise significantly.
We can reasonably expect that by the 19th ofJuly,
the number of daily cases will be far higher than today.
Against this backdrop, I know that many people will be
understandably cautious about easing restrictions.
After many months of uncertainty, this
is entirely natural.
But we can now protect NHS without having to go
to to extraordinary lengths that we’ve had to do
so in the past.
That is not to say that this is going to be easy,
Mr speaker.
Of course, the pandemic is not over.
The virus is still with us.
It hasn’t gone away.
And the risk of a dangerous new variant that evades
vaccines remains real.
We know that with Covid—19, the situation can change
and it can change quickly.
But we cannot put our lives on hold forever.
In essence, our national response to Covid—19
will change from one of rules and regulations,
to one of guidance and good sense.
We will revoke all social distancing guidance,
including the two metre rule.
Hallelujah!
Except, for specific settings such as ports of entry
and medical settings where of course it would continue
to make sense.
It will no longer be a legal requirement to wearface
coverings in any setting, including public transport.
Although we will advise this as a voluntary measure
for crowded and enclosed spaces.
Labour wanted to know more about the strategy of learning
to live with Covid.
How many deaths does he consider is acceptable
when we are living with Covid?
How many cases of long Covid—19 does he consider acceptable
when we are living with Covid—19 and given what we know
that when the Covid—19 rates are circulating that high rates
of the virus can escape and evolve, what risk
assessment has he done of the possibilities
of a new variant emerging and will he publish it?
The Secretary of State says that this carries risks
and that is why we need to learn to live with Covid—19.
But we should not have to take a high risk approach,
we should be pushing down risks and indeed,
we mitigate against risks across society all the time.
We just do not accept other diseases, we take interventions
to try and prevent other diseases.
So, why is he collapsing all mitigations completely
when he knows that the Covid—19 rates will continue to rise?
Now, it’s important to remember that this announcement
affects only England.
Northern Ireland is due to review its rules in the next
few days, with the Welsh Government looking to announce
its plans next week.
The SNP—run Scottish Government hopes to end most restrictions
on the 9th of August, and its record prompted some
fierce exchanges at Westminster.
The UK governments failure to lock down last September
allowed the alpha variant to emerge in the southeast
of England and spread across the UK and indeed
the rest of the world.
So, if the Health Secretary is going tojust let it rip,
how does he plan to avoid generating yet another UK
variant with even greater vaccine resistance?
With over 150,000 people dead, why has he returned
to the false narrative that Covid—19 is just like flu?
Using phrases like let it rip, if anything, Mr speaker,
the only part of the UK where cases could be described
as ripping would be in Scotland where the case rate is higher
than any other part of the UK.
In fact, I think they have seven of the ten highest
hotspots in the number of cases throughout Europe
and the honourable lady should reflect on that.
And then she claimed that I suggested that somehow that
Covid—19 is like the flu.
I have never said that, they’ll be complete nonsense
for anyone to suggest that Covid—19 was like the flu.
Failing to mandate mass wearing and stuffy crowded places
like public transport and often people have been pressed
together for longer than 15 minutes risks high costs.
Allowing people rather to choose whether or not to put
others at risk is both reckless and unfair.
If the freedom to pelt down the motorway at 100 mph
is restricted because it poses risks to others,
why with millions still unvaccinated with some immune
and some suppressed with the risks of long Covid—19
rising, why does the Health Secretary not apply the same
logic to mask wear?
Madam Deputy Speaker, to the honourable lady that
I do understand where she’s coming from but the important
thing is that we do have to learn to live with Covid—19
and that does mean that these restrictions that have been
necessary up until now, that we have to at some point
confront them and start removing them.
And now is the best time to do that because of the defence
that is being built by the vaccine.
Conservative lockdown sceptics were noticeably less
critical than before.
We will never again sacrifice free enterprise, freedom
of association and indeed, freedom of worship in order
to manage hospital admissions ever again, will we?
Madam Deputy Speaker, I take it from that that my right
honourable friend is pleased with today’s announcements.
There were few details on what this all means
for international travel, for self—isolation
or for schools.
But with many pupils absent for Covid—related reasons,
Sajid Javid promised more information within days.
OnJuly the 19th, it is our plan to remove bubbles
and to end a requirement for early years setting schools
and colleges to routinely carry out contact tracing
and I will have more to say on how we intend to exempt
under 185 to close contacts from the requirement
to self—isolate.
Sajid Javid.
That update on coronavirus restrictions interrupted
consideration of the mammoth Police, Crime, Sentencing
and Courts Bill.
The Commons only had one day to debate a large number
of changes suggested by MPs across all the various parts
of the Bill.
One of the main points of contention was a measure
to limit public protest, including the setting of noise
limits and making it an offence to cause a public nuisance.
Critics say it would pit demonstrators against
the police.
MP5 from across the Commons spoke out against it.
The new measures in the bill target protesters for being too
noisy and causing serious unease or serious annoyance.
The vague terminology creates a very low threshold
for a police involved imposed conditions and essentially
rules out entirely potentially peaceful protests.
The government must have the power to arrest people
who cause serious annoyance or serious inconvenience.
These are incredibly vague terms, frankly.
It was clearly a breach of the normal reasoning behind
a demonstration when somebody glues themselves to a train
with direct intention of inconveniencing everybody else.
But demonstrations do lead to inconvenience.
Incongruent between a government that says it wants
to defend free speech in the universities,
but is effectively attacking freedom of expression
on our streets by criminalising activities that will
cause serious unease.
The risk is that it serves only to pit the police
against the protesters because it won’t be
the Home Secretary who makes the decision about what is
noisy and causes serious annoyance, it will be police
officers and very often police officers actually on the ground
at any given moment in time and that again risks
undermining the very fundamental principle
of policing by consent.
We can be under no illusion that this is another
authoritarian clampdown on our civil liberties,
the right to peaceful assembly and protest are fundamental
principles of any democracy and the rich tradition
of dissent in this country shows us that they can
literally change the course of history.
They are the reasons why someone of my race,
and of my class and of my gender has the rights that I do
and why I can even stand here as a member of this house.
We cannot forget the struggles and protests being demonised
by this bill today are not actually seen as milestones
of progress in our society.
Like the suffragette movement, which faced considerable state
repression and police brutality.
But the Government did have some support.
A local labour councillor, Teresa Norton, satin
the middle of the street, in the middle of Scarborough,
on the first weekend when many of our hard pressed
tourist businesses were team to make up some of the money
they’d lost during the pandemic.
Set in the middle of the street and caused a massive traffic
jam, supposedly demonstrating in the cause of Extinction
Rebellion.
That is the sort of behaviour that should not take place
because it disrupts peoples lives and I believe actually
antagonizes people against those issues.
Several Labour MPs felt the Bill fell short,
especially on the issue of protection for women and girls.
Sexually predatory men who feel they can harass and intimidate
young girls and young women when they’re on the street,
especially if it’s after dark, especially if they are
on their own.
We just simply have to decide, are we going to and support
the rights of men to do that or are we going to say no,
we support the rights of women and girls to be able to walk
down our streets at night, on their own, after dark
in the winter, coming home from school without being
subject to this sort of intimidation, menace
and harassment?
The Minister gave her response to the issues raised.
This bill balances the rights of protesters to demonstrate
with the rights of residents to access hospitals,
to go to work, to let their children sleep at night.
And despite some of the claims opposite, this bill includes
measures that will help protect women and girls but indeed go
further than that and protect the whole of society from some
of the most dangerous offenders.
In a series of votes, none of the changes suggested
by MPs was approved and the bill new moves
on to the Lords, where no doubt peers will suggest more
amendments.
You’re watching Monday in Parliament with me,
David Cornock.
The Government has been pressed over its response
to the seizure by the Taliban in recent weeks of more
territory in Afghanistan.
The militant group has launched attacks coinciding
with the withdrawal of Nato troops after a 20—year mission
in the country, with most troops having already pulled
out ahead of a September deadline.
At question time, a senior Conservative said Afghanistan
now faced a high risk of civil war.
With the Taliban advancing and securing more districts
by the day, Mr Speaker, I repeat my call for a formal
inquiry so we can understand how this Nato mission,
endorsed by the UN, lasting two decades,
has now ended in failure.
We’re now abandoning the country to the very
insurgent organisation that we went in to defeat
in the first place.
This cannot be what we expected when we went in there.
It’s not the exit strategy that we anticipated.
Our presence gave legitimacy to the Afghan authorities
and our exodus will be seen as a victory for the Taliban.
Please, let’s have the inquiry.
Can Ijust remind people, front benchers as well
and chairs of Select Committees?
If you want a long question, go in questions earlier.
They’re short and punchy.
We’ve got to keep it that way to get the rest in.
Secretary of State.
Mr Speaker, two things.
First of all, the right honourable friend, as I’ve said
earlier, has means of his own salvation.
He does chair the Select Committee, and if the Select
Committee wishes to have an inquiry, I will be happy
to make sure the department services it.
This is a profound moment for more than 150,000 UK men
and women who have served in Afghanistan.
I pay tribute to their service and their sacrifice,
especially the A57 that lost their lives.
Where does this withdrawal leave the UK strategy
of forward deployment in a region that sits
between Russia, China and Iran, three of the main state—based
threats identified in the integrated review?
And how will the Government ensure that Afghanistan does
not again become an operating base for terrorism directed
against the West?
The leaving by the United States left us in a very
difficult position to continue that mission.
It left many of us unable to continue that without
a significant international uplift.
That has not been forthcoming, and therefore we are in
a position where we too are in that path of withdrawal,
with all the risks that that may leave in the near future,
in the next ten, 20 years, and therefore we have
to do our very best with what we have now.
That means we will continue to work with the Afghan
government and we continue to focus on the threats that
emanate from Afghanistan and may grow to emanate
towards the United Kingdom and our allies, and we will do
whatever we can.
What conclusions have our Ministers and strategists drawn
from our use of military force from outside the borders
of states like Syria and Iraq which might help prevent
the re—emergence of Afghanistan as a base and as a launch pad
for international terrorism campaigns, like those of Daesh
and Al-Qaeda, following the withdrawal of Nato
troops from Afghanistan?
The Minister pointed to the operations conducted
in Syria against the so—called Islamic State — or IS.
We absolutely reserve the right to counter terrorist threats
to the United Kingdom that may re—emerge in Afghanistan.
And he’s absolutely right to point us towards an outside—in
model, such as that prosecuted from Cyprus in support
of Operation Shader.
I know that that is very much in the thoughts of those
who are planning for that eventuality in Afghanistan.
The session also saw questions about the proposed new £200
million yacht, a successor to the Royal Yacht Britannia.
But does the Secretary of State believe it’s the woeful lack
of investment in our personnel which is driving the current
recruitment challenges in the Armed Forces,
or is it the chronic accommodation that he expects
our service personnel to live in that’s to blame?
Because, soon, the size of the Army will be
at its lowest since 1714, so how does the MOD splashing
£200 million on a new royal yacht help with these
challenges in our Armed Forces?
Given that the National Audit Office have judged the defence
equipment plan as unaffordable for the fourth year in a row,
the continuing well—publicized disasters and rising costs
of the Ajax project and, of course, the cancellation
of Warrior, could the Minister explain why this vanity project
has become a spending priority for the Minister of Defence?
We’re delighted to be playing our part in delivering
this first—rate asset.
And he said its cost would be a tiny fraction
of the defence budget.
Over four years, you’re talking around the region of 0.1%
of that kind of impact on the overall defence budget,
so I’d like to put that into perspective for him.
Jeremy Quin.
To the Lords now, where Highways England has been
accused of "vandalism" for filling in the arches
of disused historic railway arches with tonnes of concrete.
Campaigners have criticised in particular the infilling
of the scenic Victorian Bridge at Great Musgrave in Cumbria.
A Labour peer noted that Highways England seemed to have
rowed back on some other works.
Can she confirm that Highways England have now
reduced their hit list of 134 structures to be
destroyed to 69?
And will she instruct them to consult with notjust local
authorities, but cycling and walking groups and heritage
railways, before they go ahead with any more of the cultural
vandalism which we’ve already seen?
I’m really happy to reassure the noble lord that
Highways England already does exactly what he asked me
to make sure that they do.
They do consult with local authorities, with parish
councils, with those people who run active travel schemes
and, of course, with heritage railway providers,
whether or not the railway is actually built or not.
It is the case that of the 3,250 railway
properties, there will be some that will require works
which is in excess of maintenance.
That may include infilling.
But, of course, my lords, infilling can be reversed.
Some peers were concerned that Highways England could use
what are known as permitted development rights to fill
in arches without planning permission.
Can the Minister comment on whether Highways England,
who manage the Historical Railways Estate, should be
excluded from using permitted development rights to infill
bridges or other structures in the estate, so as to ensure
they actively engage with local authorities and other
organisations on the future of assets which run
through an area, so that these can be considered for cycling
or other schemes?
Well, my noble friend has just once again raised the issue
of the permitted development orders, and I’d just
like to restate that they are only used in emergency
circumstances.
And I’d just like to remind noble lords that, actually,
a couple of decades ago, on the Clifton Hall/
Black Harry Tunnel in Salford, the shaft collapsed,
a house was demolished and the residents were killed
in their beds.
This is a serious issue we’re talking about here.
Sometimes there are emergency circumstances when permitted
development orders are required, but as I said,
in the majority of the cases, they are not required
and planning permission is sought and given.
Lady Vere.
Now, the plight of the British hedgehog has been troubling
campaigners, who created a petition to call for more
protections for the prickly creatures.
During a debate on their appeal in Westminster Hall,
MP5 of all stripes had stories to tell about their love
of hedgehogs — with one appearing to catch the heart
of a nation.
As some of my Twitter followers may have seen,
we recently welcomed a new tenant to the Halfon household.
Horace the hedgehog moved into our garden earlier this
year and he’s very much made himself at home.
And given these modern times, although we have called him
Horace, he clearly is a he/him or she/her hedgehog.
He’s even been brave enough to approach the back door
to try and watch Netﬂix through the window,
particularly Sons of Anarchy, and he’s risen to dizzying
heights of fame on our social media page.
And I’ve had individuals write to my office, whether Horace
will be making an appearance in upcoming Zoom meetings.
But while Horace may be well looked after,
the shocking reality of the declining number
of his species focused minds.
Before this debate, I had the pleasure of meeting
with representatives from the British Hedgehog
Preservation Society, and they told me that
since 2000, we’ve lost half of all of our rural hedgehogs
and a third of our urban ones.
Sadly, they were recently added to the IUCN Red List
for Britain as vulnerable.
That is having appreciable risk of extinction in
the next ten years.
A number of factors are thought to be to blame.
According to the RSPCA, the main reasons for
the decline is destruction of their shelters and habitats,
increased levels of traffic and poorly planned roads
and the use of pesticides.
These are all things that we can — and should —
work to prevent.
There can be little doubt that some modern farming practices
have made survival more difficult for this country’s
favourite prickly mammal, so the ELM schemes which will
replace the European Union’s Common Agricultural Policy
should aim to secure and restore hedgerows
and habitats, to give our hedgehogs a bit
of a Brexit dividend.
Every time that farm fields are built over,
hedgerows go, headlands go, the fields themselves that have
crops in them go, and those are the habitats notjust
for hedgehogs but for thousands — literally thousands —
of birds, mammals, butterflies, insects —
the insects upon which hedgehogs feed.
And it’s because of that loss of habitat that we’ve lost
so many hedgehogs.
But some were also concerned that the regular review
of the Wildlife and Countryside Act taking place this year
would cause more grief for the animal.
I am extremely concerned to hear that the terms of this
year’s review have been changed and that, contrary
to what a reasonable person might expect given
the well—documented decline in biodiversity
across the board, this is likely to result in fewer
species under protection, not more.
The new standards would mean that an animal or plant species
would only be protected if in imminent danger
of extinction, with the result that dozens of species face
losing vital safeguards.
It also means that action to protect a species would only
come when it was in crisis, when it already might
be too late.
This cannot be right.
There were more suggestions from MPs on how to help
the species thrive.
And one of the things I hope to see come out
of the Government in the next few months is a plan to turn
the current system into one of holistic analysis
of what wildlife is on a site and what needs to be protected,
so you don’t simply bulldoze a roadside or cut down
a hedgerow with no regard at all for what animals
are inside it.
And all too often, it’s the hedgehogs who are inside it.
That is a change that is urgently needed.
We absolutely need biodiversity targets,
and they should be ambitious.
We shouldn’tjust halt the decline of hedgehogs
and other nature.
We should reverse it.
But the minister pledged that hedgehogs were at the heart
of her remit.
This government is absolutely committed to ensuring
that our native species thrive, as we take action to address
the declines that we’re all so sad about.
Rebecca Pow.
Britain’s newest MP has taken her seat in the House of
Commons.
Kim Leadbeater is the sister ofJo Cox, the former MP
for Batley and Spen who was murdered five years ago.
Kim Leadbeater held her sister’s old seat for Labour
at last Thursday’s by election.
I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm
that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance
to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, her heirs and successors,
according to law.
Hear, hear!
The new MP was in such a hurry, she forgot to sign in.
You’ve just got to sign in.
Don’t worry, we’ll have a chat in a minute!
LAUGHTER
Kim Leadbeater.
And that was Monday in Parliament.
Thank you for watching.
I hope you canjoin me at the same time tomorrow
for Tuesday in Parliament.
Until then, from me, David Cornock, bye for now.
Hello there.
Monday was drierfor a while across England
and Wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill
from the south.
This rain here is marching its way northwards across the UK up
into northern England and Scotland, where already
in the past few days in Edinburgh, we have had
a month’s worth of rain.
Now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low
pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times —
northwards up towards Scotland and northern England
with blustery showers following to the south.
For a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather
along the coast of England all the way from Dorset
across to Suffolk, gusts of 50 mph in the morning.
It won’t be as windy in the afternoon, but there
will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got
this more persistent rain, never really clearing away
from northern England, pushing into eastern Scotland.
Elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
The showers are never too far away, and they may well be
heavy as well.
Generally, temperatures a bit lower on Tuesday,
18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it
stays wet in northern England and eastern Scotland.
And as we have seen, there are some showers around,
they could well affect Wimbledon once again.
It’s going to be another day where we may well
have the covers on and off.
Those showers will probably tend to ease off though
during the evening and into the night.
More places become dry, still got some wetter weather
towards the north—east of Scotland.
The breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find
temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
Now, it’s low pressure that’s brought all the rain over
recent days, in the centre of the low pressure,
by the time we get to Wednesday, it’s close
to the north—east of Scotland.
So there’s more cloud rolling in here and some patchy
rain around too.
Elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine,
but we are going to find showers breaking out,
and those could turn heavy and thundery come
the afternoon, particularly across Wales, the Midlands,
across to Lincolnshire as well.
Temperatures may be a notch higher on Friday, still no
better than 20—21 Celsius.
Let’s end with a glimmer of hope, because the low
pressure is trying to move away.
This is where high—pressure is, dry weather, and this is trying
to nudge up from the south—west across the UK.
50 during Thursday and Friday, the winds won’t be as strong,
and for more places, it will be dry.
Some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for Scotland
and Northern Ireland.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher.
Welcome to BBC News.
I’m David Eades.
Our top stories:
The Taliban take advantage with US troops pulling out
of Afghanistan, they seize more districts
while a thousand Afghan soldiers are said
to have fled the country.
In England, the Prime Minister confirms plans
to scrap most remaining Covid restrictions,
despite a sharp rise in coronavirus cases.
A Russian gang behind a huge global cyber attack
demands $70 million in ransom.
And the British teenager Emma Raducanu’s
Wimbledon journey ends abruptly
as she pulls out on medical grounds in the fourth round.
Hello and thanks for
Hello and thanks forjoining
Hello and thanks for joining us.
In Afghanistan,
a development many people feared and many predicted.
Violence is on the rise since the US military withdrew
from Bagram air field last week,
and the Taliban have seized more districts.
This map, from a US defence research think thank,
shows the areas now in Taliban control —
they are in dark grey.
Contested areas are in red
and areas controlled by the Afghan government
in light grey.
It’s not impossible to verify, but the Taliban says
it has captured 150 out of 369 districts
in the past two months of fighting.
Afghanistan’s Interior Ministry says it does not mean
all of those areas have completely fallen.
More than 1,000 Afghan government soldiers have fled
across the border into Tajikistan,
according to the government there.
The BBC’s security correspondent,
Frank Gardner reports.
GUNFIRE.
On their own now, but still fighting the Taliban.
Afghan security forces are in action this week
without the US military support they’ve relied on,
for the past 20 years.
The strategic Bagram air base just north of Kabul
is an Afghan government hands now.
The Americans pulled out last week,
leaving behind a deeply unstable country.
The former president, Hamid Karzai, blames the West.
The entire mission with regard to the stated objective
of the United States and its Nato allies
in defeating terrorism and extremism has failed.
The military compartment that was intended to fight
extremism and terrorism, that,
rather than doing the job correctly
and where it was needed,
began to hurt and harass and bomb
and imprison Afghans.
That’s where it failed.
And that’s where our failure today is.
Others blame endemic corruption, inefficiency
and massive waste.
The conflict has costed an estimated $1 trillion
and over 100,000 lives, and it could be about to get worse.
Taliban insurgents are on the offensive.
They reportedly control a quarter of Afghanistan’s
districts after overrunning several government outposts.
They are insisting no Western forces be left behind.
All foreign forces should withdraw from the country
whether they are contractor, adviser and trainers,
because they were part of the occupation.
That’s a violation, we will react.
But that reaction would be based on the decision
of our leadership.
In Kandahar province — the former Taliban stronghold —
residents have been voicing their fears of what they think
the return to power might mean.
TRANSLATION: The Taliban don’t want peace,
the Taliban want the whole government.
The Taliban are only killing.
And there’s another concern.
Osama bin Laden may be dead, but his organisation,
Al-Qaeda, lives on.
Many fear a return of the Taliban means
a return of Al-Qaeda.
A nightmare scenario not just for Afghanistan,
but for much of the world.
Frank Gardner, BBC News.
The British Prime Minister, Borisjohnson, has confirmed
that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions
in England in two weeks’ time,
with a final decision next week.
That would mean workers returning to the office
and an end to social distancing.
But it comes as cases across the country continue to rise.
There’s been an average of over 25,000 daily cases
over the past week.
But the UK government says this is manageable
because the vaccine rollout has meant hospitalisations
and deaths are comparatively low.
This graph shows the growth of cases
in the second and the current third wave of the virus,
which includes the new Delta variant,
with both growing rapidly.
with both growing rapidly.
But this graph shows that current hospitalisations
are lagging far behind the second wave,
although they are still rising.
And a similar pattern can been seen
in the statistics for deaths.
As you can see they are far fewer than in the last wave.
MrJohnson has warned that Covid infections
across the UK were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day
across the UK were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day
later this month.
Our political correspondent Vicky Young reports.
All around us the signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
Instructions about where we can go,
who we can see even in our own home,
how far apart we must stand,
but in two weeks things could change.
Covid has not gone but most restrictions in England
are likely to disappear.
Restaurants and pubs can open normally,
theatres and cinemas can fill every seat.
The Prime Minister put the emphasis on personal
responsibility instead of government orders.
I want to stress from the outset that this pandemic
is far from over.
And we must reconcile ourselves sadly
to more deaths from Covid.
There’s only one reason why we can contemplate going ahead
to step four in circumstances where we would normally be
locking down further and that is because of
the continuing effectiveness of the vaccine roll—out.
And in Bristol, people are starting to contemplate
life with fewer rules.
Personally I think it’s better to be safe than sorry,
but just like every normal person,
I welcome the change.
It’s the wrong thing, wrong decision.
REPORTER: Why?
Because cases are going up.
At least give it a go and then if anything gets worse,
you can always go back.
I think we just have to live with it.
You can’t keep living your life being told what to do.
People are now afraid even to go out, some people.
For some, the face mask has become a hated symbol
of intrusive government.
It will still be recommended in hospitals
and enclosed public spaces
but the legal requirement to wear a face covering will go.
Unions say that will put workers at risk.
The days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations
to follow will soon be gone and instead the government
is asking us to use a common sense and make personal
decisions about how we stay safe.
It’s a big shift in approach
but it comes at a time when cases are rising.
The Prime Minister has been marking the NHS’s birthday,
and making sure hospitals can cope has been at the heart
of his Covid strategy.
Can you tell us how bad you expect it to get?
Obviously we have to be cautious and we will continue
to look at all the data as we progress.
If we don’t go ahead now when the summer fire break
is coming up, the school holidays,
all the advantages that should give us
in fighting the virus, the question is
when would he go ahead.
What the modelling would imply is we will reach that peak
before we get to the point where we have the kind
of pressures that we saw in January for example this year.
Labour says some will need more support.
To throw off all protections at the same time when
the infection rate is still going up is reckless.
We need a balanced approach,
we need to keep key protections in place
including masks, ventilation
and crucially on something we’ve asked for during
the pandemic, proper payment for those who need
to self—isolate.
Later in the week we will find out about government’s plans
for foreign travel and when we come into a positive case
what will happen.
In schools, whole classes or bubbles won’t be sent home.
We have lived under restrictions that we could not
have imagined.
Today, Boris Johnson signalled
it is time to get back to normal.
Vicki Young, BBC News, Westminster.
ii
It has prompted some strong reactions.
Earlier I spoke to Eric Fiegl—Ding,
an epidemiologist and seniorfellow
at the Federation Of American Scientists.
I asked him if the British government had made
the right decision.
This is absolutely the wrong time and the wrong decision,
period.
All I can say is it’s a horrible, terrible,
no—good very bad decision.
The Delta variant is not your normal variant.
The Delta variant is the most contagious,
fastest—tra nsmitting variant,
much more than we’ve ever seen before,
it is much more severe,
it is 4—5 times greater risk of hospitalisation
than the old strain,
and also it is vaccine somewhat attenuating and evasive,
so one dose is not enough
and we know that with two doses,
in Israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905
to 64% — it is the wrong time.
Eric, you are absolutely clear on that.
Isn’t the point, though, that vaccinations in the UK
are at a pretty high level?
I know you mentioned Israel there.
And that whilst it is easily transmissible,
it is not as virulent as previous strains
have proved to be.
So that is a complete misinformation
and completely false.
That data was...you are comparing apples and oranges.
The fact is the Delta variant is way more severe,
way more virulent, it causes severe disease
and greater risk of hospitalisation by
4— to 5—fold according
to the studies, peer reviews and also according
to government data.
It is completely false to say it is less severe.
What would you say then to the Prime Minister
when he says,
"Look, if we don’t go ahead now, when do we go ahead?"
What is your message there?
He’s framing it as, "0h, we don’t want to live under
a shroud of lockdowns, or we want to reopen."
Look, this is not a choice between lockdowns or reopening.
If you want to avoid lockdowns —
everyone wants to avoid lockdown,
nobody wanted lockdown —
if you want to avoid a lockdown, the path to do
that is not the one he chose,
the path to do that is more masks, ventilation,
air cleaning, PPEs, things we discussed,
but the path he’s chosen is the path towards lockdowns
and we don’t want that
because hospitalisations, you know, NHS workers,
healthcare workers, there is a toll that they can
take, and when every medical ethics dictate you should
always protect and prevent people suffering from
hospitalisations and long Covid,
which 1 in 7 adults and 1 in 12 children suffer
from long Covid, that is not an acceptable statistic,
so just saying, "Let’s flood the hospitals right now,
our hospital beds are not empty," that is just complete
dereliction of any public health and ethical measures,
especially as a government.
Let’s spread the Covid story further afield.
An alarming number of doctors in India have found
themselves the targets of attacks by family members
of patients who say their loved ones haven’t received
sufficient medical care.
The Indian Medical Association is now calling for a new law
to protect healthcare workers.
Divya Arya has more from Delhi, and a warning that her report
contains disturbing scenes at the very start.
They used whatever they could lay their hands on,
a metal bedpan, a wooden stick, orjust theirfists.
Shocked by the death of their loved one from Covid,
these relatives took out their anger on this doctor.
On just a second day of work
after graduating medical school.
One month later, the memory of the attack was still fresh.
TRANSLATION: I was very scared.
And it felt like I wouldn’t survive the attack.
They were hitting my head.
My nose was constantly bleeding.
I begged them to stop, but they didn’t.
36 people have now been charged.
A shocking case, but not by a long way India’s first
during the pandemic.
In some cases, doctors have taken to the streets,
complaining about the ongoing attacks that have occurred
throughout the pandemic.
TRANSLATION: The responsibility for the workers,
the responsibility for all of us,
so I wanted to be investigated properly.
They started throwing a plastic chair.
Nobody was arrested over the attack,
which has left the doctor suffering flashbacks.
At the peak of the second wave of infections,
angry relatives damaged property
at the Apollo Hospital.
TRANSLATION: The most common factor is the lack
of infrastructure in hospitals, because of this, hospitals get
overcrowded, and as a result, the junior doctors often become
the target of violence by relatives.
Last month, doctors across India held demonstrations,
calling for legal protection for health care staff,
saying there has been a sharp increase in attacks
during the pandemic.
Many Indian states have laws against attacking
health workers, but the Indian Medical Association says state
legislation is not always enforced or even publicised.
They believe on the a new law passed by the central
government can help stop the violence.
India has very few doctors for its billion plus people,
now it is struggling to keep them safe.
Divya Arya, BBC News.
At least140 students have been kidnapped in North West
Nigeria, following the latest attack on a school.
The military says 26 children were rescued.
More than 1,000 students have been seized
for ransom since December.
Nine have been killed and more than 200 are still missing.
Well, stay with us on BBC News, if you ran.
Still to come:
Wimbledon woes for the British teen
tennis sensation, Emma Raducanu.
We will explain.
Central London has been rocked
by a series of terrorist attacks.
Police say there have been many casualties,
and there is growing speculation
that al-Qaeda was responsible.
Germany will be the hosts of the 2006 football World Cup.
They pipped the favourite, South Africa, by a single vote.
In South Africa, the possibility of losing
hadn’t even been contemplated.
Celebration parties were cancelled.
A man entered the palace through a downstairs window
and made his way to the Queen’s private bedroom,
then he asked her for a cigarette
and, under the pretext of arranging for some to be
bought, summoned a footman on duty who took the man away.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE
One child, one teacher, one book, and one pen can
change the world.
Education is the only solution.
This is BBC News.
I’m David Eades.
The latest headlines:
US troops head for the exit in Afghanistan, as the Taliban
continues to seize more districts, and more than
1,000 Afghan soldiers are said to have fled the country.
In England — where coronavirus cases are rising rapidly —
the Prime Minister confirms plans to scrap most
of the remaining restrictions in two weeks.
A Russian—based hacking group known as REvil has compromised
the computer systems of at least 1,000 businesses
worldwide by targeting an American IT provider,
worldwide by targeting an American IT provider,
that writes and updates their software.
One of those affected is Sweden’s Coop supermarket,
which has had to close some 500 outlets —
that’s more than half its stores — because tills
and self—service checkouts had stopped working.
Well, REvil has tailored its ransom demands to the size
of each respective company, but on Sunday said it
would settle the lot for $70 million if someone
were prepared to pay it.
Earlier I spoke toJon Bateman, a former intelligence analyst
for the US government.
What we’re seeing here with this heck is really
the combination of two things that have happened before,
but rarely together.
One is a supply chain compromise, whereby hackers
gain access to one victim and then use that to then get
a follow—on access to many, many other victims.
The other is ransomware, where a company’s data is held
hostage unless they pay cryptocurrency.
But again, both of these things are increasingly common,
but this is one of the most expensive hacks that combines
both techniques together, and that is why people
are calling this the biggest ransomware attack of all time,
although it is still a bit early to quantify the impact.
Yeah, Ijust wonder what you make of this ‘job lot’
approach, saying, give us $70 million and we’ll clear
everybody?
I mean, these are all completely separate businesses?
It’s fascinating and we haven’t seen that before.
Some people theorise it’s actually just too many victims
for the ransomware gang to process.
Keep in mind these ransomware gangs operate
much like businesses.
They have a customer service line and there are people
who are paid primarily to negotiate and interact
with victims.
But another possibility is that the ransomware gang
involved here realised that they had done a bit more
damage than they had intended and the level of law
enforcement and intelligence scrutiny could be beyond
what they anticipated.
Right.
These are just two theories.
Yeah.
You all it a "ransomware gang".
I mean, any idea on how many are involved in this
sort of thing?
I think we recognise it may not be the work of a state,
but how many people does it take to form a gang
like an REvil?
It’s hard to say, because most of them operate now
on an affiliate or franchise model, whereby one set
of people develops the malware and another set of people go
out and gain access to victims and installs that malware.
And then there may be a third set of people that actually
does the negotiations and payment processing.
But it’s likely that this was the responsibility
of Russian cyber criminals and not something specifically
ordered by the Russian state.
But it’s also important to realise that is somewhat
beside the point, because Moscow has a long—standing
governmental policy of tolerating and legally
protecting these sorts of gangs.
So, ultimately, Vladimir Putin is culpable for such attacks.
Jon Bateman.
They call it Manic Monday at Wimbledon — and it’s lived
up to that name, as all the men’s and women’s last 16
matches have been taking place.
Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic is through —
as is Roger Federer.
No surprise.
Former women’s champion, German Angelique Kerber beat
Coco Gauff, but perhaps the most manic moment
was reserved, very u nfortu nately,
for the last remaining British player in the singles,
Emma Raducanu, who had to retire for medical reasons.
She was largely unknown before these Wimbledon championships,
but has already become a feature of newspaper
headlines.
Here is the Times. This is the Telegraph’s sports section.
Telegraph’s sports section. Rather dramatic close to her
Rather dramatic close to her Wimbledon there.
Ben Rothenberg is a writer for the New York Times and host
of the ‘No Challenges Remaining’ Tennis podcast.
Hejoined me from the press room at Wimbledon a short time
ago, saying there’s been little information released
about Emma RaduCanu’s retirement from the match.
Yeah, very abrupt, mysterious, and disappointing, for sure.
Raducanu was playing well and in the second set
and seemed to be have some breathing difficulties
and was hyperventilating a bit and then left
court with the doctors for treatment and did
not come back.
And it’s very unusual for a player to sort of retire
from a match or abandon a match without coming back
on the court to shake the opponent’s and everything.
So, it was concerning for her that she was not able to make
it back to the court.
Hopefully she is doing well.
There hasn’t been much information from the tournament
or from her about how she’s doing, except to say
the official reason for her withdrawal was
for her breathing difficulties.
Yes, speculation there.
One very exciting teenager does go out.
As indeed does the other, Coco Gauff, who we are
familiar with now.
Only 17.
And Angelique Kerber, I saw that match —
Kerber looked pretty good.
Yeah, Kerber is rounding into form very well.
She has had a couple of quiet years.
She hadn’t made a Grand Slam quarterfinal even since winning
Wimbledon in 2018, which is her last of her three major titles,
but she’s really growing in confidence.
I think she’s a player who builds on that confidence
really well and she’s someone who — no—one remaining
in the draw will want to see across the net.
She is also the only former Wimbledon champion left
in the side in this final eight.
And we are still in that bizarre era with women’s
tennis, aren’t we, where no—one is establishing themselves.
I mean, even Serena Williams, let’s be honest, is struggling
to maintain her prowess, if you like, on the court.
And I think you were pointing out something like there have
been 22 different women’s names in the quarterfinals
for the slams this year, out of 2A possible places?
Yeah.
No, it’s been really remarkable and a completely new slate
of players compared to the final eight in Paris.
So, it’s already complete 100% turnover.
And one of those names who have been in two,
Ash Barty, who is the number one ranked player, I think
she has a chance to solidify herself as being a force
if she goes on a good run here.
Maybe she will add a little bit of stability for the title.
And then obviously Naomi Osaka when she comes back,
someone who is still very competitive there.
It might look random at a casual glance,
but certainly nowhere near the stability of the men’s
side with Novak Djokovic.
We have an Australian producer working on this story,
at the moment, Ben.
Sol have got to mention it — it is an all—Australia
quarterfinal.
Ash Barty against either Tomljanovic, who basically
had that win...
It shows how [ate it is there!
The light is going!
Do you think Ash Barty could actually emerge
as the winner in the women’s side?
0h, absolutely!
She is comfortable on grass, she — no—one doubts
after she recovered at the French Open from
that hip injury.
And through her four matches, she makes it look
like she is doing 0K, and her wins were convincing so far.
She should probably go in as the favourite for every
match she plays for the remainder of this tournament.
A quick word about the men.
No surprises, Djokovic is through.
Federer is through but it wasn’t easy, but straight sets
in the end?
But there is no—one but Novak Djokovic for the men’s —
to win the men’s singles, is there?
I think if Novak Djokovic loses, it will likely be
to himself — beating himself.
There are some capable players in the final that
are still there.
Matteo Berrettini, the winner of Queen’s Club is really
emerging as a solid player on grass.
But I think Djokovic is still ahead of the field
and pulling his way over Christian Garin today
was very convincing.
And so not many signs of slowing down at this point
in the tournament.
Ben Rothenberg.
Thanks for watching.
Hello there.
Monday was drierfor a while across England
and Wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill
from the south.
This rain here is marching its way northwards across the UK up
into northern England and Scotland, where already
in the past few days in Edinburgh, we have had
a month’s worth of rain.
Now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low
pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times —
northwards up towards Scotland and northern England
with blustery showers following to the south.
For a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather
along the coast of England all the way from Dorset
across to Suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
It won’t be as windy in the afternoon, but there
will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got
this more persistent rain, never really clearing away
from northern England, pushing into eastern Scotland.
Elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
The showers are never too far away, and they may well be
heavy as well.
Generally, temperatures a bit lower on Tuesday,
18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it
stays wet in northern England and eastern Scotland.
And as we have seen, there are some showers around,
they could well affect Wimbledon once again.
It’s going to be another day where we may well
have the covers on and off.
Those showers will probably tend to ease off though
during the evening and into the night.
More places become dry, still got some wetter weather
towards the north—east of Scotland.
The breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find
temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
Now, it’s low pressure that’s brought all the rain over
recent days, in the centre of the low pressure,
by the time we get to Wednesday, it’s close
to the north—east of Scotland.
So there’s more cloud rolling in here and some patchy
rain around, too.
Elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine,
but we are going to find showers breaking out,
and those could turn heavy and thundery come
the afternoon, particularly across Wales, the Midlands,
across to Lincolnshire as well.
Temperatures may be a notch higher on Friday, still no
better than 20—21 Celsius.
Let’s end with a glimmer of hope, because the low
pressure is trying to move away.
This is where high—pressure is, dry weather, and this is trying
to nudge up from the south—west across the UK.
50 during Thursday and Friday, the winds won’t be as strong,
and for more places, it will be dry.
Some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for Scotland
and Northern Ireland.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
Russia, Iran and Turkey have suspended work
at their consulates in the Afghan city of
Mazar—e—Sharif,
as the Taliban make advances across the region,
a week after US troops completed their exit.
Over 1,000 Afghan soldiers have been forced to flee
across the border into Tajikistan.
England’s Covid lockdown will end in two weeks’ time
despite scientists urging caution as the number of cases
is still rising.
The British Prime Minister says it’s possible because 86%
of adults have been vaccinated.
From the 19th ofJuly face masks will be
voluntary and social distancing scrapped.
A cybercrime gang thought to be behind a huge global
ransomware attack, is demanding $70 million
in cryptocurrency.
The Russia—linked REvil group says it will unlock
all the computer systems it’s blocking in exchange
for the payment.
The end of social distancing in England’s pubs
and restaurants means a return to drinking at the bar
without the requirement for table service.
Nightclubs will also reopen.
The hospitality industry has been hit hard by the pandemic
and has welcomed the announcement,
though some staff are worried about working
in a crowded environment without face masks.
Our North of England correspondent
Danny Savage reports.
Another busy lunchtime at The Bull Inn,
in North Yorkshire.
Staff are wearing facemasks, customers have to register,
it is table service only
and all at a safe social distance.
But in two weeks’ time, all those restrictions go.
A bit scared, really.
Commercially, fantastic, let’s just go back to normal.
Gill runs the pub but does she trust the public
to act responsibly?
There is a big section of the community,
particularly when they get a few points down them,
who don’t take that much responsibility
for themselves or others.
And I don’t want to damn people but it’s a fact,
I’ve witnessed that.
Lifting restrictions will potentially see demand
soar in hospitality.
You could stand at the her again,
although table service has won a lot of fans.
But the big debate will be about facemasks.
At the Wardrobe bar in Leeds today,
manager Ryan discussed the changes with his staff.
No QR codes, no social distance,
no masks around at work.
How do you feel?
What should we be doing?
Quite excited not to wear a mask in this weather!
I think I’ll be happy to get rid of them.
It’s been so long having them on and it willjust be nice
to go back to normal.
The easing of the restrictions is great,
it quadruples the numbers we can get in,
in the bar and in the music venue as well
and by that perspective, yeah, it’s fantastic.
Downstairs, this venue is currently allowed 70 customers.
Soon A50 will be allowed back in.
Professional guitarist Jake can finally see some hope arriving.
I would say about 90% of my income was
live performance and live sessions and due to theatres
and venues being closed for that long,
it’s just not been able to go ahead at all.
It would mean a lot.
Many people in hospitality will still wear facemasks,
they feel safer doing so, but will customers match them?
Danny Savage, BBC News, Leeds.
Now on BBC News, The Travel Show
You’ve gotta love it, proper British coastline.
We’re on an adventure across the UK as it opens up
for travel again.
Yes!
We’re open!
From rugged coastlines to breathtaking landscapes
and natural habitats.
See that?!
Ourjourney will take us to the four nations that make
up the United Kingdom.
And with an eye on our carbon footprint,
we’re in an all—electric revamp of an iconic British motor.
On this week’s show, Lucy’s behind the wheels
in Wales, where she’ll be trying to take it
down a notch...
Oh, God.
I’m going a bit too fast.
That’s right. It’s quite a discipline.
..making some new mates in the countryside...
Do you want more food?
Oh, that feels really weird on my hand!
CACKLES.
..and throwing herself right in the deep end.
Whoo!
Hello and Croeso i Gymru, or welcome to Wales,
and the next leg of our Travel Showjourney across the UK.
I don’t know about you but I’m pretty excited!
We’re in Cardiff, the capital of Wales, a country that
usually attracts 1 million international visitors a year.
Now, how do we turn it on?
Nothing but silence.
At the moment, I don’t really feel like I’m driving
a big van.
It’s just — it’s quiet, it’s smooth — a bit too smooth.
There’s no sound, which is freaking me out a little bit.
I’m not completely confident with it yet.
At one of Cardiff’s most recognisable landmarks,
there’s definitely a sense that tourism is returning.
But I’m heading south to the waterfront —
a symbol of the city’s successful regeneration.
Cardiff Bay — or Tiger Bay, as it was known to locals —
was home to one of the earliest large—scale multiracial
communities in Britain.
# Tiger Bay...
# It’s not very far from the dock...#
As the Welsh coal industry grew, so did Cardiff.
By the 19th century,
it was the biggest exporter globally.
Workers flocked to the area, creating a community
in Butetown that was soon home to more than 50 nationalities.
# Tiger Bay...#
Keith Murrell is the man behind Butetown Carnival,
an annual celebration of the area’s diverse past.
This is the core of the traditional Butetown community.
Things have been changed but this is almost the epicentre
of where everything was happening.
50 describe the festival to me.
I would say it’s two days of music and fun,
but the emphasis is on local music.
So, you know, with a lot of tourists coming here,
would you say Butetown festival is something
that they would consider?
Would they be welcomed here?
Absolutely.
As I said, in its heyday, we were getting attendances
of 25,000 people.
That was a time when maybe 4,000 people were living here.
So it was obviously catering for the whole of the city
and yet, presenting Butetown in the most positive light.
This is a port.
And this community most especially is built on a port.
It’s about people coming and going —
we love people coming and going.
One of the things is — again, about community pride —
if you’ve got something, you want people to come to it.
Last year, organisers were forced to take
the carnival online.
But this year, they are hoping to hold a stripped—back event.
And preparations are under way.
For the last few years, June has performed at the carnival.
Her Trinidadian—inspired outfit is homage to the people that
once migrated here hundreds of years ago.
Butohjapanese is a style of very slow motion.
I’m not a young person anymore so moving quite slowly,
it’s giving me another vehicle to perform.
So I’m just going to take yourfoot forward
and you just slowly lunge as if you’re in slow motion.
It almost looks like the bionic man.
CHUCKLES.
Like someone has hit the slomo button on us.
And you just — you just — that’s it.
You just kind of breathe and slowly move
and maybe I’m gonna do a wave,
so you take your time to...
Oh, God — I’m going a bit too fast!
That’s right. It’s quite a discipline.
And then just do a little way. Just a little wave.
Oh, my gosh, the concentration!
My legs are shaking a little bit.
So what was that about you not being young?
My thighs are aching and Ijust did that for about two minutes!
Well, it’s been brief —
I’ve only been here for a couple of days —
but I have had the best time here in Cardiff
and I genuinely cannot wait to see what else
Wales has in store for me.
I leave the city for the rolling hills of
the Brecon Beacons,
less than an hour’s drive from Cardiff.
The national park is home to over 1000 farms,
largely dedicated to livestock.
And with over 250,000 visitors a year,
one particularly savvy farmer has developed
an interesting business model — trekking with sheep.
He’s checking me out.
He’s just checking — he’s checking I’m all good.
His problem is he can’t really see very good because his hair
is so long, it’s in his face.
Meat Patches, my new pal for the afternoon.
Do you want more food?
I need to prove that I’m your friend.
Oh, that feels really weird on my hand!
CACKLES.
You’ve got a very warm tongue there, Patches!
Come on!
Patches, you can have more food in a moment.
The plan is to follow a trail around the farm
with my fluffy companion.
He’s pretty obedient.
Sometimes he kind of veers to the left or right and I feel
like I’m the one being walked.
It turns out to be trickier than it looks.
Come on, Patches!
Come on!
50 Nicole, since lockdown, have you seen demand
for this experience growing?
Yeah, so a lot of people want to be outside in the open air.
This experience, because we are able to be distanced,
there is not so much pressure on that, and people just enjoy
being with sheep and being able to stroke the sheep
and actually being able to physically be around them,
whereas normally they just see in the fields
and they run away.
When we first opened, it was quite slow.
We did not really have that many people.
I think people were a bit wary.
They are bit like "Hmm, really?
Walking sheep?"
Yeah, yeah.
They’d not really heard of that before.
We started because it was similar to alpaca trekking
but with sheep, it’s more native.
And we ourselves are used to looking after sheep,
whereas alpacas is something a bit different
and a bit scary.
Now before I head off, Nicola says she’s got one more
surprise in store.
Welcome to Wales’ very own Crufts—inspired goat
agility training course.
So the easiest one to start with this probably this one.
They come out and you can give them a bit of food and then
they will walk down the other side.
Alrighty! whee!
Up you go!
Come on, you can do it! You can do it!
(limb, climb, yeah! Yay!
There we go!
Woo—hoe!
Well done! Good boy!
I am getting tangled a bit! Yeah!
Come though...
..and this way.
Good boy!
CHUCKLING.
So how did you start these agility courses?
We’ve seen dogs do agility, we’ve actually seen pony
and horse agility...
Yes.
..And we’ve seen some videos of YouTube on people doing
sheep agility and we thought "We’ll have a go!"
Goats! Why not?
So, and goats love to climb. Yes.
They love to just jump and just cause havoc.
As we saw. Yeah!
So we thought "Why not have a go and to see
whether they enjoy it?"
And they seem to love climbing things.
Yeah, I was gonna say, they do really seem to enjoy
this, and they are learning as well.
Exactly.
These guys are only about 16 weeks old now.
Yeah.
They have not been doing about long, so it’s all
new to them and they are just loving every minute
of it, really.
Yeah, so what’s the purpose.
Obviously, you said to me they are learning and learning
skills, but do they compete?
No. LAUGHS.
Not yet! Not yet!
We haven’t seen any goat agility competitions yet.
Yeah, yeah.
There’s always a first for everything, huh?
Exactly, exactly!
Maybe we’ll enter in some dog agility with the goats.
BOTH CHUCKLE.
I’m sure we will get some funny looks there.
Yeah, I’m sure! Come on!
For my next adventure, I’m swapping green hills
for craggy coastlines as we head west.
Pembrokeshire is the UK’s only national park, where beaches
and coves punctuate nearly 200 miles of cliffs.
The beauty of Pembrokeshire has not gone unnoticed
and in recent years, the amount of visitors
to the area has been growing.
Now, as lockdown loosens, this summer, businesses
are expecting more bookings than ever.
So welcome to Ramsey Island.
My guide Ffion has worked on the waters around
Ramsey Island for over 20 years.
This is the largest gull in the world.
It’s the great black—backed gull.
I’ve seen one eat a rabbit, whole, live, down in one.
They have also been known to take little terriers,
so definitely not one to be messed with.
Seagulls are pretty intimidating though,
aren’t they, so...
At nearly 400 feet in places, the western cliffs
on the island are some of the highest in Wales,
making it one of the best places for birdwatching
in the UK.
25 years ago, an oil tanker spilt 72,000 tons of oil
into these waters, turning beaches black and killing
thousands of seabirds.
This devastating event spurred on locals to develop a marine
code for visitors.
Part of the problem is other water users who are not used
to the area don’t know the area,
don’t know the wildlife.
And it is not knowing about it, so not knowing that they may
be disturbing it.
The code encourages visitors to plan ahead, reduce speed
and keep their distance from wildlife.
People will only save what they are passionate about.
And to make them passionate about it, you have to take them
out and show it to them.
So it’s about striking a real balance between showing them
what an amazing wildlife we have on our doorstep,
but also not impacting it, not having a detrimental effect
on it in the sort of meantime, so it’s trying to strike that
balance.
In recent years, this stretch of coastline has made a name
for itself as one of the best places in the world
to go to coasteering.
Which is essentially scrambling along the cliffs.
It’s hard to put a date on when coasteering started —
I’m sure it’s been happening for hundreds of years —
but we are the first company to provide it
as a commercial activity.
So we made it more accessible to people and gave anybody,
essentially, the opportunity to come and see what the coastline
about here has to offer, you know?
And yeah, it’s a bit mad to think that it started
just over here.
How did you cope during the last year?
How has it been for you guys?
So it’s been really difficult but we are seeing a lot more
tourism in the area.
There’s a lot of people that would be going to Europe
or further afield and if we can give them an insight
into the spaces that we have on our doorstep,
because we know how important they are —
especially after the lockdowns, the difference that being
outside can make.
We just need to make sure that we’re not abusing those spaces
and that we’re really looking after them, so that generations
to follow can also enjoy them.
So now that I’m looking out, the nerves are kicking
in a little bit, but it’s more about the temperature
of the water, rather than the activity —
I’m actually really looking forward to exploring kind
of nature at sea level.
I’ve never done this before, so get me in that water.
Yes!
There’s no way I could have done that without my hands.
I need more confidence.
As well as performing backflips, Sam was also
an expert on the local geology and wildlife.
Then it was back into the waves for the big finale.
Sam had one lastjump in store for me.
This is real adrenalinejunkie stuff, and it is notjust
aboutjumping off the cliffs and getting in the water,
it’s so much information, so much nature and wildlife,
and Sam is so good at breaking it down, so you experience
the mixing of the crazy sport element and just learning,
honestly I could do this all day.
Next up, lam heading 90 miles inland, to the Dyfi Valley.
Situated on the southern edge of Snowdonia National Park,
it’s home to one of the steepest cliff funiculars
in the world.
I can hear it filling up with water, here we go!
We are on the move.
What is unusual about this is that it’s powered by water,
one of only a handful of its kind.
This funicular is 30 years old, and was put in place
to essentially get people up and down the hill,
a hill that was originally used to get slate down.
It’s a little disconcerting looking at the view,
but what a view, and what a fantastic use
of sustainable technology.
And it’s all part of this — the Centre for Alternative
Technology.
Founded in the 705 on a disused slate quarry, this place
was ahead of its time, a pioneer in the move
towards renewable lifestyles.
In 2009, the region was given UNESCO Biosphere status
to recognise the area’s green credentials.
Down the road from CAT, and another attraction
is doing its bit to promote a more sustainable future.
All with the help of the world’s second largest
rodent — the beaver.
Well, as we came out of the last lockdown
we have a new addition to the nature reserve,
and we now have a family of beavers.
Family of beavers!
So explain to me what I’m looking out on here.
Where would the beavers live?
The beavers is an enclosure, that’s just in this area here.
They have seven acres of wet scrub to get their teeth into,
and they are here to help us with reserve management.
400 years ago, beavers were hunted to extinction
for theirfur, meat and oil.
This loss had a devastating impact on the land, and today
ecologists are hoping their reintroduction can
reverse this effect.
And what was it like finally getting them here?
To actually release them and see them swim into that
pool, it was a bit goosebumpy.
I bet!
Here we are, the beaver enclosure.
I say to people, I am going into the bog on a daily basis.
Sadly, beavers don’t have a great rep, but Kim
is hoping to change that.
There is a lot of information out there about beavers,
people don’t understand that they are vegetarian,
and so there is some conflict that they are going to eat
all the fish from the rivers.
As with anything that is new and change there is fear
around that, but we are just trying to educate people
that this is what beavers do in this landscape.
Beavers are just one additional tool in the current climate
crisis.
Where you have beavers, you have increasing biodiversity.
Amazingly, Kim has already seen a change to the reserve.
They have only been in six weeks and already we’re seeing
in changes to the water channels, they are connecting
up the pools, they have made a canal, and we are seeing
lots of pathways like this when they are coming in and out
and feeding on this stuff, on the willow.
I couldn’t come all this way and not see what all
the fuss was about.
But because beavers are nocturnal, we had
to come back dusk.
Yeah, yeah, there is a beaver coming!
Oh I see it, I see it, yeah, yeah, yeah!
Coming straight towards us.
Just coming across.
Right into the sun.
Well, we have been waiting quite a while, I was just
about to give up hope, and around the corner came
a beaver, totally worth being eaten alive by midges
for, I think I’ve inhaled about 20 as well.
Totally worth it.
We saw beavers!
For my last leg of this journey I am heading west
to Aberystwyth, a popular Welsh holiday resort and home
to a thriving student population.
I am at the university’s art centre where Wales’ musical
tradition is being given a new lease of life.
SINGS IN WELSH.
The two outside rows are like the white notes
one piano...
PLAYS HARP.
..which means you get that nice echo sound,
and the middle row are like the black notes.
But I won’t demonstrate because I never tune them,
because life’s too short.
This is the triple harp, an instrument only played
by a handful of people across the world.
I think it’s Europe’s only unbroken harping tradition.
So it very nearly did die out, but it’s great that recently
I think there has been a surge in interest in young people.
Cerys is member of Avanc, a Welsh folk band formed
of young musicians from all over Wales.
Over lockdown they recorded and collaborated remotely,
streaming their performances to thousands across social media.
Would you say doing these virtual performances
and recordings, has that kept you sane during lockdown?
Yeah, there’s a world out there.
Yeah, but I bet you can’t wait for things to get back
to normal, so performances can resume, things like that.
Oh, the wind is playing the harp!
It’sjoining in.
Yeah, this is the wind playing the strings.
GHOSTLY HARP NOTES.
Well, here’s hoping I can play this thing better
than the wind.
I am not going to lie, Cerys, I feel a bit unnatural here.
I look the part...
You look the part, and that is all that matters.
LAUGHS.
All right, here we go.
I am on the red string...
And you get the hand on the other red string,
and you play them, and you’ve got a little echo.
PLAYS HARP.
Like that, and back down again, then here...
It’s really messing with my eyes, how do you do this
without going mad!
That was the first bar of a famous Welsh tune called
Pwt Ar Y Bys, which is the one everyone learns first,
so you are well on the way.
You’ll make a star of me yet, Cerys.
What a trip!
Wales has made me feel well and truly welcome.
And that’s what’s really struck me at every turn
during this journey — the openness of the people I’ve
met, their history and their hope for the future.
Next time, in the final leg of our UK series: Christa
is in Northern Ireland where she will take to the skies...
Try her hand at oyster shucking...
and explore one of the country’s magnificent natural
wonders.
Incredible.
Legend has it that it came about because of a fight
between two giants.
Hello there.
Monday was drierfor a while across England
and Wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill
from the south.
This rain here is marching its way northwards across the UK up
into northern England and Scotland, where already
in the past few days in Edinburgh, we have had
a month’s worth of rain.
Now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low
pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times —
northwards up towards Scotland and northern England
with blustery showers following to the south.
For a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather
along the coast of England all the way from Dorset
across to Suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
It won’t be as windy in the afternoon, but there
will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got
this more persistent rain, never really clearing away
from northern England, pushing into eastern Scotland.
Elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
The showers are never too far away, and they may well be
heavy as well.
Generally, temperatures a bit lower on Tuesday,
18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it
stays wet in northern England and eastern Scotland.
And as we have seen, there are some showers around,
they could well affect Wimbledon once again.
It’s going to be another day where we may well
have the covers on and off.
Those showers will probably tend to ease off though
during the evening and into the night.
More places become dry, still got some wetter weather
towards the north—east of Scotland.
The breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find
temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
Now, it’s low pressure that’s brought all the rain over
recent days, in the centre of the low pressure,
by the time we get to Wednesday, it’s close
to the north—east of Scotland.
So there’s more cloud rolling in here and some patchy
rain around, too.
Elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine,
but we are going to find showers breaking out,
and those could turn heavy and thundery come
the afternoon, particularly across Wales, the Midlands,
across to Lincolnshire as well.
Temperatures may be a notch higher on Friday, still no
better than 20—21 Celsius.
Let’s end with a glimmer of hope, because the low
pressure is trying to move away.
This is where high—pressure is, dry weather, and this is trying
to nudge up from the south—west across the UK.
50 during Thursday and Friday, the winds won’t be as strong,
and for more places, it will be dry.
Some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for Scotland
and Northern Ireland.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher.
Welcome to BBC News.
I’m David Eades.
Our top stories:
The Taliban take advantage,
with US troops pulling out of Afghanistan,
they seize more districts,
while 1,000 Afghan soldiers are said
to have fled the country.
In England the Prime Minister confirms plans
to scrap most remaining Covid restrictions —
despite a sharp rise in coronavirus cases.
A Russian gang behind a huge global cyber attack
demands seventy million dollars in ransom from
dozens of companies.
And the British teenager Emma Raducanu’s Wimbledon
journey ends abruptly as she pulls out on medical
grounds in the fourth round.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America
and around the globe.
In Afghanistan, a development many people
feared, and many predicted.
Violence is on the rise since the US military withdrew
from Bagram air field last week,
and the Taliban have seized more districts.
This map, from a US defence research think thank,
shows the areas now in Taliban control —
they are in dark grey.
Contested areas are in red
and areas controlled by the Afghan government
in light grey.
It’s not possible to verify, but the Taliban says
it has captured 150 out of 369 districts
in the past two months of fighting.
Afghanistan’s Interior Ministry says it does
not mean all of those areas have completely fallen.
More than a thousand Afghan government soldiers have fled
across the border into Tajikistan
according to the government there.
The BBC’s security correspondent Frank Gardner
reports.
GUNFIRE.
On their own now, but still fighting the Taliban.
Afghan security forces are in action this week
without the US military support they’ve relied on,
for the past 20 years.
The strategic Bagram air base, just north of Kabul,
is an Afghan government hands now.
The Americans pulled out last week,
leaving behind a deeply unstable country.
The former president, Hamid Karzai, blames the West.
The entire mission with regard to the stated objective
of the United States and its Nato allies
in defeating terrorism and extremism has failed.
The military compartment that was intended to fight
extremism and terrorism, that,
rather than doing the job correctly
and where it was needed,
began to hurt and harass and bomb
and imprison Afghans.
That’s where it failed.
And that’s where our failure today is.
Others blame endemic corruption, inefficiency
and massive waste.
The conflict has costed an estimated $1 trillion
and over 100,000 lives, and it could be about to get worse.
Taliban insurgents are on the offensive.
They reportedly control a quarter of Afghanistan’s
districts after overrunning several government outposts.
They are insisting no Western forces be left behind.
All foreign forces should withdraw from the country
whether they are contractor, adviser and trainers,
because they were part of the occupation.
That’s a violation, we will react.
But that reaction would be based on the decision
of our leadership.
In Kandahar province — the former Taliban stronghold —
residents have been voicing their fears of what they think
the return to power might mean.
TRANSLATION: The Taliban don’t want peace,
the Taliban want the whole government.
The Taliban are only killing.
And there’s another concern.
Osama bin Laden may be dead, but his organisation,
Al-Qaeda, lives on.
Many fear a return of the Taliban means
a return of Al-Qaeda.
A nightmare scenario not just for Afghanistan,
but for much of the world.
Frank Gardner, BBC News.
The British Prime Minister BorisJohnson has confirmed
that he intends to lift all coronavirus restrictions
in England in two weeks time,
with a final decision next week.
That would mean workers returning to the office
and an end to social distancing.
But it comes as cases across the country continue
to rise.
There’s been an average of over 25,000 daily cases
over the past week.
But the UK government says this is manageable
because the vaccine rollout has meant hospitalisations
and deaths are comparatively low.
and deaths are comparatively low.
This graph shows the growth of cases
in the second and the current third wave of the virus —
which includes the new Delta varient —
with both growing rapidly.
But this graph shows that current
hospitalisations are lagging far behind the second wave —
although they are still rising.
And a similar pattern can been seen
in the statistics for deaths.
As you can see they are far fewer than in the last wave.
MrJohnson has warned that Covid infections
across the UK were predicted to rise to 50,000 a day
later this month.
Our deputy political editor Vicky Young reports.
Our deputy political editor Vicky Young reports.
All around us the signs of life interrupted by a pandemic.
Instructions about where we can go,
who we can see, even in our own homes,
how far apart we must stand,
but in two weeks things could change.
Covid has not gone but most restrictions in England
are likely to disappear.
Restaurants and pubs can operate normally,
theatres and cinemas can fill every seat,
large crowds can meet once more.
The Prime Minister putting the emphasis
on personal responsibility instead of government orders.
I want to stress from the outset that
this pandemic is farfrom over.
And we must reconcile ourselves, sadly,
to more deaths from Covid.
There’s only one reason why we can contemplate going ahead
to step four in circumstances where we would normally be
locking down further,
and that is because of the continuing effectiveness
of the vaccine roll—out.
And in Bristol, people are starting to contemplate
life with fewer rules.
Personally I think it’s better to be safe than sorry,
but just like every normal person,
I welcome the change.
It’s the wrong thing, wrong decision.
REPORTER: Why?
why? Because the cases are going up.
At least give it a go and then, if anything just gets worse,
go back to it — you can always go back.
I think we’ve just have to live with it, and that’s that.
You can’t keep living your life being told what to do.
People are now afraid —
they’re even now afraid to go out, some people.
For some, the face mask has become a hated symbol
of intrusive government.
It will still be recommended in hospitals
and enclosed public spaces
but the legal requirement to wear face coverings will go.
Unions say that will put workers at risk.
The days of hundreds of pages of rules and regulations
to follow will soon be gone.
Instead the government is asking us to use
our common sense, make personal decisions about
how we stay safe.
It’s a big shift in approach
but it comes at a time when cases are rising.
The Prime Minister has been marking the NHS’s birthday,
and making sure hospitals can cope
has been at the heart of his Covid strategy.
Can you tell us how bad you expect it to get?
Obviously we have to be cautious
and we will continue to look at all the data
as we progress.
If we don’t go ahead now when the summer fire break
is coming up, the school holidays,
all the advantages that that should give us
in fighting the virus,
then the question is when would we go ahead?
What the modelling would imply is that we will reach that peak
before we get to the point where we have the kind
of pressures that we saw inJanuary, for example,
of this year.
Labour says some will need more support.
To throw off all protections at the same time,
when the infection rate is still going up, is reckless.
We need a balanced approach,
we need to keep key protections in place,
including masks, including ventilation
and, crucially, something we’ve been asking for
throughout the pandemic,
proper payment for those that need to self—isolate.
Later in the week we will find out about government’s plans
for foreign travel
and what happens when we come into contact
with a positive Covid case.
In schools, whole classes or bubbles won’t be sent home.
For 16 months we have lived under restrictions
we could never have imagined.
Today, BorisJohnson signalled that it is time for life
to get back to normal.
Vicki Young, BBC News, Westminster.
These changes have elicited some very strong reactions.
Earlier I spoke to Eric Fiegl—Ding,
an Epidemiologist and Senior Fellow at the Federation
Of American Scientists.
I asked him if the British government had made
the right decision.
This is absolutely the wrong time and the wrong decision,
period.
The only thing I can say is it’s a horrible,
terrible, no—good, very bad decision,
because the Delta variant is not your normal variant.
The Delta variant is the most contagious,
fastest—tra nsmitting variant,
much more than we’ve ever seen before,
it is much more severe,
it is about 4—5 times greater risk of hospitalisation
than the old strain,
and also it is vaccine somewhat attenuating and evasive,
we know that one dose is not enough
and we know that with two doses,
in Israel we’ve seen the efficacy drop from the 905
to just 64%, according to the latest data —
this is the wrong time.
Eric, you are absolutely clear on that.
Isn’t the point, though, that vaccinations in the UK
are at a pretty high level —
I know you mentioned Israel there —
and that whilst it is easily transmissible,
it is not as virulent as previous strains
have proved to be.
So that is a complete misinformation
and completely false.
That data was...you are comparing apples and oranges.
The fact is that the Delta variant is way more severe,
way more virulent, it causes severe disease
and greater risk of hospitalisation
by 4— to 5—fold, according to the studies peer—reviewed,
and also according to government data.
So it is completely false to say it is less severe.
What would you say then to the Prime Minister
when he says,
"Look, if we don’t go ahead now, when do we go ahead?"
What is your message there?
He’s framing it as, "0h, we don’t want to live under
a shroud of lockdowns, or we want to reopen."
Look, this is not a choice between lockdowns or reopening.
If you want to avoid lockdowns —
everyone wants to avoid lockdowns,
nobody wanted more lockdowns —
if you want to avoid lockdowns, the path to do that
is actually not the one he chose,
the path to do that is more masks, ventilation,
aircleaning, PPEs, and things we’ve discussed,
but the path he’s chosen is the path towards lockdowns
and we do not want that because hospitalisations —
you know, NHS workers, healthcare workers,
there is a toll that they can take,
and when every medical ethics dictate you should
always protect and prevent people from suffering,
hospitalisations and long Covid —
which 1 in 7 adults and 1 in 12 children
sufferfrom long Covid —
that is not an acceptable statistic,
and so just saying, "Let’s flood the hospitals right now,
our hospital beds are not empty,"
that is just complete dereliction of any
public health and ethical measures,
especially as a government leader.
As
Asl
As I said, some strong views held there. Let’s stay on the
held there. Let’s stay on the Covid theme.
An alarming number of doctors in India have found
themselves the targets of attacks by family members
of patients who say their loved ones haven’t received
sufficient medical care.
The Indian Medical Association is now calling for a new law
to protect healthcare workers.
Divya Arya has more from Delhi, and a warning that her report
contains disturbing scenes at the very start.
They used whatever they could lay their hands on,
a metal bedpan, a wooden stick, orjust theirfists.
Shocked by the death of their loved one from Covid,
these relatives took out their anger
on Dr 5er Kumar Senapati, on just a second day of work,
on Dr 5er Kumar Senapati, on just his second day of work,
after graduating from medical school.
One month later, the memory of the attack was still fresh.
TRANSLATION: I was very scared.
And it felt like I wouldn’t survive the attack.
They were hitting my head.
My nose was constantly bleeding.
I begged them to stop, but they didn’t.
36 people have now been charged.
A shocking case, but not by a long way India’s first
during the pandemic.
CHANT: We wantjustice!
In some cases, doctors have taken to the streets,
complaining about the ongoing attacks that have occurred
throughout the pandemic.
You are responsible for all these things so we are not
seeing the case properly.
They started throwing a plastic chair.
Nobody was arrested over the attack,
which has left the Dr Reddy suffering flashbacks.
At the peak of the second wave of infections,
angry relatives damaged property
at Apollo Hospital.
TRANSLATION: The most common factor is the lack
of infrastructure in hospitals, because of this,
hospitals get overcrowded, and as a result,
the junior doctors often become the target of violence
by relatives.
Last month, doctors across India held demonstrations,
calling for legal protection for health care staff,
saying there has been a sharp increase in attacks
during the pandemic.
Many Indian states have laws against attacking
health workers, but the Indian Medical Association says
state legislation is not always enfored or even publicised.
They believe on the a new law
passed by the central government can help
stop this violence.
India has very few doctors for its billion plus people,
now it is struggling to keep them safe.
Divya Arya, BBC News, Dehli.
Divya Arya, BBC News, Delhi.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
Wimbledon woes for the British teen,
tennis sensation, Emma Raducanu.
them are
Central London has been rocked by a series of terrorist
attacks.
Police say there have been many casualties,
and there is growing speculation that al-Qaeda
was responsible.
Germany will be the hosts of the 2006 football World Cup.
They pipped the favourite, South Africa, by a single vote.
In South Africa, the possibility of losing hadn’t
even been contemplated.
Celebration parties were cancelled.
A man entered the palace through a downstairs window
and made his way to the Queen’s private bedroom, then
he asked herfor a cigarette and, under the pretext
of arranging for some to be bought, summoned a footman
on duty who took the man away.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE.
One child, one teacher,
one book, and one pen can change the world.
Education is the only solution.
This is BBC World News, the latest headlines:
US troops head for the exit in Afghanistan —
as the Taliban continues to seize more districts,
and over a thousand Afghan soldiers flee the country.
In England — where coronavirus cases
are rising rapidly — the Prime Minister confirms
plans to scrap most of the remaining restrictions
in two weeks.
A Russian—based hacking group known as REEvil has
compromised the computer systems of at least 1,000
businesses worldwide by targeting an American IT
provider, that writes and updates their software.0ne
of those affected is Sweden’s Co—op supermarket,
which has had to close some 500 outlets —
that’s more than half its stores — because tills
and self—service checkouts had stopped working.
Reevil has
tailored its ransom demands to the size of each respective
company, but on Sunday said it would settle the lot for $70
million if someone were prepared to pay it.
Earlier I spoke to Jon Bateman, a former
intelligence analyst for the US Government.
What we’re seeing here with this heck is really
the combination of two things that have happened before,
but rarely together.
One is a supply chain compromise, whereby hackers
gain access to one victim and then use that to then get
a follow—on access to many, many other victims.
The other is ransomware, where a company’s data is held
hostage unless they pay cryptocurrency.
But again, both of these things are increasingly common,
but this is one of the most expensive hacks that combines
both techniques together, and that is why people
are calling this the biggest ransomware attack of all time,
although it is still a bit early to quantify the impact.
Yeah, Ijust wonder what you make of this ‘job lot’
approach, saying, give us $70 million and we’ll clear
everybody?
I mean, these are all completely separate businesses?
It’s fascinating and we haven’t seen that before.
Some people theorise it’s actually just too many victims
for the ransomware gang to process.
Keep in mind these ransomware gangs operate
much like businesses.
They have a customer service line and there are people
who are paid primarily to negotiate and interact
with victims.
But another possibility is that the ransomware gang
involved here realised that they had done a bit more
damage than they had intended and the level of law
enforcement and intelligence scrutiny could be beyond
what they anticipated.
Right.
These are just two theories.
Yeah.
You all it a "ransomware gang".
I mean, any idea on how many are involved in this
sort of thing?
I think we recognise it may not be the work of a state,
but how many people does it take to form a gang
like an REvil?
It’s hard to say, because most of them operate now
on an affiliate or franchise model, whereby one set
of people develops the malware and another set of people go
out and gain access to victims and installs that malware.
And then there may be a third set of people that actually
does the negotiations and payment processing.
But it’s likely that this was the responsibility
of Russian cyber criminals and not something specifically
ordered by the Russian state.
But it’s also important to realise that is somewhat
beside the point, because Moscow has a long—standing
governmental policy of tolerating and legally
protecting these sorts of gangs.
So, ultimately, Vladimir Putin is culpable for such attacks.
Jon Bateman.
president of Georgia has condemned the
president of Georgia has condemned the attacking of
condemned the attacking of offices in the capital related
offices in the capital related to the Pride movement. The
to the Pride movement. The "March for dignity" has also
"March for dignity’ has also been
"March for dignity" has also been called, by the president,
been called, by the president, a recipe for
been called, by the president, 3 recipe for civil strife.
They call it Manic Monday at Wimbledon —
and it’s lived up to that name, as all the men’s and women’s
last—16 matches have been taking place.
Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic is through —
as is Roger Federer.
Former women’s champion, German Angelique Kerber beat
Coco Gauff but perhaps the most manic moment
was reserved, very u nfortu nately.
for the last remaining British player in the singles,
Emma RaduCanu, who had to retire for medical reasons.
She was largely unknown before these Wimbledon championships,
but has already become a feature of newspaper
headlines.
Ben Rothenberg is a writer for the New York Times
and host of the ‘No Challenges Remaining’ Tennis podcast.
Hejoined me from the press room at Wimbledon a short time
ago saying there’s been little information released
about Emma RaduCanu’s retirement from the match.
Yeah, very abrupt, mysterious, and disappointing, for sure.
Raducanu was playing well and in the second set
and seemed to be have some breathing difficulties
and was hyperventilating a bit and then left
court with the doctors for treatment and did
not come back.
And it’s very unusual for a player to sort of retire
from a match or abandon a match without coming back
on the court to shake the opponent’s and everything.
So, it was concerning for her that she was not able to make
it back to the court.
Hopefully she is doing well.
There hasn’t been much information from the tournament
or from her about how she’s doing, except to say
the official reason for her withdrawal was
for her breathing difficulties.
Yes, speculation there.
One very exciting teenager does go out.
As indeed does the other, Coco Gauff, who we are
familiar with now.
Only 17.
And Angelique Kerber, I saw that match —
Kerber looked pretty good.
Yeah, Kerber is rounding into form very well.
She has had a couple of quiet years.
She hadn’t made a Grand Slam quarterfinal even since winning
Wimbledon in 2018, which is her last of her three major titles,
but she’s really growing in confidence.
I think she’s a player who builds on that confidence
really well and she’s someone who — no—one remaining
in the draw will want to see across the net.
She is also the only former Wimbledon champion left
in the side in this final eight.
And we are still in that bizarre era with women’s
tennis, aren’t we, where no—one is establishing themselves.
I mean, even Serena Williams, let’s be honest, is struggling
to maintain her prowess, if you like, on the court.
And I think you were pointing out something like there have
been 22 different women’s names in the quarterfinals
for the slams this year, out of 2A possible places?
Yeah.
No, it’s been really remarkable and a completely new slate
of players compared to the final eight in Paris.
So, it’s already complete 100% turnover.
And one of those names who have been in two,
Ash Barty, who is the number one ranked player, I think
she has a chance to solidify herself as being a force
if she goes on a good run here.
Maybe she will add a little bit of stability for the title.
And then obviously Naomi Osaka when she comes back,
someone who is still very competitive there.
It might look random at a casual glance,
but certainly nowhere near the stability of the men’s
side with Novak Djokovic.
We have an Australian producer working on this story,
at the moment, Ben.
Sol have got to mention it — it is an all—Australia
quarterfinal.
Ash Barty against either Tomljanovic, who basically
had that win...
It shows how [ate it is there!
The light is going!
Do you think Ash Barty could actually emerge
as the winner in the women’s side?
0h, absolutely!
She is comfortable on grass, she — no—one doubts
after she recovered at the French Open from
that hip injury.
And through her four matches, she makes it look
like she is doing 0K, and her wins were convincing so far.
She should probably go in as the favourite for every
match she plays for the remainder of this tournament.
A quick word about the men.
No surprises, Djokovic is through.
Federer is through but it wasn’t easy, but straight sets
in the end?
But there is no—one but Novak Djokovic for the men’s —
to win the men’s singles, is there?
I think if Novak Djokovic loses, it will likely be due
to himself — beating himself.
There are some capable players in the final that
are still there.
Matteo Berrettini, the winner of Queen’s Club is really
emerging as a solid player on grass.
But I think Djokovic is still ahead of the field
and pulling his way over Christian Garin today
was very convincing.
And so not many signs of slowing down at this point
in the tournament.
Ben Rothenberg.
Plowing through the night.
This is BBC News.
Hello there.
Monday was drierfor a while across England
and Wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill
from the south.
This rain here is marching its way northwards across the UK up
into northern England and Scotland, where already
in the past few days in Edinburgh, we have had
a month’s worth of rain.
Now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low
pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times —
northwards up towards Scotland and northern England
with blustery showers following to the south.
For a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather
along the coast of England all the way from Dorset
across to Suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
It won’t be as windy in the afternoon, but there
will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got
this more persistent rain, never really clearing away
from northern England, pushing into eastern Scotland.
Elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
The showers are never too far away, and they may well be
heavy as well.
Generally, temperatures a bit lower on Tuesday,
18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it
stays wet in northern England and eastern Scotland.
And as we have seen, there are some showers around,
they could well affect Wimbledon once again.
It’s going to be another day where we may well
have the covers on and off.
Those showers will probably tend to ease off though
during the evening and into the night.
More places become dry, still got some wetter weather
towards the north—east of Scotland.
The breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find
temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
Now, it’s low pressure that’s brought all the rain over
recent days, in the centre of the low pressure,
by the time we get to Wednesday, it’s close
to the north—east of Scotland.
So there’s more cloud rolling in here and some patchy
rain around, too.
Elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine,
but we are going to find showers breaking out,
and those could turn heavy and thundery come
the afternoon, particularly across Wales, the Midlands,
across to Lincolnshire as well.
Temperatures may be a notch higher on Friday, still no
better than 20—21 Celsius.
Let’s end with a glimmer of hope, because the low
pressure is trying to move away.
This is where high—pressure is, dry weather, and this is trying
to nudge up from the south—west across the UK.
50 during Thursday and Friday, the winds won’t be as strong,
and for more places, it will be dry.
Some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for Scotland
and Northern Ireland.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher.
This is BBC News.
The headlines:
Russia, Iran and Turkey have suspended work
at their consulates in the Afghan city of
Mazar—e—Sharif, as the Taliban make advances
across the region, a week after US troops
completed their exit.
Over a thousand Afghan soldiers have been forced to flee
across the border into Tajikistan.
England’s Covid lockdown will end in two weeks’ time
despite scientists urging caution as the number of cases
is still rising.
The British Prime Minister says it’s possible because 86%
of adults have been vaccinated.
From the 19th ofJuly, face masks will be
voluntary and social distancing scrapped.
A cybercrime gang thought to be behind a huge global
ransomware attack, is demanding $70 million
in cryptocurrency.
The Russia—linked REvil group says it will unlock
all the computer systems it’s blocking in exchange
for the payment.
Now it’s time for HARDtalk.
Welcome to HARDtalk.
I’m Stephen Sackur.
In our culture of 24/7 news and trending social media
reactions, it sometimes takes a novelist’s eye to chart
the deeper currents swirling beneath society’s surface.
My guest today relishes entering choppy waters
and swimming against the cultural tide.
Lionel Shriver is a British—based American writer
whose fiction has addressed school shootings, obesity,
economic crisis and, in her latest book, voluntary
euthanasia.
She is a contrarian, but is she also a combatant
in the Western world’s culture wars.
Lionel Shriver in New York, welcome to HARDtalk.
It’s a pleasure to talk to you.
It’s a pleasure to have you on the show.
Would it be fair to say, judging from your recent
writing, that your creative mind is increasingly
preoccupied with ageing and with thoughts of mortality?
Um...
Short answer, yes.
Long answer, I think I’ve always had a morbid streak
and also a strange consciousness of ageing.
My first novel was written about a protagonist who was 59
years old and I look back on that rather comically
because I thought that was old.
Well, you know, I hope it’s not ungallant to say that you have
crossed the 59 year threshold a few years ago.
But...
Alas, yes.
Yeah.
But the novel that you’ve just released,
Should We Stay Or Should We Go, it centres on two characters
who we meet when I think they’re in their late 505.
But we then follow them through after they make a decision.
That is Cyril and Kay Wilkinson, they make a decision
that when they get to 80, or at least when Kay,
who’s the younger one, when she gets to 80 years old,
they’re going to kill themselves to ensure
that they neverfall into agonising dementia
and physical decay.
Why did you play with that idea?
Well, I was first inspired by a stray remark by a friend
of mine who announced, with some conviction,
that she had no desire to live beyond the age of 80,
after which things seem to be going downhill,
and I was curious whether or not she would be proactive once
she actually got to the age of 80 or would laugh
at her silly younger self and carry on indefinitely.
And, you know, Ithink it throws up a lot of interesting
moral and emotional questions.
I mean, the couple in the novel, who both work
for the NHS, have a lot of social consciousness
as a result, and don’t want to cost the NHS too much
money as they age.
And they’ve also watched Kay’s father deteriorate
from dementia into a person that doesn’t resemble
the estimable father she grew up with.
And it’s all very well to make a vow when you’re in your 505
that once you get to this unimaginable age that you’ll
call it quits.
Once you’re really up against it, it’s a different question.
Yeah.
But, of course, for none of us at all is this just
theoretical.
It’s real life for all of us, because not only are we ageing,
but those of us who are lucky enough to still have parents
around, we see them advancing in years as well.
And I know this is personal for you because you’ve written
about the fact that your parents, and particularly your
mother is struggling a great deal with dementia.
I think she’s about to turn 90.
So was that something very much in your mind as you wrote this?
0h, certainly what’s happening with my parents has played
a part in my interest.
I mean, afterall, we...
That’s what we go through.
If we’re fortunate enough to have parents who,
you know, last, then we also often have to go
through the misfortune of watching them deteriorate.
And that is very emotional, notjust because, you know,
generally we care about them and treasure our images
of our parents in their prime, but also it’s, obviously,
the writing on the wall.
When you watch your parents get old, it’s usually the first
time you register on a really gut level that it’s going
to happen to you.
You, Ithink, relish plain speaking, so I’m going to ask
you a very direct question.
When you talk about your mum and you say that, you know,
she is physically very disabled now, she’s incontinent,
she barely recognises anybody.
And I’m asking this in the context of your novel.
Do you think that it would be better if she were able
to end her own life as she wishes at the time
of her own choosing?
Well, one of the...
One of the difficulties of making these kinds of plans
or vows on your own behalf is the kind of circumstance my
mother finds herself in.
She had a terrible stroke in 2015 and she’s not really
in any condition to make a decision like that.
No doctor would take seriously an announcement
from her that she had had enough.
In fact, she often declares that...
..that she’s ready to die.
Actually, the most profound thing I heard her say was that,
"I don’t want to die, but I need to die."
But then she doesn’t.
And the...
The body is just incredible, right?
It really does just chug on and it wants to survive.
And I think that, you know, because my work has often
looked at the relationship between self and body,
that’s one of the curious things about ageing
and deteriorating is that, whatever you may feel,
you know, however enthusiastic or not you may be about
continuing, the body wants to live, the body wants
to survive, and the body doesn’t get bored, the body
doesn’t feel unsatisfied with its life.
So then, Lionel Shriver, it’s a battle between the mind
and the body.
And you’re a woman of very strong mind and, thank God,
able—bodied, but are you, right now in your 605,
contemplating, like the character in your novel,
stashing away a supply of deadly drugs so that there
might come a time when you would say to yourself,
"I want, while I can, I want to end my life "before
it becomes agonising and counterproductive"?
Well, I haven’t, like my characters, actually stashed
a little black box at the top of the refrigerator.
Um...
But I...I can see the attraction of...
..of feeling that you have some kind of control,
not necessarily to leave the building whenever the least
discomfort strikes, but to feel that they can exercise some
kind of agency.
And, you know, we seem to be, especially in Britain,
terribly paranoid about the so—called slippery slope,
but what we would discover if we changed the law is not
that we have this cascade of people queuing up to kill
themselves, but how few would actually take advantage
of such a law.
It’s intriguing to me that you wrote this novel clearly
during the early phases, perhaps, of the pandemic
and the pandemic is sort of a theme that runs
through the book as these two people who worked in the NHS
see thousands dying around them and they’ve already made a pact
to kill themselves, even though they’re
perfectly able—bodied themselves.
How has the pandemic affected you personally?
I mean, did you find writing during a pandemic
a very different experience?
Well, of course, there was, you know, loads of time and no
interruptions so, in some ways, it was perfect for a writer.
I mean, writers worth their salt would probably enjoy
being in lockdown indefinitely.
Iwas...
I was a little disturbed by how little my life changed
because I stay home a lot anyway.
Um...
You mean self—isolation is your natural state,
is that what you’re saying?
It is indeed.
Yeah.
And I got out of all those parties.
It didn’t really upset me.
I mostly found the pandemic disturbing on a political
level, because I think, you know, we’ve never responded
to a disease by locking down all of society and telling
healthy people they couldn’t leave their home and enforcing
it with the police.
But there was a reason why liberties were curtailed.
It wasn’t simply because we have governors who want
to repress us.
It was for the collective good.
There was something very collective about the response
to the pandemic.
Did you not, in some ways, think that highly admirable?
No, Ididn’t.
I thought it was a panic response.
I thought it was imitative on a governmental level,
it was imitating other countries and it set a gruesome
precedent for the future.
After all, we now have an understanding that
if there is any perceived communal need, then we can
rescind civil rights, and indefinitely.
And every kind of civil right, including the right to protest
that you don’t want your civil rights taken away.
It’s interesting that you are known for your novels
and they’ve been very successful notjust
in the English—speaking world, but beyond, but in some ways
right now you seem more energised — correct me if I’m
wrong — by your role as a sort of outspoken provocateur
in magazines, newspaper columns.
I don’t know how much you use social media,
but you really get your opinions out there.
Do you think that, in some ways, is more culturally
influential than your novels?
I’m sad to say...probably.
Certainly my fiction career is more important to me,
and I think that if my novels do endure, they have a better
chance of lasting culturally than anything I write
in non—fiction.
On the other hand, not that many people read novels,
honestly, so that the audience for columns and comment pieces
is...
Right, but I wonder if, you know, this word I used,
provocateur, that once you take that course,
go down that track, of course you have to have opinions that
do stir up a reaction, that provoke people,
and maybe you relish that.
Now, I’m just looking at some stuff you’ve written recently
or said recently about immigration.
You know, you’ve talked about this, "Not being
something "one is supposed to say, but the experience
of being "taken over" — you meant by immigrants —
"is not that different from a military takeover.
"Some people will celebrate the end of white hegemony.
"Maybe that is great, but I’m one of those white
people "and it’s hard to celebrate with my
heart and soul."
I mean, that kind of railing against immigration,
it is bound to cause great offence, is it not?
I think immigration is an issue where people have told
that they have to keep their mouths shut.
I should clarify that I’m very big on immigration,
if only because I myself am an immigrant to Britain.
You are.
So a small, steady, controlled level of immigration
is entirely healthy for any society.
It brings fresh blood and new ideas and different
perspectives.
I have a different view of uncontrolled, mass,
largely illegal immigration, and I think a lot of people
agree with me.
I mean, you talk about the scale of the UK’s,
quote, "ethnic transformation".
You feel and see that, do you?
That’s your experience?
Well, anyone who lives in London is...
..has the ethnic transformation of Britain up in face,
and, no, Ijust think that cultural change is usually more
graceful when it is gradual.
And also the degree of transformation in Europe
in general is occurring without any consultation
with the people who live there.
Do you think you’ve ever taken it too far, your desire to sort
of, I suppose, get in people’s faces with your views?
I’m thinking particularly, this goes a way back now,
but I think five years ago you went to Australia to talk
at a literary festival and you donned a sombrero
for some of that speech to make a point of, I suppose,
mocking the decision in an American college
to reprimand some students for holding a Mexican tequila
party wearing sombreros, so you chose to wear
a sombrero, and then you made a speech in which you hoped
that the notion of cultural appropriation in fiction
was a fed, and that caused a real storm.
Did you go over the top, do you think?
No, I don’t think so.
I mean, first of all, I should clarify that that
speech is widely misreported, and I wore a sombrero
for exactly the last two words of that lecture.
So it was just a little touch.
And then it gets widely reported that I wore it
for the entire speech, which I find offensive mostly
on a theatrical level.
I mean, that’s. ..
that would be bad drama.
I don’t take back anything I said in that speech,
which I don’t think was especially radical.
Ido...
I had been hoping that cultural appropriation as a taboo
was a fed, and it’s...
I haven’t taken that back.
I think it probably is, but it’s lasting longer
than I hoped.
And, just briefly, especially in fiction writing, I believe
that if you are not given permission to inhabit the lives
of people different from yourself, then there
is no fiction.
And I can’t help but see that as a loss because I am
a fiction writer.
It is fascinating territory, sensitive territory.
I mean, your contention is that you are going to write fiction,
you are going to continue to write with all sorts
of different voices, using your imagination
to inhabit worlds, you know, maybe of a young black woman
or a black man or an Indigenous person from Australia.
I’m just guessing, I don’t know, but there are no limits,
no fetters on your ability and right to imagine yourself
into any situation, into any other person.
Right?
That’s what you feel.
Broadly, yes, and then, you know, the reader is welcome
tojudge whether I did a good job and whether this
person is plausible.
The upset caused by that, and I’m just going to quote
to you the words of one member of the audience who walked out,
who’s an Australian writer, Yassmin Abdel—Magied...
There was only one member who walked out, which got
a lot of press.
Yeah, sure.
She got a lot of press because she took seriously
and thought seriously about what you said
and she was appalled by it, you know, and she said
that the reality is that those from marginalised groups,
even today, don’t get the luxury of defining
their own place in a norm that is profoundly white,
straight and often patriarchal.
And she felt you were not allowing for that deep
inequality that exists in the voices in literature,
as in so many other parts of society.
I don’t think anything I said in that speech or outside it
has suggested...has damaged marginalised peoples
in the slightest.
I’m just arguing for freedom of imagination for everyone.
And that includes non—white writers writing about white
people.
I don’t want to cling to my culture and say,
you know, "oh, you know, I have German heritage
"and you can’t listen to Beethoven."
That’s absurd.
I want us to all relax and share what we know...
Right.
..and extend ourselves to each other.
That’s obviously one of the things that fiction
is good for.
But I guess...
I guess your critics in the so—called progressive
or woke community or whatever one calls it, but people
who culturally are on a different side to you,
they say, well, that’s all fine, but you have to look
at the realities, the systems and where power and control
lies in culture and society today.
And why not spend more time trying to address
the structural inequalities?
And they would then point to what you said after big
publishing house Penguin Random House said that it was going
to make its authors and staff members reflect more closely
the UK’s demographic balance across ethnicity,
gender, sexuality, etc, and you said that was
completely unacceptable.
And you said that it was going to be a complete sort
of block on creativity.
Why?
Why is it?
Why can’t there be efforts made to increase diversity?
I have no problem with efforts made to increase diversity.
Ijust don’t like racial quotas.
I don’t like quotes of any kind.
And I value excellence above diversity, and I know
that that’s become a controversial position,
but I think publishing companies should make decisions
about what to sell to the public, primarily according
to whether the book is any good and whether or not
there is a market for that book.
Let me ask you this.
Are there creative sort of projects that you have
considered that you will now no longer work on because you fear
the sensitivities are just too hot, the backlash likely to be
too difficult for you to deal with.
No, I don’t have any subjects that I feel are off limits
because they’re going to get me into trouble.
There are subjects that I’m likely to avoid because I’m
just not going to do a good enoughjob or the idea I get
for the novel is insufficient to make a good book.
I mean, that’s how I make my decisions.
It’s just I’m interested, not long ago, you were asked
the question, would you write a novel with a black
protagonist at the centre of it, and you said,
"I should feel perfectly happy about that idea "but I bet
I never do it.
"It strikes me as too dangerous."
If I had a really great idea for a book and it had
to have a black protagonist, I would give myself permission
to do that.
But I would not do so naively and I would know that
I would be subject to a certain amount of scrutiny.
And I find that having to anticipate that kind
of scrutiny is disappointing.
It’s one of the difficulties of my era.
And, you know, it’s harder to be a novelist than it
used to be.
Right, last question.
Some people who rail against quote—unquote "woke
culture", they say that, you know, it’s become a cancel
culture, but it strikes me people like you are very far
This
from being cancelled.
You have a very prominent voice in the cultural life of the UK
and the US as well right now.
There isn’t a cancel culture, is there?
Well, I’m afraid there is.
There are any number of people who have lost theirjobs
because of minor political perceived indiscretions.
I have never complained that I have personally been
subjected to some kind of cancellation.
I’ve stirred up some hornet’s nests on Twitter,
but I’m not even on Twitter, so I haven’t had to subject
myself to them.
So, you know, Ithink I’ve been fortunate.
I have personally never felt that what I say
has been restricted.
But I should clarify that the primary reason that
I’m still here and still talking to you is that my
publishing company, HarperCollins, and the likes
of The Spectator, which publishes my column
fortnightly, have stuck by me and have never told me
there are things I can and cannot say.
They haven’t denounced me if I get bad press and I would
like to see some more of that kind of courage
at an institutional level.
The whole so—called cancel culture problem is not really
rooted in social media and with a bunch of activists
who get upset at anything, but with people in positions
of authority who run scared, are terrified of controversy
and don’t stick by their employees or their faculty
or their writers.
And that’s the solution to any problem of cancel culture.
Lionel Shriver, we have to end there, but I thank you very
much indeed forjoining me on HARDtalk.
Thank you.
I enjoyed talking to you.
Hello there.
Monday was drierfor a while across England
and Wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill
from the south.
This rain here is marching its way northwards across the UK up
into northern England and Scotland, where already
in the past few days in Edinburgh, we have had
a month’s worth of rain.
Now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low
pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times —
northwards up towards Scotland and northern England
with blustery showers following to the south.
For a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather
along the coast of England all the way from Dorset
across to Suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
It won’t be as windy in the afternoon, but there
will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got
this more persistent rain, never really clearing away
from northern England, pushing into eastern Scotland.
Elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
The showers are never too far away, and they may well be
heavy as well.
Generally, temperatures a bit lower on Tuesday,
18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it
stays wet in northern England and eastern Scotland.
And as we have seen, there are some showers around,
they could well affect Wimbledon once again.
It’s going to be another day where we may well
have the covers on and off.
Those showers will probably tend to ease off though
during the evening and into the night.
More places become dry, still got some wetter weather
towards the north—east of Scotland.
The breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find
temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
Now, it’s low pressure that’s brought all the rain over
recent days, in the centre of the low pressure,
by the time we get to Wednesday, it’s close
to the north—east of Scotland.
So there’s more cloud rolling in here and some patchy
rain around, too.
Elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine,
but we are going to find showers breaking out,
and those could turn heavy and thundery come
the afternoon, particularly across Wales, the Midlands,
across to Lincolnshire as well.
Temperatures may be a notch higher on Friday, still no
better than 20—21 Celsius.
This is where high—pressure is, dry weather, and this is trying
to nudge up from the south—west across the UK.
50 during Thursday and Friday, the winds won’t be as strong,
and for more places, it will be dry.
Some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for Scotland
and Northern Ireland.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
Overdue, or reckless?
The British government plans to end most of England’s Covid
restrictions, despite a sharp rise in cases.
restrictions, despite a sharp rise in cases.
Russia a sharp rise in cases. evacuate a
Russia a sharp rise in rases. evacuate a consulate as
the
Russia evacuate a consulate as the Taliban continue to make
the Taliban continue to make advances across Afghanistan. A
advances across Afghanistan. A $70 million ransom demand as a
$70 million ransom demand as a Russian gang launches a global
Russian gang launches a global cyber attack against dozens of
cyber attack against dozens of companies.
Italy and Spain’s footballers go head to head
for a place in the Euro 2020 Final
Hello and welcome.
Scientists around the world have been reacting
to the England’s decision to lift most Coronavirus
restrictions in two weeks time.
Prime Minister BorisJohnson said although cases
were rising, it was now or never
to make the change, and vaccines were
having an impact.
If the plan is confirmed, masks will become optional
and social distancing will end.
But one expert has told the BBC, the plan doesn’t allow
for the risk posted by the new Delta variant.
Damien Grammaticas reports.
Will hospitals be able to cope?
will hospitals be able to cope? It’s a
Will hospitals be able to cope? It’s a risk the Prime Minister
It’s a risk the Prime Minister is contemplating taking. His
is contemplating taking. His desire is to remove all Covid
desire is to remove all Covid restrictions across England,
restrictions across England, just as infections are rising
just as infections are rising fast again. But BorisJohnson
fast again. But BorisJohnson believes relaxing curbs now in
believes relaxing curbs now in the summer is preferable.
the summer is preferable. Waiting could be worse. Be run
Waiting could be worse. Be nm the risk
Waiting could be worse. Be run the risk of either opening up
the risk of either opening up at a very difficult time in the
at a very difficult time in the virus has an edge, an advantage
virus has an edge, an advantage in the colder months, or again
in the colder months, or again putting everything off to next
putting everything off to next year, so
putting everything off to next year, sol
putting everything off to next year, so I do think it will be
year, so I do think it will be a very balanced decision. What
a very balanced decision. what he envisages
a very balanced decision. What he envisages is no more social
he envisages is no more social distancing, no limits on how
distancing, no limits on how many ran
distancing, no limits on how many can visit your home, or
many ran visit your home, or how many ran
many can visit your home, or how many can pack restaurants,
how many ran pack restaurants, bars and
how many can pack restaurants, bars and pubs, theatres,
bars and pubs, theatres, nightclubs, sports stadiums all
nightclubs, sports stadiums all open and full. No more empty
open and full. No more empty offices, as the requirement to
offices, as the requirement to work from home would end as
work from home would end as well. But there is a concern 3
well. But there is a concern a third
well. But there is a concern 3 third wave of Covid is under
third wave of Covid is under way, with an average of more
way, with an average of more than 25,000 cases each day in
than 25,000 cases each day in the past week, and the number
the past week, and the number infected is doubling roughly
infected is doubling roughly every nine days. His own Chief
every nine days. His own Chief scientific advisor said now is
scientific advisor said now is the time to be controlling the
the time to be controlling the vims.
the time to be controlling the virus. We are in the face of an
vims. We are in the face of an increasing
virus. We are in the face of an increasing epidemic at
increasing epidemic at the moment, and therefore we need
moment, and therefore we need to behave accordingly in terms
to behave accordingly in terms of trying to limit transmission
of trying to limit transmission spread. But the vaccination
spread. But the vaccination programme is blunting the
programme is blunting the pandemic. The numbers in
pandemic. The numbers in hospital and dying with Covid
hospital and dying with Covid are relatively low. Is the
are relatively low. Is the reason Mr
are relatively low. Is the reason MrJohnson believes he
reason Mr johnson believes he ran go
reason MrJohnson believes he can go ahead, and he wants to
ran go ahead, and he wants to remove
can go ahead, and he wants to remove the legal obligation to
remove the legal obligation to wear a mask as well, but the
wear a mask as well, but the scientists are cautious, saying
scientists are cautious, saying they will continue to where
they will continue to where there’s. There was a really
there’s. There was a really clear consensus that under all
clear consensus that under all circumstances, some degree of
circumstances, some degree of further social distancing will
further social distancing will be maintained even after the
be maintained even after the restrictions are lifted in law,
restrictions are lifted in law, and that has been part of the
and that has been part of the roadmap all the way through and
roadmap all the way through and that is widely supported by the
that is widely supported by the scientific views. Today we will
scientific views. Today we will hear more about the plans for
hear more about the plans for schools. Here too the
schools. Here too the government is hoping to live
government is hoping to live restrictions, to put an end to
restrictions, to put an end to bubblas
restrictions, to put an end to bubbles and isolation of whole
bubblas and isolation of whola EWUPS-
bubbles and isolation of whole groups, judging the cost is no
groups, judging the cost is no longer worth the benefit.
Germany has lifted its ban on travellers
from the UK entering the country.
From Wednesday, people who’ve had both vaccine doses
won’t have to quarantine.
The changes also apply to those travelling from Portugal,
Russia, India and Nepal.
People who aren’t fully vaccinated will still have
to quarantine for at least five days.
Later in the programme, about 25 minutes, we will be
25 minutes, we will be assessing what the economic
assessing what the economic outlook is for the UK economy
outlook is for the UK economy if there is a vigilant third
if there is a vigilant third wave of coronavirus, what will
wave of coronavims, what will it mean
wave of coronavirus, what will it mean if restaurants and
it mean if restaurants and hospitality fully opens up
hospitality fully opens up without social distancing? We
without social distancing? We will be having that
will be having that conversation a little later in
conversation a little later in our business coverage.
To Afghanistan now, where Russia hasjoined Iran
and Turkey in suspending operations at its consulate
in the northern city of Mazar—e—Sharif
as the Taliban make sweeping advances across the country.
Militants claim they’ve captured 150 out of 369
districts in the past two months.
Thousands of people have been displaced by fighting,
as Mark Lobel reports.
The US military left this air base just north of Kabul so
base just north of Kabul so fast that night, its new Afghan
fast that night, its new Afghan commander was only told after
commander was only told after they had gone. Afghan security
they had gone. Afghan security forces must now face the
forces must now face the Taliban alone. In many
Taliban alone. In many provinces, including this one
provinces, including this one in the country’s north—east.
in the country’s north—east. TRANSLATION: The Taliban tried
TRANSLATION: The Taliban tried to break the city’s defence
to break the city’s defence line and enter yesterday until
line and enter yesterday until midnight, but they faced a
midnight, but they faced a strong resistance from our
strong resistance from our defence and security forces.
defence and security forces. TRANSLATION: I’m a soldier of
TRANSLATION: I’m a soldier of the National Army and I will
the National Army and I will defend my homeland, as long as
defend my homeland, as long as a drop of blood remains in my
a drop of blood remains in my body. just
a drop of blood remains in my body. Just over 100 kilometres
body. just over 100 kilometres north
body. Just over 100 kilometres north of here, neighbouring
north of here, neighbouring Tajikistan says more than 1000
Tajikistan says more than 1000 Afghan government soldiers have
Afghan government soldiers have ﬂed
Afghan government soldiers have fled their. A number of Afghan
ﬂed their. A number of Afghan forces may
fled their. A number of Afghan forces may well have fled, but
forces may well have ﬂad, but the Afghan
forces may well have fled, but the Afghan National Army, the
the Afghan National Army, the ash stomach Afghan National
ash stomach Afghan National police force that we have
police force that we have worked really hard to build up,
worked really hard to build up, they have a fairly good
they have a fairly good capability, and we are not
capability, and we are not really leaving with everything,
really leaving with everything, our intelligence and drones
our intelligence and drones will be there, and it is the
will be there, and it is the Afghan people’s will to defeat
Afghan people’s will to defeat the Taliban that is really
the Taliban that is really credible. The dark grey parts
credibla. The dark grey parts of this map
credible. The dark grey parts of this map showed areas
of this map showed areas Taliban it has captured. 150
Taliban it has captured. 150 out of 369 districts in the
out of 369 districts in the past two months of fighting,
past two months of fighting, including recapturing what now
including recapturing what now resembles a ghost town in their
resembles a ghost town in their former stronghold of Khandahar,
former stronghold of Khandahar, in southern Afghanistan, living
in southern Afghanistan, living security forces on edge and
security forces on edge and families fleeing. TRANSLATION:
families fleeing. TRANSLATION: To tried to kill me. If they
To tried to kill me. If they killed me, who would look after
killed me, who would look after my children? The Taliban don’t
my children? The Taliban don’t want peace, they want the whole
want peace, they want the whole government. Foreign forces A0
government. Foreign forces 40 Taliban
government. Foreign forces A0 Taliban four years after they
Taliban four years after they offered a safe haven to
offered a safe haven to al-Qaeda, who attacked America,
al-Qaeda, who attacked America, but could that threats now
but could that threats now re—emerge? If the country
re-emerge? If the country collapses
re—emerge? If the country collapses back to the Taliban,
collapses back to the Taliban, the threat will be concentrated
the threat will be concentrated in Afghanistan and they have
in Afghanistan and they have strong ties with al-Qaeda. If
strong ties with al-Qaeda. If those ties resume, women’s
those ties resume, women’s rights are set
those ties resume, women’s rights are setback, and
rights are set back, and fighting
rights are setback, and fighting in cities intensifies,
fighting in cities intensifies, and many may question what they
and many may question what they wore cost 200,000 lives and $1
wore cost 200,000 lives and $1 trillion is achieved?
There are many routes into Europe, but none are strange as
Europe, but none are strange as this one.
Belarus appears to be encouraging migrants
who’ve arrived there from the Middle East
to cross over into neighbouring Lithuania.
So far this year, the numbers are ten times what they were in
the whole of 2020.
The President of the European Union, Ursula Von Der Leyen
says it appears to be politically motivated.
Sara Monetta has more.
The whiter specs on the screen
The whiter spes on the screen are a group of
The whiter specs on the screen are a group of Iraqi men
are a group of Iraqi men illegally crossing from Belarus
illegally crossing from Belams into
illegally crossing from Belarus into Lithuania. In the past few
into Lithuania. In the past few weeks, more and more have
weeks, more and more have reached the European Union in
reached the European Union in this way. The new migrant route
this way. The new migrant route that caught the tiny Baltic
that caught the tiny Baltic country completely by surprise.
country completely by surprise. TRANSLATION: Each day we are
TRANSLATION: Each day we are detaining around hundred 50
detaining around hundred 50 illegal migrants. We have never
illegal migrants. We have never seen such numbers before. On
seen such numbers before. On average, they welcome about 70
average, they welcome about 70 migrants in a year. In the past
migrants in a year. In the past month alone, they have received
month alone, they have received more than 1200 people. The
more than 1200 peopla. The government
more than 1200 people. The government says it’s not a
government says it’s not a coincidence. TRANSLATION: Today
coincidence. TRANSLATION: Today Lithuania is experiencing an
Lithuania is experiencing an unprecedented migratory
unprecedented migratory pressure. We witnessed how the
pressure. We witnessed how the regime of Belarus is using
regime of Belams is using migration
regime of Belarus is using migration as a tool of
migration as a tool of political manipulation.
political manipulation. Authorities believe that
Authorities believe that Belarus ' state airline is
Belams ' state airtine is ﬂying
Belarus ' state airline is flying migrants from Baghdad
ﬂying migrants from Baghdad and
flying migrants from Baghdad and Istanbul to the Belarus and
and Istanbul to the Belams and capital of
and Istanbul to the Belarus and capital of Minsk, and from
capital of Minsk, and from there, they can easily make
there, they ran easily make their way to
there, they can easily make their way to the Lithuania
their way to the Lithuania border. TRANSLATION: It is not
border. TRANSLATION: It is not difficult to understand the
difficult to understand the certain link between the
certain link between the sanctions that the EU has
sanctions that the EU has appﬁed
sanctions that the EU has applied Belarus, and the
applied Belarus, and the actions that Lukashenko is
actions that Lukashenko is taking across the border now.
taking across the border now. The EU imposed sanctions on
The EU imposed sanctions on Belams
The EU imposed sanctions on Belarus after a Ryanair flight
Belams after a Ryanair ﬂight was
Belarus after a Ryanair flight was forced to land at Minsk so
was forced to land at Minsk so authorities could arrest the
authorities could arrest the dissident
authorities could arrest the dissidentjournalist. In
dissidentjournalist. In retaliation the longtime
retaliation the longtime Belarus and leader Alexander
Belarus and leader Alexander Lukashenko said his bodyguards
Lukashenko said his bodyguards were no longer stop migrants
were no longer stop migrants from crossing into the EU. Down
from crossing into the EU. Down at the border, its full
at the border, its full emergency, with Lithuanian
emergency, with Lithuanian government asking villages to
government asking villages to make room for the new arrivals,
make room for the new arrivals, and announcing the setting up
and announcing the setting up of a second migrant camp.
of a second migrant camp. TRANSLATION: Hybrid war is
TRANSLATION: Hybrid war is waged against Lithuania and we
waged against Lithuania and we have to be united in focus,
have to be united in focus, both on the municipal and
both on the municipal and national level in addressing
national level in addressing these challenges. With Belarus
these challenges. with Belams behaving
these challenges. With Belarus behaving more and more
behaving more and more unpredictably, people here are
unpredictably, peopla here are bracing for
unpredictably, people here are bracing for impact.
A Russian—based hacking group known as REEvil has
compromised the computer systems of at least 1,000
businesses worldwide by targeting an American IT
provider, that writes and updates their software.
One of those affected is Sweden’s Co—op supermarket,
which has had to close some 500 outlets —
that’s more than half its stores — because tills
and self—service checkouts had stopped working.
REEvil has tailored its ransom demands
to the size of each respective company, but on Sunday said it
would settle the lot for $70
million if someone were prepared to pay it.
I’m joined now byJoseph Menn, investigative
technology reporter for Reuters, and an author
on Technology Security.
Tell us what you think of this most recent cyber attack. It’s
most recent cyber attack. It’s a very alarming. It is the
a very alarming. It is the worst by scale ransom where
worst by sale ransom where attack
worst by scale ransom where attack motivated by money.
attack motivated by money. There have been more than
There have been more than having pretended to be about
having pretended to be about money but have been more about
money but have been more about destroying things, this one is
destroying things, this one is really about money though, but
really about money though, but it may be more destructive in
it may be more destmctive in the end. They
it may be more destructive in the end. They have asked for
the end. They have asked for $70 million to shut the whole
$70 million to shut the whola thing down,
$70 million to shut the whole thing down, the most that has
thing down, the most that has ever been sought in a somewhere
ever been sought in a somewhere use,
ever been sought in a somewhere rase, but
ever been sought in a somewhere rase, butl
ever been sought in a somewhere case, but I think the most
use, but I think the most alarming
case, but I think the most alarming thing is the victims
alarming thing is the victims didn’t do anything wrong. They
didn’t do anything wrong. They using a managed security
using a managed security provider in the managed
provider in the managed security provider itself got
security provider itself got hacked, so this is what the
hacked, so this is what the professionals advise, if you
professionals advise, if you are not in a big enough company
are not in a big enough company to manage your own security,
to manage your own security, you turn it over to
you turn it over to professionals, and in this case
professionals, and in this use it was
professionals, and in this case it was the professionals that
it was the professionals that got hacked, so that is an
got hacked, so that is an alarming escalation. They are
alarming escalation. They are asking to be paid in bitcoin,
asking to be paid in bitcoin, $70 million worth. Your
$70 million worth. Your thoughts on that? That’s a bit
thoughts on that? That’s a bit confusing. They have infected
confusing. They have infected at least several hundred, quite
at least several hundred, quite possibly more than 1000
possibly more than 1000 companies, and some of the
companies, and some of the ransom where demands to
ransom where demands to individual companies have been
individual companies have been very small, a few thousand
very small, a few thousand dollars, and the biggest case
dollars, and the biggest rase that
dollars, and the biggest case that we know is 5 million. They
that we know is 5 million. They have been in Monteiro, so it’s
have been in Monteiro, so it’s strange they are asking for $70
strange they are asking for $70 million to in bitcoin, when
million to in bitcoin, when bitcoin is more traceable, and
bitcoin is more traceable, and in particular there have been
in particular there have been two big cases in the US, one
two big rases in the US, one against the
two big cases in the US, one against the pipeline, one
against the pipeline, one against the meatpacker, and in
against the meatpacker, and in the pipeline case that paid in
the pipeline use that paid in bitcoin,
the pipeline case that paid in bitcoin, and the US was able to
bitcoin, and the US was able to hack it back in a sense,
hack it back in a sense, recover a bunch of. Is weird
recover a bunch of. Is weird that these guys are asking for
that these guys are asking for bitcoin. I was going to ask
bitcoin. I was going to ask about that. Given that the dark
about that. Given that the dark side pack on the US pipeline
side pack on the US pipeline that caused chaos to big
that caused chaos to big swathes of the US for a period
swathes of the US for a period of time, they managed to get
of time, they managed to get the money back, the US
the money back, the US authorities, we were all saying
authorities, we were all saying at the time does this not put
at the time does this not put off future cyber attacks in
off future cyber attacks in terms of what hackers might do
terms of what hackers might do next, or how they might move
next, or how they might move next? So
next, or how they might move next? 50 ransom where is very
next? So ransom where is very interesting
next? 50 ransom where is very interesting and has a political
interesting and has a political connection. Biden brought it up
connection. Biden brought it up with Putin at the recent
with Putin at the recent summit, it because a lot of
summit, it because a lot of these gangs are Russian based
these gangs are Russian based and have some overlap with
and have some overlap with Russian intelligence, in the
Russian intelligence, in the past at least, and so on the
past at least, and so on the one hand if you are politically
one hand if you are politically motivated, it is good that an
motivated, it is good that an entire country gets angry
entire country gets angry enough, maybe they will pay,
enough, maybe they will pay, because a single company can’t
because a singla company can’t come up with
because a single company can’t come up with the $70 million
come up with the $70 million but the United States
but the United States government could, but on the
government could, but on the other hand you don’t want to be
other hand you don’t want to be so notorious that the US
so notorious that the US government has you in the sides
government has you in the sides and brings you up with the
and brings you up with the government of your country,
government of your country, that may cause you to rebrand,
that may cause you to rebrand, breakup of the debate and try
breakup of the debate and try things a different way, so it’s
things a different way, so it’s a a bit of a risky gambit. We
a a bit of a risky gambit. We will certainly see how this one
will certainly see how this one pans out, good to have you on
pans out, good to have you on the programme, thank you, and
the programme, thank you, and once again a little later in
once again a little later in our business coverage we will
our business coverage we will talk to someone who runs a
talk to someone who runs a cyber security firm to get his
cyber security firm to get his take on what is going on. Do
take on what is going on. Do stay with us here at BBC News.
A full sport rounmd up including,
A full sport rounmd up including,
The up including, players who have made it
through
The players who have made it through to the quarter—finals
through to the quarter-finals of the
through to the quarter—finals of the women’s Wimbledon.
Central London has been rocked by a series of terrorist
attacks.
Police say there have been many casualties,
and there is growing speculation that al-Qaeda
was responsible.
Germany will be the hosts of the 2006 football World Cup.
They pipped the favourite, South Africa, by a single vote.
In South Africa, the possibility of losing hadn’t
even been contemplated.
Celebration parties were cancelled.
A man entered the palace through a downstairs window
and made his way to the Queen’s private bedroom, then
he asked herfor a cigarette and, on the pretext
for arranging for some to be bought, summoned a footman
on duty who took the man away.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE.
One child, one teacher,
one book, and one pen can change the world.
Education is the only solution.
An alarming number of doctors in India have found themselves
the targets of attacks by family members of patients
who say their loved ones haven’t received
sufficient medical care.
The Indian Medical Association is now calling for a new law
to protect healthcare workers.
Divya Arya has more from Delhi, and a warning that her report
contains disturbing scenes at the very start.
They used whatever they could lay their hands on,
a metal bedpan, a wooden stick, orjust theirfists.
Shocked by the death of their loved one from Covid,
these relatives took out their anger
on Dr 5er Kumar Senapati, on just his second day of work,
after graduating from medical school.
One month later, the memory of the attack was still fresh.
TRANSLATION: I was very scared.
And it felt like I wouldn’t survive the attack.
They were hitting my head.
My nose was constantly bleeding.
I begged them to stop, but they didn’t.
36 people have now been charged.
A shocking case, but not by a long way India’s first
during the pandemic.
CHANT: We wantjustice!
In some cases, doctors have taken to the streets,
complaining about the ongoing attacks that have occurred
throughout the pandemic.
You are responsible for all these things so we are not
seeing the case properly.
They started throwing a plastic chair.
Nobody was arrested over the attack,
which has left the Dr Reddy suffering flashbacks.
At the peak of the second wave of infections,
angry relatives damaged property
at Delhi’s Apollo Hospital.
TRANSLATION: The most common factor is the lack
of infrastructure in hospitals, because of this,
hospitals get overcrowded, and as a result,
the junior doctors often become the target of violence
by relatives.
Last month, doctors across India held demonstrations,
calling for legal protection for health care staff,
saying there has been a sharp increase in attacks
during the pandemic.
Many Indian states have laws against attacking
health workers, but the Indian Medical Association says
state legislation is not always enfored or even publicised.
They believe on the a new law
passed by the central government can help
stop this violence.
India has very few doctors for its billion plus people,
now it is struggling to keep them safe.
Divya Arya, BBC News, Delhi.
1m
Now let’s pause in terms of news for the moment and take in
news for the moment and take in all the latest sports stories.
Hello, I’m Mark Edwards and here is your sports news.
Brazil are into the final of the copa America
for the second edition in a row after beating Peru 1—0
in Rio de Janeiro.
The 9 time champions seeing off the 2019 runners up courtesy
of a solitary goal from Lyon midfielder Lucas Paqueta.
Peru keeper Pedro Gallese was in inspired form
as he produced a stunning double save to keep out Neymar
and then Richarlison.
but there was nothing he could do about the goal,
Neymar bamboozling Alexander Callens with a nutmeg before
setting up Paqueta in the 24th minute and that proved to be
enough for the reigning champions.
They’ll take on the winner of Argentina vs Colombia
in the final.
We really are at the business end of the Euro 2020 tournament
now with the first semi final taking place later on tuesday,
and what a titanic clash that promises to be.
It’s Italy vs Spain at Wembley.
Two teams that know each other very well.
They’ve met seven times
at the Euros previously, the Italians who knocked
the Spanish out of Euro 2016, are on a 32—match unbeaten run
while Spain are the tournament’s highest—scoring
team with 12 goals in five matches.
To Wimbledon now and its ladies quarter—finals day in
South West London a full capacity crowd on Centre court
and they’ll be treated to the all australian tie
between top seed Ashleigh Barty and Ajla Tomljanovic.
Barty came through her match against the French Open
champion Barbora Krejcikova in straight sets and is into
the last 8 at the all England club for the first time.
ﬂ
Ido
I do everything in my power to make sure that I was well
make sure that I was well prepared to come into this
prepared to come into this tournament, I
prepared to come into this tournament, Ifeel like
prepared to come into this tournament, I feel like we are
tournament, I feel like we are doing all the right things, we
doing all the right things, we are trying to do everything
are trying to do everything that we can each and every day
that we ran each and every day to be as many
that we can each and every day to be as many as possible ——to
to be as many as possibla "to be as ready as
to be as many as possible ——to be as ready as possible, that
be as ready as possible, that is different to how we prepare
is different to how we prepare for each and every tournament
for each and every tournament so definitely happy with the
so definitely happy with the “Y
so definitely happy with the way things are going.
But the first match on centre court on Tuesday sees
Tunisia’s Ons Jabeur up against 2nd seed
Aryna Sabalenka.
Jabeur having made history by becoming
the first Arab woman to reach the quarter finals
at Wimbledon.
She produced a stunning display to defeat
seventh seed and 2020 French Open winner IGA
Swiatek.
Jabeur became the first Arab woman to win a WTA title
at the Birmingham Classic inJune and, having become
the first Arab woman to reach the fourth round at Wimbledon,
continues to break new ground.
South Africa’s match against Georgia on Friday
is in jeopardy after the Springboks were forced
to suspend training and place their squad into isolation
because of an outbreak of coronavirus.
Second row Lood De Jager returned a positive test
and on the grounds of his close contact with a number
of players, the whole squad are having to quarantine.
It is the second time the Springboks have been forced
to take such measures during the build—up to the Test
series against the British and Irish Lions, which opens
in Cape Town onJuly 24.
The Tour de France resumes on Tuesday with the stage 10
taking the riders out of the Alps down to the slopes
of the Rhone Valley into Valence.
Tadej Pogaca
will start the day in the race leader’s yellow jersey
after winning stage 8 Mark Cavendish will be hoping
to add to his tally of sprint wins as the race heads closer
to Paris, while the rest of the field will be hoping
that the second week is less eventful than the first.
You can get all the latest sports news
at our website — that’s bbc.com/sport.
But from me and the rest of the Sport team,
goodbye.
Let’s talk about what was cancelled in 2020, the
cancelled in 2020, the cancelled festival will be
ancellad festival will be having
cancelled festival will be having its opening ceremony.
having its opening ceremony. Coronavirus played havoc in the
Coronavims played havoc in the film industry
Coronavirus played havoc in the film industry but as Tom Brooke
film industry but as Tom Brooke reports, Cannes is back.
This year’s one film Festival will be a little different.
will be a little different. Tonight, you have a very
Tonight, you have a very particular niche, if I’ve got
particular niche, if I’ve got it right. This man has been
it right. This man has been hosting redcarpet coverage at
hosting redcarpet coverage at Cannes for French television
Cannes for French telavision for
Cannes for French television for more than two decades.
for more than two decades. COVID-19 will
for more than two decades. COVID—19 will definitely affect
COVID—19 will definitely affect festival, Cannes is about
festival, Cannes is about 80,000 people coming in to town
80,000 peopla coming in to town for the
80,000 people coming in to town for the festival, the talent,
for the festival, the talent, the journalist,
for the festival, the talent, thejournalist, the
the journalist, the professionals
thejournalist, the professionals that come here to
professionals that come here to participate stopping there
participate stopping there won’t be that many people it
won’t be that many peopla it would
won’t be that many people it would be 40,000. Movies of
would be 40,000. Movies of course will be the big
course will be the big attraction. Opening—night film
attraction. Opening-night film is an
attraction. Opening—night film is an operatic musical
is an operatic musical featuring a celebrity couple
featuring a celebrity couple from a French director,
from a French director, starring Oscar—winning French
starring Oscar-winning French actress
starring Oscar—winning French actress and Hollywood’s Adam
actress and Hollywood’s Adam Driver. If the movie is like
Driver. If the movie is like their other endeavours, it will
their other endeavours, it will be a film that pushes the
be a film that pushes the envelope. That is something
envelope. That is something that has been there from day
that has been there from day one and that we carry through
one and that we carry through to the current time that we
to the current time that we just always want to be
just always want to be challenging what we are doing.
challenging what we are doing. Cannes can boast a big lineup.
Cannes can boast a big lineup. American films like the French
American films like the French dispatch from Wes Anderson and
dispatch from Wes Anderson and Bernadette, a controversial
Bernadette, a controversial love story between two
love story between two 17th—century nuns. The festival
17th-century nuns. The festival is hoping to
17th—century nuns. The festival is hoping to regain its potency
is hoping to regain its potency as a showcase. Look at
as a showcase. Look at something like Parasite, which
something like Parasite, which was debuted at Cannes and went
was debuted at Cannes and went through to becoming a best
through to becoming a best picture when a first Korean
picture when a first Korean film ever to win the best
film ever to win the best picture Oscar, that is what you
picture Oscar, that is what you want from Cannes. The pandemic
want from Cannes. The pandemic has definitely shaped movies
has definitely shaped movies being seen at Cannes. The year
being seen at Cannes. The year of the everlasting storm is an
of the evertasting storm is an anthology
of the everlasting storm is an anthology of films from seven
anthology of films from seven esteemed filmmakers that were
esteemed filmmakers that were made under lock and with the
made under lock and with the rigid stipulated rules. Things
rigid stipulated mles. Things like you
rigid stipulated rules. Things like you have to shoot from
like you have to shoot from your home, onset cast and crew
your home, onset fast and crew will be
your home, onset cast and crew will be limited to those who
will be limited to those who are with you and quarantine,
are with you and quarantine, and I think that the theme of
and I think that the theme of rebirth is really embedded
rebirth is really embedded throughout the film.
throughout the film. COVID-19 has
throughout the film. COVID—19 has changed the landscape of
has changed the landscape of cinema. It is now a world of
cinema. It is now a world of ubiquitous streaming. Film
ubiquitous streaming. Film festivals like Cannes rooted
festivals like Cannes rooted and celebrating movies destined
and celebrating movies destined for cinema face uncertain
for cinema face uncertain times, but have Cannes lives up
times, but have Cannes lives up to expectations, it will at
to expectations, it will at least, over the next 12 days,
least, over the next 12 days, he showcasing excellent works
be showcasing excellent works from some of the greatest
from some of the greatest makers in the world. Tom
makers in the world. Tom Brooke, BBC News, Cannes.
And as COVID restrictions are lifted and eased, what will
lifted and eased, what will that mean for events and the
that mean for events and the hospitality industry? We will
hospitality industry? We will be discussing that next.
Hello there.
Monday was drierfor a while across England
and Wales, but we certainly saw the weather going down hill
from the south.
This rain here is marching its way northwards across the UK up
into northern England and Scotland, where already
in the past few days in Edinburgh, we have had
a month’s worth of rain.
Now that early rain is moving away, but this area of low
pressure is taking a band of rain — heavy at times —
northwards up towards Scotland and northern England
with blustery showers following to the south.
For a while, we will have some unseasonably windy weather
along the coast of England all the way from Dorset
across to Suffolk, gusts of 50mph in the morning.
It won’t be as windy in the afternoon, but there
will be some heavy showers around, and we have still got
this more persistent rain, never really clearing away
from northern England, pushing into eastern Scotland.
Elsewhere, some brightness and maybe some sunshine.
The showers are never too far away, and they may well be
heavy as well.
Generally, temperatures a bit lower on Tuesday,
18—19 typically, could be chillier than that where it
stays wet in northern England and eastern Scotland.
And as we have seen, there are some showers around,
they could well affect Wimbledon once again.
It’s going to be another day where we may well
have the covers on and off.
Those showers will probably tend to ease off though
during the evening and into the night.
More places become dry, still got some wetter weather
towards the north—east of Scotland.
The breeze tends to ease down a little bit, and we will find
temperatures typically again around 12—13 degrees.
Now, it’s low pressure that’s brought all the rain over
recent days, in the centre of the low pressure,
by the time we get to Wednesday, it’s close
to the north—east of Scotland.
So there’s more cloud rolling in here and some patchy
rain around, too.
Elsewhere, there may well be some sunshine,
but we are going to find showers breaking out,
and those could turn heavy and thundery come
the afternoon, particularly across Wales, the Midlands,
across to Lincolnshire as well.
Temperatures may be a notch higher on Friday, still no
better than 20—21 Celsius.
Let’s end with a glimmer of hope, because the low
pressure is trying to move away.
This is where high—pressure is, dry weather, and this is trying
to nudge up from the south—west across the UK.
50 during Thursday and Friday, the winds won’t be as strong,
and for more places, it will be dry.
Some sunshine, although still rather cloudy for Scotland
and Northern Ireland.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
Back to business, as Boris Johnson announces most
restrictions will be eased in England on the 19th ofJuly
we assess the impact on the UK economy.
Stand and cyber—deliver!
Hackers demand $70 million to release the keys that
will unlock victims files — up to 1,500
companies worldwide could be affected.
And how to take your holiday in a sustainable and responsible
way — we hearfrom one company that aims to convince
travellers to prioritise the planet.
Across the hospitality sector, theatres, nightclubs,
weddings and events.
You can hear a collective sigh of
relief as they gear up forJuly the 19th.
As you’ve been hearing, the Prime Minister says that’s
when most legal restrictions and guidance in England will be
lifted despite the rising number of Covid cases
in the country.
His annoucement was met with positive reactions
from industry groups representing the sectors that
has been hardest hit by the pandemic.
A significant third wave could still be on the way
but is it time now to think differently about Covid?
In a moment I’ll be discussing this with the head of policy
and governance at the Institute of Directors.
But first, Kate Nicholls, Chief Executive of
UK Hospitality joins me.
Of this is the news you have been waiting for, but
Of this is the news you have been waiting for, butjust
been waiting for, but just explain
been waiting for, butjust explain the challenges facing
explain the challenges facing those in hospitality still. It
those in hospitality still. It is very welcome news, for a
is very welcome news, for a quarter of our hospitality
quarter of our hospitality businesses, this is the first
businesses, this is the first day from which they will be
day from which they will be able allowed to trade
able allowed to trade illegally, they will have been
illegally, they will have been closed 16 months with no
closed 16 months with no revenue, and the remainder of
revenue, and the remainder of the industry, a chance for them
the industry, a chance for them to turn the corner, to make
to turn the corner, to make their business is viable for
their business is viable for the first time in 16 months,
the first time in 16 months, the restrictions have meant
the restrictions have meant that they can’t make a profit,
that they can’t make a profit, and look forward to be able to
and look forward to be able to put the business on a
put the business on a sustainable and more secure
sustainable and more secure footing, but you are right,
footing, but you are right, this is just the start of the
this is just the start of the process, it will be a long slow
process, it will be a long slow road to recovery as these
road to recovery as these businesses emerge, face the new
businesses emerge, face the new challenges of working with and
challanges of working with and living with
challenges of working with and living with the virus and
living with the virus and customer expectations, and also
customer expectations, and also come out of this crisis with
come out of this crisis with high levels of debt that they
high levels of debt that they will need to pay down, so it
will need to pay down, so it will probably take our sector
will probably take our sector about two years to recover.
about two years to recover. What are you still calling for
what are you still falling for from
What are you still calling for from the chancellor, from the
from the chancellor, from the Treasury, in terms of financial
Treasury, in terms of financial aid? I think
Treasury, in terms of financial aid? Ithink it
Treasury, in terms of financial aid? I think it is about making
aid? I think it is about making sure that financial aid does
sure that financial aid does not slip away too early. We
not slip away too earty. We know
not slip away too early. We know we have the measures in
know we have the measures in place until April of financial
place until April of financial aid? I think
place until April of financial aid? Ithink it
place until April of financial aid? I think it is about making
aid? I think it is about making sure e that financial aid does
sure e that financial aid does not slip away too early. We
not slip away too earty. We know
not slip away too early. We know we have the measures in
know we have the measures in place until April of tourism
place until April of tourism VAT for the sector going
VAT for the sector going forward from March next year.
forward from March next year. It goes up to 12 1/2% in
It goes up to 12 1/2% in September, we would like to see
September, we would like to see that continuing for longer but
that continuing for longer but we do need to make sure that we
we do need to make sure that we have a sustained and maintained
have a sustained and maintained lower level of tourism VAT for
lower level of tourism VAT for the sector going forward from
the sector going forward from March next year. It goes up at
March next year. It goes up at 12 V296 in
March next year. It goes up at 121/2% in September, we would
12 V296 in September, we would like to
121/2% in September, we would like to see that continuing and
like to see that continuing and we need root and branch reform
we need root and branch reform of our business rates to make
of our business rates to make sure our. Do those within
sure our. Do those within hospitality not paying the
hospitality not paying the highest property taxes in the
highest property taxes in the OECD and have a chance of
OECD and have a chance of recovery from that. Do those
recovery from that. Do those within be very close to other
within be very close to other peopla in
within be very close to other people in bars and restaurants,
people in bars and restaurants, there will be a lot of
there will be a lot of nervousness out there, isn’t
nervousness out there, isn’t there? There is, and we need to
there? There is, and we need to work without. Two—thirds of
work without. Two—thirds of customers have come back to the
customers have come back to the hospitality sector since
hospitality sector since reopening in April, and
reopening in April, and reassuringly, over 80% of them
reassuringly, over 8096 of them tell us
reassuringly, over 80% of them tell us that we believe we are
tell us that we believe we are safe, and we can allow them to
safe, and we ran allow them to socialise
safe, and we can allow them to socialise safely. This will be
socialise safely. This will be a gradual iteration, there are
a gradual iteration, there are lots of changes that have
lots of changes that have happened within hospitality
happened within hospitality over the course of the crisis
over the course of the crisis that many businesses will want
that many businesses will want to keep moving forward, is a
to keep moving forward, is a table service, using apps to
table service, using apps to order and pay for
table service, using apps to order and pay forfood
table service, using apps to order and pay for food and
order and pay for food and drinks, those will be kept for
drinks, those will be kept for a lot of people, equally a lot
a lot of peopla, equally a lot of
a lot of people, equally a lot of businesses will continue
of businesses will continue with seating, but it does allow
with seating, but it does allow peopla to
with seating, but it does allow people to make the choice and
people to make the choice and to be able to choose what works
to be able to choose what works for their business, and the
for their business, and the cornerstone of keeping people
cornerstone of keeping people safe, the recommendations by
safe, the recommendations by keeping people safe are good
keeping people safe are good ventilation, good levels of
ventilation, good levels of hygiene and sanitation, and
hygiene and sanitation, and those are the three
those are the three cornerstones that we will be
cornerstones that we will be taking forward to make sure our
taking forward to make sure our businesses are safe, our team
businesses are safe, our team members are kept safe because
members are kept safe because our staff are our top priority,
our staff are our top priority, and that we can offer a safe
and thatwe ran offera safe but
and that we can offer a safe but warm welcome to our
but warm welcome to our customers. Good to talk to you
customers. Good to talk to you again, thank you. The
again, thank you. The chief executive of UK hospitality.
Now to Dr Roger Barker, Director of Policy at
the Institute of Directors.
if:
He also governance — governance
He also governance - governance is also a big
He also governance — governance is also a big part of your
is also a big part of your rola. Is
is also a big part of your role. Is this the right
role. Is this the right decision on the part of the
decision on the part of the government? Ultimately it is
government? Ultimately it is the right decision because the
the right decision because the question arises, when I’m going
question arises, when I’m going to break out of our
to break out of our restrictions? When is business
restrictions? when is business going to be
restrictions? When is business going to be allowed to get
going to be allowed to get going again? Given that the
going again? Given that the link between hospitalisations,
link between hospitalisations, severe disease and cases
severe disease and rases appears
severe disease and cases appears now to have broken
appears now to have broken down, it doesn’t appear to be
down, it doesn’t appear to be that strong link anymore, I
that strong link anymore, I think that the government is
think that the government is right, that we are going to
right, that we are going to have to get used to living with
have to get used to living with this virus, and treating it as
this virus, and treating it as part of normal life. Is this
part of normal life. Is this what your members have been
what your members have been falling for? It
what your members have been calling for? It is, but I think
falling for? It is, but I think our
calling for? It is, but I think our members, like other members
our members, like other members of the public, they have been
of the public, they have been cautious about this pandemic,
cautious about this pandemic, they have wanted to do the
they have wanted to do the right thing in terms of public
right thing in terms of public health measures, and when a
health measures, and when a month ago the government
month ago the government decided to postpone the end of
decided to postpone the end of restrictions by a month, until
restrictions by a month, until the 19th of
restrictions by a month, until the 19th ofJuly, broadly
the 19th ofJuly, broadly speaking, they were supportive.
speaking, they were supportive. They wanted to see more people
They wanted to see more people get vaccinated, but now, I
get vaccinated, but now, I think they absolutely are ready
think they absolutely are ready to open up. Our members are
to open up. Our members are pretty optimistic about the
pretty optimistic about the future. There are many
future. There are many challenges ahead, but we look
challanges ahead, but we look at our
challenges ahead, but we look at our member surveys, their
at our member surveys, their levels of business optimism are
levels of business optimism are pretty high, and they really
pretty high, and they really now just
pretty high, and they really new just want to get
pretty high, and they really nowjust want to get going back
now just want to get going back to
nowjust want to get going back to business. How important is
to business. How important is this move now for the UK
this move now for the UK economy? Is incredibly
economy? Is incredibly important. Big sectors of the
important. Big sectors of the economy have been effectively
economy have been effectively restricted and prevented from
restricted and prevented from working properly. Obviously the
working properly. Obviously the hospitality travel and leisure
hospitality travel and laisure sectors,
hospitality travel and leisure sectors, but now I think this
sectors, but now I think this is also the green light for
is also the green light for employers to think how do we
employers to think how do we now get back into the
now get back into the workplace? The workplace is not
workplace? The workplace is not going to be as it was
going to be as it was previously. Most employers seem
previously. Most employers seem to be moving toward some kind
to be moving toward some kind of hybrid working, but at least
of hybrid working, but at least now they can start to think how
now they ran start to think how ran we
now they can start to think how can we implement these new
can we implement these new measures and make them work? Of
measures and make them work? Of course the real challenge I
course the real challenge I think is for employers to
think is for employers to reassure their employees that
reassure their employees that the workplace is going to be
the workplace is going to be safe, and also the government
safe, and also the government has to, and the rail companies
has to, and the rail companies in the public transport
in the public transport companies have to persuade us
companies have to persuade us all that it’s going to be safe
all that it’s going to be safe and reasonable to commute into
and reasonabla to commute into work again on
and reasonable to commute into work again on public transport.
work again on public transport. Good to talk to you. Roger
Good to talk to you. Roger Barker from the Institute of
Barker from the Institute of directors, thank you.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
The owner of car brand Vauxhall is expected
to announce plans to build electric vans at its Ellesmere
Port plant in Cheshire.
The investment, said to be worth
hundreds of millions of pounds, would safeguard more than 1,000
factoryjobs.
The future of the plant has been in doubt
after Vauxhall’s parent company, Stella ntis,
scrapped plans to build its new Astra model there.
Oil prices rose on Monday after 0PEC+ —
that’s members of oil—rich nations and their partners —
cancelled talks on a new output deal.
That means the current production limits will
remain.
This follows a public rift between Saudi Arabia
and the United Arab Emirates last week on a proposal
to extend output curbs.
More new on the gang behind a colossal ransomware
attack.
The group known as REvil is demanding $70 million
paid in Bitcoin in return for a universal decryptor
that it says will unlock the files of all victims.
REvil claims its malware, which initially targeted the US
IT firm Kaseya, has hit one million systems.
This number has not been verified and the exact total
of victims is unknown.
However, it does include 500 Swedish Coop supermarkets
and 11 schools in New Zealand.
Amit Yoran is Chairman and Chief Executive of
Tenable, a Nasdaq listed cyber exposure company that helps
organisations understand and reduce their cyber risk.
Good to talk to you. Give us your take on what is going on,
your take on what is going on, because it would seem that
because it would seem that these many many companies which
these many many companies which could mn
these many many companies which could run to more than 1000
could nm to more than 1000 were doing
could run to more than 1000 were doing what they should do
were doing what they should do and actually protecting
and actually protecting themselves by using an outside
themselves by using an outside company such as yours to
company such as yours to provide cyber security. What
provide cyber security. what seeing now,
provide cyber security. What seeing now, and we don’t have
seeing now, and we don’t have all the facts just yet, at the
all the facts just yet, at the moment there are a great varied
moment there are a great varied number of potential outcomes.
number of potential outcomes. It could be as many as a
It could be as many as a thousand, but it appears to be
thousand, but it appears to be far less. It may be as low as
far less. It may be as low as 60 which is what Kaseya is
60 which is what Kaseya is claiming, working with a
claiming, working with a forensic company to help them
forensic company to help them determine exactly what
determine exactly what happened. It is still very
happened. It is still very serious, and we’re seeing
serious, and we’re seeing people being impacted,
people being impacted, supermarkets closed, other
supermarkets closed, other organisations being impacted,
organisations being impacted, but it certainly could have
but it certainly could have been far worse. You say it
been far worse. You say it could have been worse, but is
could have been worse, but is it is extremely worrying that
it is extremely worrying that this sort of activity seems to
this sort of activity seems to be happening more and more
be happening more and more frequently, despite the fact
frequently, despite the fact that we thought the good guys
that we thought the good guys had sort of got the upper hand
had sort of got the upper hand in response to the dark side
in response to the dark side ran somewhere attack on the US
ran somewhere attack on the US pipeline, the US authorities
pipeline, the US authorities got their money back that was
got their money back that was paid, it was finally fixed, we
paid, it was finally fixed, we felt like we were ahead in this
felt like we were ahead in this and yet here we are again with
and yet here we are again with many companies globally exposed
many companies globally exposed and being held to ransom. For
and being held to ransom. For sure we don’t have a handle on
sure we don’t have a handle on these issues. These issues are
these issues. These issues are incredibly complex, and
incredibly complex, and far—reaching. Organisations
far-reaching. Organisations need
far—reaching. Organisations need to do a better
far—reaching. Organisations need to do a betterjob of
need to do a better job of protecting
need to do a betterjob of protecting themselves. We know
protecting themselves. We know the rule of law does not exist,
the ml; of law does not exist, uniformly,
the rule of law does not exist, uniformly, across the Internet.
uniformly, across the Internet. We know many nationstates
We know many nationstates harbour or tacitly allow cyber
harbour or tacitly allow cyber criminals to operate within
criminals to operate within their borders and when that
their borders and when that occurs, in a flat domain, like
occurs, in a ﬂat domain, like the Internet, crimes
occurs, in a flat domain, like the Internet, crimes will
the Internet, crimes will occur, and laws are not very
occur, and laws are not very well enforced, and it is
well enforced, and it is incumbent upon each
incumbent upon each organisation to really step up
organisation to really step up its game and protect itself.
its game and protect itself. Easier said than done, when you
Easier said than done, when you consider these hackers and the
consider these hackers and the fact that they always seem to
fact that they always seem to be ahead of the next security
be ahead of the next security software platform. They seem to
software platform. They seem to find a way of undermining it.
find a way of undermining it. What we see is a vast majority
what we see is a vast majority of the
What we see is a vast majority of the breaches that occur, and
of the breaches that occur, and certainly by no means everyone,
certainly by no means everyone, but the vast majority of the
but the vast majority of the breaches that occur, north of
breaches that occur, north of 901:
breaches that occur, north of 90% occur because organisations
9096 occur because organisations aren’t
90% occur because organisations aren’t exercising good
aren’t exercising good standards of care with their
standards of rare with their systems.
standards of care with their systems. They are not patching
systems. They are not patching the systems properly, not
the systems property, not strongly
the systems properly, not strongly authenticating their
strongly authenticating their users, they are not backing
users, they are not backing up their systems and having good
their systems and having good backups ready for restoring
backups ready for restoring when they do fall victim to
when they do fall victim to somewhere, so there is a number
somewhere, so there is a number of things that organisations
of things that organisations ran
of things that organisations can do to better protect
can do to better protect themselves and be better
themselves and be better prepared for when these events
prepared for when these events occur. Well, we shall see how
occur. Well, we shall see how this one pans out. Thank you
this one pans out. Thank you for being on the programme.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
How News, still to come: to take your holiday in a
sustainable
How to take your holiday in a sustainable and responsible
sustainable and responsible way, we will talk to a company
way, we will talk to a company that is aiming to convince
that is aiming to convince travellers to prioritise the
travellers to prioritise the planet.
Central London has been rocked by a series of terrorist
attacks.
Police say there have been many casualties,
and there is growing speculation that al-Qaeda
was responsible.
Germany will be the hosts of the 2006 football World Cup.
They pipped the favourite, South Africa, by a single vote.
In South Africa, the possibility of losing hadn’t
even been contemplated.
Celebration parties were cancelled.
A man entered the palace through a downstairs window
and made his way to the Queen’s private bedroom, then
he asked herfor a cigarette and, on the pretext
for arranging for some to be bought, summoned a footman
on duty who took the man away.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE.
One child, one teacher,
one book, and one pen can change the world.
Education is the only solution.
This is BBC World News, the latest headlines:
The British government confirms plans to end most
of England’s Covid restrictions, despite a sharp
rise in cases.
Russia evacuates a consulate, as the Taliban continue to make
advances across Afghanistan.
Over 1,000 Afghan soldiers have fled the country.
As we adjust to life post pandemic many are re—assessing
their work life balance.
Decisions are being made about where and how we work
Decisions are being made about where and how we work
as economies reopen and some are considering an experiment
in Iceland.
Trials of a four—day week there were an "overwhelming
success" and led to many workers moving to shorter
hours.
Many moved to a 4 day week but were paid the same amount
between 2015 and 2019 and researchers say
productivity remained the same or improved
in the majority of workplaces.
Joining me now is Maike Currie, Investment Director,
Fidelity International.
Lovely
Lovely to see you., Iceland
Lovely to see you. , Iceland pioneering
Lovely to see you., Iceland pioneering when it comes to
pioneering when it comes to changes and work life and
changes and work life and priorities, what do you make of
priorities, what do you make of what they got? I think it is
what they got? I think it is very interesting, the COVID—19
very interesting, the COVID-19 pandemic
very interesting, the COVID—19 pandemic has had a profound
pandemic has had a profound impact on the way we work, the
impact on the way we work, the fact that I am talking to you
fact that I am talking to you from my Home Office and
from my Home Office and increasingly people are valuing
increasingly people are valuing flexible working more and the
flexible working more and the countries and companies where
countries and companies where they have trailed the four day
they have trailad the four day working
they have trailed the four day working week have actually seen
working week have actually seen very positive results, improve
very positive results, improve productivity, improved health
productivity, improved health and well—being, among their
and well-being, among their staff.
and well—being, among their staff. 50 there are countless
staff. So there are countless upsides to
staff. 50 there are countless upsides to moving to that four
upsides to moving to that four day working week. It is quite
day working week. It is quite interesting, actually, because
interesting, actually, because they put this question to our
they put this question to our viewers to say what do they
viewers to say what do they make of this and many have been
make of this and many have been in touch to say could we do
in touch to say could we do this and other countries in the
this and other countries in the UK. This possibly works for
UK. This possibly works for office workers, people who work
office workers, peopla who work in
office workers, people who work in places such as that however
in places such as that however people who work outside, doing
peopla who work outside, doing physical
people who work outside, doing physicaljobs, builders,
physicaljobs, builders, plumbers, electricians,
plumbers, electricians, mechanics, that doesn’t
mechanics, that doesn’t necessarily work in those
necessarily work in those particular industries. That we
particular industries. That we have got another viewer who
have got another viewer who says, I know if I’d put this to
says, I know if I’d put this to my employer he would say well,
my employer he would say well, if you ran
my employer he would say well, if you can work in four days
if you ran work in four days what they
if you can work in four days what they have been paying you
what they have been paying you for five IMI
what they have been paying you forfive IMI paying for
what they have been paying you forfive IMI paying forfive? I
for five IMI paying for five? I think
forfive IMI paying forfive? I think the benefits are much
think the benefits are much broader than that. The first
broader than that. The first thing is health and well—being
thing is health and well-being of
thing is health and well—being of workers. The second thing
of workers. The second thing is, productivity, and anyone
is, productivity, and anyone who has worked part time which
who has worked part time which a lot of women have, know that
a lot of women have, know that you ran
a lot of women have, know that you can probably squeeze and
you ran probably squeeze and five days of
you can probably squeeze and five days of work into four
five days of work into four days and have more of a
days and have more of a balance, spent more time with
balance, spent more time with the family, something that
the family, something that we’ve also seen during the
we’ve also seen during the COVID-19
we’ve also seen during the COVID—19 pandemic. The climate,
COVID-19 pandemic. The climate, working one
COVID—19 pandemic. The climate, working one day left me 27
working one day left me 27 million cars on the road, that
million cars on the road, that reduces the carbon footprint of
reduces the carbon footprint of many countries and crucially as
many countries and crucially as I’ve mentioned, this will be
I’ve mentioned, this will be good for gender equality
good for gender equality because if there has been one
because if there has been one small silver lining,
because if there has been one smallsilver lining, or
because if there has been one small silver lining, or quite
small silver lining, or quite significant silver lining to
significant silver lining to the pandemic it is that it has
the pandemic it is that it has made flexible working the norm,
made ﬂaxible working the norm, and
made flexible working the norm, and that
made flexible working the norm, and thatJeannie is never going
and that jeannie is never going back
and thatJeannie is never going back into the bottle. That is
back into the bottle. That is good news for women because
good news for women because women tend to choose careers
women tend to choose careers with shorter commutes, with
with shorter commutes, with more giving hours so that they
more giving hours so that they ran
more giving hours so that they can balance time with their
ran balance time with their children,
can balance time with their children, with parents, and
children, with parents, and that is really something that
that is really something that employers need to consider.
employers need to consider. They also need to consider this
They also need to consider this if they are going to continue
if they are going to continue to attract the best talent
to attract the best talent because we know the younger
because we know the younger generation value that type of
generation value that type of flexibility. And also as well,
ﬂaxibility. And also as well, one of
flexibility. And also as well, one of the experiments, well,
one of the experiments, well, what they conducted in Iceland,
what they conducted in Iceland, showed that people chose to
showed that peopla chose to work a
showed that people chose to work a slightly longer day four
work a slightly longer day four days rather than working five
days rather than working five days, paid the same amount and
days, paid the same amount and were more productive, actually.
were more productive, actually. But the important thing about
But the important thing about this as well, isn’t it, is
this as well, isn’t it, is about the employer and the
about the employer and the employee really not working on
employee really not working on that fifth day, because
that fifth day, because although you say you are not
although you say you are not availabla,
although you say you are not available, often you might get
available, often you might get the odd e—mail or you get drawn
the odd e-mail or you get drawn into a
the odd e—mail or you get drawn into a conversation or
into a conversation or something. Absolutely and
something. Absolutely and that’s about it a culture, we
that’s about it a culture, we know that the working weekend,
know that the working weekend, or the weekend was invented a
or the weekend was invented a century ago, and since then,
century ago, and since then, that was during the time of the
that was during the time of the Industrial Revolution, the
Industrial Revolution, the world has changed dramatically
world has changed dramatically and employer practices need to
and employer practices need to keep up with that, but the key
keep up with that, but the key thing, really, is that, you
thing, really, is that, you know, if you are in a customer
know, if you are in a customer facing business and you need to
facing business and you need to be available to customers, you
be available to customers, you will need some flex ability
will need some flex ability around that. All right, lovely
around that. All right, lovely to to you. See you again soon.
You might not know this, but when you ferment beer,
it releases carbon dioxide.
Now an Australian craft brewery has partnered with climate
scientists to turn it into oxygen.
And the secret is micro—algae.
MY
My name is Oscar McMahon, I am one of the cofounders of this
one of the cofounders of this brewery here in Newtown,
brewery here in Newtown, Sydney, Australia. What we’re
Sydney, Australia. what we’re trying to
Sydney, Australia. What we’re trying to work out how much
trying to work out how much algae you need to adjust the
algae you need to adjust the amount of C02 that beer
amount of C02 that beer creates. Microalgae or
creates. Microalgae or phytoplankton are tiny
phytoplankton are tiny photosynthetic plants. Can’t
photosynthetic plants. Can’t see them with the human either
see them with the human either they are a fantastic
they are a fantastic biochemical factory.
they are a fantastic biochemicalfactory. 70%
they are a fantastic biochemical factory. 70% of the
biochemical factory. 7096 of the planet is
biochemical factory. 70% of the planet is water, and that is
planet is water, and that is where the phytoplankton are
where the phytoplankton are growing. So one of the things
growing. So one of the things that we can do to address
that we can do to address climate change is to actually
climate change is to actually use the algae to capture C02.
m:
We capture C02 off the top of a
We rapture C02 offthe top ofa beer
We capture C02 off the top of a beer fermenter and we feed it
beer fermenter and we feed it through a bioreactor which
through a bioreactor which houses microalgae. Brewers
houses microalgae. Brewers yeast heeds sugar, creates C02
yeast heeds sugar, creates C02 and alcohol. Algae or
and alcohol. Algae or microalgae eats C02, creates
microalgae eats C02, creates more algae and releases oxygen,
more algae and releases oxygen, so they become dizzy and
so they become dizzy and antigang organisms that
antigang organisms that naturally balance each other
naturally balance each other out.
That would be like knocking down a city block and planting
down a city block and planting trees and letting them grow for
trees and [citing them grow for 20 years,
trees and letting them grow for 20 years, and that is something
20 years, and that is something that ran
20 years, and that is something that can be made in a warehouse
that ran be made in a warehouse within
that can be made in a warehouse within weeks. Think about that
within weeks. Think about that as being a solution, it is
as being a solution, it is quite mind blowing. We are
quite mind blowing. We are looking into second uses for
looking into second uses for algae, there are people making
algae, there are people making bio plastic,
algae, there are people making bio plastics, there is a lot of
bio plastics, there is a lot of research being done into human
research being done into human and animal
research being done into human and animalfeed, so
research being done into human and animal feed, so watch this
and animal feed, so watch this space. The planet needs our
space. The planet needs our help, but the solutions are
help, but the solutions are here now. This is
help, but the solutions are here now. This isjust the
here now. This is just the very, very
here now. This isjust the very, very beginning. It’s a
very, very beginning. It’s a bit bulky and a bit weird but
bit bulky and a bit weird but it’s also a bit cool.
it’s also a bit cool. LAUGHTER
LAUGHTER Dorky and weird! Let’s talk
Dorky and weird! Let’s talk about travel now.
Do travellers and tourists care about sustainable
and responsible tourism 7
As restrictions for travel are beginning to ease in some
countries the World Travel Market is hoping to convince
consumers to think about their impact.
And for companies like Contiki, who target 18—35—year—olds —
do their potential consumers look for responsible tourism
holidays?
Joining me now is Tasha Hayes, Sustainability Officer &
European Operations Director, Contiki.
Good morning to use. I’m assuming your potential
assuming your potential customers care a lot about the
customers rare a lot about the impact they
customers care a lot about the impact they have on the
impact they have on the planet when they are travelling? Good
when they are travelling? Good morning, certainly, they do.
morning, certainly, they do. And recent research done by the
And recent research done by the world travel market really
world travel market really shows a telling generational
shows a telling generational divide here. We are seeing that
divide here. We are seeing that 70% of 16-24
divide here. We are seeing that 70% of 16—24 —year—olds are
7096 of 16-24 -year-olds are willing to pay
70% of 16—24 —year—olds are willing to pay more money if
willing to pay more money if companies will assist them in
companies will assist them in becoming more sustainable,
becoming more sustainable, which is a little bit different
which is a little bit different from the 35 to A0 —year—olds
from the 35 to 40 -year-olds who said
from the 35 to A0 —year—olds who said that they would only
who said that they would only do that 9% of the time, so yes
do that 996 of the time, so yes we are seeing
do that 9% of the time, so yes we are seeing a real
we are seeing a real generational divide and the
generational divide and the Contiki age group really
Contiki age group really wanting to travel more
wanting to travel more sustainably. So what are you
sustainably. So what are you offering at Contiki to make
offering at Contiki to make someone’s holiday that much
someone’s holiday that much more
someone’s holiday that much more sustainable? Well, Contiki
more sustainable? Well, Contiki has done a few things and a lot
has done a few things and a lot of it was predated to COVID. We
of it was predated to COVID. We have a sustainability strategy
have a sustainability strategy in place which focuses on 11
in place which focuses on 11 goals that we believe have the
goals that we believe have the most impact to the biggest
most impact to the biggest issue
most impact to the biggest issueis
most impact to the biggest issue is that the climate is
issue is that the climate is facing right now, like climate
facing right now, like climate change, so with that we got a
change, so with that we got a climate action plan which is a
climate action plan which is a 5-step plan
climate action plan which is a 5—step plan that is looking at
5-step plan that is looking at “75
5-step plan that is looking at ways that
5—step plan that is looking at ways that we can first reduce
ways that we can first reduce emissions because that is very
emissions because that is very key. Second, remove carbon from
key. Second, remove carbon from the atmosphere, and then use
the atmosphere, and then use offsets for any unavoidable
offsets for any unavoidable emissions that we can’t avoid,
emissions that we can’t avoid, being a travel company. On a
being a travel company. On a practical level, what does that
practical level, what does that mean for someone going on a
mean for someone going on a holiday? What is different
holiday? What is different about their holiday? From the
about their holiday? From the first of January 2022, all of
first of january 2022, all of our trips
first of January 2022, all of our trips will be carbon
our trips will be carbon neutral, meaning that we will
neutral, meaning that we will be offsetting the emissions for
be offsetting the emissions for those trips that are
those trips that are unavoidable but what we’re
unavoidabla but what we’re doing on
unavoidable but what we’re doing on the that we will be
doing on the that we will be using the most eco— friendly
using the most eco- friendly ﬂeet of
using the most eco— friendly fleet of coaches, we are also
ﬂeet of coaches, we are also subbing
fleet of coaches, we are also subbing some of our coaching
subbing some of our coaching for trains,
subbing some of our coaching fortrains, being
subbing some of our coaching for trains, being a
subbing some of our coaching fortrains, being a more
subbing some of our coaching for trains, being a more eco—
for trains, being a more eco- friendly way
for trains, being a more eco— friendly way to travel around.
friendly way to travel around. We are looking at, or we have
We are looking at, or we have implemented renewable energy at
implemented renewable energy at our owned properties, and we
our owned properties, and we are also looking at ways that
are also looking at ways that we ran
are also looking at ways that we can actually on the ground
we ran actually on the ground make a
we can actually on the ground make a difference with the
make a difference with the communities and people that are
communities and peopla that are visiting. And
communities and people that are visiting. And just really
visiting. And just really brieﬂy,
visiting. And just really briefly, what markup does all
brieﬂy, what markup does all of that put
briefly, what markup does all of that put on someone’s
of that put on someone’s holiday.
of that put on someone’s holiday. What
of that put on someone’s holiday. What percentage or are
holiday. what percentage or are they paying
holiday. What percentage or are they paying because of that?
they paying because of that? Well, nothing actually because
Well, nothing actually because all of these costs are on
all of these costs are on Contiki, we are absorbing
Contiki, we are absorbing because we believe that this is
because we believe that this is the way, the future of travel.
the way, the future of travel. We know that travellers are
We know that travellers are talking with their money and
talking with their money and they are wanting to support
they are wanting to support brands that are doing this so
brands that are doing this so this is something that as a
this is something that as a company we are factoring in
company we are factoring in and it is part of our cost as a
it is part of our cost as a business. All right, thanks for
business. All right, thanks for being on the programme, good to
being on the programme, good to talk to you. Some of us may
talk to you. Some of us may actually go on a holiday, it
actually go on a holiday, it will no longer be a dream.
will no longer be a dream. Thank you for your company.
Thank you for your company. Have a lovely, lovely day today
Have a lovely, lovely day today and don’t forget there’s more
and don’t forget there’s more details on the stories we have
details on the stories we have covered on our website. See you
covered on our website. See you soon.
I want to understand the experiences of people
who migrated to this country to serve in the NHS.
I’m going to open up government archives
to discover how they were seen by a system
that needed them but didn’t always want them.
# Finally, it has happened to me
# Right in front of my face
# My feelings can’t describe it
# Finally, you come along... #
Wimbledon is back.
Seeing Glastonbury for the first time was mind—blowing.
The closing set at Block9, 2015.
I wish you could bottle that up and then take it away with you.
The sunshine and you’re looking at the Pyramid Stage,
there’s no better feeling in the world.
Even a bad time at Glastonbury
is better than a good time anywhere else.
Get that Glastonbury feeling.
Relive the best of the festival.
CHORAL SINGING IN JAPANESE
dillJLlLIIIlf
PERKY J-POP MUSIC
ARCADE GAMES BLEEP
STIRRING HEROIC MUSIC
The Olympic Games, Tokyo 2020...
Fire Service! Is anyone in?
Join the Yorkshire Firefighters...
Where are you stuck?
..from the station...
CHILD: I love you.
..to the front line...
Potentially we’re sending them to their death.
..to see what life is like...
Are we all right coming in?
You haven’t got Covid? No, I ain’t got Covid.
..behind the visor.
It’s about the camaraderie. It’s about the togetherness.
What is a panic attack?
Fear incarnate.
It’s like having liquid terror
injected into your veins.
I’ve been turning to music as some kind of soothing agent
during these times of chaos.
The Queen — I think she might be an original Spice Girl.
This astronaut looking back from space
and everybody wants a piece of you.
There was another part of my anatomy which luckily they saved.
So, I don’t know if I can say it on the radio.
Yes, you can, you’re on Woman’s Hour.
The whole nation is coming together. You know, it’sjust brilliant.
That’s the spirit!
Passengers, this is yourfinal call.
Get in there! Wurrrgh!
Now, rise for me, baby.
Oh, yes. Centre Court theatre.
Spin the wheel!
That will do nicely.
LAUGHTER
Stop it! Have you been injured at work?
Ha—ha—ha! That’s classic!
She’s going to take the gold medal!
Mmmm! I love it.
Yes! Yeah, now we’re cooking.
This summer, it’s high—octane entertainment on BBC One.
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Louise Minchin and Dan Walker.
Our headlines today.
Pupils in England may no longer have to isolate if a classmate
tests positive for Covid, under new plans to be
announced later.
The Prime Minister says he wants to lift almost all of England’s
restrictions in two weeks.
Face covering laws will be abolished — but the PM and his advisers say
they won’t ditch theirs.
ﬂ
I will obviously wear a mask in crowded places where you are meeting
crowded places where you are meeting people that you don’t know. I will
peopla that you don’t know. I will do so,
people that you don’t know. I will do so, particularly at this point
do so, particularty at this point when
do so, particularly at this point when the epidemic is clearly
when the epidemic is dearty significant
when the epidemic is clearly significant and rising. Good morning
significant and rising. Good morning from Liverpool. Unlimited numbers
from Liverpool. Unlimited numbers coming through the doors and
coming through the doors and standing at the bar with who you
standing at the bar with who you want for as long as you want. It is
want for as long as you want. It is a new chapter for hospitality. But
a new chapter for hospitality. But not every business will survive to
not every business will survive to see it.
Good morning from Wimbledon, where there was disappointment
for British teenager Emma Raducanu last night.
The 18—year—old was forced to retire from her last 16 singles match due
to difficulty breathing.
Good morning.
ﬂ
lam
Iamat
I am at Hampton Court Palace Garden Festival. We have got some heavy
Festival. We have got some heavy rain here. And the forecast for many
rain here. And the forecast for many of us that there is a wet one. We
of us that there is a wet one. We will see some sunshine and showers.
will see some sunshine and showers. Even those can be heavy and
Even those ran be heavy and thundery. A
Even those can be heavy and thundery. A breezy in the south.
Details coming up.
Good morning.
It’s Tuesday, July 6th.
Our top story.
School pupils in England could soon avoid having to self—isolate
if a classmate tests positive for coronavirus.
The Education Secretary is expected to outline plans to scrap
the bubble system later today.
Last week, more than 275,000 children had to stay at home
after coming into contact with a coronavirus case.
The changes are likely to come into effect on the 19thJuly —
the same day most other restrictions in England are due to be eased.
Here’s our political correspondent, Damian Grammaticas.
Will hospitals be able to cope?
It’s a risk the Prime Minister is contemplating taking,
his desire to remove all Covid restrictions across England just
as infections are rising fast again.
But BorisJohnson believes relaxing curbs now in
the summer is preferable.
Waiting could be worse.
We run the risk of either opening up at a very difficult time
when the virus has an edge, has an advantage, and in the cold
months, oragain, putting everything off to to next year.
So I do think it’s going to be a very balanced decision.
What he envisages is no more social distancing.
No limits on how many can visit your home,
or how many ran pack restaurants, bars and pubs.
Theatres, nightclubs, sports stadiums all open and full.
No more empty offices, as the requirement to work
from home would end too.
But there’s a concern 3 third wave of Covid is under way,
with an average of more than 25,000 cases a day in the past week,
and the number infected is doubling roughly every nine days.
His own Chief Scientific Adviser said now is the time to be
controlling the virus.
We are in the face of an increasing epidemic at the moment,
and therefore we need to behave accordingly in terms of trying
to limit transmission spread.
But the vaccination programme is blunting the pandemic.
The numbers in hospital and dying with Covid are relatively low.
It’s the reason MrJohnson believes he can go ahead.
And he wants to remove the legal obligation to wear a mask too,
even if the scientists are cautious, saying they will continue
to wear theirs.
There was a really clear consensus that under all circumstances,
some degree of further social distancing will be maintained,
needs to be maintained, even after the the restrictions
are lifted in law.
And that’s been part of the road map all the way through.
And that is widely supported by the scientific views.
And today, we’ll hear more about the plans for schools.
The government is hoping to lift restrictions to put an end
to bubbles and isolation of whole groups.
Judging the cost is no longer worth
judging the cost is no longer worth the
Judging the cost is no longer worth the benefit.
Damian Grammaticas, BBC News.
Draft legislation intended to tackle what ministers describe
as a "broken asylum system", is being introduced
to Parliament today.

Citation: BBC News, 01:00 06/07/2021, BBC1 London, 300 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/186C0CE8?bcast=134815034 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)